Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                          S     i
Report No. 3628-MOR
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF THE
MIDDLE ATLAS - CENTRAL AREA - AGRICULTURE DVELOPMENT PRO.
December 7, 1981
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Projects Department
Agriculture II Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Dirham (DH)
US$1 = DH4.80
DH1  - US$0.208
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)                 -        0.039 inch (in)
1 meter  (m)                      -        39 inches (in)
1 kilometer (km)                  -        0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                    -        2.47 acres
1 square meter (m2)               -       10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)                -       35.31 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter (1)                       -        0.264 US gallon (gal)
1 hectoliter (hl)                 -       26.4 US gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)                   -       2.205 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)              -        2,205.00 pounds (lb)
1 bar                             -        14.666 pounds per square inch (psi)
1 kilometer per hour (km/h)       -       0.6 mile per hour (mph)
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
CLCA           Local Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Locale de Credit Agricole)
CNCA           National Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole)
CRED           Regional Commitment and Expenses Controller
(Contro^leur Regional des Engagements et Des Depenses)
DPA            Provincial Dlrectorate of Agriculture
(Direction Provinciale de itAgriculture)
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization
(Organisation pour l'Alimentation et l'Agriculture)
FEC            Municipal Equipment Fund
(Fonds des Equipements Communaux)
FERTIMA,       Government Fertilizer Distribution Agency
(Socifte Marocaine des Fertilisants)
INRA           National Institute for Agricultural Research
(Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique)
MARA           Ministry of Agriculture
(Ministare de l'Agriculture et de la Reforme Agraire)
RCD            Rural Construction Directorate
(DER - Direction de l'Equipement Rural)
RCO            Provincial Rural Construction Office
(SER = Service de l'Equipement Rural)
SONACOS        National Agency for Seed Marketing
(Societe Nationale de Commercialisation des Semences)
UNDP           United Nations Development Progran
(Programme de Developpement des Nations Unies)
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
(Agences des Etats Unis pour le Developpement International)
This document has a restticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I                                                                                                                                                                          a



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
MIDDLE ATLAS - CENTRAL AREA - AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
I.    INTRODUCTION                                                   1
II.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CONTEXT                                1
A.  Place of Agriculture in the Economy                        1
B.  Agricultural Performance                                  2
C. Agricultural Planning and Sectoral Resource
Allocation                                              3
D. Sector Issues Relevant to the Middle Atlas
Agriculture Development Project                         4
E.  Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector               7
III.  THE PROJECT AREA                                               9
A.  Location, Climate, Land and Water Use                     9
B.  Population and Social Organization                        9
C.  Land Tenure, Land Use and Ownership                      10
D.  Production                                               11
E.  Agricultural Support Service                             12
F.  Infrastructure                                           13
G.  Existing Development Actions and Constraints             14
IV.   THE PROJECT                                                   17
A.  Project Objectives and Approach                          17
B.  Description of Project Components                        17
C.  Status of Studies                                        22
D.  Project Costs                                            22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in April 1981,
composed of Messrs. N. Imboden (Mission Leader, Economist), S. Darghouth
(Rural Engineer), J. Doolette (Agriculturalist), J. Hall (Livestock
Expert), and C. Holloway (Consulting Forester).



E.   Financing                                            23
F.   Disbursements                                        24
G.   Procurement                                          25
H.   Environment Impact                                   26
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                     27
A.   Project Implementation Strategy                      27
B.   Project Management                                   29
C.   Monitoring, Evaluation, Accounts and Audits          34
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION                                36
A.   Production                                           36
B.   Marketing                                            37
C.   Prices                                               39
D.   Beneficiaries, Benefit Distribution and
Nutritional Impact                                   41
E.   Cost Recovery                                        42
F.   Economic Analysis                                    44
VII. MAJOR AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS              47
ANNEXES
Annex I    Project Costs and Disbursements
Table 1:  Project Costs                           49
Table 2: Estimated Schedule of
Disbursements                           52
Annex II   Procurement Procedures                             53
Annex III Selected Documents and Data Available
in Project File                                   54
MAPS
IBRD 15865R1
IBRD 15866R1
IBRD 15898R



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
MIDDLE ATLAS - CENTRAL AREA - AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. Introduction
1.01     The proposed Project would help implement an integrated
agro-sylvo-pastoral development strategy for the unevenly utilized
resources in five communes of Morocco's mountainous Middle Atlas region.
The Project would aim to (i) increase the production of basic commodities
(meat and cereals), and hence improve the standard of living of the rural
population; (ii) develop underutilized forest resources through rational
management ana exploitation, ana integration of wood and forage production;
and (iii) develop the resources of collective rangelands by rational range
and livestock management. The Project was selected because of (i) the
importance to Morocco of its forest and range resources, which account for
about 40% of Morocco's total land area, and the urgency of reversing the
rapid degradation of these resources; (ii) the necessity of developing the,
existing timber and fuelwood resources to reduce Morocco's increasing
imports of timber and energy; and (iii) the need to develop employment
opportunities and ,income generating activities in Morocco's traditionally
neglected mountain areas. The proposed Project would support the
Government's agricultural sector strategy of increasing agricultural
self-sufficiency and reducing social and regional income disparities by
creating employment in aepressed areas (para. 2.07).
1.02     Th- eroject area of more than 500,000 ha has been sel- ed because
(i) it represents conditions and development potential found throughout the
extensive Middle Atlas region (approx. 5 million ha); and (ii) it has
natural resources, existing pilot actions, well-understood technical issues
and a population aware of the development constraints. The Midelt and
Azrou areas are contiguous, covering the high value cedar forests and the
surrounding collective range and cropland, all of which are exploited in an
integrated manner by the tribes (para. 3.03). The Moulay Bouazza region is
geographically separate. Its production system, integrating cropland,
forest range and highly degradea forest lands is representative of many
areas in Morocco.
1.03     The Project was identified in the spring of 1979 by an FAO/CP
identification mission following recommendations of a World Bank economic
mission and agricultural sector work. It was prepared by a
multidisciplinary team of central and regional Moroccan staff under the
guidance of the Livestock Department of the Mlinistry of Agriculture and
with the assistance of FAO/CP.
II. The Agricultural Sector Context
A. Place of Agriculture in the Economy
2.01     Morocco's 20 million population (1980), which is growing annually
at 2.9%, is 60% rural. GDP growth rate increased to 7.3% per year in the



period 1973-77 through high levels of investment but a disequilibrium
developed with an increasing debt service ratio. An initial stabilization
program reduced investments and imports at the cost of reduced GDP growth
ana increased unemployment. In 1980 the Government adopted a structural
adjustment strategy aiming at narrowing the external resource gapwhile
accelerating growth through (i) import reductions, (ii) export promotion,
and (iii) improved sectorial investment allocations.
2.02     Agricultural output has grown at an average annual rate of 2.4%
for the last 15 years, a lower rate than in other sectors and less than the
population growth rate. Hence the relative contribution to the economy is
declining, and since 1974 Morocco has been a net importer of food.
Absolute job numbers in agriculture are increasing although the share of
agricultural employment in the overall labor market (40%) is decreasing.
2.03     Agriculture contributed about 13% to Morocco's GDP (1978-1979),
down from about 20% at the beginning of the seventies. Crop production
contributed 62%, livestock 35%, forestry and fishery about 3% to the
agricultural GDP. Agricultural exports accounted for about 36% of total
exports in 1977-79 down from about 58% in 1971-1973. Fruit and vegetables
account for about 46% of all agricultural exports. Agricultural imports
have doubled in volume and tripled in value over the last ten years, but
the proportion of agricultural imports to total imports has decreased from
about 30% in 1971-1972 to 26% in 1978-1979. Wheat, oils and sugar account
for about 2/3 of total agricultural imports.
B. Agricultural Performance
Distribution of Agricultural Resources
2.04     Morocco has a total land area of 50 million ha of which 7.4
million have soils and climate suitable for cropping; 21 million ha in
semi-arid or mountain regions are suitable for grazing only and forest
covers 5.1 million ha. Of the arable area, which is largely privately
owned, 760,000 ha were irrigated in 1979. Of the 7.4 million ha under
cultivation, 4.5 million are in cereals, 0.5 million in pulse crops, 0.4
million under fruit trees, and 1.6 million ha are left fallow each year.
The state owned forest estate includes 0.4 million ha of forest plantation,
4.7 million ha of natural forest and woodland and 2.7 million ha of esparto
grass land. Livestock production is primarily extensive, based on grazing
of natural pasture land and of state owned forest. These grazing lands,
which are generally collectively utilized, are overstocked and low yielding
due to poor management. Natural regeneration of forests is seriously
hampered by indiscriminate access of animals. Intensive livestock
production, although growing rapidly in irrigated and high rainfall areas,
still accounts for only a small part of national milk and red meat
production.
Agricultural Performance
2.05     Performance has varied between products, zones and sectors.
Development in the rainfed sector has stagnated and crop yields have
progressed only marginally; cereal, olive and meat production show no long
run improvement and the production of pulses has declined.  Low overall



-3-
yields and production are largely the result of using poor farm technology,
limited investment in the rainfed sector, lack of a coherent price policy and
absence of effective Government support services. By contrast, in the
irrigated sector, crops for which modern farming techniques, support
services, guaranteed and remunerative prices and markets have existed,
progress has been rapid. Forest production is limited. Industrial timber
production covers about 25% of the country's requirements, shortages are
particularly acute for sawlogs and mining timber; more than 50% of cork and
80% of pulp are exported. Moroccan forest also provides more than 10% of
national livestock forage supply.
C. Agricultural Planning and Sectoral Resource Allocation
2.06   Achievement of more rapid agricultural growth and reduction of the
food trade deficit are the major issues facing the agricultural sector in
order (i) to lessen the drain on the balance of payments caused by sharp
increases in food imports; and (ii) to improve the living conditions of the
rural poor. Addressing these issues will require a major change in strategy
and policy to (i) increase investments in the rainfed subsector so as to
improve the productivity of agricultural practices; (ii) modify pricing
policies to reduce uncertainties and provide incentives to farmers to
increase production particularly in rainfed areas; (iii) improve agricultural
support services; (iv) promlote rational land use by adapting the land tenure
to modern farming requirements; and (v) promote agricultural exports.
The Proposed Five-Year Development Plan (1981-1985)
2.7   Th, Gbveinment's objectives in -Hr'u,lture are:  (i) increased
self-sufficiency by increasing production of staple food in the rainfed
areas, and by intensifying production of industrial crops (sugar, vegetable
oils, cotton) in the irrigated area; (ii) increased exports of off-season
vegetables and fruit; (iii) reduction of social and regional income
disparities by creating employment in depressed areas and by channeling
increased investments to poverty areas; and (iv) improved marketing of
production through increased processing of products and through improved
marketing.
2.08   To attain these objectives the Government proposes:  (i) to increase
public investment in agriculture and reallocate investments within subsectors
and regions to favor the rainfed subsector and regions suffering from
underinvestment; (ii) to favor projects which are directly productive,
shorter term, and less capital more labor intensive; (iii) to increase the
effectiveness of public investments and policy by strengthening planning and
evaluation capacity; (iv) to follow a price policy which will ensure
equitable returns to the farmer and stimulate domestic production of imported
products; (v) to promote rational and intensive use of resources by revising
the Investment Code and by adapting land-ownership systems; and (vi) to
strengthen support services.
2.09   The proposed Project would contribute to the Government's effort to
reallocate investments within Agriculture in favor of the livestock and
forestry subsector. In particular, the Project would help implement
management systems for the development of rangeland and agricultural support
services for mountainous areas.



-4-
D. Sector Issues Relevant to the
Middle Atlas Agriculture Development Project
Agricultural Price Policy
2.10    The Government intervenes into the price structure of produce and
production factors through regulation of supply and through subsidies.
Public marketing enterprises purchase durum wheat, barley, and maize at
official support prices. The prices of bread wheat, most industrial crops,
and milk are fixed by Government. Subsidies are provided to wholesalers and
processing industries to maintain low fixed retail prices for flour, bread,
sugar, vegetable oil, and milk as well as for fertilizer and seed of high
yielding varieties.  Additional subsidies are provided directly to farmers to
encourage the use of farm machinery and other farm investments. Agrarian
Reform Cooperatives and Farmers' Associations receive special investment
incentives. The Government has begun corrective measures by increasing
prices of agricultural products and by a correction in the exchange rate
(para. 2.11).
2.11   The Government attempts to guarantee a high enough producer price to
entice production, and yet maintain low retail prices for consumers. This
policy has been successful for milk and sugar. For cereals the official
prices had not kept pace with the increases in production costs. However,
over the last few years the Government has readjusted the prices of the major
products: official cereal prices (fixed or support prices) have increased by
over 100% during the last 4 years while prices for industrial crops (sugar,
cotton, oilseeds, etc.) have kept pace with increases in production costs.
It is considered that the new price structure for different products is
sufficiently attractive to stimulate increased production and are in line
with projections for international prices (Annex XIX of Project File).
2.12   In order to stimulate the use of modern inputs, and to offset the
penalty on agriculture caused by the unfavorable structure of effective pro-
tection, Government subsidizes farm inputs, notably seed of cereal varieties,
fertilizers, water and credit. Subsidies for cereal seeds amounted to DH 16
million (US$4 million) for about 33,000 t (1978/79). The amount of fertili-
zer subsidies varies with the fluctuations of world market prices.  In 1980
subsidies amounted to about DH 130 million (US$32 Million) or about 22% of
the economic cost of fertilizers.  Water charges for irrigation are very low
and do not cover operation and maintenance costs. Corrective measures have
been taken by the Governmment (para 2.23). Interest on loans to small
farmers (7.5%) are below the inflation rate (11% in 1979/80). The
Agricultural Investment Code provides for subsidies for farm investments such
as pure bred cows (20%), animal sheds (20%) animal drawn equipment (30%) and
for fruit plantations (up to 50%), and special subsidies for farm
cooperatives. The impact of price intervention on the agricultural sector is
not completely understood, although the evidence suggests that agriculture
and export industries are penalized overallll. A study on the effects of
subsidies is underway and financed under the Loukkos Project (Loan 1848-MOR).
/1  This is the result of the study on prices, subsidies and resource
management executed as part of the Bank's economic missions. The results
are confirmed by Project analyses which consistently show a higher
economic rate of return for farm budgets than their corresponding
financial rates.



Land Tenure
2.13   Land tenure in Morocco does not suit the requirements of modern
farming. Private land ownership in Morocco is skewed, with about 75% of the
farm families owning 25% of the land having 5 ha or less. The 1.9 million
farms are excessively fragmented into 11.6 million parcels with average
parcels of 0.64 ha which is too small for efficient farming. Absentee
landlords who hold land for speculation either do not cultivate it, or have
it cultivated by tenant farmers who have no security of tenure. Collectively
owned land, representing about 30% of total cropped and grazing land, is
mismanaged, as collective members lack an incentive to undertake
improvements. These land tenure problems have restricted the use of modern
production techniques and agricultural credit. Tenant farmers are reluctant
to invest and the agricultural bank (CNCA) does not provide credit for
collective land. The Government of Morocco attempts to address land tenure
issues through the Investment Code and through land reform measures. The
proposed Project would address the issue of collectively owned rangeland
through the implementation of a new strategy for developing collective lands
(para. 4.02).
Poverty
2.14   About 85% of the rural population in Morocco is dependent on rainfed
agriculture and about 45% of Moroccan families live at, or below, the rural
absolute poverty level ot US$270 (1980) per capita. The zones of poverty are
predominantly in mountain, forest and arid areas of Morocco. To address the
poverty problem, projects are' needed that introduce more appropriate farming
methods, improve land tenure, develop pasture land and forest production,
control erosion, integrate livestock and crop production and that provide
access for small farmers to advice, credit and services through the
organization of farmers. The proposed Project would be the Government's
first attempt to develop the agro-sylvo-pastoral resources of Morocco's
Middle Atlas areas through a participatory development approach based on a
dialogue with the traditional social units.
Livestock and Range Development
2.15   Animal production is very important for small farmers both as a source
of protein and as an instrument for wealth accumulation. Traditional
livestock production which is associated with crop cultivation through
stubble and fallow grazing, is heavily dependent on the forage resources of
range and forest lands which supply about 1/2 of the forage needs. Range
productivity is declining due to overgrazing and mismanagement. Productivity
of traditional livestock is low due to (i) inadequate nutrition and poor
health; (ii) their genetic characteristics; (iii) inefficient herd
composition due to their use for wealth accumulation rather than production;
(iv) lack of shelters and water points; and kv) lack of incentives to produce
milk due to inadequate milk collection.
2.16   The Government neglected the livestock subsector during the last
development plan period by allocating to it only 4.3% of agriculturai



-6
investments while the sub-sector contributed 35% of the agricultural GDP.
The investments emphasized intensive production on irrigated lands and in
high rainfall zones.
2.17   The range has not received adequate attention from Moroccan
authorities even though past experience (the Aarid perimeter and the Ranch
Adarouch) has demonstrated the technical possibilities for improved range
management (paras. 3.24,3.25).  In the absence of a development strategy,
attempts to generalize these experiences have been piecemeal and with little
success.
2.18   The new Development Plan (1981-1985) recognizes the importance of
livestock within agriculture, and of the range within the livestock
subsector. The share of livestock investments in total agricultural
investments would more than double (11%) and over half of the livestock
investments would be in the traditional grazing areas. Based on past
experiences the Government has elaborated a strategy for the improvement of
rangeland based on the organization of the local population and the
integration of agro-sylvo-pastoral resources. The proposed Project would
implement this new strategy.
Forestry Development
2.19   The National Forest Policy enunciated by the Government in 1976
requires conservation of resources, increase in productivity to satisfy most
of the country's requirements for forest products by the year 2000, and
maintenance and improvement of cover to reduce soil erosion, protect water
*catchments and arrest the encroachment of deserts into agricultural land.
Development of Morocco's forestry resources has been slow and the major
constraints to development include; (i) paucity of inventory data and the low
percentage of potentially productive forest under management; (ii) low
productivity of much of the natural forest and inadequate support for
reforestation; (iii) slow progress in soil erosion control and water
catchment protection; (iv) lack of operational programs and experience in the
management of stock, grazing in forest areas resulting in damage and
overgrazing in many Moroccan forests; (v) absence of data and experience in
long-term integrated pest management in forest areas, notably for defoliating
insects; and (vi) weakness of infrastructural support, notably in roads,
buildings and vehicles. The Government is taking two major steps towards a
more rational utilization of the presently underutilized forestry
potentials. These are (i) doubling of forestry's share of agricultural
investments to 8% ot that alloted to agriculture; (ii) defining a strategy
for sylvo-pastoral development. The proposed Middle Atlas Project, by
contributing to the management of Morocco's natural forest and by promoting
integration of sylvicultural and pastoral activities, would be an essential
part of Government's attempt to address the sectorial constraints. The issue
of forest plantation establishment would be addressed by a Forestry Project
being developed concurrently.
c



-7-
Agricultural Extension
2.20   Agricultural extension is organized through 225 work centers.  Most of
the effort of extension agents is directed to distributing inputs to farmers,
collecting agricultural statistics, and enforcing regulations. Extension
agents have not been very successful at diffusing new technology for these
reasons ana also due to: (i) their frequent lack of practical farming
experience and communication skills; (ii) weak research-extension linkages;
(iii) lack of systematic s6heduling of activities; and (iv) lack of
responsibility, accountability, authority and a proper incentive system. All
of these resulted in a combination of poor staff efficiency, low status, low
pay, and low morale. A reform began in July 1980 with the establishment of a
Directorate of Extension Service and with the definition of a reform program
consisting of (i) the establishment of homogeneous extension regions with
locally adapted extension objectives and messages; (ii) integration of
research, extension and training; and (iii) mobilization of extension agents
by increasing their accountability and by establishing an incentive system.
Before widescale adoption, these correctional actions would be field-tested
in representative zones, of which the zone of the proposed Project would be
one.
Agricultural Research
2.21   Morocco's agricultural research is unuertaken on 68 research stations
and in 20 laboratories. Major research themes are plant improvement, plant
protection, genetic improvement of livestock, pastoral development, and food
technology. Although some positive results have been achieved, in particular
in the development and production of new cereal varieties, the results are
insufficient. The major constraints are: (i) insufficient attention to a
farming systems approach; (ii) lack of adequate human, physical and financial
resources; (iii) inadequate institutional set up, administrative procedures
ana low salaries; (iv) insufficient coordination between researchers; and (v)
insufficient communication with farmers and little verification of
recommended practices in farmers' fields. To overcome these constraints the
Government created a semi-autonomous National Institute for Agricultural
Research (INRA) in December 1980, responsible for coordination of
agricultural research and its execution. The Institute is presently
establishing a Master Plan for agricultural research. The proposed Project,
by integrating research with extension and by subcontracting problem oriented
research topics to INRA, would contribute to the implementation of the
national research program (para. 5.12).
E. Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
2.22   The Bank's agricultural sector strategy in Morocco supports the
Government's objectives and strategy in agriculture defined in paras. 2.07
and 2.08. Bank group lending for agriculture in Morocco began in 1965 and,
to date, 14 projects have been undertaken and supported by US$505.0 million
in Bank/IDA funds (US$24.0 million in IDA credits). They include five
irrigation projects: Sidi Slimane (FY65, completed), Sebou I (FY70,
completed), bouss Groundwater (FY75), Doukkala I (FY76 completed) and
Doukkala II (FY77). There have also been four agricultural credit projects



-8-
(FY66, FY73, FY77, and FY79), an agro-industries and flood control project
(Sebou II, FY74), three rainfed agricultural development projects (Meknes
FY75, Fes-Karia-Tissa FY78 and Loukkos FY80); and one export oriented project
(Vegetable Production and Marketing Project, FY79).
2.23   Performance of Bank-financed projects has generally been
satisfactory. Performance in irrigation projects has been good once initial
problems of land distribution, organization delays in construction and in
acquisition of irrigation equipment had been overcome. Inadequate cost
recovery is the major issue. The implementation of a recently decreed
increase of irrigation water cnarges by about 100l will contribute to the
solution of the cost recovery issue. A completion report for the Sebou I
project was submitted on April 29, 1981.  The report stresses the project's
success in institution building and in providing infrastructure to achieve
increases in the production ot irrigated crops. It also stresses the
importance of extension, the timely allocation of funds for O&M, as well as
the collection of water charges due and the completion of land reform as a
remaining challenge to ensure achievement of the investments's economic and
financial potential.  Performance of the four agricultural credit projects
has been good. OED reports for three of them are available (Report 2543,
June 15, 1979, Report 3248, December 23, 1980)/l. These reports stress the
contribution made by these loans to agricultural development, their success
in establishing an efficient credit institution and the successful expansion
of credit to small farmers. They also stress the importance of agricultural
price policy, extension and input distribution for improved economic and
financial performance of the credit loans. These issues are being addressed
through Bank sector work. The Fourth Agricultural Credit Project has
recently run into liquidity problems due to Government's tight credit policy
and the 1980/81 drought which resulted in rescheduling of farmers' debts.
Adequate measures to deal with these temporary problems are being taken. In
the rainfed subsector, the first project (Meknes FY75), experienced
considerable implementation delays due to land redistribution problems, poor
preparation of project components, over-optimistic assessment of
implementation targets, and inexperience in the organization and management
of rural development projects.  Th'  Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project was
designed to minimize organization and management problems encountered with
Meknes and is performing well. The Loukkos project, which has recently
become effective, has already made a good start.
2.24   Lessons from the above projects have been considered in the design of
the proposed Project. Start-up delays, which have been experienced by most
projects in Morocco, would be minimized because of (i) the close involvement-
of the Moroccan authorities in Project preparation; (ii) the participation of
the population in Project design; and (iii) the nomination of key personnel
and the availability of first year designs and work plans. Project
management issues would be properly addressed because of (i) the integration
of Project management into the existing structure of support services;
(ii) the involvement of the local authorities, who are responsible for the
coordination of public services, in Project preparation; and (iii) the
/1 The First Agricultural Credit Project was reviewed in OED's Report on
Agricultural Credit Programs, Background Paper No. 4.



-9-
establishment of regional coordinating committees under the chairmanship of
the Governors. These committees have proven their usefulness in the
Fes-Karia-Tissa Project.
III. The Project Area
A. Location, Climate, Land and Water Use
3.01     The Project area consists of forest, range and agricultural lands
totalling about 516,000 ha and covering five communes in two provinces
(Ifrane, Khenifra) in the Middle Atlas region-/l. In addition the Project
would cover about 66,000 ha of contiguous forest in the communes of
Irklaouen and El Hamma m2. The area can be divided into three zones:
(i) the low altitude zone comprising mostly private agricultural land
covering about 175,000 ha (34% of Project area); (ii) the middle altitude
zone mostly collective rangeland which comprises about 187,000 ha (36% of
project area); and (iii) the high altitude zone comprising state owned
cedar and holm oak forest and forest rangeland (about 154,000 ha or 30% of
Project area). Elevations range from about 800 m to 2,500 m and the
precipitations increase with altitude and northern exposure from 300 to
1,000 mm. Dry, hot summers in the plains and cold, harsh winters in the
mountains limit the length of the vegetative period resulting in seasonal
deficits of animal feed. In general, the soils are shallow and, in the
Azrou area, very stony, and limit the use of modern agricultural
practices. The Project area is within the watershed basins of the oueds
Beht, Oum-er-Rbia, and Guigou in the Ifrane Province and within the
Moulouya Basin in the Khenifra Province. The flows of these rivers are
subject to marked seasonal variations. The Azrou area has substantial
surface water resources and about 10,000 ha are presently irrigated. The
availability of water resources is a serious constraint to the agricultural
development in Khenifra (para 4.16).
B. Population and Social Organization
3.02     Population density is relatively low and varies from 9 to 32 per
km2 due to the large area of forest and range where residence is
illegal. Out of 110,000 people, 80,000 or 12,800 families depend on
agriculture. Relatively low population growth (2% compared to 2.9ko average
for Morocco), a very young population (up to 50% of the population is less
than 25 years old), and a resulting low proportion of active population
(about 30%) all indicate important outmigration. -Reasons are poverty,
seasonal underemployment, few development activities, and low level of
services. Poverty and underemployment are particularly pronounced in the
Midelt area.
/1  The five communes are Timahdite and Ain Leuh (Ifrane Province, Azrou
Circle) Itzer, Boumia (Khenifra Province, Midelt Circle), and Moulay
Bouazza (Khenifra Province, Khenifra Circle).
/2 El Hamman is in Khenifra Province and Irklaouen in Ifrane Province.



- 10 -
3.03     The social organization is tribal with tribes, fractions or
subfractions (according to commune) each possessing a territory comprising
(i) private crop land, (ii) collective grazing land, and (iii) rights to
graze state forest land. In the past, to adapt to the availability of
forage the groups migrated with their animals from the low elevation
grazing areas in the winter to the forest and mountain pastures in the
summer. A traditional committee of representatives of each group (jemaa)
has been responsible for the management of collective land.  This
traditional system has become less effective in the last 50 years because
(i) population pressure caused low elevation grazing lands to be taken for
cropping; (ii) Government policy of protecting the forest from grazing
reduced the grazing area available to each group; (iii) the association by
tribal rightholders, with capital from outside, increased the number of
animals dependent on range. Thus the seminomadic mode has given way to a
more sedentary exploitation. The lowlands are used for crops while the
rangeland and forest grazing areas are exploited during the longest
possible period, leading to overgrazing of rangeland and degradation of the
forest.
C. Land Tenure, Land Use and Ownership
Land Tenure
3.04     The proportion of state, collective and private land in the
Project area is as follows:
% of Land Area
Ain Leuh/Timahdite Itzer/Boumia Moulay Bouazza Total
State Land               28               15               62             30
Collective Land          55               37                -             36
Private Land              17              48               38             34
State land is forest and grassland; collective lands are mainly range, but
include some cropped area. Most private land is arable, although some is
range. State land is well delimited and the tribes have the usufruct of
the grassland and dead wood for domestic purposes. A large part of
collective lands in the Azrou area has been delimited, but this is not the
case in the Midelt area, where the boundaries between collective range and
private land are often disputed. The large majority of private land is not
registered and mostly derived by the customary law of prolonged peaceful
occupation of collective land. Existing legislation now prohibits further
appropriation of collective rangeland.
Land Use
3.05     In the forest area of 220,000 ha, cedar is the most valuable
species.  It occupies about 51,000 ha, at elevations above 1,500 m. Holm
oak covers 125,000 ha in all areas throughout the range of cedar, in
mixture with it, and below. There are approximately 7,000 ha of pine and
eucalyptus plantations, mainly at low elevations.
3.06     The grazing area amounts to about 300,000 ha of whichi about 85,000
ha are forest lands, 28,000 ha open grasslands in the forest and 187,000 ha
collective rangeland.



- 11 -
3.07     The agricultural area of about 175,000 ha is mainly used for
cereals (54%).  Fallow amounts to about 40% of the area.  Forage and an
occasional spring crop uses the remainder. Irrigated land accounts for
about 12% or total area: fruit trees and vegetables are grown in the
lowland, while potatoes are an important cash crop in high elevations. Due
to water limitation, however, most irrigated land is under cereals and only
partly irrigated.
Land and Animal Ownership
3.08     The overall average farm size is 14 ha ranging from 7 ha in the
more procuctive Azrou area to 22 ha in Midelt. Land distribution is skewed
with the smaller farms only viable if the major part of their income is
from livestock. Almost 70% of the herds accounting for 30% of the
livestock are in herds of less than 100 animals. The relationship between
land and livestock ownership is as follows:
Farm Size                  % of Farmers         % of Area           % of Livestock
Midelt Area
Small  ( (6.7 ha)             75                 23                     42
Large >(67.6 ha)              25                 77                     58
Moulay Bouazza
Small  Z. (7.4 ha)            61                 32                     43
Large  Ž (24.4 ha)            39                 68                     57
Ain Leuh
Small <   (3.1 ha)            62                 26                     39
Large  ? (14.5 ha)            38                 74                     51
3.09      Collective land is equally accessible to all rightholders for
whatever size herd they have. Benefits are thus distributed according to herd
size and the owners of large herds benefit most. The cumulative effect of
unequal land distribution and herd ownership is partly offset by two factors;
(i) small farmers have proportionally more animals than the large farmers; and
(ii) association with herdowners permits small farmers to participate in the
benefits of the range without owning the feed resources during the winter
months.
D. Production
3.10     Forest production is below its potential because of:  (i)
inaccessibility of some exploitation areas; (ii) large areas not yet under
management (80,890 ha or 83% of the project forests in Khenifra and 52,466 ha
or-42% of Meknes); (iii) difficulties of natural regeneration; and (iv)
degradation by livestock and defoliating insects. Cedar increments amount to
0.7-3.0 m3 per ha per year, depending on soils. These rates,could be
increased by relatively simple management techniques (para 4.05).



- 12 -
3.11     The productivity of the collective rangeland and forest rangeland is
very low due to overgrazing and mismanagement and varies with the rainfall
from about 290 to 350 feed units/ha. The potential of these rangelands is
relatively high and simple management techniques would at least double the
productivity of the range (Annex XI of Project File).
3.12     The Project area's livestock resources amount to 480,000 sheep,
160,000 goats and about 40,000 cattle in the Project area. Goats are
concentrated in Moulay Bouazza. The forest and range contribute about 50% of
total feed requirements, while crop land contributes 30% and 3% is bought from
the outside. The stock rate thus exceeds the present fodder availability by
about 17%. Yields of animal products are low (Annex XII of Project File).
Annual meat yields amount to about 10.4, 9.7 and 84 kg/animal unit for sheep,
goat and cattle respectively. Average annual milk production amounts to 19
liters for goats and 270 liters for cattle.
3.13     Crop yields are low and, except for irrigated fruit and vegetables,
geared towards autoconsumption (Annex IX of Project File). Cereal yields do
not exceed 1.0 t/ha in the high potential area (Ain Leuh and Moulay Bouazza)
and average yields in Midelt area are 0.7 t/ha. Better farmers in the area
grow double and triple the average yields in each zone and technology exists
to increase production substantially.
E. Agricultural Support Service
3.14     The Ministry of Agriculture (MARA) is represented in the Project area
by two Provincial Directorates (DPA), one in Meknes and one in Khenifra. The
DPA of Meknes is responsible for agricultural activities in the new Province
of Ifrane. Provincial Directors coordinate and supervise the forestry, crop
production, extension, livestock, rural engineering and land registration
provincial services.
3.15     The Provincial Livestock Service has its own infrastructure and
traditionally has limited itself to providing animal health services, and
concentrate feed and has had little to do with fodder production, herd and
range management. Recently, two range management specialists have been added,
one each for the Timahdite and Aarid ranges.
3.16     The Provincial Forestry Service is subdivided into subdivisions,
districts, and forest stations. The Provincial Forestry Service in the
Project area in Khenifra has 2 subdivisions (Itzer- and Moulay Bouazza), 3
districts, ana 12 stations. Moulay Bouazza also has a sylvo-pastoral unit.
The Provincial Forestry Service in the Project area in Ifrane has 1 sub-
division (Azrou), 7 districts and 26 stations.  The staff generally is well
trained and disciplined, but limited personnel, infrastructure and equipment
often seriously impair forestry planning and operations.
3.17     Agricultural Extension and Agricultural Research are now being
reorganized (Annex X of Project File).  The shortcomings of the national
extension system were described in para. 2.20. The Project area is
understaffed and lacks infrastructure to the point that extension is
effectively non-existant since input distribution and custom services receive
priority. The newly created National Institute for Agricultural Research



- 13 -
(INRA) is not represented in the Project area anc research is a serious
bottleneck for the development of the region.
3.18     Input Distribution.  The state owned fertilizer and seed companies
(FERTIMA and SONACOS) have distribution centers in Meknes and Khenifra and
also use MARA's work centers and staff to facilitate distribution. This
system is effective in the Ifrane Province where the population is relatively
concentrated ana where there are accessible market centers where private
wholesalers also operate. In Khenifra, where the population is more spread
out and centers are less well served, the fertilizer and seed distribution
network is inadequate.
3.19     CNCA/1, an autonomous Government-owned institution, was established
in 1961 as the agricultural credit institution in Morocco. CNCA's
infrastructure is divided into regional banks (Caisses Regionales de Credit
Agricole, CRCAs) which lend to medium and large farmers with an annual net
fiscal income above DH 3,000 and local banks (Caisses Locales de Credit
Agricole) (CLCA), which lend to small farmers whose net fiscal income is below
DH 2,000 or 3,000. CNCA, which has received four Bank loans, has been
consistently appraised by the Bank as an effective agricultural credit
institution having an efficient lending program and an excellent payment
record. CNCA serves the Project area with two regional (Khenifra and Azrou)
and four local offices (Azrou, M'Rirt, Midelt and Moulay Bouazza). The use of
credit has increased substantially over the last few years. In the Midelt
area total credit rose from DH 1.4 million in 1978-79 to DH 2.6 million in
1980-81, while that in Azrou went from 10.9 million to. 16.8 million in the
same period. The present infrastructure in the Project zone is sufficient to
handle credit demand, and CNCA's infrastructure investment projections will
permit expansion to keep pace with the increase in credit demand.
3.20     The Ministry of Interior is important in the development of the
Project area:  (i) the Governors have overall responsibility for development
activities in their Provinces, and are responsible for coordinating the
activities of the technical services; (ii) the Governors review and approve
the decisions of local authorities, including the communal budget; and
(iii) the Ministry of Interior, through the Directorate of Collectivities, has
the trusteeship of collective lands. During Project preparation a close
collaboration between the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Agriculture
has been established at the national, regional and local level.
F. Infrastructure
Roads
3.21     The principal road system in the Project Area is good.  The secondary
and tertiary road system is quite dense in Midelt and Moulay Bouazza, but
often badly maintained. In Azrou, range roads are insufficient and the
development of small scale irrigation perimeters in Khenifra requires the
construction of simple access roads. Forestry roads are insufficient for good
forest management and not adequately maintained.
/1 Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole.



- 14 -
Irrigation Infrastructure
3.22     There are 25 small-scale irrigation schemes in the Project area, but
only four (Tigrigra, Guigou, Amghas in Ifrane Province and Ait Mouli in
Khenifra province) exceed 1,000 ha. Most are less than 100 ha. About 22,000
ha of the Project area are irrigable, and most have a year round source of
water, although there is a shortage at the peak demand period in Khenifra
areas. The irrigation infrastructure is to a large extent traditional:
earthmade water diversions and channels, no drainage and insufficient land
levelling. In the absence of detailed studies on water resources
availability, investments in small-scale irrigation are limited to the
rehabilitation of existing channels and improvement of water management.
Social Infrastructure
3.23     In the past, the Project area has been neglected in economic and
social infrastructure investments.  Since 1976, forest revenues have been
reinvested in the Communes where the forest resources are generated. This has
allowed the Communes to invest in social and economic infrastructure and in
forestry related investments for at least 20% of their forestry resources
(para 6.26).  However, Communes such as Timahdite and Moulay Bouazza that have
few forest resources have been disadvantaged.
G. Existing Development Actions and Constraints
Relevant Experiences with Development Activities
3.24     The Aarid perimeter, officially delimited collective grazing lands,
covers 25,000 ha within four communes in the Midelt cercle.  An experimentaL
reseeding program which started in 1971 determined that varieties of Agropyrum
were suitable for the low rainfall zone (250-350 mm) producing 300% more
forage than sage bush. The Government started large scale implementation of
Agropyrum sp. in Aarid in 1975, but due to lack of funds and equipment, only
about 12,000 ha have been planted up-to-date. About half of the planted area
is now open for grazing. Despite the technical success in establishing a
higher yielding range, lack of personnel, absence of watering points, and slow
implementation have not permitted rational exploitation of the perimeter.
Insufficient consultation with the population during establishment of the
perimeter and subsequent lack of communication with them have caused land
disputes and some opposition to the Government's range activities. To resolve
the institutional difficulties of this first experience, the Government has
decided:  (i) to review its action plan to take into account the land tenure
claims of the population; (ii) to construct a water supply system; and
(iii) to establish, in collaboration with USAID, an efficient extension and
communication system. It is expected that, by 1982, improvements in the Aarid
perimeter will cover about 15,000 ha and that a satisfactory management system
will be established in close consultation with the population.
3.25     Adarouch Ranch.  The Ranch of Adarouch (10,000 ha) in the Azrou
Circle was established in 1969 as a semi-public company, in cooperation with
King Ranch Texas. The Ranch was established on expropriated collective lands,
and is now run as a commercial ranch stocked with about 12,000 Santa Gertrudlis
cattle. Reseeding, fertilization and good management methods have tripled
feed production. The Ranch has demonstrated the technical and financial



viability of range management, but displacing the traditional herds has
increased the pressure on the remaining collective lands and added to the
population's distrust of development programs.
3.26     Timahdite Experiment Station.  The Livestock Department, in
collaboration with the Hassan II Agronomic Institute, established an
experiment station in Timahdite in 1976. Trials concerning rotational
grazing, oeferred grazing, stocking rates, tertilization and seeding are under
way. The results clearly indicate the potential of native species and the
limitations of re-seeding. They provide adequate information for actions
necessary to improve the productivity of the Timahdite and the adjacent Ain
Leuh range.
3.27     Range Extension and Seea Multiplication Project.  This USAID financed
Project, expected to be operational at the end of 1981 is centered around an
extension program in five range perimeters including Aarid and Timahdite. The
Project includes the establishment of a seed multiplication center, the
development of extension programs in conjunction with the Meknes Extension
Center, the development of range management technique evaluation, the
extension demonstration and the application of appropriate range management
practices as well as cultural and sociological inventories. The Project also
includes training for advanced degrees (11) in range management related fields
and short-term training (17).  This Project would provide technical support
for range management in Morocco. Close coordination in the preparation of
this Project and the Middle Atlas Project has resulted in complementarity of
the actions envisaged by the two Projects.
3.28     Sylvo-Pastoral Activities.  In Moulay Bouazza the Government
established a comprehensive forest-range management plan in 1978. The study
includes detailed information on social structure and organization and
emphasizes close collaboration with the population. The Forestry Department
is undertaking trials of forage shrub plantations, pasture seeding and
fertilization in the area, which confirm the technical feasibility of the
proposed management plan. Since 1979-80 the Government has, in close
collaboration with local social management units (para. 3.03), started
implementing the management plan on a trial basis. This pilot scheme has
confirmed the social acceptability of the proposed measures. In Ain Leuh, a
UNDP/FAO assisted project conducted trials of forage shrub plantations, holm
oak thinnings and forest range management over the last five years. That
project also implemented a large number of studies concerning the population,
their organization ana production methods and elaborated specific proposals
for forest range management.
3.29     Forest Management.  The Forestry Department has prepared management
plans for about 44,000 ha of the cedar forest and established detailed work
plans for long term forest management and exploitation. Shortages of funds
and personnel and weakness of infrastructure have impaired the Forestry
Department's implementation of existing management plans. Furthermore the
forest cannot be protected from livestock without complementary measures
outside the forest.



- 16 -
Analysis of Development Experience
3.30     Interrelation of Constraints and Coordination of Activities.
Agro-sylvo-pastoral activities in the Project area are interdependent:
implementation of forest management plans is only possible if livestock
pressure on the forest can be decreased through increased forage availability
outside the forest. Similarly, the enforcement of range regulations is only
possible if alternative fodder resources are available from the farms during
periods when the range is closed. Past development projects have had a
sectorial approach and have not taken into account the complementarity of
agro-sylvo-pastoral resources. Projects that denied access to forest and
rangeland without providing the herders with alternative forage resources made
it impossible for herders to comply with the regulations.
3.31     Importance of Social Structure.  Tribal customs and law are still
very strong factors in determining farmers' behaviour. The use of collective
range land, the distribution of irrigation water, as well as grazing rights in
the forest are determined and regulated by the tribe or fraction of tribe.
Regulations which are contrary or that have not been accepted by the social
units have little chance of being enforced. Past development projects often
ignored tribal boundaries or rights which resulted in resistance by the
farmers to the proposed activities.
3.32     Adaptation of Technology.  Past development activities have had a
technocratic approach: insufficiently adapted research results have been
applied against the will of the population and often have failed. Natural
vegetation has been replaced with exotic species without sufficient knowledge
of the potential of the native vegetation or its seasonal importance in the
forage balance.
3.33     Local Participation and Administrative Structure.  At the farm level
the use of the agro-sylvo-pastoral resources is already integrated: arable
farm land is managed individually by farmers who share the use of the forest
and collective range with the other members of a social unit. Through the
integration of agro-sylvo-pastoral activities, all income creating activities
of the farmers are affected. It is therefore necessary to propose to the
farmer a coherent development program that covers all his activities and to
obtain his adherence to the development program through an agreement with the
social units to which he belongs. Government services at the local level are
not integrated. Each service (livestock, forestry, crop production, rural
engineering) has its own activities and addresses the farmer's individually
and independently, resulting in a dispersion of efforts, incoherent
development proposals and insufficient and confusing dialogue with the
population.
3.34     The design of the proposed Project takes into account these
constraints and proposes an approach which emphasizes (i) participation of the
population; (ii) development of all their resources (agro-sylvo-pastoral); and
(iii) integration of supporting services.



- 17 -
IV. The Project
A.  Project Objectives and Approach
Project Objectives
4.01     Overall Project objectives would be (i) improving Morocco's rate of
self-sufficiency in agricultural products by increasing the production of
meat, milk, cereals and wood; (ii) increasing the standard of living of the
rural population by increasing their productivity and by developing the full
potential of their resources; (iii) increasing the value of forest resources
through improved management and exploitation of forest resources and
integrating forest utilizations (wood production and livestock grazing); and
(iv) implementing a consistent strategy for the integrated development of
agrosylvopastoral resources. The Project would increase the income of the
rural population by (i) increasing crop production through improved crop
production techniques and small scale irrigation; (ii) increasing meat and
milk production through improved range management, forage production and
animal husbandry; and (iii) providing increased seasonal employment for
farmers in forestry. The potential of the forest resources would be realized
through (i) the preparation and implementation of long term forest management
plans; (ii) the rational exploitation of wood by providing the necessary
infrastructure and equipment; and (iii) the improvement of fodder resources in
the forest. Collective range improvement would be executed on a pilot basis,
and would put particular emphasis on institutional arrangements and the
participation of the population in the design and management of project
investments and range resources.
Project Approach
4.02      The proposed Project would be the first phase in the development of
the Middle Atlas. The Project would consist of a set of integrated actions
that would rationalize the use of the forest, range and agricultural resources
of the region. The Project would use the traditional social structure as a
framework for its implementation (para. 5.01).   Project activities would be
planned at the level of extended families or tribes, taking into account all
resources of the units (private and collective).  Project implementation would
require continuous dialogue with the population and a reorganization of
agricultural support services to emphasize proper coordination among local
supporting services (para. 5.09). A contractual arrangement between the
social units and the technical services would define the actions and
responsibilities of each participant, the management of the resources and the
recovery ot costs. In addition to the actions to be implemented at the tribal
level, the Project would undertake projectwide actions such as forestry
development, road improvement and the improvement of agricultural support
services (paras. 4.05, 4.14).
B. Description of Project Components
4.03      The Project would include (i) infrastructure and equipment for the
management and exploitation of the region's forest resources; (ii) forest and
collective rangeland development activities; (iii) development of animal



- 18 -
health facilities; (iv) on-farm development and working capital for
agricultural production; (v) construction and improvement of forest, range and
feeder roads; (vi) improved extension and research; (vii) irrigation
rehabilitation; and (viii) technical asistance and studies amounting to 124
m/m to help with the implementation of the various Project components.
Forest Management and Exploitation
4.04     The forestry component of the Project would include:  (i) the
preparation and implementation of forest management plans; (ii) forest
exploitation; (iii) emergency control of the processionary caterpillar and
establishment of long-term integrated pest management plans; and (iv) the
means, organization and incentives for regulated stock grazing in forest areas.
4.05     Management Plans would be prepared for about 36,000 ha of presently
unmanaged forests. This would increase managed forest areas under production
from 88,000 ha to 124,000 ha and cover all major cedar forest resources of the
Project area. The infrastructure for the management and exploitation of these
forests would include (i) fire control: investments would include
construction of 9 fire towers, purchase of 37 radios and cutting of some 40 km
of fire breaks; (ii) forest demarcation: the Project would replace present
temporary markers with concrete posts for all of the Khenifra (Itzer/Boumia)
forests and for 90% of the Ifrane forests; (iii) road construction and
maintenance: to permit adequate operational access, the Project would
construct about 185 km of forest roads and finance the creation of two road
maintenance units, one for Khenifra and one for Ifrane. The roads would have
minimum design standards compatible with satisfactory serviceability: they
will be 4 meters wide, except in special sections to permit traffic crossing;
(iv) forest nurseries: the Project would construct two new nurseries and
expand two existing ones to provide forest and fodder trees and forage shrubs
for all forestry and sylvo-pastoral operations under the Project; and
(v) forest reserves. The Seheb Reserve (188 ha) would serve as a scientific
benchmark, and could constitute the core area for a potential national park.
Actions to improve forest production would include: (i) 3,200 ha of assisted
regeneration in cedar forests including 1,000 ha of planting and 200 ha of
seeding in Khenifra and 2,000 ha of planting in Ifrane; (ii) thinning of 2,500
ha of young cedar stands in Ifrane to promote growth and reduce rotation
lengths; (iii) thinning of holm oak coppice on about 15,300 ha (9,000 ha in
Bouhsoussen, 5,000 ha in Ifrane and 1,300 ha in Itzer) to aid their conversion
to high forest and to increase forage production (para. 4.11); and (iv)
experimental planting of 250 ha of fast growing conifer plantations in
degraded holm oak forest areas of Ifrane. One hundred hectares would be
traditional forestry plantations,  while 150 ha would be widely spaced between
the rows to combine wood and forage production.
4.06     The Forestry Services would be strengthened through (i) the
construction of two forest offices (at Moulay Bouazza and Ain Leuh), 8 forest
stations, and housing (16) for additional personnel and the renovation of all
existing forest stations (43) in the Project area; (ii) adequate staffing of
the forestry services in the area to manage the forest and to maintain the
forestry roads; and (iii) the transportation means for staff (17 vehicles),
guards (53 motorcycles) and for the transport of seedlings (4'trucks).



- 19 -
4.07     Forest Exploitation (fellings and thinnings) throughout the Project
area is expected to produce some 300,000 m3 of cedar sawlogs and 857,000
steres of cedar and oak fuelwood. The Project would provide experience in
more efficient exploitation methods by establishing two mechanized
exploitation units (one in each province) to demonstrate the efficiency of
mechanized exploitation. Project financing would include the equipment for
two mechanized units (skidders, tractors, hydraulic trailers and power saws)
and training courses in logging operations.
4.08     Insect Control.  The Project would continue Morocco's aerial spraying
program against the processionary caterpillar. The spraying and respraying of
46,000 ha of pure cedar forest that has been seriously defoliated will be
undertaken during the project period with bactospein or under conditions
satisfactory to the Bank with dimilin, thus providing effective control of
defoliation (para. 4.31). To avoid repetition of such emergency control
measures, the Project would establish the basis for long-term integrated pest
management by financing a monitoring/research unit and consulting services to
analyse results of control measures and to define an integrated pest
management program (para. 4.31).
4.09     In addition, through the increase of forage production in forest
rangeland and on adjacent collective range and through the organization of
herders (paras. 5.03-5.05), the Project would decrease livestock pressure on
the forest, and would provide alternatives for areas excluded from grazing
(regeneration areas) and provide the means for the Forestry Department to
control forest grazing effectively.
Livestock Development
4.10     Increased livestock productivity would be achieved through a set of
actions aimed at overcoming the two major constraints, namely, poor animal
nutrition and low productivity of the existing herds. The Project would (i)
organize herders for more efficient use of forage resources (para. 5.01); (ii)
improve extension services and assure that research provides answers to their
production problems (para. 5.12); and (iii) provide credit, and access to
improved support services (paras. 4.14, 4.15).
4.11     Animal Nutrition.  The Project would develop fodder resources at
farm, forestry and collective range levels. At the farm level, in addition to
increased animal forage production (para. 4.13), the introduction of silage
conservation methods and the treatment of straw with caustic soda, on a trial
basis, would improve the nutritive value of forage. Implementation of
efficient range management systems based on fixed stocking rates and
rotational grazing systems would increase the productivity of collective
rangeland from 50 to 120% according to natural conditions. Investments on the
collective rangeland would include: (i) the construction of a water supply
system for Timahdite and water points in Ain Leuh; (ii) the fencing of a total
of at least 51,000 ha of permanent pasture which would permit the effective
controi of stocking rates; (iii) fertilization of about 13,000 ha which would
partially compensate for initial deferred grazing; (iv) reseeding on about
2,000 ha; (v) the construction of about 16 km of range access roads in
Timahdite; and (vi) training courses in rangeland ecology and range



- 20 -
management. Forest range would be improved through (i) improved management of
forest forage resources (rotational grazing, deferred grazing, control of
stocking rates) on about 14,000 ha in Bouhsoussen and 2,300 ha of forest
clearings in Ain Leuh and 4,500 ha in Timahdite; (ii) the planting of forage
shrubs on about 2,000 ha in Bouhsoussen and 1,000 ha in Ain Leuh); and
(iii) the fertilization of about 6,000 ha in Bouhsoussen and the thinning of
about 15,300 ha of holm oak (para. 4.05). The Project would also establish a
range management service within the two Provincial Services and would finance
the necessary equipment, infrastructure (offices and housing) and additional
personnel required.
4.12     The productivity of animal husbandry would be increased by improving
herd management, animal health and genetics. The Project would assure common
disease prophylaxis for all livestock in the Project zone financing 9 new
animal health centers each comprising 2 health agents, their houses and
transport, 18 additional dips for external parasite control, and additional
drugs and equipment. The genetic improvement program would require the
construction and staffing of 6 horse and 5 cattle breeding stations, the
rehabilitation of an existing sheep selection station; and the importation of
400 Murcia goats (para. 5.13). All genetic improvement methods are well
established and tested. The Project would also provide short-term credit to
permit the stabling of animals when the range vegetation is dormant, and for
fattening operations as well as long-term credit for improved draft animals,
milk cows and selected sheep and goats. To market livestock output, the
Project would finance two milk collection centers (Moulay Bouazza and
Tigrigra) and a feasibility study for a goat cheese factory in Moulay
Bouazza. Morocco's experience in managing milk collection centers through
cooperatives has been positive and would be continued under the Project.
Studies on the use of by-products and animal improvement would also be carried
out. Study trips for specialized livestock technicians would be provided to
improve in service training.
Agricultural Development
4.13      Crop production on private rainfed and irrigated land would be
integrated with the development of the range and with the livestock
activities. The success of the management of forest and range will depend, to
a large extent, on the possibility of increasing forage production on crop
land ana of conserving it efficiently. The principal objectives of the
agricultural development component are: (i) to increase cereal yields and
production through improved cultivating techniques-; (ii) increased forage
production by gradually and partially replacing fallow with forage crops; and
(iii) to intensify vegetable and fruit production on irrigated lands. Project
actions would include (i) a reform of the extension system and its
intensification (paras 4.14, 5.10); (ii) the implementation of a research
program (para 5.12); (iii) the organization of input supplies (para 5.18);
(iv) the provision of credit for farm implements (paras 4.15, 5.19); and
(v) the rehabilitation of traditional irrigation perimeters (para 4.16).
4.14     Extension Service and Research Component.  Extension would be based
on an action plan, established at the level of the social unit (para. 5.01).
The Project's extension component would include: (i) the creation of 10 new



- 21 -
and the strengthening of 5 existing extension centers; (ii) 27 additional
extension agents, their support, and support for 15 existing ones to provide
one extension agent per 250-325 farms; (iii) training courses for extension
agents and study trips for extension and research agents and engineers; (iv)
the reorganization of extension by integrating extension for all activities
(range, crop and livestock production) and by establishing a systematic
dialogue with the social units; (v) the integration of research and extension
and the financing of problem related specific research programs and equipment
required to carry out these programs; (vi) the creation of two Provincial
Management Units (already established) consisting of five subject matter
specialists (SMS) (para. 5.08); and (vii) technical assistance for the
establishment of the new extension system (para. 5.08).
4.15      Farm Equipment, Input Supply and Credit.  The Project would provide
new farm equipment for crop production (tillage and weed control) and for the
conservation of forage (hay silage, straw treatment) and finance 17 small
warehouses in remote areas (para. 5.18). Credit would be provided through
CNCA under its normal procedures (para. 5.20). The Project would provide (i)
incremental short-term credit for farm inputs, machinery services and feed..
supplies (ii) medium- and long-term credit for mechanization (90 sets), small
farm equipment (2,300 sets), acquisition of improved livestock (600 goats,
12,400 sheep, 300 milk cows, 300 mules), stables to house 9,300 heads, ana
folds to accommodate 94,000 animals as well as for aestoning (2,000 ha) and
new fruit tree plantations (1,000 ha). Present CNCA infrastructure in the
Project area is sufficient to handle the credit demand (para. 3.19).
Irrigation Investments
4.16      In the Azrou area, surface water resources are abundant and
underutilized, however insufficient information is available to finance
additional irrigation works under the Project. The Project would finance the
necessary studies to prepare an investment program for the rehabilitation of
about 9,600 ha of presently partly irrigated areas. In addition, the Project
would finance in this area about 44 km of access feeder roads mostly in the
irrigated areas, organize the destoning of 2,000 ha of irrigable land and the
plantation of about 750 ha of fruit trees. In the Midelt area, by contrast,
water resources are very limited and constitute the major constraint for
irrigation development. Destoning using project funds is not required. To
increase water use efficiency and the value of irrigated crops, the Project
would rehabilitate the irrigation infrastructure of about 2,000 ha ana would
finance 27 km of access roads, thus permitting the production of high value
fruit and vegetable crops and the plantation of about 250 ha of fruit trees.
Agricultural and range roads (para. 4.11), which cross flat terrain will have
a 10 meter clearing with a formation of six meters. A four meter gravel
surface will be used only where the characteristics of the natural soils make
this necessary.
Technical Assistance
4.17      Technical assistance woula be required to establish the new extension
approach, the range management component, and some specific research
programs; the training of loggers, the integrated pest management plan, and



- 22 -
Project monitoring and accounting.  The Project would provide 72 m/m of
long-term technical assistance for the technical specialist teams
(para. 5.08), and 52 m/m for short-term technical assistance in research,
range, forestry and monitoring (para. 5.21).
C. Status of Studies
4.18     Project activities would be based on the detailed studies of the
resources and development constraints of each social group. Program
activities have been established in detail for two pilot groups in Azrou and
Midelt and for several Irhs (subfraction of a tribe) in Moulay bouazza. A
detailed action program is also available for forest range activities in
Azrou. The forest management plans provide a detailed investment program for
about 88,000 ha of forest and financing of forest management plans for the
remaining area (36,000 ha) would be provided (paras. 4.05, 4.23). Final
design for the first year forest road program as well as for the first yea.r
irrigation rehabilitation investments are well advanced and are expected to be
fully completed shortly. Other Project roads (paras. 4.11 and 4.16) consist
of simple tracks in flat areas with only spot improvement and their final
design is not required before Board Presentation. The Government has
allocated funds for the Project for 1981 which permits preparation to continue
and will allow the start of preliminary tasks for the implementation of the
Project. Preparation of detailed working plans at the tribal level as well as
the dialogue with the population are going on in Midelt and Azrou areas, whilie
the proposed activities are already being implemented in Moulay Bouazza.
First year activities would be largely limited to the contruction of necessary
infrastructure, for which detailed designs are available and to the
establishment of detailed working plans at the tribal level.
D. Project Costs
4.19     Total Project costs tor the 5 year implementation period, including
establishment costs, taxes, duties and contingencies are estimated at DH 442.5
million (US$92.2 million), of which 42% or US$38.5 million are foreign
exchange. Costs include duties and taxes estimated at 17.3% for civil works,
39% for equipment and vehicles and 24% for farm inputs and amounting to
DR 94.0 million (US$19.6 million or 21.3% of total costs). Cost estimates, are
expressed in October 1981 prices. Construction costs are based on quantities
and unit costs obtained in contracts in the Project region, adjusted for
inflation.  Equipment prices are based on the latest invoices available (March
1981). Physical contingencies included in the Project cost estimates are 15%
for civil works and 10% for equipment. Total physical contingencies amount to
DH 28.5 million (US$5.9 million).  Price escalation has been estimated at 11%
for 1981, 10% for 1982 and 9% for 1983 and thereafter for local costs and at
9%, 8.5%, 7.5% and 6% respectively for foreign costs.  The cost of consul:Cant
services, including support services, has been estimated at US$10,000 per
month for short-term consultants and US$8,300 for long-term technical
assistance. Overall contingencies would amount to DH 123.2 million (US$25.7
million) or 39% of the base costs. Cost estimates including establishment
costs are summarized in the following table and shown in detail in Annex I:



- 23 -
Cost Estimates
Foreign
Components              Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange /a
-------DH million----  ------US$ million-----           %
-Forestry                24.8    19.5    44.3   5.1          4.1      9.2       45.0
-Agricultural
Development            10.1     8.8    18.9   2.1          1.8      3.9       46.0
-Livestock                7.4      5.8    13.2   1.5         1.3      2.8       44.0
-Sylvopastoral
Development             8.4      6.5    14.9   1.7         1.4      3.1       43.0
-Road Construction       21.4    21.3    42.7   4.4          4.4      8.8       50.0
-Small Scale
Irrigation             10.7     5.7    16.4   2.3          1.1      3.4       35.0
-Infrastructure           9.8      7.2    17.0   2.0         1.5      3.5       42.0
-On farm Investments   29.5    19.6    49.1   6.3            4.0    10.3        40.0
-Incremental Short-
term Credit            20.2    16.5    36.7   4.3          3.3      7.6       45.0
-Studies Training and
Technical Assistance  7.3    11.0    18.3   1.6            2.3      3.8       60.0
-Establishment Costs   32.4    15.1    47.5   6.8            3.2    10.0        32.0
TOTAL BASE COST         182.0   137.0   319.0  38.0         28.4    66.4        43.0
Physical Contingencies 15.6    12.9    28.5   3.3            2.7      6.0       46.0
Price Contingencies    59.8    35.1    94.9  12.4            7.4    19.8        37.0
GRAND TOTAL /a          257.5   185.0   442.5  53.7         38.5    92.2        42.0
/a discrepancies due to rounding.
E. Financing
4.20      The proposed Bank loan of US$29.0 million to the Government of
Morocco would cover the foreign exchange cost of the Project, except for
the credit to farmers which would be provided by CNCA.  The Bank loan would
therefore amount to about 40% of total Project costs net of taxes. The
following table shows financing sources for Project costs during the 5 year
implementation period:



- 24 -
Financing Sources
Project Costs                 IBRD   CNCA   Beneficiaries   Government   TOTAL
--------------US$ Million Equivalent------------
1. Forestry                   14.0       -           -               15.5        29.5
2. Agriculture                  6.7      -                           11.5        18.2
3. Sylvopastoral               2.2       -           0.2              3.5         5.9
4. Livestock                    3.8      -           -                4.9         8.7
5. Infrastructure              2.3       -           -                3.4         5.7
6. Onfarm investments          -        14.8         6.3              3.1        24.2
TOTAL Project                 29.0    14.8           6.5             41.9        92.2
4.21      The proposed Bank loan would be for 17 years including four years
of grace and would be used by the Ministry of Agriculture.  Remaining
Project costs (US$63.2 million)) would be financed by the Government
(US$41.9 million), CNCA (US$14.8 million), and the beneficiaries (US$6.5
million).
F. Disbursements
4.22      The proposed Bank loan of US$29.0 million will be disbursed over 6
years and would finance:
Category                          Amount          Disbursement Percentage
(US$ Million)
(a) Project works other than
those included in category (b):    10.0                45% of total expenditures
(b) Spraying against caterpillars,
road construction and water supply: 8.4                50% of total expenditures
(c) Purchase of equipment, vehicles
and selected animals:                    4.2            100% of foreign
expenditures and/or 60%
of local expenditures
(d) Studies, consultants and
training:                                3.0            100% of foreign
expenditures and/or 70%
of local expenditures
(f) Unallocated:                             3.4
TOTAL                     29.0
4.23      Disbursements for project items would be made after receipt of
full documentation, except for works under force account (about US$4



- 25 -
million) for which disbursements would be made against certified statements
of expenditures. Supporting documentation would be retained by MARA and
held available for inspection during the course of Project supervision
missions by the Bank. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations. Provision has been made for the retroactive financing of up
to US$250,000 for the final design of the first year road and irrigation
program and for the start up of the studies for forest management plans and
tribal resource studies including the necessary vehicles therefore, to be
implemented between the return of the appraisal mission (May 1, 1981) and
signature of the loan. An estimated schedule of disbursements is
summarized below and detailed in Annex I Table 2;
Fiscal Year
Disbursements                1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Annual (US$ million)          1.0     4.0      6.0      8.0     7.0      3.0
Cumulative (US$ million)    1.0       5.0    11.0    19.0    26.0    29.0
The schedule of disbursements is based on actual disbursements of Bank
projects in Morocco, and on the specific characteristics of the Project.
It is expected that disbursements will start slower than average, and peak
within 4 years.
G. Procurement
4.24     Procurement would be carried out by the Provincial Agricultural
Directorates of Meknes which is responsible for the Ifrane Province and
Khenifra. It will be phased over five years resulting in the division of
the procurement into a large number of contracts of different sizes. Under
normal Moroccan procedures, bid evaluation and final contract awards would
be subject to final approval by the Regional Commitment and Expenses
Controllers of Meknes and Khenifra (CRED - "Controleur Regional des
Engagements et des Depenses") and by MARA's Central Directorates in the
following cases: (i) the amount of works exceeds DH 500,000; (ii) the
amount of studies exceeds DH 10,000; or (iii) contracts are negotiated.
Annex II lists contracts to be awarded, methods of procurement, authorities
responsible for their processing and the type of supplier expected.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations on the procurement arrangements
discussed below.
4.25     International Competitive Bidding.  Contracts for construction of
the water supply system, contracts for road construction exceeding US$2.0
million, contracts for spraying against caterpillars, as well as contracts
for the purchase of equipment and vehicles exceeding US$150,000, would be
awarded under international competitive bidding (ICB) according to Bank
guidelines. The total of such contracts is expected to be about US$14.3
million. Equipment and vehicle contracts would be bulked to the extent
feasible for efficient procurement. When bulking is not feasible,
equipment and vehicle contracts which do not exceed the equivalent of
US$150,000 each may be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
(LCB).



- 26 -
4.26     Local Competitive Bidding.  Project civil works concerning
offices, houses, workshops, stores, nurseries, breeding stations, milk
collection centers; sheep dips and sheds; forest infrastructure,
plantations, seeding, fertilization and fencing would be executed in small
lots, over a five-year period and would be scattered all over the Project
area. They would not be of interest to foreign contractors and would be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for feeder and forestry roads
which are less than US$2.0 million, amounting to a total value of about
US$7.2 million, and irrigation works (US$3.6 million) would also be awarded
on the basis of LCB procedures as experience indicates that such works,
spread over the Project area will not generate bids from foreign firms not
established in the country because of the scattered nature of the works.
Sufficient construction firms both local and foreign are established in
Morocco to assure competitive prices under LCB. The total amount of
contracts to be awarded under LCB is expected to equal about US$29
million. Small project works having a value of less than US$100,000
equivalent which would not attract even local enterprises would be
undertaken on force account. The total cost of works to be undertaken
under force account would not exceed US$4.0 million equivalent.
4.27     Other.  Procurement of selected animals (US$0.4 million) would be
made on the basis of limited international tendering after receiving for
each contract at least three quotations from suppliers from at least two
countries.
4.28     Consultants for studies (US$o.8 million) and technical assistance
(US$0.7 million) with qualifications acceptable to the Bank would be
appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, according to
the Bank guidelines on use of consultants published in August 1981.
4.29     In addition to those for spraying against caterpillars, bidding
documents and contracts of any kind exceeding US$300,000 would require
prior approval of the Bank, as would final award of their respective
contracts, thus assuring prior review by the Bank of about 84% of total
contract values. In addition bidding documents for the first two contracts
in disbursement categories (a), (b), and (c) issued by the two Provincial
Directorates would be reviewed by the Bank.
H. Environmental Impact
4.30     The Project would have several positive impacts on the environment
of the Middle Atlas by (i) preserving the natural cedar forest, and (ii)
rehabilitating rapidly deteriorating holm oak forest areas and natural
range, thus maintaining the important water catchment protection function
of the Middle Atlas forest and avoiding soil erosion problems. The Project
would also provide adequate maintenance for a reserve (para. 4.05) of
virgin cedar forest as a scientific benchmark and conservation area.
4.31     Aerial spraying of the forest against the processionary
caterpillar would mostly be done with bactospein which has pr,ven effective
and environmentally acceptable. Dimilin, which is also widely used in



- 27 -
Morocco, would only be used under the Project when the use of Bactospein is
not feasible. Dimilin is fully safe when properly used but the possible
environmental effects are less documented, so that it is considered prudent
to limit and control its use under the Project as much as possible. Thus
dimilin would be used on not more than 10% of the area sprayed and access
would be prohibited by the police of the forestry service from entering
sprayed areas until after the first rains. To minimize future spraying the
Project would establish a monitoring system and provide consulting services
to define an integrated pest management system for the cedar forests.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would cause
the precaution described above to be taken regarding the use of dimilin,
under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, would monitor the results of
spraying, and would define a pest management program by December 31, 1984
and would implement such a program shortly thereafter.
V. Project Implementation
A. Project Implementation Strategy
5.01     General Principles.  A major objective of the Project is to
implement organizational arrangements for farmers' participation in the
definition and execution of Project activities. The Project would rely on
the traditional tribal structure and village councils to secure the
compliance of individual farmers with the overall program for a given
area. The specific social unit chosen for Project activities would vary
according to Project activities and region. For forestry development, the
unit would be the local commissions, who are nominally responsible, acting
on the advice of the Forestry Service, for forest management. The social
unit responsible for the management of collective and forest range is the
tribe in Ain Leuh, the fraction (part of a tribe) in Timahdite and
Itzer/Boumia and the Irhs (part of fraction) in Moulay Bouazza. Under the
Project an action program would be implemented to develop all the resources
of the social units concerned in an integrated and mutually reinforcing
manner, and that had been agreed upon with the population concerned. To do
so the following actions would be undertaken: (i) study of the resources
(torest, livestock, collective range, forest grazing rights, private
rainfed and irrigated lands) of each social unit. The resource study would
be implemented by MARA's support services at the local level according to a
framework established by the Provincial Project Management Units (para.
5.08) and with their assistance. Specific technical studies (botanical
survey of range, feed requirements, fertilizer needs, social, behavioral
studies) would be subcontracted to INRA; (ii) define an integrated action
progam to respond to the needs of the social unit and an implementation
strategy adapted to its social organization (cohesion, leadership, control
and discipline); (iii) discuss the proposals with the population and modify
them accordingly; (iv) define the participation of the population in the
investments and the recovery of costs, and enter into written arrangements
with the population (para. 4.02); and (v) establish yearly work programs,
based on the arrangements with individual social units.



- 28 -
5.02     Resource studies and integrated action programs have already been
executed for a pilot zone in each of the three regions of Ain Leuh,
Timahdite and Itzer Boumia, and a similar approach is under successful
implementation in Moulay Bouazza. The preparation of the Project showed,
and the appraisal mission's own findings confirm that the population agrees
with the proposed technical packages and is willing to enter into
contractual agreements with the technical services. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the two Project Management Units will follow
the outlined procedures, and that a yearly work program will be submitted
to the National Coordinating Committee for review (para. 5.06) two months
before the start of each implementation year.
5.03     Forest Range.  Existing legislation provides the necessary
framework for the implementation of Project activities. The Dahir of 1917
recognizes tribal grazing rights and the right of the forestry services to
limit the stocking rate to the grazing capacity of the forest range.
Implementation decrees (Arretes Viziriels of 1921 and 1949) provide for the
creation by the Forestry Services of local commissions composed of
representatives of the technical services, the local authorities and the
tribes concerned to (i) identify rightholders; (ii) fix stocking rates and,
rotations; and (iii) adopt sylvo-pastoral improvement plans. Grazing
regulations would be enforced by the Provincial Forestry Services of the
Project which would be provided with the necessary means to do so (para.
4.06). Six local commissions, covering about lOo of the range area already
exist in Moulay Bouazza, where first year Project range activities would be
executed. Additional local commissions, covering 40% of forest range,
would be created in each of the two first Project years and all forest
rangeland would be administered by local commissions by 1985. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that sylvopastoral development plans
including the determination of stocking rates, rotation plans, grazing
taxes be agreed upon by local commissions and the Provincial Directors of
Agriculture and that local commissions would be established according to
the above mentioned implementation schedule.
5.04     Collective Rangeland is owned by the traditional tribal units and
managed by a tribal council (jemaa) under the guidance of the Ministry of
Interior. Such range in the Project area would be declared "zone of range
improvement" and managed by "local commissions of improved rangeland" as
foreseen by the Dahir of 1969. The commissions, composed of
representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Interior Ministry,
local authorities and the members of the jemaa would (i) identify the
rightholders; (ii) define Project works on the range; (iii) define grazing
regulations including stocking rates, rotations and deferment periods; (iv)
issue grazing cards; and (v) define grazing charges. The jemaa would have
primary responsibility for the enforcement of grazing regulations, but
would be assisted in its tasks by range and local authorities as needed.
Local commissions for the Timahdite and Ain Leuh collective range (90% of
Project activities in this category) have already been constituted, and the
issuance of decrees declaring Ain Leuh and Timahdite "zones of range
improvement" are a condition of effectiveness of the Loan.
5.05     The key to any range improvement program is strict enforcement of
management regulations. The Project would assure compliance by (i) a major



- 29 -
extension effort to explain to the population the benefits of range
management; (ii) implementing only range activities which have been agreed
upon with the population; (iii) assuring that the population has the means
to comply with regulations by increasing forage availability outside the
rangeland and by creating forage reserves for seasonal or annual forage
shortages (para. 4.11); and (iv) providing the necessary means to control
grazing (fences, the identification of animals, range police). Grazing
regulations would be enforced at two levels. Overall grazing rates would
be controlled by the range police to avoid collective breakdown of
discipline. The enforcement of the repartition of overall stocking rates
and rotation patterns among the members of each social unit would be the
reponsibility of the population. The definition of grazing rights
(specific number of animals per beneficiary), the application of collective
sanctions in case of overgrazing, and the required charge for grazing would
assure that collective grazing land would no longer be considered as a free
good, and that any transgression by one member would be at the direct cost
of the other members of the tribe, thus providing the necessary incentive
for self discipline, which now is lacking at the social unit level.
B.  Project Management
Coordination of Project Execution
5.06     At the National Level the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian
Reform (MARA) would have overall responsibility for the execution of the
Project. Within this Ministry the lead would be taken by the Livestock
Department which would be also responsible for coordinating the inputs to
be made by the Departments of Crop Production, Extension, Rural
Construction, Forestry and Planning. CNCA would be responsible for the
credit program, the National Institute of Agricultural Research (INRA) for
the research program and the Ministry of the Interior for organizing the
population and implementing collective land and forest grazing
legislation. To coordinate Project activities MARA has established a
National Coordinating Committee chaired by MARA's Director of Livestock
with representatives of all MARA's Departments concerned, the two Project
Managers (para. 5.08), the Director of Rural Affairs of the Ministry of
Interior, CNCA and INRA. The National Coordinating Committee would review
yearly action programs and would set up verifiable implementation targets
for each subcomponent and region. The Committee would meet when necessary,
but at least once every six months to review Project activities. Through
the monitoring system (para. 5.21), it would review implementation progress
and identify issues to be solved.
5.07     At the Regional Level, an Inter-Provincial Coordination Committee,
comprising the two Governors (Ifrane and Khenifra), the Provincial
Directors of the Ministry of Agriculture and the regional representatives
of CNCA and INRA has been established and would be responsible for matters
of inter-provincial coordination. The Committee would (i) plan and
coordinate regional activities (consultant services, research and studies,
procurement and bidding, forestry activities); (ii) assure uniform
application of grazing regulations; and (iii) assure equitable
participation of Communes in Project investments.



- 30 -
Project Management Units
5.08     Provincial Management Units (PMU).  The two Provincial Directors
of Agriculture would be the Project Managers in each of the respective
Provinces. Each Project Manager would be assisted in Project execution by
a Project Management Unit consisting of an agronomist/extension specialist,
a livestock specialist, a pastoralist, a forester, an agricultural research
specialist and a specialist of local institutions seconded from the
Ministry of Interior. The units would be responsible for preparing work
plans at the social unit level and for assisting the local services in
their execution (para. 5.01). They would establish detailed yearly work
plans which, when approved by the Interprovincial and National Committees,
would become the common work plan for all agricultural services. The two
Project Management Units would be assisted in their tasks by a technical
assistance team consisting of an agronomist/extension specialist, a range
management specialist and an animal nutrition specialist. Activities
common to the two Provinces (consultants, studies and research) would be
administered by the DPA in Meknes, which has experience in administering
Bank funded projects. The two Provincial Management Units with functions
and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank have already been established.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the two Provincial Management
Units would be fully staffed by December 31, 1982 and that a technical
assistance team with qualifications, and terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank would be hired by the same date.
5.09     Local Management Units (LMU).  The Project Management Units would
be represented in each of the five communes by a group of project staff
constituted of engineers and technicians of the various agricultural
support services represented at the Commune level. The head of each LMU
has been nominated by MARA.  He would be responsible for coordinating the
activities of the various services at the social unit level and for the
implementation of the agreements concluded with the population (para. 5.01).
Agricultural Support Services
5.10     Extension would be implemented by the Extension Service of the
DPAs. Each extension agent would be responsible for a specific social
unit. A systematic extension system, using the principles of the training
and visit system, would be introduced. Within each social unit, the
preliminary studies (para. 5.01) would identify leaders, who would be used
as contacts. Each extension agent would visit the same group of farmers
twice a month on a regular day known to both farmers and supervisor. He
would demonstrate his recommendations, check progress and observe any
problems the farmers may be facing. Through the head of the LMU (para.
5.09), he would be able to mobilize other services (credit, inputs,
livestock, range activities, custom services, research information). The
27 additional extension agents would be recruited from the various training
institutions, which now graduate sufficient extension agents to meet
Morocco's needs. They would receive field extension training by
participating in the resources study and would attend one-day training
sessions every fortnight with the Project Management Units.
.



-31 -
5.11     The Project Management Units (para. 5.08) would provide the
technical support as well as training of the extension agents. Its members
would spend eight days each fortnight in the field assisting the extension
agents. Their visits would be prescheduled and timed so as to assure that
each extension agent is visited weekly by a member of the Unit.
5.12     Research and extension would be linked by (i) locating in each LMU
a research assistant who, with the extension agents, would be responsible
for identifying research needs, demonstrating research results and
maintaining a communication channel between farmers and research; and (ii)
including an agriculture research sDecialist in the two Provincial
Management Units. Research would be action-oriented and problem-solving.
Specific research topics would be established by the Project Management
Units as a consequence of the action plans. Emphasis would be given to
research at the level of the production site (farm, flock, range). The
effects of various actions in range management would be analyzed
scientifically in the research component. Research would be associated
with the resource studies (para. 5.01), and would assist Project management
Units in determining methods of forecasting production and stocking rates,
as well as to improve rotational grazing systems. Research, except for
forestry research which is executed by the Forestry Services, would be
mostly executed by the National Institute of Agricultural Research (INRA)
under contractual arrangements with the DPA of Meknes on behalf of the two
PMU. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Project Management
would enter into suitable contractual arrangements with INRA. The signing
of a contract satisfactory to the Bank and including the first year
research program would be a condition of effectiveness.
5.13     Livestock.  The potential for livestock production would be
developed through an integrated set of actions described in paras. 4.10 -
4.12. The animal health centers and the cattle and horse breeding stations
would be managed by the Provincial livestock services of MARA and located
at the extension centers. The genetic improvement of the sheep would be
obtained through (i) creation of a selected flock of Timahdite race at the
Sidi AYssa station;. and (ii) creation of multiplication flocks at the farm
level, which would be subject to a systematic control of performance.
These flocks would be composed of animals leased by the DPAs to farmers
under a contractual arrangement which would require the farmers to return
all rams to the livestock services. It is estimated that these flocks
would produce about 1,000 selected rams each year at full development,
which would be sold at cost to farmers participating in the Project.
Credit for the acquisition of selected rams by farmers has been foreseen
(para. 4.15). The genetic improvement of goats would be undertaken with
imported Murcia goats to be multiplied by herders under similar
arrangements as for sheep. Improved management of herds would be achieved
through (i) identifying all ewes and goats by ear tags so as to control
access to rangeland, to verify execution of prophylactic treatment and to
control performance; (ii) specifying mating season so as to coincide
lambing with market requirements and forage availabilities; and (iii)
increasing culling rate by economic disincentives to keep older animals.



- 32 -
5.14     Range Improvement Activities have been described in para 4.11.  On
State land, the Provincial Forestry Services would be responsible for the
execution of tasks. The Provincial Forestry Services already have range
improvement units in Moulay Bouazza and Meknes which would be strengthened
under the Project. Forage shrubs would be planted by the Provincial
Forestry Services. Their use would be restricted to drought reserve. Holm
oak thinning would be subcontracted and executed under the supervision of
these services. The Provincial Livestock Services of MARA would be
responsible for the improvement of collective rangeland. To assure respect
for fences and the population's agreement, the construction of fences would
be performed by the population under the supervision of the Provincial
Livestock Services. Fertilization of range would be undertaken (i) to
avoid the necessity of short-term reduction of stocking rates (urea); and
(ii) in some limited cases to increase the legumes in the range through the
application of phosphate. Any repetition of fertilizer application would
be financed by the rightholders.
5.15     Forestry.  Forests are managed by the Provincial Forestry Services
of MARA according to detailed forest management plans, which specify all
forestry activities to be undertaken (investments, exploitation,
regeneration, maintenance). The forests of Itzer, Kerrouchen and Senoual
in Khenifra Province and Ain Leuh, Sidi M'Guild, Bekrit and Azrou in Ifrane
Province have management plans. Additional management plans (para. 4.05)
would be prepared by the Regional Center for Forest Inventories and
Management in Meknes with the assistance of specialized firms. Forest
investments would be undertaken by the responsible forestry subdivision
under the control of the Provincial Forestry Services. Investment works
for housing, fire towers and firebreaks, as well as assisted regeneration
would be subcontracted. New forestry roads would be constructed by
contractors under the supervision of the Forestry Services. For the
improvement and maintenance of forestry roads the Project would equip the
Forestry Services with the necessary equipment and infrastructure (para.
4.05). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the two road units be
established and fully staffed by December 31, 1982. Traditional methods of
forest exploitation in the Project area are inefficient. Contractors
purchase standing trees and hence without a precise indication of their
quality or volume. Felling and cross-cutting methods are wasteful and,
because of staff shortages, supervision of exploitation gangs in the forest
has been inadequate, resulting in thefts of wood. In 1979, the Provincial
Forestry Services undertook trials of selling wood at the roadside by
quality classes and demonstrated gain in wood harvested and prices. Under
the Project, a mechanized exploitation unit would be established in each of
the two Provincial Forestry Services to test mechanized exploitation.
Provision has been made for a logging consultant to provide practical
training in the use of the equipment. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Forestry Department would monitor the results of the
Project's trial exploitation and would prepare a proposal for the
organization of forest expoitation no later than December 31, 1985 and that
such a reorganization would be implemented no later than December 31, 1986.



- 33 -
5.16     The Rural Construction Directorate (RCD of MARA) is responsible at
the national level, for planning and monitoring small-scale irrigation
programs. The Provincial Rural Construction Services (RCS), which are part
of the Provincial Agricultural Directorates, would be responsible for
tendering, awarding contracts and supervising construction works such as
the Project's water supply system in Timahdite, feeder roads,
rehabilitation of irrigation systems and buildings for the support
services. Project irrigation, feeder road construction and water supply
works would be directly supervised (i) in Khenifra by the Midelt division
and the two subdivisions of Boumia and Moulay Bouazza; (ii) in Meknes by
the division of Azrou. The two subdivisions in Boumia and Moulay Bouazza
would be established under the Project. The RCS of Meknes is adequately
staffed and benefits from foreign assistance. The Project would provide
for strengthening of the RCSs in Khenifra.
5.17     Irrigation works would be operated and maintained by the farmers.
Farmers in the traditional irrigation perimeters are organized into groups
for the operation and maintenance of their irrigation systems. The groups
function well and have demonstrated their ability to operate and maintain
the systems.  The water supply system of Timahdite would be operated and
maintained by the Commune, which would collect the water charges
(para. 6.28). Feeder roads would be maintained by the Communes; Boumia
and Ain Leuh have recently acquired the necessary equipment to maintain
feeder roads and they have the necessary resources from forest revenues
(para. 6.26) to assure maintenance of the roads. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the Government would ensure that the Commune of
Timahdite would operate and maintain the water supply system in accordance
with appropriate financial, engineering and public utility practices and to
make all necessary safety inspections, renewals and repairs.
5.18     Agricultural Input Supply, Machinery and Credit.  Input supply
would be organized on the basis of the development actions proposed in the
contractual arrangements between the technical services and the social
units. In Ifrane, stores for fertilizers and seeds would be managed by the
extension centers under the guidance of SONACOS and FERTIMA. In Khenifra,
where the population is more dispersed, small warehouses would be
constructed at appropriate locations to satisfy supply of inputs to Project
beneficiaries. Multipurpose cooperatives (para. 5.19) based on traditional
tribal cohesion, would be created for the management of the warehouses
under the supervision of the extension agent. Project preparation has
established the feasibility of this approach and the population's
willingness to manage these warehouses. Hay-making, silage and straw
treatment equipment would be introduced by the extension centers. New
equipment and techniques would first be demonstrated with only the costs of
inputs charged to the beneficiaries. It is expected that the equipment
would be sold to private operators after its successful demonstration.
5.19     Credit.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations, that CNCA would
provide for credit requirements in the Project area. According to CNCA's
resource mobilization plans, which have been reviewed by Bank staff and



- 34 -
found acceptable, CNCA would have sufficient resources to this effect.
Credit would be provided through normal CNCA channels (paras. 3.19, 4.15).
The social units, established into multipurpose cooperatives (para. 5.18),
would facilitate access to credit by farmers who individually may not
otherwise qualify. The multipurpose cooperative would group farmer's
credit demands and its members would be collectively responsible for the
repayments of the loans.
5.20     Normal CNCA lending and repayment conditions would apply for all
credit disbursed under the Project. CNCA's interest rate for medium and
long term loans to private farmers, companies, and for Agrarian Reform
Cooperatives from the sixth year of their existence onwards, have been
increased for the 1981-82 agricultural campaign from 8.5% to 10%. Small
farmer precooperative associations and newly created Agrarian Reform
Cooperatives pay an interest of 8.5% for the first five years of their
existence. Short-term interest rates vary from 8% for cereals and legumes
to 10% for animal fattening.
C. Monitoring, Evaluation, Accounts and Audits
Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation
5.21     Monitoring of inputs, activities and outputs of the proposed
action progam would be executed by the two Provincial Project managers.
The effects of the range management activities would be closely monitored
by INRA, under the same contractual agreement with Project management as
mentioned in para. 5.12. Scientific measurements of the productivity of
the various rangeland before and after Project actions would be undertaken
and alternative range management techniques would be analyzed according to
their cost-effectiveness in producing additional forage resources. Twelve
man-months of short-term consultancy for monitoring would be provided to
the Project Management Units to help them determine (i) critical indicators
to be monitored; (ii) a simple data collection system; and (iii) the
aggregation and processing of the information. In addition to the
monitoring specialist, short-term consultancy of 12 man-months would be
provided to establish an analytical accounting system, and for the training
of Provincial accountants. An agricultural economist (one in each Project
Management Unit) would be responsible for aggregating and analyzing the
monitoring information collected by the technical services, the research
group, local coordinators and the accounting system. He would submit
semi-annual reports to Project Management Units on Project inputs,
activities, external variables affecting Project execution and Project
achievements. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that MARA enter
into a contractual agreement with a monitoring and an accounting specialist
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and that it hire the two
Project economists with qualification and experience acceptable to the Bank
by December 31, 1982.
5.22     Reporting and Evaluation.  Evaluation of Project effects, goals
and effectiveness would be executed by the Central Project Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture. This Unit would set up a
farm level survey to determine: (i) the impact of the Project'on farm



- 35 -
income; (ii) the distribution of benefits among farm beneficiaries; (iii)
access of various farm groups to Project activities; and (iv) policy
factors affecting Project outcome. The Central Project Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit is currently setting up such a system for the Bank-financed
Fes-Karia-Tissa and Loukkos Projects. Technical assistance to the unit for
setting up, processing and analyzing the information, as well as to assist
them in the preparation of reports is available under the Loukkos Project.
The two Project Managers would send semestrial progress reports to the
National Coordinating Committee. CNCA would submit separate quarterly
reports summarizing progress in lending under the Project. The Central
Evaluation Unit would analyze these reports and submit a concise issues
report to the National Coordinating Committee containing (i) statement on
progress of physical execution of Project activities; (ii) analysis of
factors which favor and hinder Project execution and proposals of actions
required; (iii) information on progress in achieving Project goals; and
(iv) policy decisions required to assure achievement of Project goals.
Summaries and analysis of the information, prepared in accordance with
guidelites mutually agreed upon, would be submitted by MARA to the Bank on
the semi-annual basis. The Ministry of Agriculture would prepare a
completion report, based on monitoring information and an analysis of the
evaluation data, to be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after
closing of the loan.  Assurances to that effect were obtained at
negotiations.
Accounting and Auditing
5.23     The Government agencies responsible for Project implementation
maintain budgets and accounts which are controlled by the Ministry of
Finance and have the necessary administrative capacity to do so. The
ex-ante control is strict and expenditures are directly paid on the basis
of invoices checked and signed by several levels of the administration.
The Provincial financial controller certifies the accounts, but does not
verify physical implementation of works. Due to the large number of
signatures required for payment of invoices and the close control of
technical services by independent local authorities, expenditure control is
adequate. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (i) each
Government department participating in the Project would-maintain separate
accounts for the Project works for which it is responsible, that these
accounts be certified by the Meknes and Khenifra financial controller; (ii)
that these certified accounts be audited by the Ministry of Finance; and
(iii) that an audit report with a specific opinion on statement of
expenditures be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of
each fiscal year.



- 36 -
VI. Benefits and Justifications
A. Production
Forestry Production
6.01     The Project would permit the production of 300,000 m3 of cedar
sawlogs, 50,000 steres of cedar fuelwood and 850,000 steres of oak fuelwood
over the five Project years. Wood production would result from (i) opening
up of blocks of managed forests which have not yet been exploited; (ii) the
management and exploitation of presently unmanaged forests; (iii) improved
forest exploitation methods; and (iv) increased fuelwood production through
the thinning of holm oak. It is estimated that over the next 30 years the
protection of the forest from fire and the implementation of an effective
pest management control system would save about 77,000 m3 of cedar wood and
18,000 steres of fuelwood from destruction. The experimental pine
plantations would produce a total of approximately 56,000 m3 of wood in
years 30-34 of the Project.
Range Forage Production
6.03     The Project would substantially increase the yields of collective
and forest range areas, thus protecting the cedar forest from livestock
damage and collective lands from overgrazing. The following increases in
range forest resources are expected:
Present Situation   Full Development
(Year 12)                 Incremental
Area    Yield   Production   Yield   Production    Production  .Increase
('000 ha) FuTha /1 ('000 FU)   FU/ha    ('000 FU)          ('000 FU)    (%)
Midelt
Forest        30.1      169       5.1         213        6.4              1.3          26
Range         76.       173      13.2         228       17.3             4.1           31
Bouhsoussen
Forest        67.3      326      21.9         528       35.7            13.8           62
Ain Leuh
Forest        44.3      173       7.7         271       12.0             4.3           56
Range         71.7      350      25.0         547       39.2             14.2          56
Timahdite
Forest        12.8      164       2.1         235        3.0             0.9           42
Range         39.5      250       9.9         467       18.4              8.5          87
/1  FU: Feed Unit: nutritive equivalent of 1 kg of barley.



- 37 -
Agricultural Production
6.03     The Project, without significantly changing the cropping pattern
would increase forage production by (i) substituting the present rotation
of cereals (54%) and fallow (46%) by a three (four) course rotation of
cereals - (cereals)-forage-fallow; (ii) increasing the yields of forage
crops through improved production techniques; and (iii) increasing the
nutritive value of forage through silage and treatment of straw. Cereals
yields would rise moderately (about 60% on average). The productivity of
the herds would increase substantially due to (i) improved nutrition; (ii)
genetic improvements; (iii) proper herd management; and (iv) a more
productive herd composition. Expected evolution of the cropping patterns,
yields and incremental production based on a 60% participation rate is
summarized below:
A. Crop
Production   Present Situation    Full Development (Year 12)            Incremental
Area  Yield Production   Area   Yield  Production  Production  Increase
('000 ha)(t/ha) ('000 t) ('000 ha) (t/ha)  ('000 t)    ('000 t)            (%)
bread
wheat      16.3      0.9    15.0       15.3    1.3      20.1            5.1          34
durum
wheat      41.5      1.1    46.0      46.0    1.3       59.6           13.6          30
barley       27.3      1.0    28.0       24.4    1.3       32.2           4.2          15
legumes       1.0      0.7      0.7       4.4    0.8        3.7           3.0         444
forage        3.1      1,9      5.9      26.0    2.4      64.6           58.7         995
potatoes      0.5      9.1      4.3       1.2   13.7       16.4          12.1         285
fruits        0.4    11.5       4.7       1.5   18.9      27.4           22.7         483
Number of Animal                Number of Animal                  Incremental
Livestock      Units       Yield Production     Units       Yield Production  Production    Increase
('000 AU)     Kg/AU  ('000 t)    ('000 AU)    -Kg/AU  ('000 )   ('000 t) e
Beef Heat       19.2        84.0    1.6           18.5       105.0    1.9        0.5         33.0
Cattle Milk     19.2       270.0     5.2          18.5       652.0    12.1       6.9        133.0
Sheep Meat     245.5        10.0    2.6          338.7        19.6    7.6        5.1        198.0
W.ool          245.5         1.8    0.4          338.7         2.5    0.8        0.4         96.0
Goat Meat       80.4         9.7    0.8           80.4        17.4    1.4        0.6         80.0
Goat Milk       80.4        19.0    1.5           80.4        85.8    6.9        5.4        350.0
/1 AUs AniusI Units
B. Marketing
Forestry Products
6.04      Forestry products are sold by auctioning exploitation lots
(para. 5.15). The Project would experiment with roadside sales and would
introduce mechanized logging. There are sufficient contractors available



- 38 -
to exploit forests. Marketing prospects for timber are excellent. In
recent years the local forestry production met on average only 15% of the
country's needs for sawlogs, 80% of its industrial wood requirements and
13% of its mining timbers. The Project's annual cedar log production
(60,000 m3/year) would cover less than 8% of total estimated demand for
1985 and would amount to about 17% of sawlog imports in 1979.
6.05     Few reliable statistics are available about fuelwood production
and consumption in Morocco. For Project analysis it was assumed that
charcoal from fuelwood auctioned by the administration is sold and consumed
in the urban centers as the rural population is mainly supplied by gleaning
dead wood or purchasing charcoal made locally. Current total consumption
of fuelwood is estimated at about 10.5 million m3 (FAO, 1980), and the
production potential of Moroccan forests at about 3 million m3, suggesting
huge overexploitation leading to deforestation. Despite a rapid increase
in alternative fuel consumption, projected fuelwood consumption will
largely exceed production potential for the foreseeable future. Project's
fuelwood production would amount to about 900,000 steres of fuelwood,
produced as a byproduct of cedar exploitation and forest or range
management activities (thinning of oak forest).
Agricultural Products
6.06     Morocco's market for agricultural products is relatively free.
Most of the crop production is consumed either on the farm or sold to local
markets. The present marketing system is efficient and capable of managing
the increased production of the project. The Project area is one of the
major livestock production areas in Morocco. An analysis of the local
markets in the Project region showed; (i) on average about 50% of the
animals brought to the local market (souk) are directed to the main
consumption centers; about 10% is slaughtered for local consumption and 40%'
is bought by local herders, consumers or not sold; (ii) the principal areas
of sales are Beni Melal (36%), Fes (20%) and Meknes (15%) for the Khenifra
Province and Meknes, Fes and Khemisset for the Ifrane Province; (iii)
animals sold are essentially lambs up to one year (60%) and goats in Moulay
Bouazza. Interviews with traders indicate that a significant number of the
lambs are bought for fattening in the plains; (iv) the markets are well
integrated and prices correlate with distance from the main access roads;
(v) seasonal price fluctuations are related to seasonal offer (the
necessity to sell animals due to seasonal availability of fodder) and
seasonal demand (l'Aid). Price fluctuations are largest for beef (23%) and
lowest for goats (8%), which can be explained by their relative capacity to
survive food shortages; and (vi) the local markets are very competitive.
Buyers include herders, local merchants, traders and butcher-traders.
Herders receive 92% of the value of locally marketed herds and 66% of the
value of animals sold in the consumer centers, which indicates an efficient
marketing system.
6.07     No difficulties are anticipated in marketing the additional crop
and livestock production. All Project production would go to satisfying
increased demana for food and thus has a readily available market. The
alternative to the Project would be a comparable increase in imports of
wheat, meat, milk and wood products.



- 39 -
C. Prices
6.08     Agricultural Output Prices.  Financial prices are based on observa-
tion of farmgate prices in the Project area. Economic prices have been
calculated using accounting ratios established for Morocco for minor
products and by calculating border equivalent prices for the major Project
outputs. (Annex XVI of Project File).
6.09     Cereals and Pulses.  Government intervention into the marketing
and pricing of cereals has been described in para. 2.10. Project
production of cereals would be consumed on the farm or sold locally as the
Project area is deficient in cereal production. World Bank price
projections have been used to calculate economic prices of cereals adjusted
for handling and transport. Morocco is a net exporter of pulses, primarily
to EEC countries. There are no direct Government intervention in pulse
marketing and farmgate prices adequately reflect border prices.
6.10     Fruits and Vegetables.  Vegetables in the Project area are
seasonal vegetables produced for local consumption. Their financial prices
have been converted to economic prices using the rural food consumption
conversion factor (0.80). Fruits are exported to urban consumption
centers. Their financial prices are converted to economic prices through
the use of urban food consumption conversion factor (0.76).
6.11     Milk.  About 30% of Morocco's national milk production is
delivered to processing plants and enters the national distribution system;
the remainder is consumed by the producers or sold locally (colportage).
For the economic analysis a distinction has been made between milk produced
for local consumption and milk produced for delivery to the milk collection
center. The border equivalent price of milk produced by the Project has
been based on the cost of reconstituted milk from border priced powdered
milk and butter oil, adding a 20% premium for consumers preferences for
fresh milk. The resulting conversion factors amount to 0.87 for marketed
milk and 1.0 for locally consumed milk.
6.12     Red Meat.  Moroccan trade in red meat is negligible, as the
country is basically self-sufficient in meat. Since 1975 Morocco is
importing small quantities of meat and it is expected that in the future,
due to income and population growth, meat imports will increase. Meat
imports consist mainly of live animals due to (i) consumer preferences, and
(ii) the absence of organized market for frozen meat. For project purposes
CIF prices have been used, adjusted for handling and transport and taking
into account Bank price projections for beef. It was assumed that about
half of the production would replace frozen meat and about half live meat
imports. Conversion factors would decrease from 1.36 in 1982-1983 to 0.89
in 1984-1987 and increase again to 1.48 from 1988 onwards.
6.13     For lamb and goat meat, the same conversion factors have been used
as for beef. Differences in farmgate prices of the three types of meat are
consistent with consumer preferences.



- 40 -
6.14     Wood.  Stump prices for cedar and pine wood in Morocco are
relatively high due to high import duties on industrial wood. Morocco is
importing a substantial quantity of wood, mostly low grade soft wood. For
cedar wood, Western red cedar has been used to determine the border price
equivalent and for pine wood, international soft wood prices. According to
Bank projections 1979 prices have been increased by 2.5% per year for 6
years. The economic price of fuelwood has been calculated by converting
border prices for butagaz into firewood equivalents. The conversion factor
thus obtained for charcoal is 0.56.
Agricultural Input prices
6.15     Labor.  For the economic analysis it was assumed that about half
of the additional labor would be required at peak labor demand periods and
would be valued at the going labor rate adjusted by the conversion factor
for non-traded goods (0.71) while half of the labor demand would be
required during off-peak periods valued at the unskilled labor conversion
factor (0.35). The average conversion factor for unskilled labor thus
amounts to 0.53. For skilled labor, as well as managerial positions,
salaries are considered to represent the marginal value of labor, as such
labor markets are fairly competitive.
6.16     Fertilizers.  Farmgate prices of fertilizers are substantially
below their economic border price equivalent (para. 2.12). The accounting
ratios used are based on a comparison of farmgate prices with CIF prices
for urea imports and FOB prices of exports of phosphatic fertilizers
adjusted according to World Bank price projections.
Agricultural Machinery and Tractor Services
6.17     Tractors in Morocco are assembled locally and benefit from a
special tarif protection, as do most agricultural machinery thus resulting
in low accounting ratios (0.61 - 0.67). Animal drawn equipment is produced
locally and has been treated as non-traded with its accounting ratio based
on data collected in the 1975 Industrial Survey and amounts to 0.50. Since
farmers benefit from a 50% subsidy on animal drawn equipment, the farmgate
price corresponds to the shadow price. The tractor services have been
decomposed and valued at their input costs resulting in a conversion factor
of 0.69 excluding Government subsidies.
6.18     Other Farm Inputs.  Seed prices are about 20-25% above grain
prices, which corresponds to the relative value of seed to grain. The same
conversion factors as for grains have therefore been used. Pesticides are
imported and have been valued at the border price equivalent. Breeding
cows and goats would also be imported and have been valued at border price,
while sheep was valued as a non-traded.



- 41 -
D. Beneficiaries, Benefit Distribution and Nutritional Impact
6.19     The forestry component would mainly benefit the population of the
five rural communes (110,000 people) in the Project area and to a lesser
degree the two communes of Irklaouen and El Hamman (population: 128,000).
The communes are the beneficiaries of the forestry revenues, which are
invested in social and economic infrastructure. Through its agricultural
development the Project would raise labor productivity.  Employment in
agriculture and livestock is expected to increase from 1.2 million man-days
to about 2.8 million man-days or by the equivalent of about 6,700 full time
jobs. Based on the farmbudget analysis and assuming two full time workers
per farm family, the farm population participating in the Project spends
now about 36% of their time on farm activities and would spend about 64% at
Project full development. In addition implementation of the forestry
component would require some 960,000 man-days over the five year Project
period.
6.20     The main beneficiaries of the agricultural component would be the
farmers of the Project area.  There are 12,800 farm families in the Project
area and it has been estimated that 7,700 (60% of the farmers) would
participate in Project activities and that the Project would thus directly
benefit 50,000 people.
6.21     Farm budgets, to quantify financial costs and benefits of the
proposed actions to the farmers, are developed for each of the four
subzones in Annex XVI of the Project File. Farm models are based on
detailed studies of the farmers in the three areas (Midelt, Azrou, Moulay
Bouazza) including (i) a typology study which categorized farm parameters
from a random sample survey; (ii) a detailed study of two local zones based
on the activities and resources of two social units (tribes); and (iii)
information from regional technical staff on production potential and
production methods. The eight farm models chosen display the significant
characteristics that now exist in terms of arable and grazing areas,
irrigated and dryland areas, cropping patterns and animal numbers. The
models are based on the implementation of a set of technical possibilities
that are proven, and at a rate that is considered reasonable (Annexes VIII
and X of the Project File).
6.22     The changes in income and the financial rates of return to
investments of the indicative farms are:



- 42 -
Farm model                   Income                Income          Financial Rate
without Project       with Project          of Return
DH                   DH                   %
Midelt:
Small farm  (6.7 ha)          2,560                 4,960               46.0
Large farm  (67.6 ha)        19,700                30,000               13.0
Moulay Bouazza:
Small farm  (7.4 ha)          7,200                13,000               26.0
Large farm  (24.4 ha)        11,200                24,300               46.0
Timahdite:
Medium farm (8.4 ha)          8,700                20,900               36.0
Ain Leuh:
Small farm  (3.1 ha)          4,400               12,200                61.0
Large farm  (14.5 ha)        18,300               52,900                27.0
Dairy farm  (14.5 ha)        17,300                39,500               40.6
6.23        The results suggest that the incentives to participate in the
Program are substantial and that farmers are able to pay the required
recovery charges (paras. 6.26 - 6.28). High financial returns are
necessary in order to induce farmers to participate in the Project, as the
farmers are generally risk averse and will require substantial gains to be
persuaded to participate in Project activities.
6.24        Distribution of Benefits.  The distribution of forestry bene-
fits (exploitation, fuelwood gathering, etc.) is relatively equal, as all
the tribal population has the same right to fuelwood gathering and range-
land access. The large majority of beneficiaries of the agricultural
component are small farmers (70%) and live at, or below the rural absolute
poverty level (para. 2.14). Agricultural benefits are distributed unequal-
ly, as is necessarily the case given the unequal land distribution. Large
farmers representing 30% of the population would obtain 69% of Project bene-
fits despite a proportionally higher increase in income for small farmers.
6.25        Nutritional Impact.  The nutritional impact of the Project is
expected to be positive: Livestock in the Project zone is already the cash
earning activity (para. 6.06) and no diversion of meat or milk from
consumption to marketing is expected, as might be the case in an area of
autoconsumption that is opened up to new markets. Increased income is
unlikely to lead to higher basic food prices, as the Project area is
already a net importer of basic food staples and markets are expected to
respond to an increased demand by increasing supplies.
E. Cost Recovery
6.26        Forestry Investments.  Forestry investments are recuperated by
the receipts from auctioning exploitation lots (paras. 5.15 and 6.04). Due
to the exploitation of mature high value forest, receipts from auctions are
high and well exceed investment costs. The net present value of discounted
costs and benefits of the forestry investments amounts to DH 67.3 million



- 43 -
and recovery amounts to 180% of total costs.  Present legislation (Dahir,
September 1976 concerning the organization of population for forestry
development) stipulates that forest exploitation receipts belong to the
Commune in which territory the forests are situated and that at least 20%
of forestry receipts have to be reinvested in forest land by the Communes.
The law has the following advantages: (i) it provides poor mountain
communes with a secure source of revenue, (ii) it allocates to the Communes
the means for decentralized decision-making, and (iii) it provides a direct
incentive to the Communes to control abusive grazing and illegal fellings
in the forest in order to safeguard their forest income. The disadvantages
are. (i) part of the forestry investments are supported by the general
State budget rather than by the direct beneficiaries (Communes), and
(ii) forestry investments and revenues tend to be concentrated in high
potential areas and do not generate funds for the development of new or low
potential forest areas.  The Government is aware of the shortcomings of the
present situation and is studying ways and means to assure revenues for
implementing its forestry development program.
6.27        Forest Rangeland Investments.  Existing legislation foresees
the payment of a tax for the use of state-owned forest rangeland (Decree of
January 15, 1921).  Flocks required for family subsistence are exempt.  The
numbers of animals per family exempted and the amount of the tax are fixed
each year by the Forestry Service. No such taxes are at present collected
in the Project area.  Under the Project, the Local Commission (para. 5.03)
would determine the stocking rates, based on the potential of the range,
anG the subsistence flock exempt from taxes. On the basis of that
information, the Forestry Service would determine the annual grazing tax
required from the taxable flock to recover all operation and maintenance
costs and as much of the investments as possible taking into account the
ability of the beneficiaires to repay.  Assurances to that effect were
obtained at negotiations.
6.28         Collective Rangeland Investments.  The acceptability of a range
tax on collective land would be socially difficult, as farmers are
reluctant to accept the regulation of rangeland in general, and the payment
of fees in particular. It is therefore proposed that (i) for water supply
investments, for which the benefits are directly perceived, farmers would
be charged a watering fee that recovers all investment and operating costs
over 20 years at 6% interest; and (ii) range land investments would not be
recovered until the benefits of those investments are perceived by the
farmers. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (i) recovery
modalities, and amounts covering full investment, operation and maintenance
costs would be fixed for the Timahdite water supply system, and agreed upon
with the local commission (para. 5.04) before the start of works; and (ii)
the Government define no later than December 31, 1985 a recovery policy for
collective range land improvements and implement such a policy agreed upon
with the Bank no later than December 31, 1986.
6.29         Irrigation Investments.  Farmers are grouped into irrigation
associations for the operation and maintenance of traditional irrigation
schemes (para. 5.17). The associations will continue to be responsible for



- 44 -
operation and maintenance. Up to now, investments in the rehabilitation of
small-scale irrigation schemes have not been recovered. The Government is
currently defining a cost recovery policy concerning small scale irrigation
investments that takes into account (i) existing legislation for irrigation
schemes; (ii) farmers' rights to irrigation water in small scale irrigation
schemes; and (iii) farmers' capacity to repay the investments and socially
acceptable ways to recover part of the investment costs. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that such a policy would be defined no later than
December 31, 1982 and that a policy acceptable to the Bank would be
implemented by December 31, 1983.
F. Economic Analysis
6.30         The overall economic rate of return is estimated at 24% and has
been calculated for a period of 20 years. It is based on the value of net
incremental production of the Project, as discussed in para. 6.03. All theb
benefits have been converted to economic prices as discussed above (paras.
6.08 - 6.14). Costs include incremental farm input costs, Project costs,
and operating costs, all valued at economic prices (Annex XVI of Project
File). Most of Project inputs, except for farm inputs (paras. 6.15, 6.16),
have a low accounting ratio, i.e., financial prices higher than their
economic costs. The low ratios reflect the high indirect taxes and
tariffs, import quotas and the excess of wages for unskilled labor above
this opportunity cost.
6.31         The cost of forest exploitation has been taken into account for
five years and equipment is then assumed to be sold at a salvage value for
other areas. Operational costs of forestry are assumed to diminish after
the 5 years exploitation period to about half the cost. The relatively
dense agricultural support system would be in place for 10 years, after
which the support services could be thinned out to about one half of the
staff required during the build-up period.
6.32         The Benefits of the Project are mainly constituted by increased
wood and fuelwood production during the five year Project implementation
and by increased agricultural and livestock production. The benefit
build-up of the forestry component is immediate due to the opening up and
exploitation of a natural forest. The benefit build-up projected for
agricultural production is conservative due to: (i) the 5-10 year benefit
build-up period on individual farms after Project recommendation are
accepted; (ii) the assumption, that only 60% of all farms will participate
in the Project; and (iii) the slow integration of farmers into the Project,
as shown below and detailed in Annex IV of the Project File.
Cumulative Percentage of Farmers Participating
in Project Activities
Year                    1       2        3      4       5       6       7 - 20
Percentage              1       6       17     32      47      56         60



- 45 -
6.33         No separate rates of return of the various Project components
have been calculated, due to the integration of activities. However,
incremental analysis of adding specific activities to the overall Project
have been made.
6.34         The present value and the rates of return of various Project
alternatives are:
NPV at 10%             IRR
(DH Million)             %
Overall Project                            167.0                24.0
Overall Project without Forestry           121.0                19.0
Forestry Component                          44.0                81.0
Moulay Bouazza Area                         43.0                 22.0
Midelt Area                                 17.0                 14.0
Meknes Area                                 67.0                 22.0
As all the components have an incremental rate of return well above the
opportunity cost of capital estimated at 10%, their inclusion into the
overall Project is justified. The incremental rate of return of adding
the forestry component to the agricultural and range project is high due
to (i) the exploitation of forest areas, which have not been exploited up
to now; (ii) relatively low costs of opening up a natural forest compared
to the high value of cedar wood; and (iii) the immediate buildup of
benefits, which are collected one year after investments. In contrast to
the other Project components, the forestry component is sensitive to
decreases or delays in benefits; a delay of benefits by one year would
decrease the IRR from 88% to 44% and a decrease of 20% in benefits would
diminish the net present value from DH 44 million to DU 27 million.
6.35      To assure the economic viability of specific actions the
following activities have been analyzed on an incremental basis:
NPV at 10%                    IRR
(DH '000)
Timahdite range                   4,600                       21.0
Irrigation component                580                       11.5
The incremental analysis of the Timahdite range takes into account the
direct costs of the water supply system attributable to the range and
direct range investments and management costs. All incremental livestock
benefits have been attributed to the range investments, as fodder
availability, is the bottleneck for any livestock improvement. The
analysis of the irrigation component takes into account the costs of the
studies and rehabilitation works in Midelt. The incremental benefits to
irrigation are due to a shift in the cropping pattern to high value crops
(vegetables, fruit) and to higher yields made possible through the
availability of more water during the water scarce season (July -
October).



- 46 -
Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
6.36      The Project design attempts to minimize the risks of the
Project. The risk of unadapted agricultural packages has been minimized
by proposing only techniques which have already shown their adaptability
to the region and by including into the Project a cautious, incremental
approach supported by a substantial adaptive research component. The
risk of non-participation of farmers in Project activities has been taken
into account by (i) integrating the population into the design of project
activities; (ii) assuming a relatively low participation rate (60% at
full development); and (iii) limiting range actions to incremental
improvements, that respect the herders' traditions, and that take fully
into account experiences made with range management in Morocco and
elsewhere. Delays in Project implementation have been frequent in
Morocco. This risk has been reduced by (i) minimizing the complexity of
Project actions; (ii) limiting the number of independent actors involved;
and (iii) taking into account the slow start-up period in the analysis
integration of farmers into the Project, and hence a slow build-up of
benefits. In addition, the involvement of the Moroccan provincial staff
in Project preparation and the implementation of the Project through
existing agencies are expected to minimize start-up difficulties.
6.37      The two major risks of the Project concern the occurrence of
drought especially during the first years of the Project and the
non-adoption of the proposed range management techniques by the tribes.
The occurrence of drought is mainly a sufficient factor as the 35% of the
Project area where the rainfall averages less than 400 mm. This, and the
farmers' risk aversion, have been taken into account in the design of the
agricultural packages (para. 6.36) and in the proposed cropping patterns
(para 6.03) which retain existing drought resistance crops (durum wheat
and barley). The range actions proposed include the plantation of
drought resistant forage shrubs (cactus and accacias) which would
constitute a forage reserve for drought years (paras 4.11, 5.05). No
further special contingency measures are considered necessary to deal
with the drought risk. Drought during the first years would however
result in a slower adoption rate than expected by farmers in the affected
areas. Risk analysis shows that the Project would be viable (IRR = 14%)
with a three year delay in adoption of the proposed packages over the
whole Project area.  The risk of a refusal of the proposed range
management techniques is relatively small: (i) the proposed range
management techniques (rotation, deferred grazing, limited access to
range) are not new, but have been implemented by the tribes in the past
(para. 4.03); (ii) the population is fully aware that present lack or
range management cannot be continued and has requested stricter
enforcement of grazing regulations; and (iii) Project actions cover only
part of the range in the Project area and social units that are not
willing to participate can be substituted by other social units in the
Project area. The risk analysis shows that a decrease of the expected
participation rate by 30% would decrease the internal rate of return from
24%o to 21% and that a decrease in Project benefits by as much as 50%
would still yield a rate of return in excess of 10%.



- 47 -
6.38      Sensitivity Analysis.  The risks discussed above would involve
either reductions in crop yields, a lower participation rate of farmers
or delays and cost overruns. In the forestry component, forest
exploitation is relatively risk free. A major risk of the forestry
component is the non-respect of the management plans which would not
allow to reap the expected benefits from avoided losses. The Project's
economic viability is relatively insensitive to changes in the
assumptions about costs and benefits as shown by the following
sensitivity annalysis:
Rate of Return
Base case                                                24.0
Increase in Project Costs by 50%                         16.0
Decrease in Project Benefits by 50%                      12.0
Benefits lagged by 3 years                               14.0
Forest benefits decreased by 20%                         21.0
Agricultural benefits lagged by 3 years                  19.0
Forest benefits decreased by 50%                         19.0
Decrease of expected participation                       21.0
rate of farmers by 30%
VII. Major Agreements Reached and Recommendations
7.01     The effectiveness of the Loan would be conditional upon:
(a)  the issuance of a decree declaring Ain Leuh and Timahdite an
improved rangeland zone (para. 5.04); and
(b)  the signing between the DPA of Meknes on behalf of the two
Provincial Project Management Units and INRA of a contract
satisfactory to the Bank including the first year research
program (para. 5.12).
7.02     Assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(a) aerial spraying of forest with dimilin be limited to 10% of the
area sprayed and arrangements satisfactory to the Bank be made
so that (i) poor warning of the herders would be made, (ii) any
access to sprayed areas would be prohibited until after the
onset of the rains, (iii) the results of spraying would be
properly monitored, and (iv) Goverment would define a pest
management program by December 31, 1984 and would implement such
a program shortly thereafter (para. 4.31);
(b) the two Provincial Management Units be fully staffed by December
31, 1982 and that a technical assistance team with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank would be hired by the same date (para. 5.08)



- 48 -
(c) the two road units be staffed in adequate numbers by December
31, 1982 (para. 5.15);
(d) the Forestry Services of MARA analyze the results of the
Project's initiatives in forest exploitation and make proposals
for the future organization of forest exploitation by December
31, 1985 (para. 5.15), and that such a reorganization would be
implemented by December 31, 1986;
(e)  MARA define a monitoring and evaluation system and for this
purpose sign a contract with a monitoring and accounting
specialist on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and
that two Project economists be hired by December 31, 1982 (para.
5.21);
(f) Forestry Services determine grazing charges for forest range
which cover at least operation and maintenance costs, as
discussed in para. 6.27;
(g) a water use charge be defined and accepted by the local range
commission for the Timahdite range (para. 6.28) and that the
Government define a policy for cost recovery on collective range
by December 1985 and implement such a policy acceptable to the
Bank, no later than December 31, 1986; and
(h) the Government define a policy for the recovery of investments
in small-scale irrigation by December 31, 1982 and that such a
policy acceptable to the Bank be implemented by December 1983
(para. 6.29).
7.03     With the above assurances and agreements, the proposed Project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$29.0 million to the Moroccan Government
for a term of 17 years including 4 years of grace.



- 49 _
KINGDOM OF MDROCCO                                              Table 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE                                          Page 1
MIDDLE ATLAS - CENTRAL AREA - AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Base Costs                       Foreign Exch?nse
Unit Unit Cost  go. of LInits  PYI    Pe2        Pr3     PF4      P95      Total     z    Aowt
a. CAIFAI COSTS
A, CONSTRUCTIDN
NGUSES, OFFICESf
SHEDS,  SH0SS                    21,2-371         251 13.715.3. 10,537.8   3t419.1   549.6    84-8  28.346-6  35.0   9v921.3
STATIONS, MMSERIES              47.7-1,292M6         16 4Y139.3      450.5     314.8       -       -   4,904.6 36.3   1.782.7
MILK CILLECTION CENTERS                  53           2   106.0          -         -       -       -      106.0 40.0      42.4
SHEP DIPS                               21.2         IS   169.6      148.4      63.6       -       -      381.6 40.0      152.6
hATER SunPPY                     1,272-15y?41         2        -   5,994.3   7470.5 3,148.2        -  17,013.0 40.0   6#805.2
Sub-Total CONSTRUCTION                                     18130.2  17,131.0  11,708.0 3,697.8    84.8  50,751.8  36.9  18,704.2
Ph.ical Continmc1es                                   - 21719.5   2,550.0  1756.2   554.7    12.7   7.593.2  36.9   2,798.8
Pr,ic Continecis                                      - 24100.9   1,83434    34904.9  14662.3    49.4  11,551.7 .446   3,9.4
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTITlENIES                           22,S50.7  23,515.3  17,369.1  5,914.7   146.9  69,896.7 36.5  25,502.5
- Tas                                                    - 6,770.4   6*937.0   5,123.9 1744.8    43.3  20,619.5  0.0        0,0
For,itn Exchm                                         - 8097.4  8$600.6   6.528.8 2,227.4    48.3  25.502.5  0.0           0.0
8.  UJECT VMS
IRRIGATION                         0.09-6.89       58e80       -   24629.6  11s687.1       -       -  14,316.7  30.9   4Y*31.0
FE-ST MAKERS                           0.106      1i1ooo    53.0     159.0     212.0   318.0   424.0   1,16.O  40,0      466.4
FIRA  SI1UB LAATION              1.272-2.014       3.000   657.2   1,060.0   1.060.0  1,060.0  1,462.8   5300.0 40.0   24120.0
FOREST TREE PLATsATION                             3,250   651.9   1,618.4   2,229.2 2,548,0  2,416.3   9,463.7  40.0   3.785.5
HO:Lf  AND CEDR THI8ISN. 0.095-o.239              17,824   338.7     434.1     434.1   434.1   417.3   2,058.2 40.0      823.3
SWEDIN                            0.276-0.53       5W200   301.5     442.4    443.7   445.0   446.3   2v078.9 40.0       831.5
FENCINS                                0.048      63,000   477.0     644.0     644.0   644.0   596.2   3,005.1  O.0   1,502,6
FERTILIZATION                          0,159      13,000   U6.0      556.5     636.0   159.0    79.5   2,067.0  40.0    826.8
iEFERED GRAZING                        0.043      10,200    69.5      95.6      95.6    95.6    86.9      443.3  20.0     88.7
SPAINS                           0.131-0.141      59s000  3,194.0   3,194.8   1,O84.1      -       -   S,193.8 60.0   4.916.3
FIRE AEAKS AND TOWERS               10.6-106         49   477.0      583.0     106.0   106.0   106.0   1,378.0 40.0      551.2
ROAI*CONSTRIETION                37.1-150.52         331 7,269.5  10,564.0  129767.7 8,070.8       -  38672.0 55.0  21,269.6
Sub-Total PROJECT iKS                                      14,126.1  21,981.S  32,119.5 13,880-4 6.035.3  88,142.6  42.2  41,612.8
Phwsical Contirsmciss                                 - 2,118.9   3,297.2   4,817.9  2.082.1   905.3  13,221.4 47.2   6,241.9
Price Contineenees                                    - 1,644.0   4.868,?  10,610.9 6,093,9 3,458.6  26,676.0 41.8  11,142.4
Sub-lotal INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                          17,889.0  30,147.2  47,548.3 22,056.-! 10f399.1  128,040.0 46.1  58,997.1
Taxes                                                 - 2,683.4   4,522.1   7,132.2 3.30sM.5 1,559.9  1?206.0  0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchame                                       - 9,398.7  14,730.1  20,426.8 10,446.3 3,995.2  58,997.1  0.0        0.0
C. EUDIIPMENf
FANI OAIlOERY               UNIT  5.3-362.52          82 1,593.2   2,769.8    604.2   254.4        -   5,221.6 60.0   3,132.9
EXTENSION EQUIPMENT         UNil          53          6   212.0      106.0         -       -       -      318.0 50.0      159.0
RESEARCH EWJIPUENT          UNIT.                     -   498.2      712.3     530.0       -       -   1,740.5  53.6     932.9
FORESTEWIIPMENT             UNIT  1.06-137.8         89 1,s5l.8      498.2       3.2     3.2      3.2   2.099,5 6s.6   1,460.4
FOREST EXPLOITATION         UNIT 0.339-670.4         330 1,900.9         -      72.8       -       -   1.973.6 50.0    986.,
RtOO IMPROV T               UNIT 1.06-674.16         272   106.0   5,632.3     333.9       -       -   6,072.2  50.0   3,036.1
UORXSHOPS                   UNIT    1.06-212         209   381.6     360.4      63.6       -       -      805.6 50.0    402.8
IRR16ATION                  UNIT       0.129       1,960      -       46.6     206.9       -       -      253.5  55.0    139.4
SiEEPODIP                   UNIT        21.2         I1   169.6      140.4      63.6       -       -      381.6 60.0     229.0
RILK COLLECTION CENTERS     UNIT        74.2           2    74.2      74.2         -       -        -     14S.4 60.0      s9.0
RESEARCH I SELECTION STATIONS UNIIT  106-318          6   106.0      106.0     106.0   424.0   106.0      848.0 47.5     402.8
Sub-Total EJUIPFT                                           6,633.5  10,454.2   1,984.2   681.6   109.2  19,862.5 55.2  10971.1
Phgsical Continncies                                  -   663.3   1,045.4      198.4    68.2    10.9   1,986.3 55.2   1,097.1
Prics Contingncies                                    -   739.3   2.204.9      614.7   280.8    59.9   3.99.7  52.3   2,040.5
Sub-Total INCLUDINs CONTINGENCIES                           8,036.1  13.704.5   2,797.3 1030.b   180.0  25,748.5  54.8  14,108.8
Taxis                                                 - 3,175.9   5,440.0   1P073.8   363.6    19.6  10,072.9  0.0         0.0
Foreien Exchane                                        - 4,611.5   7,350.4   I,50.8   560.6    68.4  14,108.8  0.0         0.0
0. SELECTED BREED ANIMALS            0.371-7.Ss       2,170   233.2     411.3     517.3   327.0   233.2   1,722.0  38.1    656.6
Phvsical Contingencies                                -    30.3       53.5      67.2    42.5    30.3      223.9  38.1     85.4
Price Contingenwies                                   -    26.6       90.3     170.3   145.4   131.4      564.0 33,4     188.2
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                             290.1     555.1     754,8   514.9   394.9   2509.8 37.1       930.1
Taxes                                                 -    370.       72,2      98.1    66.9    51.3      326.3  0.0       0.0
Forez*n Exchangse                                     -   117.5      21J.7     264,0   180.1   150.8      930.1  0,0       0.0



50 _
ZU0CGD008 OF M~ROCXO                                             ANINEX t
Table I
STAFF APPRAISAL RIPOrT OF-TEE PEp  2
MEDDLE ATLAS - CRITL AREA - AGRICULTURE DEVELOPIS1T PROJECT
CARtS                      t1hit  5.141-63.6         66 I1Z88.1      664.1     132.5       -       -   2,084.7 60.0   1,250.8
FIU  R11 0 3IE             Unit        63.6         37 19590.0      763.2         -       -       -   2,253.2 60.0   1,411.9
SB                          Unit        84.8          4       -      339.2         -       -       -      339.2 60.0     2D3,5
15Ug                        Ubtit 72.0-137.          11   3S8.9      5S1.2         -       -       -   t450,l 60.0       870.0
IOTClES                     unit       3.48          92   202.9       70.0      38.5    10.5       -      321.8 60.0     1931
IIYULE    3W5               lMit       127.2          2   254.4          -         -       -       -      254.4 60.0     152.6
Sub-Total VENICSES                                          4,234.3   2,387.7    171.0    10.5        -   6,803.4 60.0   4,082.0
Phoical Cmtuiuexs,                                    -   423.4      238.8      17,1     1.0       -      680.1 60.0     408.2--
PinC CmtirA%iul,                                      -   4V2.2      500.7      52.5     4.3       -   1,029.8  58.9     606.8
Sub-Totl LlQtllll C3tlfIECIES                               5.129.9   312.,2      240.4    15.0       -   8,513.5  59.9   3.097.0
Tom                                                   - 2,296.9   1,414,7       92.3     7.9       -   3,11.8  0.0         0.0
Foh,n ExchA,                                          - 3,080.8   1,864.9      142.0     9,2       -   5,097.0  0.0        0.0
F. TWIICICM A88ISTMC
TEUICI6L AISISTAI:          WY        427.t8          6 1,201.5        1,281,5    -        -       -   2.563.1 75.0   1,922,3
SllT TEAK CMl10S          IVY         40.28         52   886.2    684.8       402.8   120,8       -   21094.6 85,0   1,788.4
Sub-Total TE1NilA  SSISICE                                  2,167.7   1P966.3     402.8   120.8       -   4,657.6  79.5   3,702.7
Pnez Cmtani08uxh                                      -   220.8      368.3     107.3    42.1             738.5 78.7      581.6
Sub-fotul INCLUDIN CUTI1GCIES                              2,388.5   2,334.6     510.1   162.9       -   5,396.2 79.4   4,284.2
Taxes                                                 -   3.0        380A          -       -       -      733.6  0,0       0.0
Foruisn Excma                                         - I,8.9   1,826.3        431.0   137.0       -   4.284.2  0.0        0.0
S. S30IES As TR/4711015
SlIES                       LIMIT    0.042-53     77M752 3,488.5   4,923.9   2,198.9   827.2   827.2  129265.6 41.5   5,887.9
MIXING                      UIT   7.63226.5        119   26.7       316,.     316.9   215.2   194.1   1,311.9 74.0      971.3
Sub-OtlI ST1SI 1    TbUI4111                                3,755.2   5,240.S   2,515.8  1.042,4  1,823.3  13,577.5  44.6   6,859.2
Phwancal Contlnmnicri                                 -   375.5      524.1     251.6   104,2   102.3   1,357.7 44.6    605,9
;ri,t Contiuni.s                                      -   417.6   1,112.6    795.0   455,1   574.7   3,354.9 38.5   1,M92.3
Sub-Tot. Ia  II8 1  COUTIN0ImE                              4,546.2   6,877.4   3,562.4  1,601.  1,700.4  18.290.2 43.5   7,957.3
3a                                                    -   023.5      938.7     434.4   155.7   168.7   2328.9  0.0         0,0
Fenian ExAte                                          - 2,203.4  * 321r.6   1,529.4   502.6   510.5   7,957.3  0.0         0.0
R. rzFlThn
KsTInr                   MITn       5.936       2,000       -   2,968,0   2.968.0 2,968.0 2,968.0  11,072.0 25.0   21969.0
F   m4iER                MIT 134.62-148.4         9         -   2,088.2   4.176,4 4,176,4 2,08.2  12,52.2 60.0   7,517.5
ANEW. sES                tWIIT 0.042-0.159    103,115  1,049.4   1,049.4   1,049.4  1,049.4  1,289.0   5,46.6 25.0   1,371.6
sa.51713 0818.          UIT  0.371-8.46       14,015   938.1   1,690.7   2,186.9 2,422.1  2,469.8   9,709,6 20.0   1,941,9
Pl.ATATIO                M31T        6.36       1,000       -   1,590.O   1,590.0  1,39O0,  1,590.0   6.360,0 40.0   2,544.0
SA.U1 EWIP8IT            UNIT  0.742-1.06       5,300       -     535.3    996.4 1,070,6   641.3   3,243.6 40.0   1,297,4
SW-Total I9JEOST1ITS                                     1,987.5   ,S921.6  12,949.1 13.276,5 11,046.3  49,201.0 £5.9  17,640,5
Pfe* C3  tideint                                   -   19.6   1,936.9   3,762.0  5.203,9 5,616.7  16.719.1 31.1   5.192,7
Sb-Total I1NCL.1I8 C 3It    ES                           2,187.1  11,838.5  16,731.1 18480,4 16,663.0  65,020.1 34.6  22n,3.2
Ta.                                                -   249.7   1,620.3   2,64.9 2,9n2.4 2,265.3   9,707.8  0.0          8.0
Fo,gum Excha                                       -   49.0   4,077.6   6,271.7 6,749.8 5,239.1  22,833.2  0.0          0,0
2. Dal11L  RIM CAPITAL
aw P3RtTla               LMIT      0.371      90,000 1,855.0   44081.0   6,307.0  ,446,0 11,501.0  33,390.0 50.0  16,695.0
L1EBJeI                  UIIIT   1.06-1.SS      2,850   747.3    747.3      747.3   747,3   147.3   ,736.5  30.0   1,121 0
Sub-total IICRE8E8tT6 1.5I888 CPIT4L                     2,602.3   4.828.3   7,054.3 10,392.3 12,248.3  37,126.5 48.0  17,816.0
Pnict Cmti d1n0ci                                  -   262.8      932.0   2.012.3  3,972,5  5,963.3  13,142.9 42.4   5,569,8
Sub-Totl 11C13U3118 COTIlt8 lES                          Sv2,865.1   5,760.1   9,066.4 14.165.8 18.211.6  50,269.4 46.5  23,05,.7
Ta                                                 -   592.9   1,306.    2,121.6  3,434.6 4,383.2  11,828.3  0.0        0.0
Foptian ExcaIa                                      - 1,269.6   2,680.1   4,231.6  6734.3 0,450.1  23.385.7  0.0        0.0
Su,Ttsl OWARO IVSTlEmW                                      4.589.0  14,749.9  20,023.4 23.669.8 23,294.4  86.327,5 41.1  35.456.5
Price Cotixiets                                       -   462.5  2W868.9   5,774.3  9,176.4 t11,50.0  29,862.0 36.0  10,762.5
Sub-Total 1NCLDIII'D C0TIQIES                               5,052.3  17,618.8  25,97.7 32,844.2 34,874.8  116.189.5 39.0  46,219,0
Ta                                                    -   842.6   2,926.5   4,771.5 4,356.9  ,64,S.5  23,546.0  0.0       0.0
Forvian EXh,                                          - 1,765.7   6,757,7  10,523.3 13,484.1 13,688.2  46,219.0  0.0      0.0
rotl CWIT.L C0OTS                                            53,869.9  74,322.4  69,441.9 43,430.4 30,780.3 271,844.9 44.6 121,245.1
Phaical Corti t,cias                                     - 6,331.1   7,709.0   7,106.5 2,852.  1,0461.6  25,062.8 44.  l,237.3
Price CcotiMm,n                                          - 6,064.0  15,840.7  22,029.9 17,860,1 15,854.0  77,676.6 39.4  30,613,7
lotal INMUDINO C5TI8iDtIES                                  66,284.9  97,-80.1  91,580.2 64,143.2 47,695.9  374,5S4.3  43.5 143,096.0
Taxm                                                     -16,703.4  22,631.8  18,726.3 12,004.4  ,4n9.3  /8,637.1  0.0       0.0
Fohrei  Exchand                                          - 31,105.0  44,559.3  41,355.1 27,555.4 18,461.3  163,094.0  0.0    0.0



- 51 -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                                              ANNEX I
Table I
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE                                           Page 3
MIDDLE ATLAS - CENTRAL AREA, - AGRICTJLTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
II. PERATINB COSTS
A, PERSONHEL
ENGINEERS                  MIY         42.4          96   530.0      848,0     8N0.4   890.4   Y90.4   49049.2  0.0         0.0
TECHNICAL ASSOCIATES       h/r         26.5         284   742.0   1,404.5   1,775.5  1,802.0  1,802,0   7,526.0  0.0        0.0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANTS       M/Y        .18.02         76    54.1      234.3     360.4   360.4   360.4   1,369.5  0.0         0.0
GUARDIANS                  H/Y         10.6         209   180.2      402.8     487.6   561,8   583.0   2,215.4  0.0         0.0
ORKERS                     M/Y   12.72-15.9         129   129.3      436,7     436.7   436.7   436.7   1,876.2  0.0         0.0
RESEARCH ASSISTANT         H/Y         37.1          20   148.4      148.4      148.4   148.4   148.4     742.0  0.0        0.0
Sub-Total PERSONNEL                                         1,784.0   3,474.7   4,099,0 4,199,7 4,220.9  17,778.3  0.0         0.0
Price Continxencxes                                   -   178.2      700.1  1269.1  1,795.3 2,346.7   6,289.4  0.0         0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDIN8 CONTINGENCIES                           1,962.2   4,174.8   5,368.2 5,-95.1  6,567.6  24,067.8  0.0        0.0
Taxes                                                 -   196.2      417.5     536.8   599.5   656.8   2,406.8  0.0         0.0
S. 011 CIVIL WORKS
CONSTRUCTION                            1.06       2,554       -     188.7     494.0   975.2 1,e49.4   2,707.2  35.0      947.5
IRRIGATION                             1.06          22        -         -       2.1    10.6    10.6       23.3  35.0       8.2
ROAD MAINTENANCE                        1.06       6,505    39.2   1,777.6   1,692.8  1,692.8  1,692.8   6,895.3  55.0   3,792.4
Sub-lotal 0S11 CIVIL WORKS                                     39.2   1,966.   2,188.9  2,678.6 27052.8   962,5.9  49,3   4,748.1
Phvsical Continsncgies                                -      5.9     294.9     328.3   401.8   412.9   1,443.9  49.3      712.2
Price Contxnos"ces                                    -      4,6     433.9     714.7 1,l8O.O 1,547.9   3,88l.2  42.8   1,662.3
Suub-Total INCLUBINS CONTIHGENCIES                             49.7   2,695.2   3,232.0 4,260.4  4,713.7  14,951.0 47.6   7,122.6
Taxes                                                 -    12.9      700.8     840.3  1,107.) 1,225.6   3,887.3  0.0        0.0
Foreig6n Exchange                                     -    27.3   1,420,.:   1,599.1  1,958.0 2,117.7   7,122.6  0.0        0.0
C. '11 EGUIPMENT
FARKPSCHINERY              UNIT  1.06-85.86        3,005 1,187.2   1.545.0   1,167.6 1,202.6  1,202.6   6,304.9 45.0   2,837.2
EXTENSIOHEOUIPHENT         UNIT         1.06       1,700   597.8   1,02973    1,399.2  1,664.2 2027.8   6,718.3  63.3   4.252.3
WORKSHOPS                  UNIT  3.18-24.38           9    24.4       27.6      27.6    27.6    27.6      134.6 45.0       60.6
RESISEL STATIONS           UNIT         1.06         180    21.2      42.4      42.4    42.4    42.4      190.8 45.0       85.9
Sub-Total 0811 EOUIP#ENT                                    1,830.6   2,644.2   2,636.8 2,936.7 3.300.3  13,348.6 54.2   7,235.9
Physical Contingencies                                -   183.1      264.4     263.7   293.7   330.0   1,334.9  54.2      723.6
Price ContiiUocies                                    -   203.7      559.0     817.9 1,213.5 1,724.5   4.518.5  49.7   2,246.3
Sub-Total INCLUDINS CONTINGNIES                             2,217.4   3,467.6   3,718.3 4,443.9 5,354,8  191202.0 53.1  10,205,a
Taxes                                                 -   665.2   1,040.3   ,115.5  1,333.2  1,606.4   5,760,6  8.0         0.0
Foreign Exchan6e                                      - 1,119.5   1,773.2   1r982.  2,396.6 2P934.3  10,205.8  0.0         0.0
D. 8OU VEHICLES
CARS                       UNIT 5.141-15.688         394   346.5     764.7      913.8   924.1   924.1   3,873,1  40.1   1,900.7
BUS                        UNIT       15.688         14        -      31.4      62.8    62.8    62U.      219.6  45.0      98.8
TRUES                      UNIT 19,61-28.832         91   125.2      406.1     464.9   464.9   464.9   1,926.0  46.9      903.3
NOTORCYCLES                UNIT        1.325         378    41.1      98.1     117.9   121.9   121.9      500.9  45.0     225.4
OTHER                      UNIT         1.06         153    18.0      36.0      36.0    36.0    36.0       162.2  40.0     64.9
Sub-lotal 01l VEHICLES                                       530.8   1,336.3   1,595.4  1,609./ 1,609.7   6,601.8 47.8   3,193.1
Physical ContirAencies                                -    53.1      133.6      159.5   161.0   161,0      668.2  47.8    319.3
Price Contmunelens                                     -    59.0     283.5    508.0   678.2   864.8   2,386.3 42.2   1,006.6
Sub-Total INCLUBING CONTINGENCIES                             642.9   1,753,4   2,255.7 2,448.9 2,635.5   9,736.3  46.4   4,519.0
Taxes                                                 -   225.0      613,7      789.5   857.1   922.4   3,407.7  0.0        0,0
Foreign Exch"Me                                       -   312.4      832,7   1,053.7 1,126.3  1,193.9   4,519.0  0.0        0.0
rotal OPERATIR6 COSTS                                          4,184.6   9,421.4  10,520.1 11,424.7 11,883.7  47,434.5  32.0  15,177.2
Physical Contingencies                                    -   242.0      693.0     751.6   056.4   903.9   3,446.9  50.9   1,755.1
Price Contingencies                                       -   445.4   1,976.5   3,302.6 4,867.1  6,483.9  17,075.5 28.8   4,915.2
rotal INCLUDING CONTIN8ENCIES                                   4,87221  12.090.9  14,574.2 17,148.3 19,271.5  67,957.0  32.1  21,847.5
Taxes                                                     - 1,099.3   2,772.2   1,282.1 3,897.5  4,411.2  15,462.3  0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                                          - 1,459,2   4,026.4   4,635.0  5,480.9 6,245.9  21,847.5  0.0         0.0
rotal BASELINE COSTS                                           58,054.5  83,743.8  /9,962.0 54,855.1 42,664.1  319,279.4  42.7  136,422.2
Physxcal Contirnencxes                                     - 6,573.1   8,402.0   7,060.0  3,709.1 1,965.5  28,509.7  45.6  12,92.4
Price Contingencies                                        - 6,529.4  17,825.2  25,332,5 22,727.2 22,337.9  94,752.2 37.5  35.528.9
TotE1 PMOJECT COSTS                                             71,157.0  109,971.0  113,154.4 81,291.5 66,967.4 442,541.3 41.8 184,943.5
raxes                                                      - 11,882.7  25,403.9  22,008.4 15,901.9 12.902.5  94p099.4  0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchanje                                           - 32,624.2  48,580.6  45,990.1 33,036.3 24,707.2 104,943,5  0.0       0.0



- 52-                           ANNEX I
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
MIDDLE ATLAS AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ Million)
IBRD Fiscal Year                Disbursement            Cumulative Disbursement
Semester Ending               During Semester              at End of Semester
FY83
December 31, 1982                    0.2                          0.2
June 30, 1983                        0.8                          1.0
FY84
December 31, 1983                   -1.5                          2.5
June 30, 1984                        2.5                          5.0
FY85
December 31, 1984                    2.8                          7.8
June 30, 1985                        3.2                         11.0
FY86
December 31, 1985                    3.6                         14.6
June 30, 1986                       4.4                          19.0
FY87
December 31, 1986                    4.0                         23.0
June 30, 1987                        3.0                         26.0
FY88
December 31, 1987                    2.0                         28.0
June 30, 1988                        1.0                         29.0



SLATE APPRAISAL REPORT YE TOE
PI //Ct OITIOAl AllI/T'l[IRELToP    1 TPVL//NET POOJEC I 
K    Knt- Pra
M/o-s      Method of                            tFssosobro  Cnrcs                                          cTc  in              /nrcho                                         ooeh
'tOO  DII)  P-oon,- s           Te.I ar I    Oso  2-nc3              erS       Tes           oal          cao                   or SPpyl-
K    K    In           RIH   K    K lilt       R                 K
on-p dopo, cesecoah n   sheds)                     3S,904        I CBhIl           2    3    2    3    2         3                                                  I. - - K    EEC   'EIt lb epts
lshotscsIsos          opss)               12,250        LCD                     I    -    I…          ……                  …I                          Ic ERRE----s
Possssn,arsesh                      1,166        I~~~~~~~~~CR, FA /2  1I    …            …      …            ……                     I          SEC                  SEF, -steprs           Rock -s --.-eo  hd Iby  --nrpci-s  sd placd by SEF.
po..h.. s   pl. ...ha....                             ,464        LCh, PA           -                                                                                                                                          !             E  E,ehccs  rspat   oois'I ySEsdd5Us      stceas
PoIRosscipataso3,866                                             L.CR,CPA           1    1           1…        ……                  …          2s E    SE tc                          SE    soccs                                        
..ss     -d-g  h--24.PAki-g)                    2                                                I54  IAI II                        1    4I                SE, TE               E-OpE SI'llK    .oontEhopnpsssla
2D   F A               1                 I     I     I           I                                  E,  E       SEPE SEP
Issc_s                                                DOS5       FA-                       I1       I    I    I    I        J    I    1    4                  S hP,FP,Psnt...       SE,DEEF
Spsy.....gKsge...co.s-rph lcs8,194                                LCD /L3             I           1           I3                                               SECKhccs
Fhe  heas424                                                      LOB               -           I… …          …       …        …       …      1      / 
-Poreth                             ~~~~~~~       ~~~~~227, 69 3  LCB  1    11      1    1                     1…… …         …        2          hOPF                        pl:~
-  yIsOpsSt-ca1                                  6,997         LCD              -    -                  -3… …   …           …    …     …     …              SPF                   F-hspc i
-ooctcolhocs,poonoral                 3.~~~~     ~~~903  LCD        -    -         -          -           - -- I                      0          ECR 
Koodesth.l sh-th-                                        -        Pd                I    I                 I      I    I                 I      i    5         STFE                                          Othcaop-stWhtb -s -psc---doRd-chPosc
Watstopply                                          17,013        ICR               -             …           …     …          …           …         0          SEP
C.  P5c/s
F--Ksoah--sy                                      S,04 7      ICB               I    I      I     I    I    I                               3    3           AOSd                 topplio-
-oh-Se  soots,s                                  2.907         ILS /4           1    1    5       1    I      I                                   3- /      SA                    hoppl-e
ho.kokps                                               394        10                                              I    I…… …         …     …         1          So                   D,pyli-c
Rtltcollschsoscsshscs                    LOt~~~~~~~~1  1I'S           I    I-       -          -           -     -           -         I         SA                    hoppli-r
D.  Onot6,79 3                                                         ICR               I    II    I        I    I                  I -                  I         5A                    Roypl-s
PFs_thsy                                             3,492        B D/S             2     1…            …           ……                         2     I            T,0pC p
Roads (sorest asd tyloopaahossl)       (.~1353      BEP2                      I……                     …           …          …          I          C    SEP             CE L
ARtOh-U-e  de-IlPs/set                               1,274        RP                I           I           1          1           I           5    y           PT,  PS P R          CE, 
Loo--ocl  sod sylvoposhost                           2,73         BP                I                               …                               1           PR                   PF
1P 0055292                                                       BP                -                              -                                            R                    CE
BrcK9oonSk                                                        RP                  I  I-                                                          1          f                    CpoIcjid-oidosl
A0e-c1lh-sd-oelP-,r                                  4, 9273      OP                II    0                                                                     T Y                   CP   Itdi,dtsj
F.cs_h                                                 24 2       BP                I…1                                                                         CT                   "Focind-idoo1
G.  Osl -hd  ntsl                                         1,722        TLt
LBC    Local  Com.pshtots ttddtsg                                                                  SOP =estsdo I,qseno    os
/2  PA      F.Pse  ALc--o                                                                         lb  DFF =   -tt,c   d-sEt            e
Zfl  ICh     1---.c..ios I LOphhhsDdoteK                                                           I   SE  =   -ci-c ds  FI-pesg
14  ILS    --Iseat-oo   Os Loca  SkOPPi_R                                                          /1  SA     S--c,c  Ad--tsco,-1
IS  BP  =  htk P-ocd-c                                                                            IsPT  FPoeR   sn
If  SEPI   Se--o  ds so Psodo-i-nSghL
LD-cb-hs   1961)



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



- 54 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
MIDDLE ATLAS AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Agricultural Sector in Morocco
Al -  Ministry or Agriculture:
-  Plan de Developpement Economique et Social; Aout 1981, 6
volumes
- Commission Nationale des Parcours: Pour une amelioration des
parcours au Maroc; Novembre 1976
- Politique moutoniere au Maroc, Direction de l'Elevage; 1980
- Plan de Developpement Economique et Social 1981-85 viandes
rouges; Mars 1980
- Enquete permanente sur l'Elevage. Premiers resultats de
l'enquete elevage, 1979
A2  - World Bank;  Memorandum on Morocco Agricultural Sector:
Identification of Issues and Bank Strategy; May 1980
B.  Reports and Studies relating to the Project
Bl  -  Kingdom of Morocco, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock
Department, Projet Moyen Atlas Etude de base: Situation
actuelle Province de Khenifra
B2  -  Kingdom of Morocco, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock
Department, Projet Moyen Atlas Etude de base: Situation
Province de Meknes
B3  -  Kingdom of Morocco, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock
Department, Projet Moyen Atlas: Objectifs et Propositions
Province de Khenifra
B4  -  Kingdom of Morocco, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock
Department, Projet Moyen Atlas:  Objectifs et Propositions
Province de Meknes
B5  -  Kingdom of Morocco, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock
Department, Projet Moyen Atlas: Zone Focale Khenifra
B6  -  Kingdom of Morocco, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock
Department, Projet Moyen Atlas: Zone Focale Meknes



- 55 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
B7  -  Kingdom of Morocco, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock
Department, Projet Moyen Atlas: Documentation additionnelle
produite a l'evaluation Province de Khenifra, 1981
B8  -  Kingdom of Morocco, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock
Department, Projet Moyen Atlas: Documentation additionnelle
produite a l'evaluation Province de Meknes, 1981
B9  -  Kingdom of Morocco, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock
Department, Projet Moyen Atlas: Typologie des exploitations
B1O -  Kingdom of Morocco, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry
Department, Projet Moyen Atlas: Etude des parcours forestiers
dans la foret de Bouhsoussen, 8 volumes, 1978
Bll -  Kingdom or Morocco, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry
Department, Projet Moyen Atlas: Plateau Central Projet du Plan
d'Am6nagement Sylvopastoral et de Developpement Rural
B12 - Rome, FAO Cooperative Program, Projet Moyen Atlas, 1980
C.   Selected Working Papers
Annex IV      Agricultural Sector Background and Issues
Annex V       Range and Forage Production in Morocco
Annex VI      Livestock Subsector
Annex VII      Forestry Subsector
Annex VIII    Project Area
Annex IX       Project Agricultural Development
Annex X       Project Agricultural Extension and Research
Annex XI       Project Pasture Improvement
Annex XII     Project Livestock Development
Annex XIII    Project Forestry Component
Annex XIV      Small Scale Irrigation Component
Annex XV       Project Roads
Annex XVI      Farm Budgets
Annex XVII    Project Implementation Schedule
Annex XVIII   Project Cost Tables
Annex XIX     Marketing, Input Supplies and Prices
Annex XX       Economic Analysis and Justification



/1.9.9   ¶SPA) Z-
-'54-99,999999'l
Ito                                         '       ~~~~~~~~MOROCCO
A..999"'
A,~~~~~~~ Rh-- ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      '      ".-B
<0)       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
-            N                   ACROC   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gh                         'H
KIGO -F OOC                                                 A,gosSUId'                                                     0.99..
NFRASTRUCTURE AND' ARJC     OK                                                                                                                        K
INR15RCTR                  AV41 DU"   N               00R                              09O'J                                                    .999909
E O9,B,     0                                                              99 I                 9.
'O'E"iIy~ ~~~~Bbot,
'  99 "9 ~~~<000            Toulostolt~~                                         / 1
C                                       2  SokeIHUoE    ANl
(t-                                     / dAi                                             TIA-DT
2  K1'         <'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  A        \    ,>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    c~~                              L
-'"'N  -'----b00    ~        ~       ~        ~ ~ A



I



0~~53~~~2s4  3'~~~5-~~~3~5~~                                                                  *0'               335R O
A   Rk...         '                                                                                         --         335~d'
/                                                                                                              -<30533
N  -                                                                      33    f-so, p09K   3330 
"tiDiTE~ ~ ~~~:2,0002933
NcN100z_
KIGO                    /      NFoNNOS3-C-
MIDDLE ATLS  GRCUTUE  EVLOMETROEC
0ccL,,l,lT/lJ,V    055                                                                           A                                                     -OZ5
I  00~~~~~,/  2oske ss~~~~~~~~                                                    ,M Z-                   -                                                    L
,.                 .    ...
~~~''      E[F33,rssrr, U                                                     5-                                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~~  Mrs  A  O~~~~~~~-'V  ~ ~    ~     'A)                                                        N-T



-'~~                                                              ~ ~~~~~~~~~ I 



_____________________________________________________________________________________   ._________  ____IBRD                                              i5898R
KIN4GDOM OF MOROCCO             OCTOBER 19EI
ROMA&MM DU1 MAROC
I                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MCLJA( B)D1AA~ZZ3
MIDDLE ATLAS AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROA .,,  ROJET      PEVLOPPEAENTAGR/COZE
J   M U MOEN ATLAS
INFRASTRUCTURE ANL) PROJECT WORKS
/ l   / X,-   EA1TP/CTL/RP  [T T5'4VA,&X D ,E90/tT
S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r  71    '                                                    'E-~   /     ;'5
(  ~ ~~ ~1AIrBokhyvn                                                                                                                            y            j, a"o- e s
<  >   5/1            t              4                                       / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1    i   a <'.w,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r E>C/ER
l   f             /- -                   >                                  I                      O                Scv  .K~I MZ
OA~~~~~~~~
rh A nLahtte                                                                 i
Ad Rou >noy Ben ~ ~ ~  ~      ~ ~ ~ /Sd 'B,~
I-.  M.'  I  tu   <   X   /
so  2. '                                                                                     - o                       F 4 t M-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, >.[ITr
0        >        / 4 61 ' M O  R O   c C r 
V LOIETERI    I                                                                                                                                        -
VILES n    1    2    R   A    s    6                                      g                                                                                          ,__, Al y   g L .;  .4
r                                              "s                                                               _    o      I           b'                '  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dR>>r >>n



