Document of
The World Bank                      FLE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3176-M4OR
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
MIDDLE ATLAS - CENTRAL AREA - AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 10, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Dirham (DH)
US$1 = DH4.80
DH1 =  US$o.208
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CNCA           National Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Nationale de Crgdit Agricole)
DPA             Provincial Directorate of Agriculture
(Direction Provinciale de l'Agriculture)
FAO             Food and Agriculture Organization
INRA           National Institute for Agricultural Research
(Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique)
MARA            Ministry of Agriculture
(Ministere de l'Agriculture et de la R4forme Agraire)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
MIDDLE ATLAS - CENTRAL AREA - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 The Kingdom of Morocco.
Amount:                   US$29 million.
Terms:                    Amortization over 17 years including four years of
grace at 11.6 percent interest per annum.
Project Objectives
and Description:       The project area covers about 600,000 ha in Central
Morocco, at altitudes between 800 and 2,500 m, and is
about equally divided between forest, rangeland and
cropping land. The project consists of interrelated
forestry, range and cropping land development to bring
about production increases of meat, milk, fodder,
cereals and wood, and a rise of income and employment
among the rural population. Forestry development
would consist of the implementation of forest
management plans over 124,000 ha including the
preparation of such plans over 36,000 ha; the
provision of infrastructure, mostly roads; the
planting of trees and forage shrubs; felling and
thinning; pest management. Livestock development
would consist of increasing forage production and
improving forage conservation at the farm level, in
the forest and on collective rangeland; the
acquisition of selected animals; the introduction of
range management based on fixed stocking rates and on
deferred and rotational grazing; the provision of
infrastructure on the range as well as reseeding and
fertilization of forage; the construction of animal
health facilities and of breeding stations; and the
provision of credit. Cropping development would
comprise a reorganization and a reinforcement of
existing extension services; problem-specific research
linked with extension; the provision of credit;
irrigation improvement of some 2,000 ha of small
traditional perimeters; and construction of access
roads. Project implementation would proceed on the
basis of agreements between project management and the
social units (tribal units or village councils), to
ensure adhesion of the project beneficiaries to
project actions. The effects of a drought, an
important risk in part of the project area, has been
minimized through the selection of drought-resistant
agricultural packages and will also be reduced through
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
the plantation of drought-resistant forage shrubs in
the forests as a forage reserve in drought years. The
risk that the chosen social units will not be willing
to engage in some of the project actions, such as
maintaining stocking rates below a maximum and the
introduction of rotational grazing on the range, ought
to be small, as similar practices were traditionally
used in the area, since overall stocking rates will
not have to be reduced thanks to a greater
availability of forage, and the beneficiaries would
participate in defining the action prograsm.
Project Cost Estimates:                       ----------US$ million-------------
Local      Foreign         Total
Forestry                                    5.1          4.1            9.2
Agricultural Development                    2.1          1.8            3.9
Livestock                                   1.5          1.3            2.8
Sylvopastoral Development                   1.7          1.4            3.1
Road Construction                           4.4          4.4            8.8
Small Scale Irrigation                      2.3          1.1            3.4
Infrastructure                              2.0          1.5            3.5
On farm Investments                         6.3          4.0           10.3
Incremental Short-term credit               4.3          3.3            7.6
Studies, Training and
Technical Assistance                      1.5          2.3            3.8
Establishment Costs                         6.8          3.2           10.0
TOTAL BASE COST                            38.0         28.4           66.4
Physical Contingencies                      3.3          2.7            6.0
Price Contingencies                        12.4          7.4           19.8
GRAND TOTAL                                53.7         38.5           92.2 1/
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                        -           29.0           29.0
Government                                 41.9          -             41.9
CNCA (National Agricultural
Credit Bank)                               5.3          9.5           14.8
Beneficiaries                               6.5                         6.5
TOTAL                                    53.7         38.5           92.2 1/
1/ Including $19.6 million for taxes.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:  ---------------------US$ million---------------------
Fiscal Year                 1983      1984      1985      1986      1987      1988
Annual                     1.0       4.0       6.0       8.0       7.0       3.0
Cumulative                 1.0       5.0      11.0      19.0      26.0      29.0
Rate of Return:           24 percent.
Appraisal Report:         Staff Appraisal Report of the Middle Atlas - Central
Area - Agriculture Development Project No. 3628-MOR
dated December 7, 1981.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO FOR A
MIDDLE ATLAS - CENTRAL AREA - AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco for the equivalent of US$29 million, to help finance
a Middle Atlas - Central Area - Agriculture Development Project. The loan
would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at
11.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.       A basic economic mission visited Morocco in November 1978, and
updating missions in September and December 1979 and in May 1980. A report
entitled "Morocco: Basic Economic Report" (3289-MOR) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1980. A mission to review Morocco's Five
Year Plan (1981-85) and development prospects is now in the field. Country
and Economic Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed
with natural resources. It has a considerable agricultural potential both
in irrigated and rainfed areas. The Atlantic and the Mediterranean
coastlines offer considerable fish resources. Morocco also has the world's
largest and most easily recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the
phosphate sector a key export sector. Other minerals such as iron ore,
manganese, lead and zinc are also exported, but in much smaller amounts.
Coal and hydropower plants satisfy only a small part of the country's energy
requirements, which are essentially met with imported oil. Morocco has
however uranium and oil shale resources which it plans to exploit. In
addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has favored trade, tourism and labor
migration with the EEC countries.
4.       During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a conservative
approach to economic policy predominated in Morocco. GDP increased at an
average rate of 4% a year in the 1960s. Growth accelerated somewhat under
the 1968-72 development plan as the economy derived substantial momentum
from exports. However, a relatively weak savings effort and a small
externally financed resource gap resulted in only a slow rise in the share
*          of resources allocated to investment.  Morocco thus entered the 1970s with
no major financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity.
Although some industrialization had taken place, over half of the labor
1/ Part I has been updated from Part I of President's Report No. P-3098-MOR
of June 22, 1981 on a proposed Ninth Loan to the Banque Nationale pour
le Developpement Economique.



- 2 -
force was employed in the relatively inefficient traditional agricultural
sector, and primary products accounted for close to 90% of merchandise
exports, with phosphates representing about a quarter of the total.
Economic Performance in the 1970s
5.       During the 1970s, economic policy became more ambitious.  The 1973-77
Development Plan aimed at an acceleration of economic growth, as well as an
improvement in income distribution. To accomplish this, the original plan
strategy included two key elements: an intensified savings effort and the
development of exports. However, in 1974, with the sudden jump in phosphate
prices, phosphate export earnings more than quadrupled. As a result of this
windfall, the value of merchandise exports doubled and budgetary receipts rose
by 70% between 1973 and 1974. Although the petroleum import bill also
quadrupled in 1974, the current account of the balance of payments remained in
surplus. The plan's concern for exports and savings lost some of its urgency,
and the Government launched a massive public investment program which brought
about a sharp acceleration in the rate of growth of the economy and a
considerable increase in demand for imported goods and services, whose share
in GDP doubled from 19% in 1972 to 39% in 1977.
6.       The phosphate boom, however, was shortlived; as early as mid-1975,
phosphate exports started falling in both volume and value, and prices
continued to decline until 1980. Markets for other exports as well as for
tourism and labor migration were also negatively affected by the world
recession and restrictions imposed by the EEC. Agricultural production and
exports entered a period of prolonged stagnation, and Morocco turned from a
net exporter to a net importer of foodstuffs. As a result of all these
factors, the growth of exports of goods and nonfactor services, which in
constant prices had exceeded 8% a year in 1968-72, was only 1% a year in
1973-77.
7.       Stimulated by the high investment level, a high GDP growth rate of
7.3% a year was achieved during the 1973-77 plan period. This growth was led
by the expansion of the construction and service sectors. The pattern of
investment, however, favored economic and social infrastructure more than the
productive sectors. In addition, public investments in industry, agriculture
and transport tended to be capital intensive and to emphasize import
substitution.
8.       Accelerated investment and growing public expenditures created strong
pressures on both the balance of payments and the Government budget. While
investment jumped from about 15% of GDP in the early 1970s to 32% in 1977,
gross domestic savings rose briefly from 13% of GDP in 1972 to 21% of GDP in
1974 thanks to phosphate receipts, but fell back to 10-11% in 1976-77. The
large resource gap which emerged as early as 1975 rose to an unsustainable 20%
of GDP in 1977 (in current prices). To help finance the gap, Morocco borrowed
heavily from the international capital market, which led to rapid increases in
external debt and the debt service burden. By the end of 1977, external debt
outstanding was close to 40% of GDP. The debt service ratio rose from 5.6% of
exports of goods and services in 1975 to 10.7% in 1977, and 18.5% in 1978.



9.       The Government's overall budget position also deteriorated
considerably during the period 1973-77. While budgetary revenues increased
rapidly as a result of the windfall phosphate profits in 1974 and 1975 and of
the growth of import duties and taxes in following years (reaching 23% of GDP
in 1977), the growth of expenditure far exceeded that of revenues. Total
budgetary outlays rose from 20% of GDP in 1972 to nearly 42% in 1977, in
response to a number of pressures. These included not only the large scale
public investment launched under the plan, but also the rapid increase in
defense spending in response to growing tensions in the Western Sahara, and
the acceleration of current expenditure for social programs (particularly
education). As a result, the Government's overall budget deficit increased
sharply, reaching peaks of 17 and 18% of GDP in 1976 and 1977. The
expansionary monetary and fiscal policies pursued during the period led to
some acceleration of domestic inflation, but excess demand was largely allowed
to spill over into the external sector.
Recent Developments
10.      In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a three-year stabilization program,
characterized by a substantial retrenchment of investment and import levels.
In 1978, the first year of the adjustment, public investment was cut back by
nearly half in real terms and the growth of current budgetary expenditure held
down to about 13% (or less than 3% in real terms). These measures of fiscal
restraint were combined with tight credit policies and stringent import
controls. As a result, the overall budget deficit declined to about 12% of
GDP and the external payments situation improved in 1978. Since then,
however, the stabilization program encountered a number of obstacles,
including poor harvests, petroleum price increases and the rise in interest on
the commercial debt. In addition, internal pressures led to some relaxation
of the highly restrictive fiscal policy adopted in 1978. Although the economy
continued to make slow progress toward equilibrium, by 1980 both fiscal and
external imbalances were still substantial. The resource gap (in current
prices) remained at about 10% of GDP and the ratio of the overall budget
deficit to GDP at about 117.
11.      The reduction in the Government deficit during the 1978-80 period was
achieved chiefly through cutbacks in the level of budgetary investments, which
dropped from 22% of GDP in 1977 to 12% in 1980.  The growth of current
expenditure proved difficult to restrain because of the continuing need to
maintain defense and social expenditures, the growing interest payments on the
public debt and the rising cost of consumption subsidies.  The latter tripled
in 1979-80 reaching 2% of GDP, as price increases for subsidized staple food
and petroleum products could not catch up with the rise in import costs for
these products. Reflecting these pressures, the growth of current expenditure
accelerated to 16% in 1979 and 22% in 1980.



- 4 -
12.      In the external sector, non-oil imports were reduced substantially
and remained below the 1977 level in nominal terms due to a sharp reduction in
capital goods imports (by about two-thirds in real terms between 1977 and
1980). Oil imports on the other hand increased 2.5 times in value due to
price increases. Export earnings improved in 1979 and received a significant
boost from the recovery of phosphate prices in 1980. Thus, despite a large
increase in the petroleum import bill (from less than $400 million in 1977 to
$1 billion in 1980) and a rise in external debt interest payments by about
$350 million between 1977 and 1980, the current account deficit was reduced
from $1.8 billion, or 18% of GDP, in 1977 to about $1.4 billion, or 8% of GDP,
in 1980. The growth of external borrowing slowed considerably during the
period. However, the absolute level of gross external capital requirements
rose because of growing amortization payments on medium-term commercial
credits contracted earlier and the rise in the interest rate on these credits
in 1980 (paragraph 21).
13.      The budgetary and balance-of-payments constraints had a serious
impact on the levels of investment and economic activity in 1978-80. Annual
GDP growth dropped to 4% in 1978-80. The adverse impact of the stabilization
program on employment has probably been substantial in contrast with the rapid
rate of employment creation during 1973-77. On the whole, the demand
management policies followed since 1978 have had a high cost in terms of
growth and employment and appear to have been only partly successful in their
short-term stabilization objectives.   These results brought out the urgent
need to address adequately the long-term structural weaknesses which are at
the root of the continuing financial imbalances in the Moroccan economy, and
which must be corrected if an acceptable rate of economic growth is to be
achieved over the medium term without unsustainable external deficits.
Medium Term Prospects
14.      Projections!/ of the likely outcome of the continuation of past
policies without concerted effort to implement major structural reforms
suggest that Morocco would be faced with a prolonged period of slow growth,
rising unemployment and continued large external imbalances which would keep
the country in considerable dependence on external borrowing and could
jeopardize its creditworthiness. To forestall such a deterioration, the
Government adopted a strategy in the development plan for 1981-85 which aims
at narrowing the external resource gap while accelerating growth and spreading
1/ For details on these Bank projections, see Morocco - Basic Economic
Report, December 30, 1980 (No. 3289-MOR), Chapter III.



the benefits of growth more widely. The main objectives are to achieve a
significant increase in domestic savings and exports, a reduction in the
elasticity of imports with respect to GDP, and a rise in productivity and the
employment rate. The Plan's projections show that, if achieved, such changes
would permit a gradual acceleration of annual GDP growth to 6.5% p.a.,
somewhat higher than Bank projections, in 1981-85, accompanied by a reduction
of the resource gap to about 7% in 1985.
15.      The containment of imports would result in part from the substitution
of imports of food products (cereals, sugar, vegetable oil, meat and dairy
products) to be brought about by an acceleration of the rate of growth of
agricultural production. This will require a wide range of institutional
reforms in addition to a review of prices of certain inputs and outputs, and a
greater allocation of resources to rainfed areas and to projects with high
rates of return. The Government also intends to follow a determined policy in
1981-85 in the area of energy conservation, including in particular
maintaining domestic energy prices at high levels, and making the necessary
investment allocations to increase energy production from local sources.
16.      An essential role in the achievement of the Plan's objectives will
have to be played by export promotion aimed at exploiting Morocco's
comparative advantage as regards phosphates and phosphate derivatives as well
as the current favorable export prospects for manufactured goods, agricultural
products and tourism. Exports of goods and nonfactor services are expected to
rise at 8.5% p.a. in real terms over 1981-85. While feasible, such a growth
rate would require implementation of the supporting investments and incentives
policies.
17.      Narrowing the resource gap while maintaining at the same time high
investment levels would require an increase in domestic savings as well as
rationalization of the pattern and content of investment. A vigorous recovery
in domestic savings, which would rise from 11.5% of GDP in 1980 to 16% by
1985, would make it possible to narrow gradually the resource gap from about
10% in 1980 to 5% of GDP by 1985. Such a rise in the domestic savings rate
would exceed the performance in 1973-77 when savings averaged 14% of GDP. It
would demand intensive efforts to increase public savings (through an increase
in budgetary savings and an improvement in the performance of public
enterprises) and to stimulate private savings (through a revision of interest
rates and improvements in financial intermediation).
18.      Given the feasible level of investment, the future rate of growth of
the economy will depend to a large extent on the sectoral allocation and the
efficiency of investment as well as institutional reforms. Under the Plan,
the Government will start fewer large capital-intensive projects and pay
particular attention to the allocation of investments to priority subsectors.
Priority is given to projects that are export oriented, less capital intensive
and which use a greater proportion of domestic resources. In addition,
particular attention will be paid by the Government to manpower planning and
to the employment effect of investments in order to ensure that unemployment
does not rise.



-6-
Social Development
19.      Comparatively slow economic growth and employment creation up to the
early 1970s were accompanied by widening income disparities. The limited data
available indicate that in the 1970s, while disparities continued to grow,
household incomes increased in both urban and rural areas, and the lower
income groups shared in the real increase in incomes. In addition, infant
mortality has declined and life expectancy has increased, both significantly.
More recently, partly in response to the demands of locally elected
assemblies, the Government has shown more awareness of social problems and
greater interest in the issue of basic needs. Social expenditures have been
at a high level in recent years, accounting for more than half current
outlays. However, social indicators still appear to be at low levels in
Morocco. The limited effectiveness of past social policies in reaching the
lower income groups, especially in rural areas, is increasingly recognized as
a major issue, and the new strategy of the 1981-85 Development Plan emphasizes
rural development in rainfed areas, where most of the poorest households in
Morocco currently live, and improved mechanisms to deliver services to meet
basic needs at an affordable cost, especially in rural areas. An effort is
also being made to increase the involvement of local communities in providing
basic needs, particularly for sites and services for low cost housing, water
supply, sewerage and electrification. Although rapid results cannot be
expected in any of these areas, implementation of these policies would help
meet the needs of low-income groups, while holding down the budgetary cost of
social programs.
External Debt and Debt Service
20.      Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1974.  Nearly all
of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. Morocco also drew on
the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and obtained about $70
million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978. Agreement was reached
with the IMF in 1980 for Morocco to draw on the Extended Fund Facility (EFF);
the agreement provided for the use of IMF resources in the amount of SDR 810
million over the 1980-83 period, an amount subsequently increased to SDR 956
million ($1.2 billion). However, as Morocco did not satisfy performance
criteria at the end of July 1981, its purchases under the EFF have been
suspended pending an understanding with the IMF. The Government and IMF staff
have been in close contact and plan to discuss a program for 1982 in January.
21.      From the low levels of 1974-75, Morocco's external debt rose rapidly
to $7.1 billion (disbursed only) by December 1980. Gross inflow of medium and
long term capital reached $1.57 billion in 1980. Debt service amounted to $800
million in 1979 and $1.2 billion in 1980 (22% and about 28%, respectively, of
total exports of goods and services). The debt service rose considerably in
1980 due mainly to the steep rise in interest on commercial credits. As a
result of recent and projected borrowings, debt service may be expected to
average $1.8 billion annually in the early 1980s. Because of the growing
burden of debt service, external borrowing has become more restrictive and
selective since 1978. If debt service is to stay manageable, the Government



- 7 -
will have to continue this policy over the next few years. Limits on
commercial borrowing have been agreed within the framework of the Extended
Facility arrangement with the IMF, and efforts should be continued to seek
loans on softer terms.
22.      Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources to
Morocco rose from $205 million in 1975 to $1376 million in 1978. Since then,
they have averaged $700-800 million a year (excluding grants). Major sources
of aid were France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank
Group. At the end of 1980, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding
and disbursed external public debt was 7 percent. The share of the Bank Group
in debt service was 21 percent in 1976 and declined to 15 percent in 1977, and
6 percent in 1980. By 1985 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are projected at about 10 percent and 11 percent respectively.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
23.      Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 50 projects,
financing a total of $1,833.1 million (net of cancellations), of which
$1,379 million has been lent since the beginning of FY1975. IDA credits,
totalling $50 million, have been made available for five projects. A Third
Window loan for $25 million for the third education project was approved in
March 1976. IFC investments have amounted to $31.2 million ($17.1 million
after cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA
projects. In some cases delays in project implementation have been caused
by management problems and budgetary constraints; however, overall
performance in project execution has been improving and is satisfactory.
24.      Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural
and industrial sectors, which have accounted for 27 percent each of total
commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (16 percent), tourism
(9 percent), education (9 percent), roads (6 percent), energy (3 percent)
and urban development (3 percent). While limited as regards the transfer of
resources to Morocco (Bank Group gross disbursements amounted to 2.2 percent
of total fixed investment during the 1973-77 Plan period), the main
objectives of Bank lending in previous years were to foster and strengthen
development institutions, provide technical assistance, especially for
project preparation, and increase productive capacity, in order to improve
the balance of payments.
25.      While these objectives remain, in recent years Bank lending has
increasingly focussed on supporting a number of policy objectives: to
promote exports and other foreign-exchange earning activities; to reduce
imports, particularly of food and energy; to lower unit costs for the
delivery of basic services, widen their distribution among regions and
increase access by lower-income groups; to increase employment and improve
income distribution; and to bring about structural adjustment.



- 8 -
26.      Since FY1975, lending in agriculture has emphasized improvement in
the productivity of rainfed agriculture and livestock, which employ over 80
percent of the rural population, primarily small farmers. The
Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project, approved in June 1978, directly
addresses these objectives in the favorable cereal producing zone. The
Loukkos project, approved in May 1980, extends support of these objectives
to a less favorably endowed region and finances investments for agricultural
development, erosion control, forestry and livestock.  It should have a
significant poverty impact and address major issues in developing Morocco's
relatively densely populated but poorly endowed mountainous regions. The
proposed project would address similar issues with a particular emphasis on
integrated agro-sylvo-pastoral development. Continued Bank support of
rainfed agriculture is expected to be provided through an integrated rural
development project in the Khemisset province, which is under preparation.
A fourth line of credit to Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) has
helped provide credit to small and medium farmers, and a fifth project is
under preparation.   Increased export earnings are expected to result from a
Bank-supported project for vegetable marketing and production, as well as
from a project currently under preparation to improve the efficiency of the
coastal fishing industry. Projects are also under preparation for research
and extension, for irrigation rehabilitation, and for development of small-
and medium-scale irrigation.
27.      Increased foreign exchange earnings or savings and, more recently,
job creation, have been the key objectives of Bank projects in industry and
tourism. A ninth line of credit to the Banque Nationale pour le
Developpement Economique (BNDE), incorporating a pilot component for
export-oriented industries, as well as a second line of credit for small
scale industries with an emphasis on job creation have recently been
approved by the Board. A project focussing on the development of
electro-mechanical industries is being prepared. A fourth line of credit to
Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH) for tourism projects was also recently
approved by the Executive Directors, in a sector which has contributed a
substantial share of Morocco's foreign exchange earnings and provided
significant employment. A project to increase the incomes of artisanal and
small-scale miners in southeastern Morocco, a region largely bypassed by
previous development efforts, is scheduled to be presented to the Board
later this fiscal year.
28.      Projects to improve basic infrastructure and services have
concentrated on improving the efficiency of existing investments and
extending services to rural and low-income urban groups. A second urban
development project was approved by the Board in FY1981, which would
continue to support the Government's efforts to provide shelter, basic
services and employment to low-income urban families. A third highway
project approved in FY1980 supported the Government's road maintenance
efforts and a fourth project now being prepared would continue support for
maintenance and improve rural access roads. A loan for village
electrification approved in FY1979 is helping bring power to over a hundred
small towns and villages. A third water supply project, recently approved,



- 9 -
will provide access to safe water in small towns and semi-rural areas, as
well as expand a pilot component initiated under the second project to
provide credit for house connections to low income urban families. In
addition, a project to strengthen the capacity of local communities to
prepare and implement their own development programs and provide financing
for such programs through the Communal Infrastructure Fund (FEC) is being
prepared. It will not only help to widen the distribution of infrastructure
and services but will also support the Government's policy of encouraging
administrative decentralization and local participation.
29.      Education continues to need attention to ensure Morocco's manpower
development. While recent projects have focussed on secondary level
technical education and teacher training, attention has also been given to
expanding basic education in the rural areas and ensuring a greater
orientation in primary schooling towards practical training. This would be
complemented by future projects in non-formal education and vocational
training. The Government's recent policy supporting primary health care
would be tested through a project currently being prepared as a first phase
in a nationwide program to reorganize medical and paramedical training,
health education, nutrition, environmental sanitation and family planning
services, especially in rural areas.
30.      In order to aim at reducing the impact of the oil import burden on
the Moroccan economy, a project was approved in April 1980 to contribute to
the Government's efforts to accelerate the exploration and development of
its petroleum resources. An oil shale engineering project, the main
objective of which is to help Morocco identify the best course for
development of its oil resources, is expected to be presented to the Board
shortly. Additional projects for development of coal and hydropower
resources are under consideration.
31.      The sectoral objectives implied in these projects as well as other
objectives relating to price policy, efficiency and composition of the
public sector investment program, and measures to mobilize domestic savings,
would be reinforced by the policy changes envisaged under a possible
Structural Adjustment Loan which has been appraised. Negotiations for the
loan began in mid-1980, but were not completed by the time the release of
the second tranche of the IMF's EFF was postponed (see paragraph 20). The
government has requested resumption of negotiations; further progress would
depend on the IMF and the Bank reaching agreement with the Government and
may require reappraisal of the structural adjustment program..
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
32.      Agricultural Sector Background.  About 60 percent of Morocco's
population of 20 million lives in rural areas. Since 1970, population
growth in the rural sector has averaged 1.8 percent per annum compared with
2.8 percent growth overall, reflecting rural-urban migration. In 1979,
agriculture contributed about 13 percent of GDP, employed about 40 percent
of the labor force, and accounted for about 33 percent of total exports -- a



- 10 -
decline from figures for the early 1970s largely as a result of increased
phosphate production and exports. Out of a total land area of about 50
million hectares, 7.4 million have soils and moisture suitable for cropping
and 20 million are in semi-arid or mountain regions suitable for grazing and
forestry. About 5.8 million hectares are cultivated each year, with 4.5
million in cereals, 500,000 in pulses, 400,000 in fruit trees, 140,000 in
vegetables, 60,000 in sugar beet, and the remainder in oilseeds, cotton and
forage crops. Most of Morocco's rainfed areas are characterized by
traditional agricultural practices which result in low crop yields and low
livestock productivity. In 1979 permanent irrigation covered 760,000
hectares.
33.      Since 1965 agricultural output has grown  on average by 2.4 percent
per annum, with wide annual fluctuations due to climatic conditions. This
growth was below the increase in demand for foodstuffs caused by income and
population growth. The value of food imports increased on an average of 21
percent annually, while the value of food exports grew at 6 percent per
annum. A generally adequate food supply was maintained by expanding
agricultural imports and some switching of exportables to domestic
consumption. However, increasing population pressures on cultivable land
have led in some rural areas to a decline in per capita consumption levels
and some nutritional deficiencies.   Growth of output has been greatest for
products for which the introduction of modern farming techniques has been
made possible by adaptive research and appropriate extension efforts, and
prices set at attractive levels: sugar beet, sugar cane, milk and
vegetables. For other crops such as cereals and pulses where the Government
has not yet been successful in modernizing farming practices, and for crops
for which prices have been pegged at insufficiently remunerative levels --
oilseeds, cotton, maize -- the Government has met with limited success.
Regarding forestry products, although cork and pulp are exported, industrial
timber production only accounts for 25 percent of the domestic market.
34.      The Government's objectives in agriculture are:  (i) to restore a
high degreee of agricultural self-sufficiency and maximize agriculture's
contribution to the balance of payments by fostering export and import
substituting production; and (ii) to reduce regional income disparities and
improve living conditions of the poorer segments of the rural population by
increasing their productivity and generating employment opportunities. In
order to achieve these objectives, the Government recognizes the need to
allocate a larger share of Government resources to support the rainfed
agriculture and extensive livestock activities practiced by the majority of
Morocco's rural poor, as well as for forestry development. The investment
program in agriculture under the Five-year Plan 1981-85 reflects this
strategy as well as the importance accorded by the Government to the
sector. Agriculture is allocated 22.5 percent of total investments, against
18 percent during 1978-1980 and 17 percent during 1973-1977. Within the
sector, the share of large irrigation schemes falls from 61 to 40 percent,
while that of rainfed agricultural development increases from 2 to 18
percent, of small-scale irrigation from 3 to 8 percent, of livestock
development from 4 to 11 percent and of forestry from 4 to 8 percent. The
shift in priorities is even more radical when account is taken of
expenditures committed to completion of ongoing large irrigation projects.



- 11 -
35.      Agricultural Sector Issues.  About 40 percent of the rural labor
force is partly or fully unemployed, and about 45 percent of farm families
are close to or below the estimated absolute rural poverty threshold ($270
per capita in 1980). Despite a rise in the real average rural per capita
income, there is evidence that population pressures have led to a decline in
per capita income in mountain, forest, and arid areas where neither
employment opportunities nor emigration to other parts of Morocco or abroad
increased. Over the last five years, and mostly through investments in
hitherto neglected areas, the Government has increasingly sought to reach
the rural poor through its agricultural projects. Among the recent
agricultural projects supported by the Bank, the Souss Groundwater and the
two Doukkala Irrigation, the Fes-Karia-Tissa Agricultural Development and
the Fourth Agricultural Credit (CNCA IV) projects were designed to have a
significant impact on the productivity and incomes of small farmers, and the
Vegetable Production and Marketing project is expected to lead to a
significant amount of rural on-farm and off-farm employment generation at a
low cost per job created. The Loukkos project marked the Bank's first
involvement in developing Morocco's agricultural and livestock potential in
the poorer and less favorably endowed regions. The proposed project is a
further step in this direction: its location is representative of a large
ecologically similar underdeveloped area in mountainous central Morocco,
devoted mostly to extensive pastoralism in forests and on rangeland
collectively owned by long established tribes.
36.      Livestock is a major activity, contributing about 36 percent to
agricultural GDP. It has a very important place for small farmers both as a
source of protein and as an instrument for wealth accumulation or temporary
savings: about 63 percent of cattle and 46 percent of sheep are owned by
the landless and farmers with less than 5 hectares of land. Morocco has a
long tradition of extensive livestock raising on range and forest lands
totalling some 20 million hectares, mostly collectively owned and grazed.
It is estimated that these lands produce about one half of the feed units
consumed. However, livestock yields are low and declining due to
overgrazing, the absence of range management and poor animal husbandry.
These difficulties are accentuated by population pressures on land that have
led to an erosion of transhumance patterns and increased use of grazing
lands for cropping purposes. The Goverment has recognized the need to
reverse these trends and to attach a higher priority to develop the
potential of grazing lands. The proposed project would be the first attempt
to do so on a significant scale, through a series of integrated actions.
Fodder production on the range and in the forest would be increased through
proven techniques and traditional range management practices, which had
fallen into disuse, would be reinvigorated through agreements with the
traditional tribal units.
37.      Morocco's natural forests are extensive, covering some 7.7 million
hectares. In addition to the lumber and firewood they provide, these
forests provide forage material that plays a major complementary role to the
range in sustaining livestock. However, natural forests are being rapidly
degraded as population pressures drive the local population to seek
additional cultivable and grazing lands. On the other hand, productive



- 12 -
forests are not being exploited to their potential, mainly for lack of
investments, so Morocco has to import a substantial share of its domestic
consumption of wood and wood products. The greater emphasis given to
forestry investments under the Plan, and the sylvo-pastoral strategy tested
under the proposed project, should help address these issues. A forestry
project under preparation would constitute a large share of forestry
investments under the Plan and would help boost wood production in Morocco's
most favorably endowed area.
38.      Agricultural research is excessively theoretical and has developed
in isolation from farm profitability considerations or production
priorities. Budget allocations have been low and research carried out in
the various centers has been poorly coordinated. To overcome these
constraints the Government recently created a National Institute for
Agricultural Research, and in the last Plan increased allocations for
research. The extension service is encumbered with administrative tasks and
employs agents with little practical farming experience. It also lacks
organization, materials, and a systematic method for extension, particularly
in rainfed areas. These issues are addressed through the Bank supported
Fes-Karia-Tissa Project which seeks to divest the extension agents of all
regulatory and most administrative tasks and to concentrate their efforts on
forming service cooperatives through which extension advice and inputs can
be channelled. That project provides for practical training of agents and,
in addition, seeks to develop the extension agents' role in establishing
farmers' needs and revenue potential as a basis for establishing credit
eligibility criteria. The proposed project would seek to adapt the relevant
experience gained to a different ecological zone and production sytems, and
introduce a multidisciplinary and farmer oriented approach to extension.
Finally, a project is in the early preparatory stages to support research
nationally, to help train trainers of extension workers and develop an
effective extension system nationwide.
39.      Land distribution is relatively skewed:  about 75 percent of farm
families own 5 hectares or less, accounting for 25 percent of agricultural
land. These farms are for the most part below an economically viable size
and suffer from excessive fragmentation: Morocco's 1.9 million farms are
divided into 11.6 million parcels. Absentee landlords and tenancy
arrangements afford tenants little security and consequently no incentive to
improve the land. With few exceptions, tenants are also ineligible to
receive agricultural credit. A number of land reform measures are currently
under study or being carried out on an experimental basis. Among the Bank
supported operations, the Meknes project includes a trial program for land
consolidation on private land and for the creation of viable holdings on
collective lands. In order to obtain a better understanding of these
patterns, the Government now attaches a high priority to the execution of a
national cadastral survey of all agricultural lands as a basis for a land
register. A first tranche of Morocco's program in rainfed areas is being
financed under the Loukkos project, which will also cover this project
area. In the longer run, land tenure patterns will have to be rationalized
to a greater degree if further gains in productivity are to be achieved. By



- 13 -
reaffirming the rights and obligations of tribal collective land ownership
and by providing the tribes with the means necessary to control stocking
rates, the project would reinstate conditions allowing the tribal units to
effectively manage collective range lands.
40.      Other issues not specifically addressed by the proposed project
include the need for: a reinforcement of the Ministry of Agriculture's
sectoral planning and programming capacity; a revision of Morocco's
Agricultural Investment Code introduced in 1969; development of Morocco's
agricultural exports; a review of its agricultural pricing policies and
*        subsidies, agricultural taxation, and savings mobilization in the rural
sector. The first two issues are addressed in the Loukkos project, the
third is partially addressed through the Vegetable Production and Marketing
Project which sets out a program for developing Morocco's exports of
off-season vegetables. The latter issues are all major topics of the Bank's
on-going economic and sector dialogue with the Government. They are
analyzed in greater depth in the Report: Morocco - Agricultural Sector
Memorandum that was circulated on May 2, 1980 to the Executive Directors
(Report no. 2667a-MOR).
41.      Bank Agricultural Sector Strategy.  Over recent years, the Bank's
strategy in the agricultural sector has supported the Government's
objectives of increasing agricultural production wherever economically
justified to meet basic food needs and to work towards agricultural
self-sufficiency, while placing, for economic and social reasons, an
increased emphasis on developing rainfed areas, where the largest untapped
potential exists. In particular, actions to benefit the rural poor target
group have been pursued. The Bank strategy also recognizes the need to
continue supporting highly productive export oriented projects and
agricultural credit which finances a large percentage of directly productive
farm and agroindustrial investments. Support for irrigation, particularly
for rehabilitation and development of small and medium scale irrigation
infrastructure, is also envisaged.
42.      Performance Under Previous Bank Financed Agricultural Projects.
Bank Group lending for agriculture in Morocco began in 1965 and to date 14
projects have been undertaken and supported by $435 million in Bank/IDA
funds ($24 million in IDA credits). They include five irrigation projects;
Sidi Slimane (FY65), Sebou I (FY70), Souss Groundwater (FY75), all
completed; Doukkala I (FY76) and Doukkala II (FY77); four Agricultural
Credit Projects (FY66, FY73, FY77 and FY79) three of which are completed; an
Agroindustries and Flood Control Project (Sebou II, FY74); a Vegetable
Production and Marketing Project (FY80); and three Agricultural Development
Projects focussing on rainfed agriculture in the Meknes (FY75),
Fes-Karia-Tissa (FY78) and Loukkos (FY80) areas. Project performance to
date is generally satisfactory although irrigation projects suffered
initially from poor coordination between and within participating Ministries
which resulted in delays in construction and in acquisition of irrigation
equipment. Among rainfed agriculture projects, which are mostly still at an
early stage of execution, implementation has also been satisfactory so far
with the exception of the Meknes Project which has encountered very



- 14 -
substantial delays. the major issue has been the difficulties in
establishing and delays in executing the land redistribution program.
Measures to improve project performance in these areas are underway.
43.      The First, Second and Third Agricultural Credit Projects have been
audited by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). The report on the
first project attributed the project's mixed results principally to the
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole's (CNCA) shortage of qualified staff and
Government's interference in CNCA's operations by directing it to lend to
small farmers and by dissolving a State company receiving Bank financing
without prior consultation with the Bank. It also reported that the most
important achievement was the institutional development that took place.  In
its report on the Second Agricultural Credit Project, OED calculated an
economic rate of return to the project of about 20 percent as compared to an
appraisal estimate of 18 percent. However, it noted that the return might
have been higher had Morocco enjoyed a more effective national agricultural
extension service. OED's report on the Third Agricultural Credit Project
mainly noted CNCA's institutional progress and achievements.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.      Project Background.  It is only natural that under its strategy in
the sector (paragraph 34), the Government would consider investing in the
Middle Atlas region. A relatively poor mountainous area in central Morocco
covering about 5 million ha, the Middle Atlas has so far been mostly
bypassed by investments and despite having significant potential, has seen
its resource base progressively eroded by increasing pressures on its
precarious ecology. Vast forests, among which the largest cedar forest in
the world, and extensive prairies cover much of the area. The forest
belongs to the state, which grants grazing rights to the herds of long
established tribes. The same tribes each own collectively an expanse of
rangeland, on which settlement and crop cultivation are forbidden, although
in some cases they have been tolerated. The lowlands are mostly cultivated
and privately owned. Pastoralism, the main economic activity, is undergoing
a transformation whereby the increasing cultivation of the lowlands has
gradually restricted the yearly transhumance cycles between low and
highlands, and crowded the herds in the highlands. As a result, the
overstocked prairies and the forest are suffering constant degradation and
the productivity of the herds is low and diminishing, mirrored by a
deterioration of the social cohesion of the tribes. However, research
results elsewhere in Morocco and several successful experiments carried out
locally in the seventies have demonstrated the feasibility of an integrated
set of development actions, articulated on the existing social structure and
aimed at improving the productivity of the range, the forests and livestock
and cropping activities in the area. In May-June 1979, a mission of the
World Bank/FAO Cooperative Program was able to identify the proposed project
in a zone representative of the Middle Atlas Region. The project was
prepared by a Moroccan team with the assistance of the Cooperative Program
and a Bank mission appraised the project in April 1981. Negotiations for
the proposed loan took place in early December. The Moroccan delegation was
led by Mr. Belkoura of the Prime Minister's Office. An appraisal report



- 15 -
entitled "Middle Atlas - Central Area - Agricultural Development Project"
(3628-MOR) is being distributed separately. The main features of the loan
are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary, and in Annex III. Maps No.
15865R and 15898R are attached.
45.      The project covers about 600,000 ha in the central area of the
Middle Atlas region, straddling the two provinces of Ifrane and Khenifra.
Altitude ranges from 800 m to 2,500 m and precipitations increase with
altitude and northern exposure from 300 to 1,000 mm. Holm oak and cedar
forests account for somewhat more than a third of the area and cover much of
the higher altitude zone. Rangeland collectively owned by tribal units
spreads over most of the adjacent intermediate zone below, and land at lower
levels consists mainly of cropping land privately owned, of which about 54
percent is under cereals, 40 percent is left fallow, and the rest is under
vegetables or forage. A rigorous climate, and generally shallow and
sometimes stony soils limit the vegetative period and the use of modern
cultivation techniques. The project area forms part of the watershed basins
of the Oueds Beht, Oum-er-Rbia and Guigou in the Ifrane province, and
Moulouya in the Khenifra province, where the lack of availability of water
resources is a serious constraint for agricultural development.
46.      The population of the project area numbers about 100,000, of which
some 80,000 depend on agriculture. It is relatively poor and young with a
high dependency ratio due to a high net outmigration which results from the
difficult conditions of agriculture and its low productivity, and the lack
of local employment opportunities. The social structure rests predominantly
on tribes. Each tribal unit normally possesses a territory consisting of
privately owned land and collective grazing land, and holds rights to graze
on adjacent forest land. Collective land is managed by the jemaa, a
traditional tribal council. Next to their own, rightholders often keep
sheep in association with absentee urban owners, as there is no limitation
on the number of sheep they are allowed to let graze. Average farm size is
14 ha, and land and livestock ownership is skewed; smaller farmers depend
proportionately more on livestock, and 70 percent of herds account for only
about 30 percent of animals.
47.      The project area's productive resources are being degraded fairly
rapidly. For lack of funds, large forest areas are not tended or managed
and are inaccessible for exploitation; they are being progressively degraded
by livestock whose fodder resources outside the forest are decreasing, by
the population for fuelwood, and by defoliating insects. Collective and
forest rangelands are overstocked and poorly managed, and the overall forage
deficit in the area causes meat and milk yields to be low. The practice of
association described in the preceeding paragraph contributes to
overstocking while bringing few benefits to the collectivity. This
phenomenon and the disruption of transhumance are progressively eroding the
ability of the jemaa to manage the collective range. Finally, crop yields
are low mostly because of inappropriate farming practices. Earlier
development efforts were unsuccessful because they failed to address the
interactions between the forest, the forest range, the rangeland and the
cropping land; because they ignored the existing social structure, or
because application was sought of insufficiently adapted research results.



- 16 -
48.      Project Objectives and Description.  The project consists of a set
of interrelated actions in the forest, on the range and on cropping land to
bring about production increases of meat, milk, fodder, cereals and wood,
and a rise of income and employment among the rural population. It is based
on a participatory approach geared to the area's tribal mode of social
organization, to its dominant pattern of collective land ownership and to
its main economic activity, pastoralism. Actions based on proven techniques
would be implemented on the basis of agreements reached with the social
units. The project would reverse the persistent ecological deterioration
affecting its area and help restore the role of the tribal units which had
successfully managed collective pastoralism up to a recent past, by adapting
traditional pastoral management to prevailing conditions.
49.      The proposed project would consist of the following:
(a) Forestry development: implementation of forest management plans over
124,000 ha, including the preparation of such plans over 36,000 ha,
the provision of infrastructure, planting of trees and forest shrubs,
felling and thinning; pest management; and the strengthening of
forest services.
(b) Livestock development: development of fodder resources at the farm
level, in the forest and on collective rangeland; introduction of
range management systems based on fixed stocking rates and on
deferred and rotational grazing including reseeding, fertilization
and fencing; provision of infrastructure on the range; construction
of animal health facilities, and breeding stations; improvement of
herd management, animal health and genetics; and short-, medium- and
long-term credit.
(c) Cropping development: reorganization and reinforcement of extension
services; problem-specific research programs linked with extension;
short-, medium- and long-term credit; construction of a water supply
system in Timahdite Commune; irrigation rehabilitation of some 2,000
ha of small traditional perimeters; construction of access roads; and
introduction of forage conservation methods.
(d) Consultants and Studies: technical assistance for extension, range
management, research, training of loggers, pest management, project
monitoring; studies for irrigation rehabilitation, and for the
establishment of a cheese factory.
50.      The forestry component would give the administration the means to
effectively manage 124,000 ha of forests covering all major cedar
concentrations in the project area.  Management plans would be drawn up for
36,000 ha to complete the coverage of existing plans. Construction of 185 km
of forest roads would open up large tracts previously of difficult access, and
two forest road maintenance units would be created, one for Khenifra and one
for Ifrane. Two new nurseries would be established and two existing nurseries
expanded to produce forest and forage shrubs for all forestry and
sylvo-pastoral operations under the project (see next paragraph). To improve
forest production 3,200 ha of assisted regeneration in cedar forests would be



- 17 -
undertaken; 2,500 ha of young cedar stands and 15,300 ha of holm oak coppice
would be thinned to promote growth and increase forage production; and 250 ha
would be planted with fast growing conifers. Infrastructure would be built
for fire control and for demarcation, and 46,000 ha sprayed against the
processionary caterpillar, which has already caused serious defoliation. An
integrated pest management plan would be developed to avoid recurrence of such
damage. Finally, the increased availability of forage and the control of
forest grazing should help protect regeneration areas and decrease the damage
caused by livestock.
51.      Deficiencies in nutrition and in animal husbandry are the main
impediments to a greater productivity of livestock. The project would develop
fodder resources on the farm, on the range and in the forest. At the farm
level, besides the production of fodder on land now left fallow (see next
paragraph), the project would introduce silage conservation methods and, on a
trial basis, the treatment of straw with caustic soda to improve its
nutritional value. On the range, under agreements to be reached with the
concerned social units, the project would invest in fencing over at least
50,000 ha to control stocking rates; fertilize about 13,000 ha; reseed about
2,000 ha, build about 16 km of access roads, a water supply system and water
points. On the forest range, growth of forage would be stimulated through
improved management such as controlled stocking rates, deferred grazing and
rotational grazing over 20,800 ha; planting of forage shrubs on about 3,000
ha; the fertilization of about 6,000 ha and the thinning of about 15,300 ha of
holm oak to promote the growth of undercover. Measures for animal health and
genetic improvement include the construction and staffing of 9 animal health
centers and 18 additional dips for external parasite control; the construction
and staffing of 6 horse and 5 cattle breeding stations, the rehabilitation of
an existing sheep selection station, and the acquisition of about 400 Murcia
and 1,700 Timahdite goats. Credit would be provided through Caisse Nationale
de Credit Agricole (CNCA) for stables and folds, and improved livestock.
Finally, two milk collection centers would be built, and a feasibility study
carried out for a goat cheese factory.
52.      Cultivation actions would play a role complementary to actions in the
forest and on the range. By reducing the dependency of the herds on forest
and range forage resources, they would help introduce the limits on stocking
rates and grazing rotations promoted by the project. Credit would be made
available to the farms through CNCA: short-term credit for farm inputs,
machinery services and feed supplies; medium- and long-term credit for
mechanization, small farm equipment, destoning (2,000 ha), and fruit tree
plantation (1,000 ha). Extension services would be reformed and reinforced
and strongly linked with research, with the help of technical assistance. The
extension services would encourage farmers to adopt more intensive cultivation
practices, notably to substantially reduce the acreage left fallow. The
project would also provide demonstration farm equipment for haymaking, silage,
tillage and weed control, and build 17 warehouses for farm inputs in remote
locations, to be managed by cooperatives. Traditional irrigation perimeters
producing mostly fruits and vegetables would be rehabilitated over 2,000 ha,
studies carried out for the rehabilitation of 9,000 ha more, and 71 km of
related access roads wouid be constructed.



- 18 -
53.      Project Execution.  The project implementation strategy is geared to
ensure maximum participation and adherence to project actions of
beneficiaries, whether represented by elected Commune councils or the jemaas,
the tribal councils. For each social unit, a resource study would cover the
resources within the purview of the unit (forest, livestock, collective range,
forest grazing rights, private rainfed and irrigated land); an integrated
action program would be defined to develop these resources rationally through
an implementation strategy adapted to the social organization of the unit; and
following discussions with the representatives of the unit, an agreement would
be reached between the concerned Provincial Directorate of Agriculture (DPA)
and the social unit specifying respective obligations regarding investments,
implementation modalities and population participation (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 5). Project execution would extend over five years. The basic
implementation modalities have been successfully tested within the project
area.
54.      At the Commune level, five Local Project Coordinators have been
appointed to deal with the social units in the Commune on behalf of all
services, in order to establish a fully integrated dialogue. The work of the
provincial technical services will be planned and coordinated at the
provincial level by two Project Management Units (one for Ifrane and one for
Khenifra) which have already been established within the DPAs and are headed
by the Provincial Director of Agriculture and are to receive technical
assistance from a team comprising an agronomist/extension specialist, a
pastoralist, and a zootechnician (72 man-months). Matters of inter-provincial
coordination (use of consultant services, research and studies, application of
uniform grazing regulations) would be dealt with by an Inter-Provincial
Committee, also already established, presided by the two Governors, and in
which CNCA and the Institut National de Recherche Agronomique (INRA) are
represented. At the central level, a National Committee, established as well
and chaired by the Ministry of Agriculture's (MARA) Director of Livestock,
will approve yearly action programs and prepare budget requests, generally
follow project progress through the project monitoring system and identify
issues requiring decisions at the central level. The Project Management Units
would be fully staffed and the technical assistance team to assist the two
Project Management Units would be hired by December 31, 1982 (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 5, Part A, paragraph 2 (c)).
55.      Forestry investments and forest range improvement activities would be
undertaken by the Provincial forestry services of the DPAs. The two road
maintenance units would be fully staffed, including the managers of the units,
by December 31, 1982 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). A mechanized
exploitation unit would be established in each of the two provincial forest
services, to replace on a trial basis wasteful and inefficient traditional
felling and cross-cutting methods. A logging consultant would provide
practical training in the use of equipment (4 man-months). On the basis of
the trials conducted during project execution, the Government would exchange
views with the Bank by December 31, 1985, on a proposal for the reorganization
of forest exploitation, and would implement an agreed plan for reorganization
by December 31, 1986 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 (b)).



- 19 -
56.      As provided by Moroccan law, local commissions would be created to
administer grazing on forest range by the herds of tribes with grazing
rights. The commissions, composed of representatives of the technical
services, the local authorities and the tribes concerned, identify
rightholders, fix stocking rates, modalities for cost recovery and adopt
sylvo-pastral improvement plans. Grazing regulations would be enforced by the
forestry services, which would be provided with transportation and other
necessary means. These commissions would be established according to a
schedule agreed with the Bank and would cover all the forest rangeland in the
project area by the end of 1985 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).
57.      Other local commissions have already been created by decree for the
rangeland to be improved under the project, and as a condition of
effectiveness, decrees would be issued declaring it a "zone of range
improvement" (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01 (a)). Fencing of the areas
controlled by the commissions would be carried out if agreed with the jemaa
and provided installation is carried out by the social units, to ensure their
acceptance. The adhesion of the beneficiaries would be sought by a major
extension effort and facilitated by a generally greater availability of
forage. Only range activities agreed with the population would be carried
out. Overall stocking rates would be controlled by the range police, and the
allocation of individual grazing rights as well as the rotation patterns would
be managed by the jemaa. A fair distribution of individual grazing rights and
the imposition of collective sanctions for overgrazing, as well as the
demonstration of the benefits of range improvement activities, should ensure
collective self-discipline.
58.      Extension services would be considerably reinforced and the number of
extension agents would be brought from 15 to 42, or one agent for 250 to 325
farms. Extension activities would be reorganized along the following lines:
(i) extension services would be integrated for all activities (a farmer would
deal with one single agent for all his activities); (ii) a close link would be
established with research, with a research assistant positioned at the Commune
level, and (iii) extension agents would work on a regular schedule providing
for visits to contact farmers on a fortnightly basis and for systematic
training. Research would be carried out mostly by INRA, who would be
represented at the Commune level. As a condition of effectiveness, a contract
would have to be signed with INRA for research, including the program of
research activities to be carried out during the first year (Loan Agreement,
Sections 3.06 and 6.01 (b)). Future activities would be agreed on an annual
basis (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06 (b)). Animal health and genetic
improvement facilities would be located at extension centers and operated by
the livestock services. The rural construction services of the DPAs would
execute project construction activities outside the forest. Irrigation works
would be operated and maintained by the farmers, as is the tradition in small
perimeters. Feeder roads would be maintained by the Communes. The 17 input
stores would be managed by cooperatives. Credit would be channelled through



- 20 -
CNCA, which has adequate facilities. The social units would set up
multipurpose cooperatives to facilitate access to credit of small farmers who
otherwise may not qualify. Finally, technical assistance would be used to
help set up a project monitoring system, to reinforce cost accounting, and for
the training of the DPAs' accountants (24 man-months).
59.      Project Cost and Financing.  Total Project costs are detailed in the
Loan and Project Summary and are estimated at DH 442.5 million ($92.2
million), of which 42 percent or $38.5 million in foreign exchange. Costs
include duties and taxes estimated at DH 94.0 million ($19.6 million) or 21
percent of base costs. Estimates are based on October 1981 prices.
Construction cost estimates are based on unit costs obtained in contracts in
the project region, adjusted for inflation. Equipment prices are based on the
latest invoices available (March 1981). Physical contingencies are estimated
at 15 percent for civil works and 10 percent for equipment. Price escalation
has been estimated at 11 percent for 1981, 10 percent for 1982, and 9 percent
per year thereafter for local costs and at 9 percent, 8.5 percent, 7.5 percent
and 6 percent respectively for foreign costs. Overall contingencies amount to
DH 123.2 million ($25.7 million) or 39 percent of the base cost. The cost of
consultant services has been estimated at $10,000 per month for short-term
consultants (about 2.5 man-years) and $8,300 for long-term technical
assistance (about 6 man-years), both including travel and subsistence.
60.      The proposed Bank loan of $29.0 million to the Government of Morocco
would cover the foreign exchange cost of the project, except for the credit
component, whose foreign exchange cost will be financed by CNCA out of its
foreign loans, which include loan 1704-MOR from the Bank. The loan would be
for 17 years including four years of grace, at an interest rate of 11.6
percent per year. Remaining project costs ($63.2 million) would be financed
by the Government ($41.9 million), CNCA ($14.8 million), and the beneficiaries
($6.5 million). CNCA will finance as and when needed credit requirements of
project beneficiaries according to its prevailing policies and procedures,
which are acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (c))..
61.      Cost recovery dispositions are several.  The proceeds of public
auctions of wood production will cover 180 percent of forestry maintenance and
investment costs over the long run, as the benefits of opening up virgin
forests for exploitation would be substantial. For investments on forest
rangeland, an annual grazing tax would be levied, exempting a small flock per
family for subsistence, but enabling recovery of operation and maintenance
expenditures, and as high a proportion of investment costs as compatible with
the beneficiaries' ability to pay (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04 (a)). For
investments on collective rangeland, it would be difficult to introduce cost
recovery measures without jeopardizing the introduction of new herd management
regulations, which may be resisted by the beneficiaries and will necessitate a
vigorous extension effort. Therefore, guidelines for cost recovery for
investments on collective rangeland would be defined by December 31, 1985,
when the benefits of range management will have been established in the eyes
of beneficiaries, and, after an exchange of views with the Bank, such
guidelines would be implemented by December 31, 1986 (Loan Agreement, Section
4.07). Regarding water supply investments on collective rangeland in
Timahdite, a watering fee would be levied sufficient to recover related



- 21 -
operating, maintenance and investment costs (Loan Agreement, Section 4.05).
The Commune of Timahdite would provide for appropriate maintenance and
operation of its own water supply system (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06).
Finally, irrigation investments are maintained and operated by the traditional
irrigation associations. The Government is currently studying on a nationwide
basis issues of recovery of investment costs for small scale irrigation
schemes; guidelines for recovery of investment costs, taking into account the
farmers' ability to pay, would be defined by December 31, 1982, and
implemented by December 31, 1983 after consultation with the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.08).
62.      Procurement and Disbursements.  Procurement will be spread over five
years and involve a large number of contracts. Contracts for road
construction exceeding $2 million, for the water supply system in Timahdite,
for spraying against caterpillars, as well as contracts for the purchase of
equipment and vehicles exceeding $150,000, will be awarded after international
competitive bidding following Bank guidelines, for a total estimated at about
$14.3 million. Equipment and vehicle contracts would be bulked to the extent
practicable. Contracts for vehicles and equipment for less than $150,000
each, estimated at less than $1.5 million in the aggregate, would be procured
after local competitive bidding. Small project works estimated at less than
$100,000 each and for not more than $4 million in the aggregate would be
carried out by force account; selected animals and equipment for milk
colLection centers and forest road maintenance workshops ($0.4 million in the
aggregate) would be acquired after limited international tendering. All other
contracts for works, estimated at $29 million in total, would be procured
after local competitive bidding according to procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Because of their small size and the presence in Morocco of competitive
local and international contractors, these contracts would not be expected to
attract bids from foreign firms not established in Morocco.
63.      The loan would be disbursed against
a)   50 percent of the total cost of the spraying program, of roads
construction, of construction of the water supply system;
b)   40 percent of the total cost of other works;
c)   100 percent of foreign expenditures and 60 percent of local
expenditures for the purchase of equipment, vehicles and selected
animals;
d)   100 percent of foreign expenditures and 75 percent of local
expenditures for consultants' and specialists' services and training
abroad;
Retroactive financing, in an amount not exceeding $250,000, would be
provided for preparatory studies.



- 22 -
64.      Environmental affects.  The project would help stall the degradation
caused to the forest and the range by uncontrolled grazing, and therefore have
a beneficial effect on the environment. Aerial spraying conducted against the
processionary caterpillar, which has been causing important damage to the
cedar forest, would mostly use bactospein, a substance proven effective and
environmentally acceptable, and dimilin, which is safe when properly used but
which has not been as widely tested as bactospein. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that bactospein will be used to the extent possible,
that dimilin will be used for ten percent at most of the area being sprayed,
and that evidence shall be furnished to the Bank, prior to the use of dimilin,
adequate arrangements have been made to warn herders and effectively prohibit
entrance to the areas being sprayed until rains have washed the substance
away. Furthermore, an integrated pest management system will be developed by
December 31, 1984, to minimize spraying in the future (Loan Agreement, Section
3.04).
65.      Benefits, Justifications and Risks.  The project's impact on
production would be substantial. Forestry production during project
implementation would yield 300,000 m3 of cedar sawlogs, 50,000 steres (m3) of
cedar fuelwood and 850,000 steres of oak fuelwood. Over the project
implementation period, the incremental annual cedar log production would
amount to 17 percent of sawlog imports. Forage production in the forest would
increase by 26 to 62 percent depending on the area; on the rangeland, by 31 to
87 percent. The increase in production of sheep, goat and beef meat resulting
from project actions is respectively estimated at 198, 80 and 33 percent; of
cattle milk, at 133 percent. These performances would partly be obtained
through a considerably increased production of forage on farmland from very
low levels. Other crops would display lower but substantial gains: 30
percent for hard wheat, 34 percent for soft wheat, 15 percent for barley, and
between two- to fourfold (also from low levels) for fruits and vegetables.
Based on detailed studies of the farms in the area, eight farm models were
chosen displaying varied characteristics in terms of arable and grazing areas,
irrigated and rainfed land, cropping patterns and animal numbers. The
financial rates of return range from 26 to 61 percent for small farms, and 13
to 46 percent for large farms; the financial rate of return of the medium size
farm was 36 percent, and a of dairy farm, 41 percent. The higher benefits
obtained by smaller farms reflect their greater reliance on livestock. The
financial incentives to participate in the project actions are therefore
substantial and the farmers should be able to pay the required recovery
charges. There should be no problem in marketing the project's incremental
production. The project would provide 1.6 million man days of employment in
agricultural and livestock activities, the equivalent of 6,700 full-time
jobs. In addition, the forestry component would require about 960,000 man
days over the project period.
66.      The economic analysis was carried out not only to determine the
project's economic viability and its sensitivity to changed assumptions, but
also to ensure the replicability of some of its main actions. The Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) of the whole project is estimated at 24 percent. When
taking out the forestry component, the ERR of which is estimated at



- 23 -
81 percent, the ERR falls to 19 percent.  The main range component has an ERR
of 21 percent, and irrigation, of 11.5 percent. Sensitivity testing yields
ERRs no lower than 12 percent for the whole project, the latter being obtained
by lagging benefits by 3 years without lagging costs, which would correspond
to the effect of a prolonged drought.
67.      The production estimated is based on known technology.  Increased
wood production would be obtained by opening up large tracts of previously
inaccessible forest, by introducing standard modern technology in exploitation
metlhods, and by managing forest resources. Increased forage production in the
forest and on the range is based on the introduction of technical packages
tested successfully over several years under local conditions in various
projects sponsored by FAO, USAID, King Ranch Texas, the Hassan II Institute
and the forestry services. The main production increases on cropping land
would be obtained by substituting the currently applied cereals-fallow
rotation with a triennal cereals-forage-fallow rotation, and applying simple
technical improvements. Assumptions on the proportion of farmers willing to
participate in project activities are prudent: the rate is expected to build
up slowly over 7 years to a maximum of 60 percent.
68.      The project would incur acceptable risks.  The success of the project
depends on the successful implementation of several interdependent actions,
which the project organization has been designed to facilitate, and for which
appropriate assurances have been sought. Drought is a major risk for about 30
percent of the project area. The package of agricultural techniques to be
introduced under the project is designed to reduce the effects of a drought,
however, and drought resistant forest shrubs to be planted under the project
would provide a forage reserve in drought periods. Another risk or
uncertainty resides in the willingness of the tribal units to introduce limits
on stocking rates and rotation patterns on the range, and a fair allocation of
grazing rights among members, thereby inevitably affecting some currently
large holdings. However, the increased availability of forage will make it
possible to set stocking rate limits higher than current rates, which ought to
make easier the allocation of grazing rights, and the rangeland areas involved
have been chosen for their suitability to introducing such a system, therefore
minLimizing risks. At any rate investments on the range would only be carried
out after a contractual agreement is reached with the tribal units. Similar
arrangements are being successfully implemented at present over about 10
percent of the forest range in Moulay Bouazza, a Commune in the project area.
Finally, project actions have been extensively discussed with the population
concerned, which has responded positively.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



- 24 -
70.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Annex III.  Special
conditions of effectiveness include i) promulgation of decrees declaring
rangeland to be improved under the project "zones of range improvement" and
ii) agreement on INRA's first year research program (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01).
71.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 10, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
TABLE 3A
hOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS. DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KX.)                                                          - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            447.0/c                                                     MIDDLE INCOME
AGRlCULTURAL     203.77c                               MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE Jb         MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PLE  CAPITA (U0$)                 200.0       310.0     740.0                 865.5                   1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER lAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      169.3       222.2     315.2                 758.3                   1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATiON, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 11626.0      14993.0   19538.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.3         34.6      39.9                  45.2                     64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
PUPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       35.6
STATIUNARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         81.0
YEAR STATlONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2090
POPU LATION DENSITY
PER SQ. kh.                        26.0        33.5      43.7                  36.3                     34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANU      59.U        76.0      92.9                 442.7                    94.5
FOPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                         44.8         47.6      46.3                  44.2                    40.7
15-64 YRS.                         52.6         48.3      50.4                  52.4                    55.3
b5 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6         4.1       3.3                   3.4                     4.0
PUIULATION GROWTH KATE (PERGENT)
TOTAL                               2.6         2.5       2.9                   2.7                      2.4
URBAN                               3.7         4.2       4.5                   4.6                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTh RATE (PER THOUSAND)      50.2        47.4      44.2                  41.5                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH KATE (PER THOUSAND)      20.8        16.4      12.8                  12.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCT1ON RATE               3.6         3.5       3.2                   2.9                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        25.1      78.0
USERS (PERCENT Of' tiARRIED WOMEN)    ..        1.0       5.4
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PEb  CAPITA (1969-71-100)          99.0        98.0      85.0                  96.3                    108.3
PlR CAPITA SUPPLY OF'
LALORIES (PERCENT OF
REqUIREMlNTS)                   96.0        102.0     105.0                 110.4                   107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          62.0         66.0      67.0                  73.4                    65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.0        13.0      13.0                  17.1                    34.0
ChlLU (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      30.3        21.9      15.7                  14.9                      7.6
htALTh
LiF'E EXPECIANLY AT FIRIk  (YEARS)    46.9       51.9      56.4                  55.9                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY
RATE (PEk THOUSAND)                  ..          ..        ..                    ..                    70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
FOP UbATION)
TOTAL                              30.6        51.0      55.0                  59.4                    65.7
URBAN                             58.7         92.0     100.0                  83.9                    79.7
kUkAL                              19.0        28.0      25.0                  40.8                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         29.0        ..                    ..                     59.9
URFAN                                ..        75.0        ..                    ..                    75.7
RURAL                                           4.0                                                    30.4
POPULATION PEK PHYSICIAN          9406.1/d   12814.5   11037.4                 4174.5                  1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      2742.2    1693.5                1780.5                  1288.2
POPULATION PER hOSPITAL bED
TOTAL                            626.0        664.3     773.6                 647.4                   471.2
URbAN                               ..        454.7     623.4                 547.2                   558.0
KRUAL                               ..       5821.4    3089.5                3361.1
ADhUSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        15.5      16.5                  25.3
hOUSUING
AVLRAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.8          5.5
URBAN                              4.3          4.9
kURAL                               5.1         5.8
AVERAGE NUMbER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.2          2.4
URBAN                              2.1          2.1
RURAL                               2.3         2.6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF UWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              76.1/a
URbAN                             85.47T       68.4      65.0
RUItA-L                           30.8rh         .          .



-  26 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0        52.0       72.0                 85.1                    101.7
MALE                 67.0         67.0      90.0                 101.5                    103.0
FEMALE               27.0         36.0      54.0                  67.5                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  5.0        13.0       20.0                 38.0                     35.3
MALE                  7.0         18.0      25.0                  48.1                     34.9
FEMALE                2.0          7.0      15.0                  28.3                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)    ..          2.0        3.0                  11.3                    30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            43.0        34.0      39.0                  34.9                     29.6
SECONDARY                            ..        20.0      21.0                  23.8                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        14.0        21.4       28.0                 43.0                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         11.0        14.8       19.6                 18.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         45.8        62.4      87.4                 121.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4        11.6      32.6                  37.4                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  22.0        16.2       10.7                 35.9                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0            ..       2.0                   3.0                     3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3369.7      3951.7    5117.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   10.1        14.1       15.6                 10.5                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              62.5        56.9       52.7                 43.5                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 13.8        17.4      20.7                  27.3                     23.2
PARTICIPATI)N RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                29.0        26.4       26.2                 26.4                     31.8
MALE                                 52.1        45.2       44.2                 47.0                     49.0
FEMALE                                5.9         7.5        8.2                  5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6         2.0        1.9                   1.8                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/f       20.0/f
HIGHESI 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  43.37f       49.077
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    7.0jf        4.07T
LOWEST 50 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/f       12.0/f
POVERTY TAR.ET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             107.0       157.0     389.0                 271.4
RURAL                              66.0       101.0     238.0                 144.6                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US  PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     242.0                 400.8                    513.9
RURAL                                *-          *-      157.0                290.9                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY I GCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URRAN                              51.0        38.0      28.0                  22.1
RURAL                              49.0        45.0      45.0                  29.2
Not available
Not appLicable.
NOTES
/a   The gr'  p averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among he indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Exclud s the ex-Spanish Sahara; /d 1962; /e Brick bui ldings only; /f Consumption expenditures of ho seholds.
Revised
June, 1981



- 27 -                                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
DEFINITIONS UP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notte.:  Although the data aeda f             oucsgnrlyjdged the  oa autborirtte sod reiable, ii shoul  alo he note  that theymanoheitr
naioaly   omarbl   eoas  o  te  oc   f  tedadieddetinion   an      too n  seed by d5ff tart counttrieslc              ectg  h  dt.   h  date  r,os
thels...e,. usful no descr ibe o-de-  ofngitd,indioatr toenda, ted ohs..tscnrl              erai  major diftorsa.se het-soonone
The.....  ..f..oe  roPs are 'II the -s -os-try group of the auhlsct coun.try tdf2) a coutr  grupsih sonohnhthghr- averge imor..  that the cnotnry group
sfthe  uhj-sctcountry (cpt fo-Cpital hurplus Oli tEpo-tta" group'shere "Kiddi  incom  Noth At  otad riddle tsar  isoho...o. ua  of stoger
gao lo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-olnua a..Itfinities).  In the  eeet  grop don bt aerg.  r  popoenin e l gted   ihmnoit.  ....n fP orrah Indicatorsdso    uyae
majority of nh.oan    ine   ingrop boa date fat chat ladni-t.t   Noc  the on ag_f ontia    n  the iod i-aor  depensr  he eoeiailny of dens
sad is mn unfor,ono  mutbtsrctdi    iting average  of one tadiosnor no an-thsr.  Th.se average  are only useful in ounp-ri   the u-lus of
oned indicator ta t1ime amon  tthe... cutry an.dl reenogrus
LAM)1 ARtEA (thousan d sq.i.)                                                                     PouatrprHeio   a     oa, orho, and totl. I Population(onl
tt -Tonal sort acesom  comprising LArd arsonnd inland  -ssr.ura, cud rura) divided by this-  -rp-te ounb-t of huapita1 bode
_ktti-lt.t.l - isrimee t. o gf    u     o  are  need temporaily or permansoly                     a.eilabte to poblic eod private gorraI atd sp..cialied hospital ando-
fto  coPs, P-so-e, natkat sod kitchsn gardens or as Ito felice; 1976 dnu.                       habiltition cetr.-sitltt aali rt   emnetysa  e
"'It'dk ~                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bY a  bet one phyeiciao.  fEnsliohm -nna Pro-ditf prio-ipslly cuso-
tOP PI.d0ITA(I.)-  Ppe  caiasnmnsAtlcr-o  marke;tbPrice,;  ca,l-                                   dial coe m-      o  i-tludrd.  URslI bosPitu1s, ho--o, to-luds h.tith
nalto  byeos cnvreis  ethd  s Sci  lat  tla  (9)779bass)  lOI,andsatcL cncr  sot .prmanetly s1fted by a phyii.ot (but bya
iNPuT CONSiUMPTION PERL CAPITA - Annual codmto   ftnmntlsery(olitoa  purdr  urban. hoeinceIcudilitpicpl?ors  hsde
an igaine,perooo, ntualgaed hyd,o-, nularad geoheba alo                                           n   ua   opnl   oa  or! naai           optlsedmdoidn    aent
dtriiy)i. tlgrmIi ol  qt              tln   Pso caPins; 1960, 1970, and 1979                      cene.   pcairdhsItasaeiou                          nyudritl
dens.                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Adaissios  pR.loPitol had - Tota  nushe  of adIasondtn  or  inahng_
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS ~~~~~~~from  honPitols dividod by tbr -ubro of beds.id.ht.
-  ~~~~~~~~~1Toal Popoletion, Hid-Tsa  (thousands) - As of JaIp 1; i960, 19701..ad 19)9                              HOUSING
irben Prpuletioo (p-erc.tof atcotal) _ Ratio of unbar to c,taI populatin                         A-- hosehol  fHo-hnofla g            Iou   of  ndiidoldh  shrelIin qan
difiersot d-fioiticos of orbon ars-     myafe       coprbiltyof danah and theIr mainmul. Af   boarde or lodger may orny  o  b    uuedt
among cutries; i9g0, 1970, end 1979 t.il doo.th   ouehl  fo                                                            btito-a - puyoo.d._ hoh                     ogIt
Porlanasprootinsboeeaoumnt  f  arsnsocrcoo-ttel udan  an  rral- Aorge  un
Purulcton to en-2 by     Curen  pultionprjetion  atbaedo-98e  of peron  per- o  it all urban, and rural ocopiod ooeto
toJ.talpplainb  aead  e   n  theitmoraliy edotutyrts                                          doellings, r-peotiv-y.  Uolreecuernpraatsrcoe   a
Projonia  petmotne fo  motality reron  -nprien of obese 1-oolsasaun-                   uno-oopiad pants.
log life  -nP-ctenY en birrh tacr-asingwith .outr'. pe t         apysP Snores              Access     . nofPtiA y(ooreo   oitg)-tta.uht  n   oo 
laa,ad i,snlifo eaeroc   tbilting at 77.5 y-ar.  Th   et                                   oyocoa   aitog  oil bIlorco    nlvo   qerr   spo tg
macaryforforttiirasas   ae  hn   eessaoigdci    no   oa,  ra,adrua   wlig   rometivoly
fe tilityaccoding no income loya  nod past family plann ing pefoesstt1ace.                                    .d-1  -li,  ..-t-
tth oso     is tha   istgod  one of ohee  in  combinoosfmrtly                         PUCTN
end fertitlity  mends for pr -toion puroses.EDjUCAINdUolrtRin
tho  alce     -tIre  of aIo     de  rpodete  ae,oo  eahgnrtoP.rabtejoe   o  dfeetlo ao                                                              pnsryaucnon;fo
inte hsr  ol,nd  h  rate  fdcieoffh,iyon                  rpoe                        Picnday sho   tootl, mal sod -1maY i-lComputed las above  sood11
mann lend.                                                                       sdunsaionreqairna or~~~~~~h-    .h  .tdJ.t.  leastiff-our years of, approved prmc    nrcn
lean anorionary Uoruleif ... rechd.  The yea  wheny sca ioer  -ouoirpaidsgnri Y..os.o  ecerneon   nnuoto   a 
toabre;16, 197  hnd 197   dan.                                                         nood        itchooi--, dodsola,ior  the  prgr Y whic  opernsndeand
ionhly;Y960  1971 and 1970 data.p   dPuitl-tefectht Patia -   bpo nr.1 end                                                              thcndovf-iTotl athdnnntoedi
Popula   ~      ytootion iros at  ct rea -nched - Th.nual growt  ratesi-of tonalmid-              gsaperenneg   of natal autf-", population aged- 15        i yeera and  tost
Poultin  rot  RotoIIpercent)-turbant- Annul frostPh rsta of urban.p.p-                        CON... -TSO
letoefo d15-y6,  P96-Pl,tisd 1970     -   il-79.         h....                               1 Pasna   asm    hosn   oonin              -     .Ps .satior  copiseti
Crat  it Rat   ire  thosod) - annual. liv   birth  pa   husn    t  o-eadat  etn   loa                             dha   sigIa pesn;tah       ds-     maen ,ber.  a
pouato; I%,1960,    d 171,ed1979t dana.i-lt l  ..                                            milay  vehcle..t-~
Crd   ethRt   pr  huad)-Aao  dnh   e thondaofei-yaeRaio Usnairen                                                          It per  .....n oultyo)  jAll totipsah of  teoirr pfa  rdl
populaion;  960,  971.  nd 199 dat.rboouanetogsarYdivicpe  thosan  of    :t ppltton   isdn   n
Cross   . ..  rti. Ser6uctn  an-veag    onoto  doeghirsP   wma..  wil bea  infliososed neosivPr  in" naunns  ed  to yoar  wheT                             - rgi tree  -ls of reIo
1tility 190 tao;1970, ieperaaoe   odn   n160   9f  e  1979.mst.coo arias aboishedYlicensing
ofbit-cothRol devices une-upcso  national familyh pt.on otn1 pidr-                         genera lipublcpe r    htadv     opLation;. narludt   unlicensed TVd r-its.s
Peally Plennirolarns (cercoon  f married woman                                             P ecnaeofmridi   o ...is  an  i  ysr whe  reistei LINo TV eoswa   safs
alimrr tdwon  in sae ag  gnoo.  7u9ttn o-'oil  gnarlbnnees  nwsppe",fefnedasperadoe
,_d  Si-h P--(p- th .... ~~~~~~~~d) - IIultcltvo deoisdhrimarly tora..d.ng dnorf  nedsyIt.i.consdere
FI1900  197,NUTRITION'                                                                      nop b   dlp  if itCappears at ..   ppleoctout timesawash
naioa  ovenag  prdcrprc    egh               91-5   90  end91979 date.                       Tonal LaoIoc   oosns       onmiel   ciepeoe   mldn
enegyoqa.-      en aP.d ti   Prd no ioofapi h vaghl  in           llnbunbry ptrapca             avaia   paaa to ofal  age.hafitiofns  in                      1 veou  tanEie  ate
pot day.   Avalable supplies  c1mpoas do70ttcprodution,itpare let                               not  c,c_is;b160, 170 an  1979dana
ecy-rt_, an  chngsin enact.  Neth .....plis-A aild anIma  toed-, seds                      PIa ereo)-          haml  labr  oceasprcntg.o  ttl abrtoe
ousatinlesusod  Ic food poco Ping  aefasst   itrbto,Uql                              Agrcutue  cecet)      ao   ot  t  amn,frsty   onn 
houseold ll;1961-5, 191. ia d 197dt..                                               197  sodb-1979.date.
Percait  sorel  of  r9%in(arsesy- p   dy)-  Pritalo-orron o  per capta                       PIdoleio  lt             Y.r.rr  - tonal, male  sad         i femal  - PaTVcipenlooe
_a upl   f  rd  r   aydeampipo-fo sieiedo  sos   i-aciiy  aesaeocpnd  stoa,mae  adteInlao   orea
pus  poai,ofwio   0  rntsoadbeaimlpott.   bet   sad                                  rfecig  g-saanomoPo  the poplation,T end. lon  time nosd,
Child (eos 1-0) Ifrcaicy R in  rrthot. d 1997-10  ACsidenapntouadi                     Prrc    of         1 P ivate Incom t (both   - noonsh ao id  - Ocivdbynoh
age  rcu  1-  yeas,  o cilde   nchneoSto;frd atd                  foaigcos                   onec   icet2  pecnt. poorest 20               B.. pecet  sotporb 4  prc
tro  dn  dnvd   frmleosi;190  197  ed  97  dte                                             of      ..an Ie ttd  d-
11107,TS                                                                                POPE R-i   . ~ P~-ygod.tikt TAlE 0IIPPdS.   h  y.,i..i    di...t A
LieUctaoai        ic   yas      rcssnso   tpaso   iermiig                                   h   olwn   siao   r   eyaprnmt   enrao   oet   ees
atbit;  96,190  n  119dta                                               edshud      heIntrpetda-h csierbo   on-
InetIo   ralvRte(a   bosn)-AnuldabIo   ios  ne   n  3tt                                        Uniae   bolt   oetyIcm   evl(t    pnc  ie)-ubntehua 
at ae  e  rhuud) lv  birhs                                                                   Abalc-poery  tom  lonIschtinnmflvefblw.hit   mnia
benofpepl  mml  urban, nodd -       roral)                                                 LAhBaonbeansst   aeOf tFORdCE
wator suc  as that  rom proes iedbrho96s,6spring, en 1anise  wells                   T- Lara  trlann   poety .. om..d       l  s  w-thirdo          cgeprcpn
fami'awter needs.t                                                                            poor'
let itknN-stplalle..tloblus96.170..  17                                                                                                    May t1911At
P  -oua -io  poc  -d         A Num..Peson   Pouato  divided by number -. opRuonicing-  .                                                .      _..  ft,.
na   adt eml  gnnddh ontn... ourise    rcia  nu,- rs   and assistant curses.j.f.i.,    -ty  bto



- 28 -
Population        19.5 (mid-1979)                                                                                                   ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  USt 740 (1979)                                                                                                     Page 4 of 6
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US4 at                                   Annual Growth Rates (%)
current prices)                       Actual                                          Projected
Indicator                        1980          1976   1977   1978   1979        1980 p/         1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/   17640            10.2    6.5    3.4    4.5         4.0              3.9      5.7     6.2      6.6      6.7
Agriculture                 3253           4.3  -13.2   23.6   -1.7         6.2             3.5      3.5      3.5      3.5      3.5
Industry                    5599           8.8   10.0   -2.0    8.3         0.5             4.0      6.0      7.4      7.4      7.4
Services                    8788          13.3    8.3    4.3    4.2        13.0             4.0      5.7      6.2      6.9      7.0
Consumption                    15767         11.7    2.0    7.4    3.3         5.1              4.0     2.3      4.1      4.8      6.0
Gross investment                3849         20.1   11.0  -23.1   -1.2        -5.8            -5.2    15.7    12.8    10.2         8.0
Exports of GNFS                 3273          6.3    9.8    3.8    5.5         4.8              7.6     6.5      8.8      9.6      6.8
Imports of GNFS                 5247         23.8   13.s  -16.1   -1.1        -9.2            -0.3    -1.0       4.8      4.5      5.0
Gross national savings          2429         13.9   20.6  -16.6   11.5                        -2.2    20.9    10.6    14.1         7.7
PRICES
GDP deflator (1969 = 100)          .        152.0  163.7  177.1  189.8    208.8
Exchange rate (US$ per DH)         .         .226   .227   .240   .256        .254
Share of GDP at Market Prices (7)                             Average Annual Tncrease (%)
(at constant 1969 prices)                                 (at constant 1969 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985  1990                1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product                                                              4.0        4.9         5.7        5.9        6.8
Agriculture bl          29.1   19.9   15.1   13.6   12.5  10.7                   3.5       -0.5        3.2         3.5        3.5
Industry b/             23.5   27.6   30.6   29.5   31.6  32.4                   4.7        8.6        5.0        6.6        7.3
Services b/             47.4   52.5   54.3   56.9   55.8  56.9                   4.1        5.5        7.3        5.9        7.2
Consumption                89.2   88.8   87.3   88.7   82.3  79.7                   4.1        4.7        5.8        4.1         6.1
Gross investmient          10.3   16.0   24.6   16.7   18.5  18.9                   8.0        15.9      -2.4         9.4        7.3
Exports GNFS               27.4   18.9   14.8   15.4   16.9  17.3                   1.3        2.6        6.3        8.0         7.2
Imports GNFS               26.9   22.5   24.4   20.8   17.8  15.9                   3 .5       7.2        2.1        2.7        4.3
Gross national savings   11.0   11.1   19.1   16.1   19.5  21.3                     3.5       13.1         3.1      10.0         8.7
As 1 of GDP
1960       1970      1975       1980 e/
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                  16.5       16.6       23.3       22.3
Current expenditures                              15.6       14.9       20.2       21.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                         0.9        1.7         3.1       0.6
Capital expenditure                                3.8        5.9       12.2       12.1
Foreign financing                                    ..       1.4         3.7        5.5
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
OThIER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                       4.0        6.0        5.9        5.6        6.7
GNP per capita growth rate (%)            1.6       3.1         3.0        2.5        3.8
Energy consumption growth rate (%)    3.8           6.7        4.3         5.9        6.8
ICOR                                     3.09       2.77       3.87       2.88       2.74
Marginal savings rate                     0.10       n.4n     -0.002       0.33       0.24
Iniport elasticity_/                     0.95       1.44       0.28       0.76       0.80
a/  At market prices.
b/  Share of GDP at factor cost beginning in 1985 and sectoral growth rates at factor cost beginning in 1980-85.
c/  Coods only.
e/ Estimate.
p/ Preliminary.
December 7, 1981
FMFYIA CD TT-B



- 29 -
Population        19.5 (mid-1979)                                                                                      ANNEX f
GNP Per Capita:  USS 740 (1979)                                                                                         Page 5 of 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                  Ann    Growth Rates (x)
Indicator            (million US$ at                              (at constant 1969 prices)
current prices)                 Actual                                     Projected
1980         1975   1976   1977   1978   1979         1980 e/  1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
EXTERNAL TEtADE
Merchandise exports (FOB)        2414       -22.8   12.8    8.0    3.5    4.0          6.9       7.6    6.0    9.3   10.4    6.5
Primary products             1823       -25.3   13.1    2.1    3.8    3.5          7.3       3.8    3.9    4.1    4.3    4.3
Phosphate rock             765       -29.9   12.0    7.5   10.4    3.2         -7.5       5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Others                    1058       -22.5   13.8   -0.9    0.0    3.6         17.1       3.0    3.2    3.4    3.7    3.9
Intermediate & manufactures 591          -8.5   11.0   36.0    2.3    7.0           5.5     17.5   10.7   20.7   21.7    9.9
Merchandise imports (CIF)        4283        21.4    7.8   31.4  -26.4    9.7    -11.5           0.7    4.7    5.5    5.0    5.7
Food                          720        35.5  -24.0   32.9    8.6    1.2         10.7      -5.1   -5.3   -5.1   -5.2    4.9
Petroleum                    1006        12.8    2.9   14.5   10.7   12.2    -12.5           3.8   -4.4    3.8    4.1    3.0
Machinery and equipment        805        51.7   20.4   76.3  -57.9   -3.2    -19.9          1.0   17.2   13.3   10.2   10.6
Others                       1752          5.2   14.8    4.9  -10.7   19.1    -13.8          2.4    4.5    5.4    5.4    3.2
PRICES (1969 = 100)
Export price index                 .        256.5  207.8  201.9  211.4  231.7    264.2    291.5  319.8  348.7  380.6  411.3
Import price index                 .        205.0  211.7  223.4  236.1  252.4    293.4    326.0  351.4  379.2  408.7  437.9
Terms of trade index               .        125.1   98.2   90.4   89.5   91.8         90.0      89.4   91.0   91.9   93.1   93.9
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                        Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices)                                (at constant 1969 prices)
1960    1970   1975   1980   1985   1990         1960-70  1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Exports                                                                           2.0      -0.7        7.5        8.1        6.9
PrLmary products          89.5    89.7   86.9   75.5   61.3   59.8             ..      -2.2        4.7        4.1        6.0
Intermediates & manu-   LO.5    10.4   13.1   24.5   38.7   40.2               ..       9.0       17.8      16.0         8.1
factures
Imports                                                                           4.0       8.1        0.0        4.5        5.4
Food                      27.3    16.8   24.9   16.8    9.6    6.6             ..      14.0        0.8       -3.8      -1.8
Petroleum                  7.4      5.5   10.7   23.5   24.2   23.4            .        9.5       10.2        1.8        2.0
Machinery and equipment  6.7    24.0   23.9   18.8   28.2   32.3               .       12.8       -3.0       11.3        8.7
Others                    58.6    53.7   40.5   40.9   38.0   37.7             ..       3.8       -5.4        4.5        5.6
Share of Trade with               Share ot Trade with              Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (X)          Developing Countries (%)        Capital Surplus Oil Exp,rters (%)
1960      1970       1975         1960       1970       1975      1960           1970            1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                         72.3       73.7       60.8        27.7       25.4       38.8        . .           0.9              0.4
Imports                        76.7       74.9       65.7         23.3       25.1       33.9        ..             ..             0.4
e/  Estimiate.                                                                                           December 7, 1981
EMENA CP II-B



_ 30 -
Population      :  19.5 (mid-1979)                                                                                                                                  ANNEX I
CNP Per Capita:  USO 740 (1979)                                                                                                                                     Page A of 6
MOROCCO - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS  EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices) 
Indicator                                                         Actual                                                            Projected
1970      1975      1976       1917      1978        1979      19 e0 e/   1981      1982     1993   1984    1995       1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods sod services                  775      2580      2288       2486      2955       3694       4364        5136     5852     6758   7872   8q26   16088
Of which:  Merchandine f.o.b.              488       1530      1245      1283       1488      1938        2413       2851      3314     3951   4759    5477   10336
Importn of goods sod services                  946      3134      3691       4364      4353       5268       5911        6369     6899    7911    8791    9865   16604
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.              625       2267      2305      2820       2628      3245        3770       4158    4693       5344   6046   6846   12178
Net correct tranfers                            27          8        47        52         50        44        127           -         -        -       -       -        -
Current account balance                       -144      -546     -1355     -1826      -1348    -1530        -1420      -1233    -1047   -1153   -919   -93Q    -516
Special grants                                  ..       100       435        360       260        420         97         300      250      200    150    100           -
Current account balance after grants    -144            -446      -920    -1466       -1088     -1110       -1323       -933      -797     -953   -769   -839       -516
Pri-ate capital                                 21        21         38        53        45         37         88          25       28        31      35      39       79
MLT loans (net)                                 90       304        336      1338      1109        946       1188        1083      901     1121     882    979        727
Official                                     ..        ..        ..         ..        ..         ..         ..        716       643      683     954    612       618
Private                                     ..         ..        ..         ..        ..         ..         ..        367      159       437     179     368      109
Other capital                                   56       104         30        68       -73         73       -111         -70      -42      -30        -       -        -
Monetary movements                             -23         17        16         6          8        53        158        -105      -89    .-169   -147   -170       -789
Ioternationl  reserves                         161       437        548       609       772        917        814         972     1061     1229   1376   1556       7681
Of which:  Gold                             21         85        82        104       154       360         415        360       360      360     360     360      360
Reserves as months imports                     2.0       1.7        1.8       1.7        2.1       2.1        1.7         1.8      1.8      1.9      1.9     1.9      1.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT _/
Gross dibuurnexents                            175       664        725      1787      1182       1405       1567
Concessional loans                          .         164       121       634        334       321         750
DAC                                      . .      109         73       107       100         76         97
OPEC                                     ..        42         41       50'       189        179        598
IDA                         I1                                 4                    -         -          I
Other                                    . .        13         3        1,        45         66         69
Non-concessional loans                       ..       500       614      1151        857      1113         817
Official export credits                  ..          3        22        27          2         2          11
IBRD                                     16       110         59        68        72        137         64
Other -ultilat-ral                       ..          7         2         7         51         7         13
Private                                  25       380        531      104"       732        967        729
Suppliers credits                     ..       127        10       171         10         8          16
Financial credits and bonds           ..       253       521        878       722       957         713
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed             703      1753       2330      4066)      5123      6182       7097
Official                                 ..      1121        250      1975      2456      2833        3482
Private                                  .,       632      1080       2094      2667      3349        3615
Uodisbursed debt                           239        652       801      1024       2280      2337       2018
Debt service
Total service payments                      58        145       162        264       547       798        1191
Interest                                 23        50         66       148       252       411         618
Payments as % exports of GCS               7.5        5.6       7.1      10.7       18.5      21.6        27.3
Average interest rote In se  loans (X)            4.4        7.3       7.7       6.8        7.0       8.2        8.1
Av-rage  natcrity of ne- loans (years)           18.5       14.7      11.7      13.1       13.2      15.9       13.7
As X of Debt Outstanding at Eod of Most Recent Year (1979)
Maturity structure of -bt outstanding
Maturities dun within 5 years                                                38.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                               73.2
Interest structure of . ebt outstanding
Interest due within  first year                                               6.9
Oecernber 7, 1981
EMENA CP TI-B
a/ From IBRD External tebt Reporting System. There are nizeable discrepant ies in some years between the external capital and debt service flows
reported under the lBRD Debt System and those recorded in the official balance of payments statistics shown in the upper part of this teble.
e/ E.tixated.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Loan or                                                                           US$ Million
Credit                                                                 Amount   (less cancellations)
Number         Year       Borrower                Purpose              Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
Eighteen       Loans      Fully disbursed                              411.4
Four           Credits   Fully disbursed                                           36.0
1017           1974       Maroc-Phosphore         Industry              50.0                    0.3
1018           1974       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             32.0                   11.0
555           1975       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                        14.0        11.8
1201           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             30.0                    6.4
1202           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Tourism                 21.0                   12.3
1220-T         1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Education               25.0                   19.7
1299           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Power                   49.0                    1.9
1361           1977       CNCA                    Agriculture           35.0                    0.0*
1383           1977       CIOR                    Industry              45.0                    0.4
1416           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             41.0                   37.4
1428           1977       BNDE                    DFC                   43.2                   14.9
S-7           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Engineering              1.5                    1.0
1528           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   18.0                       15.7
1602           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             65.0                   62.2
1625           1978       Maroc-Phosphore         Industry              50.0                   10.7
1681           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Education              113.0                  112.9
1687           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)               25.0                   15.3
1695           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Power                   42.0                   41.9
1704           1979       CNCA                    Agriculture           70.0                   51.6
1724           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply            49.0                   40.4
1757           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             58.0                   52.5
S-18           1980       BRPM                    Oil Exploration       50.0                   37.7
1830           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Highway                 62.0                   62.0
1848           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             34.0                   34.0
1943           1981       CIH                     Tourism              100.0                  100.0
1944           1981       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   36.0                       36.0
20061/         1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply            87.0                   87.0
20371/         1982       BNDE                    DFC                   70.0                   70.0
20381         1982       Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)               70.0                   70.0
Total                                                           1783.1       50.0      1017.0
of which has been repaid                                       203.0        0.9
Total now outstanding                                           1580.1       49.1
Amount Sold                                  20.1
of which has been repaid                  17.7                   2.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                  1577.7       49.1
Total undisbursed                                               1005.2       11.8      1017.0
NOT.
1/ Not yet effective.
*   US $40,783.65 undisbursed.
B. STATEMNNT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As oE September 30, 1981)
US$ Million_
Loan     Eqtity   Total
196 /1978           BNDE                          Development Bank           -        2.7       2.7
196,               CIL                           Canning Factory           0.9       0.5       1.4
197T                Marrakech Cement              Cement Factory             -        1.4       1.4
1977/1980           Temara Cement                 Cement Factory            4.8       3.5       8.3
197"i               Agadir Cement                 Cement Factory           12.5       2.2      14.7
1980                SOMIFER                       Copper Mining            13.0       2.3      15.3
Total Gross Commitments                                                31.2      12.6     43.8
Less cancellation, terminations, repayments and sales           14.1       3.4      17.5
Total commitments now held by IFC                                      17.1       9.2      26.3
Total Undisbursed                                                       -         0.1       0.4



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
C.       PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981 I/
Ln. No. 1018        Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The project as originally appraised was completed in November 1980,
except for the procurement of sugarcane transport equipment ($0.7 million).
Funds have been virtually fully committed for the costs of additional
infrastructure works foreseen under an amendment to the Loan Agreement made in
July 1980. A one-year extension of the Closing Date is being considered.
Cr. No. 555         Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
After a 2-year initial delay, project implementation has picked up
momentum. Major activities concerned with the land consolidation and
redistribution program have been completed in one district and works have been
started in the remaining three districts. Progress is slower than expected,
mainly because project implementation proves more complex than anticipated.
However, the first results of the completed components are promising. Because
of the initial delay and the complexity in implementation, the original
closing date was extended by three years.
Ln. No. 1201        Doukkala I Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February
27, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:  July 20, 1976; Closing
Date:   June 30, 1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha.,
infrastructure and equipment and a research laboratory on bilharzia.
Construction of irrigation and drainage works is nearly complete. The first
4,600 ha. have been completed and put in service. Completion of the remainder
is underway. Agricultural development has been satisfactory. The balance of
the loan remaining undisbursed is expected to be cancelled on December 31,
1981.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Ln. No. 1202         Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of
February 27, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of infrastructure works and public facilities
for developing Agadir into a major tourism area. Most infrastructure works
were completed in December 1980, except for the construction of public
facilities (representing some 20% of the total project costs). This delay is
mainly due to administrative and project management problems. Project
completion is expected to be delayed by about 18 months, and an extension of
the closing date is being considered.
Ln. No. 1220-T       Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18,
1976;   Date of Effectiveness:  October 1, 1976; Closing
Date: May 1, 1981.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet manpower needs in
education, agriculture, health and tourism. After an initial two-year delay,
there has been improvement in project implementation. Construction of primary
schools, secondary schools, a teacher training college and a rural development
and extension training center is largely completed. Construction is still
delayed for the health and tourism components, and an amendment to the Loan
Agreement is being proposed to transfer funds from these two components to
allow completion of other project items, and a two year extension of the
Closing Date is being considered.
Ln. No. 1299         Sidi Cheho - Al Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Al-Massira dam, of a
120-MW power station including a 225-KV substation and of about 200 km of
225-KV transmission line, and the preparation of preliminary designs and bid
documents for the Merija compensating dam and power station. The project
should be fully completed in the near future and disbursements are on
schedule. However, ONE has experienced difficulties in collecting arrears
from other public agencies. The loan is expected to close on schedule.
Ln. No. 1416         Doukkala II Irrigation Project. US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
clevelopment in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure. The
land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are
proceeding according to schedule. Implementation was slowed down due to
budgetary constraints facing Morocco which caused an initial delay of about
two years. However, project implementation has resumed vigorously and the
initial delay may be fully recovered.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1428        Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
The project is designed to meet part of the Banque Nationale de
Developpement Economique's (BNDE) requirements for financing of the import
component of specific industrial enterprises, and of a small-scale industry
pilot project for which up to $5 million of Bank financing is included. The
loan is fully committed. An amount of about $2.8 million was cancelled.
Ln. No. S-7         Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of
August 30, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 18, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and of a priority first stage project. It
would assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban
sewer systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector. Project implementation has been delayed by about
15 months, due to administrative and budgetary difficulties, but studies were
launched in May 1980, and are now proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1528        Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of
March 31, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes upgrading of slum infrastructure and social
services in three squatter areas with a total population of about 60,000; an
experimental sites and services housing scheme; an employment generation
program; and related technical assistance. While construction is proceeding
satisfactorily on two sites, that of another site is delayed due to technical
difficulty.  There has been some delay in the non-physical aspects of the
project due to the lack of experience in Morocco with this kind of project.
Ln. No. 1602        Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 18,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families cultivating about 256,000 hectares in the Fes-Karia-Tissa
region, and (ii) contributing to the growth of agricultural production and to
a reduction in Moroccan dependence on imported food commodities. These aims
would be achieved through a reorganization and strengthening of agricultural
extension and soil conservation services, training, the provision of credit
and infrastructure. Although somewhat delayed, implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily, due to excellent project management and good interagency
coordination.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1625        Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of
October 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project consists of expansion of existing production facilities
at Safi through (a) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore
plant, of an additional unit and ancillary facilities to produce for export
165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid, and (b) the construction of sulphur melting
and storage facilities as well as of new phosphoric acid concentration and
storage facilities. Commercial operations have begun and the project will
probably be completed on schedule. Maroc Phosphore's technical management
appears satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1681        Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of the construction, furnishing and equipping of
11 technical high schools, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College and associated technical assistance.
Implementation has been proceeding slowly, and the contract for technical
assistance has not yet been awarded.
Ln. No. 1687        Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project;
US$25.0 million of April 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
December 17, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1983.
The project consists of support for a new Government program to
assist small and labor intensive industries through technical, managerial and
financial assistance. The extremely strong demand for this kind of credit has
resulted in virtually full commitment of the loan within the first year of the
proj ect.
Ln. No. 1695        Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22,
1979; Date of Effectiveness:  April 30, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
This project, which is the first stage of a 15-year village
electrification program, would provide electricity to about 60,000 dwellings
in 220 villages located in 17 provinces. Administrative and budgetary
problems initially delayed project start-up. Consultants have now been
recruited and bid documents are under preparation. The Project Unit has been
established, though staffing of the unit has been slow.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1704        Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$70.0 million of
May 23, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's farm
families. The project will cover most of the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole's (CNCA's) medium- and long-term lending program and farm investment
program through August 1982. Cofinancing of $75 million is provided by IFAD
and KfW. Disbursements are on schedule. To alleviate CNCA's short-term
liquidity problems due to the recent drought, its lenders, including the Bank,
have increased their disbursement percentages under their respective loans.
Ln. No. 1724        Second Water Supply Project; US$49.0 million of July 2,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1980; Closing
Date:   June 30, 1984.
The project is designed to improve access to safe water supplies for
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area. It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities in Agadir; (iii) the establishment of a
revolving fund to facilitate house connections for low income families; and
(iv) studies on accounting and management systems. Administrative problems
have created some initial delays, but there is strong demand for the credit
facilities for low-income house connections, and the project is now proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1757        Vegetable Production and Marketing Project; US$58.0 million
of November 15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 17,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is the first phase of a long-term program for development
of off-season vegetables for export. $50.0 million of the loan is to be
on-lent for long and medium-term farm investments and incremental short-term
production costs of vegetable quality control centers, for two small producer
packing stations, and for seedling greenhouses benefitting about 8,000 farm
families and creating seasonal employment. The balance of the loan would help
finance infrastructure in the project area, and technical assistance.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Overall production did not
progress as scheduled due to two cold winters, but greenhouses, which have
resisted frost fairly well, are gaining acceptance with the farmers and the
prospects of rising production are promising.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. S-18         Petroleum Exploration Project; US$50 million of May 19,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: October 24, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The project aims essentially at accelerating the petroleum
exploration and development efforts of the Bureau de Recherches et
Participation Miniere (BRPM), the national enterprise for oil and mineral
exploitation and development (excluding phosphates). It also provides
technical assistance in prospect evaluation, analysis of results of
exploration, and exploration management. Drilling has been started with
encouraging results and hiring of the consultants is proceeding slowly.
Administrative problems delayed initial disbursements. The project will be
transferred shortly to the new petroleum development agency, the Office
National de Recherche et d'Exploitation Petroliere.
Ln. No. 1830         Third Highway Project; US$62.0 million of May 19, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: September 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project comprises (i) a three-and-a-half year time slice of the
Government's pavement strengthening and preservation program; (ii)
strengthening and management of the road maintenance program and (iii)
technical assistance for the Ministry of Transportation to improve
transportation planning and to study road maintenance. The maintenance
activities are progressing satisfactorily. The hiring of consultants for
technical assistance is behind schedule due to the slow preparation of the
terms of reference.
Ln. No. 1848         Loukkos Rural Development Project; US$34.0 million of
December 22, 1980; Date of Effectiveness; September 30,
1981; Closing Date:June 30, 1987.
The project should increase incomes and productivity of very poor
subsistence farmers in the Loukkos Basin by reversing the declining trends
caLused by soil erosion and inappropriate farming practices. It consists of:
(i) development and erosion control works on 15,000 steeply sloping hectares
in Upper Loukkos; (ii) development of field crops and small irrigation
improvements in Middle Loukkos; (iii) establishment and maintenance of pine
plantations in the Izarene Forest; (iv) construction of roads and social
service facilities in the Project area; and (v) execution of a cadastral
survey on about 500,000 hectares of land. Once proven, the project
inplementation methodology could be widely replicated throughout Morocco's
mountain and steppe land. Project implementation is in its early stages but
is progressing satisfactorily.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1943        Fourth Hotel Development Project; US$100.0 million of
February 5, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: April 9, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project would provide funds over a three year period to the
Credit Immobilier et H8telier (CIH), a Moroccan development bank specializing
in the tourism and housing sectors, for the development of tourism hotels. It
also includes studies for developing policies in the tourism sector and
training of CIH staff in appraisal methodologies for tourism projects.
Disbursements so far have been extremely rapid.
Ln. No. 1944        Second Urban Development Project; US$36.0 million of
April 16, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1981;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
The project would support the Government's efforts to provide
shelter, basic services and employment to low-income urban families through a
program for slum upgrading, sites and services and provision of serviced land
for small-scale industries, to be implemented in the cities of Meknes and
Kenitra. Assistance is also provided to strengthen the municipal services of
the project cities. Implementation is on schedule, due to the efficient
coordination through the provincial Governors' offices.
Ln. No. 2006        Third Water Supply Project; US$87.0 million of
September 28, 1981. Not yet effective. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The project would include the construction of two regional
water supply systems and the expansion and upgrading of the water supply
facilities in about 32 small centres scattered throughout Morocco. It would
also provide revolving funds to facilitate house connections for low income
households, equipment, technical assistance training and studies.
Ln. No. 2037        Ninth BNDE Project; US$70.0 million of November 3, 1981.
Not yet effective. Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project would include a pilot component in the line of credit to
BNDE, to finance export-oriented industrial sub-projects. The project would
also focus on strengthening organizational aspects of BNDE in the field of
project appraisal, portfolio monitoring and export promotion.
Ln. No. 2038        Small Scale Industry II; US$70.0 million of
November 3, 1981; Not yet effective. Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
The project consists of (i) a line of credit to the Government to be
relent to BNDE and commercial banks for relending to small scale industries
(SSIs); (ii) financing of the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance
provided by the Government to SSIs; and (iii) financing of studies relating to
the structure of incentives for SSIs.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
MIDDLE ATLAS AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Identification:                    May 1979
(b) Time taken by the Borrower to
prepare the project:                       2 years (May 1979 - April 1981)
(c)  Agencies reponsible for the                Livestock Directorate of the
project preparation:                       Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform, assisted by the
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program.
(d)  First Bank mission to review Project:  December 1980
(e) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                   April 4, 1981
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:        December 4, 1981
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:             April 30, 1982.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
For Effectiveness:
(a) issuance of a decree declaring rangeland to be developed under the project
a "zone of range improvement" (paragraph 57).
(b) signing of a contract with INRA (National Institute for Agronomic
Research) including program for first year project research activities
(paragraph 58).



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Other conditions:
(a) full staffing of the Project Management Units and recruitment of the
technical assistance team to assist the Project Management Units by
December 31, 1982 (paragraph 54).
(b) project implementation modalities and project organization (paragraphs 53
and 54).
(c) Two road maintenance units to be fully staffed, including the managers, by
December 31, 1982 (paragraph 55).
(d) exchanges of views to be held with the Bank for reorganization of forest
exploitation by December 31, 1985, and implementation of an agreed plan
for reorganization by December 31, 1986 (paragraph 55).
(e) cost recovery dispositions (paragraph 61).
(f) precautionary measures against effects of aerial spraying, and development
of integrated pest management system by December 31, 1984 (paragraph 64).
(g) local commissions to help administer grazing on forest range, to be
established according to a schedule agreed with the Bank and to cover all
forest rangeland in project area by the end of 1985 (paragraph 56).
(h) research activities to be agreed on an annual basis (paragraph 58).
(i) CNCA to provide as and when needed for credit requirements in project area
(paragraph 60).



