CIRCULATING COPY
FILE        COPY              TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1738-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR THE
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
January 5, 1976
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS -/
(as of October 31, 1975)
Currency Unit            Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
US$1.00             =    Tk13
Tk. I                    USO.u77
Tk. 1 million            US$77,000
US$1 million             Tk. 13,000,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 acre              =    0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile                   1.609 kilometres
1 sq. mile          =    640 acres
=    259 ha
1 foot                   30.5 centimeters
1 maund (md)             82.3 lbs.
37.3 kg.
1 long ton               1.016 metric tons
-    27.2 md
1 cu. ft. per                   3
second              0.028 m /second
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED
BAISSC    -    Bangladesh Agricultural Inputs, Supplies and Services
Corporation
CEC       -    Central Evaluation Committee
IYV       -    High Yielding Varieties (of rice)
PIC       -    Project Implementation Committee
IRDP      -    Integrated Rural Development Program
TCCA      -    Thana Central Cooperatives Association
TTDC      -    Thana Training and Development Center
WDB       -    Bangladesh Water Development Board
GLOSSARY
Aman      -    Rice planted before or during monsoon and harvested
in November or December.
Aus       -    Rice planted during March and April and harvested
during July and August.
Boro      -    Rice planted in winter and harvested during the period
April to June.
Thana     -    Smallest administrative unit of Bangladesh Government of
which there are 413. Six or seven thanas form a sub-
division, three or four sub-divisions form a district,
and there are 19 districts in the country.
FISCAL YEAR
ends June 30
The Taka is officially valued at 30.0 to the pound sterling.   The
pound now floats relative to the US Dollar with the result that the
Taka - US Dollar rate is subject to change. The exchange rate used
for the purposes of preparing data for this report is US$1 to Tk. 13.0
except where stated to the contrary.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE E'RESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR THE
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommerndation on a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equiva-
lent of US$22.0 million on standard IDA terms, to help finance an irriga-
tion development project around the Halda and Ichamati Rivers, two tribu-
taries of the Karnafuli River in southeastern Bangladesh.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:    Devel-
opment in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455b-BD dated September 15, 1974) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. A memorandum on
the then current situation was prepared for the first Aid Group meeting, held
in Paris on October 24 and 25, 1974. An economic mission was in the field
during January and February 1975, to assess progress since the Basic Report
was written. The mission's report, entitled "Bangladesh: The Current
Economic Situation and Short-term Outlook" (Report No. 710a-BD, dated May 2,
1975), was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 5, 1975. A mission
to assess the economic prospects for the forthcoming year was in the field
from November 20, to December 9, 1975. Its report is being written.
3.        On August 15 a military coup ousted the Government of Sheikh
Mujubur Rahman, replacing him as President by Khondaker Mushtaque Ahmed,
formerly Minister of Commerce and Foreign Trade. However, events beginning
on November 3 apparently caused by dissension within the armed forces cul-
minated in further political changes. President Ahmed resigned in favor
of a former Chief Justice of Bangladesh, A.S.M. Sayem.   Martial law is in
effect countrywide, with the new President serving as Chief Martial Law
Administrator.   The three chiefs of the defense services will serve as
Deputy Chief Martial Law Administrators, and in addition four Zonal Martial
Law Administrators will be appointed to serve the four divisions of Bangladesh.
There are at present six Advisors to the President (Ministers) each re-
sponsible for a number of ministries. The new Government has reconfirmed
its commitment to the international obligations which the previous Govern-
ment had entered into. It remains committed to the reform program begun
in May with the devaluation of the Taka and the agreement with the IMF: that
is, the Government intends to proceed with the implementation of policies
to reduce subsidies, tax agricultural incomes, and liberalize imports. What-
ever the long-term objectives and orientation of the new Government might



be, the fundamental problems of the country, namely overpopulation, weak
administration, inadequate infrastructure and insufficient resources, will
continue to confront Bangladesh.
4.        Economic progress since independence has been inadequate.    Agri-
cultural output remains insufficient for a population growing at 3% a
year. Industrial output, heavily dependent upon imports, has been badly
affected by the scarcity of foreign exchange. State enterprises are often
handicapped by management deficiencies, excessive government controls, short-
ages and price regulation. Exports have been stagnant and barely finance
a quarter of import needs. The external sector has suffered from severe
import controls and inappropriate pricing of foreign exchange. Government
revenue has been insufficient to meet current and development expenditure
needs. Maintenance of the wide gap between national output and expenditure
depends on large flows of external assistance.
5.        The short-term orientation of the decision making process has been
a manifestation of Bangladesh's severe problems, especially the concern over
ensuring adequate food supplies. Drought and other natural adversities also
undermined the recovery efforts, bringing 1972/73 per capita GDP to about
80% of the 1969/70 level.   Substantial increases in production during 1973/74
brought GDP to about 95% of the 1969/70 level. Unfortunately, this momentum
was not sustained in 1974/75. Severe flooding damaged standing crops and
reduced rice output. In addition, the foreign exchange crisis that developed
around mid-1974 slowed down the flow oF imports and industrial recovery.
Despite some growth in the construction and service sectors, output in 1974/75
has been estimated to be only 2/% higher than in the previous year. Given
a 39% increase in population, this implies a decline of 1% in per capita
income.
6.        Even a healthy, well-managed economy would have been badly hurt
by the adverse shifts in the terms of trade which Bangladesh experienced
especially from 1973 onward. For Bangladesh the impact has been severe:
in 1973/74 the average prices of imports rose by some 56% and of exports bv
about 7%. Fxport volumes did not reach projected levels, so that the gap
between foreign exchange expenditures and receipts widened greatly. In
1974/75 the average cost of imports increased by a further 23% while average
export prices rose by 21%.. Ilowever export volumes, especially of jute and
jute goods declined, offsetting the export price effect. Bangladesh's trade
problems are compounded by dependence on annual food imports of 1-2 million
tons, even in years of favorable weather and by heavy reliance on imported
industrial raw materials and spares.
7.        Inflation in Bangladesh was about 60% in 1974/75.    The high level
of monetary expansion, combined with severe shortages of consumer goods,
especially food, insufficient raw materials and spares for industrial
operations, have been some of the causes of rapid inflation. There have
been other factors too:   the severe import controls and erratic supplies
have encouraged speculation and hoarding. Beneficiaries of import licenses
have taken advantage of an unsatisfied domestic demand to reap scarcity
premia. In the face of the deteriorating situation, particularly regard-
ing the balance of payments, the Government in May 1975 indicated its in-



-3-
premia. In the face of the deteriorating situation, particularly regard-
ing the balance of payments, the Government in May 1975 indicated its in-
tention to introduce a series of economic reforms and, as a first step, it
adjusted the exchange rate from Tk 18.9 = £ to Tk 30 = £ 1.
Agricultural Production
8.        The gravest economic problem has been the food shortage.    During
the last five years, except in 1973/74, production of foodgrains has suffered
from drought, cyclones and floods. The devastating floods of 1974/75 reduced
foodgrain output by about one million tons. The Gcvern.ment launched a Spe-
cial Agricultural Rehabilitation Program to expand output of winter crops to
moderate the effects of the floods, but it was largely unsuccessful due to
a failure to procure seeds in time. Along with weather and natural calami-
ties, the poor crop production can also be blamed cn fertilizer shortages,
lack of expansion of high yielding variety (HYV) acreage and failure to
meet irrigation targets. HYV acreage in 1974/75, for example, fell from
the 1973/74 figure of 2.0 million acres to 1.2 million acres. A recent
HYV task force found considerable overestimation of HYV acreage which now
may actually be as low as 500,000.
9.        A total of over 4 million tons of foodgrain was imported in 1973/74
and 1974/75 because production fell short of the country's requirements. In
1975/76, estimated imports of 1.5 million tons wil]. be required even if the
Government production target is met; any shortfall will naturally increase
the import requirements.
10.       The rapid increase in the domestic price of rice over the past
three years has adversely affected the production of jute, Bangladesh's
second most important crop and the source of about 85% of its foreign ex-
change earnings. Farmers have switched jute land t:o rice cultivation, thus
bringing jute production down sharply from its 197,2/73 production of 6.6
million bales to 6.0 million bales in 1973/74 and 4.0 million bales in
1974/75. To restore jute production to its former level the jute farmgate
price should have been increased and announced before the planting season
which began in March 1975. Unfortunately, no minimum price was set in time,
and as a result, the jute acreage declined further. However, thanks to
favorable weather, the 1975/76 crop is presently estimated at 4.5 million
bales.
11.       The high foreign price set by Bangladesh together with world wide
recession adversely affected the raw jute sales which declined rapidly from
3.3 million bales in 1973/74 to 1.0 million bales in 1974/75. Because of
this decline in sales stocks of approximately 1.5 million bales are on hand
for the 1975/76 season, an average level for recent: years. The May devalua-
tion of the Taka should allow an increase in the dcmestic farmgate price of
jute and should help raise the acreage. The recent: devaluation could in
addition, permit a decrease in the export price of jute and jute goods
(expressed in foreign exchange) and should make them more competitive abroad



provided marketing and production costs are controlled. A recovery of world
demand could lead to an increase in export earnings from jute and jute goods
in 1975/76 even at reduced prices; however this recovery has been slow due
to a continuation of the world economic recession. In the longer run a
rapid expansion of the area under the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme
(IJCS), a well defined research effort, better storage, transportation
and jute collection techniques, and improved shipping facilities will be
essential to sustain increased jute production.
12.       Thus, in the agricultural sector, priority needs to be given to
increasing foodgrain output, with special attention being given to prompt
provision of adequate agricultural inputs, credit, storage facilities and
streamlined marketing systems. Some progress has been made in recent
years but much still remains to be accomplished.
Industrial Production
13.       The manufacturing sector, although accounting presently for about
7-8% of gross domestic product, is an important element in the Bangladesh
economy. It produces basic consumer goods, provides agriculture with fer-
tilizer and other key inputs, and contributes towards export earnings and
government revenue. The public sector comprises most medium and large-scale
industry while the private sector consists mainly of small scale enter-
prises. Existing industrial capacity--most of which was built before in-
dependence--has not been fully utilized.
14.       Many components of the industrial sector registered substantial
increases in output in 1973/74, due primarily to increased availability of
imported raw materials and spare parts and reduced labor unrest. Program
lending by IDA and other bilateral foreign economic assistance was instrum-
ental in making additional imports available, yet production in most indus-
tries was still below target, and for many industries even below the 1969/70
levels. Shortages of imported materials emerged again as a result of the
payments crisis of 1974 and affected output severely.
15.       In 1974/75, the overall level of industrial output appears to have
been below that of the previous year, largely due to an 11% decline in the
output of jute manufactures. Nevertheless there are important areas of
improvement in performance among many industries based on local resources,
particularly those which are export-oriented, such as sugar, tea and leather
which exceeded pre-independence production levels. However, in the case of
fertilizer (using local natural gas), the explosion at the Ghorasal Fertil-
izer Factory which put the plant out of operation for almost nine months
resulted in a sharp reduction in urea output; the plant is now back in
operation.
16.       Among the other industries, largely or fully dependent upon
imported raw materials and intermediate goods, there are wide variations
in performance, reflecting the priorities of the Government in allocating
its limited foreign exchange resources and, to a lesser extent, the avail-
ability in world markets of their input requirements which changed sharply



during the course of the year. The production of both cotton cloth and yarn
shows an improvement over the previous year and the production of cloth in
the mill sector is much higher than in 1969/70. Preliminary data for out-
put of cement, diesel engines and pumps also show increases but those for
edible oils, footwear, commercial vehicles and matches show declines.
17.       Prospects for 1975/76 vary substantially among different industries.
The jute industry should benefit from the exchange adjustment. The cotton
textile industry, which has a protected domestic market, should show con-
tinued improvement, provided sufficient foreign exchange is available for
importing raw materials. Fertilizer production shouLld pick up during
1975/76 as the Ghorasal plant reopened in June 1975. The export possibili-
ties of those branches based on domestic raw materials have been improved
considerably by the exchange rate adjustment; these include not only jute
goods, leather, processing of shrimp and fish and tea which are basically
export-oriented, but also products such as newsprint: and sugar which have
recently entered external markets. For both these groups of products, how-
ever, export performance will depend upon the succeE;s achieved in increasing
output. Most other industries, which are heavily de!pendent on imported raw
materials and spares, will need to rationalize production, increase pro-
ductivity and improve pricing policies. Progress ini these matters is still
very slow. Industrial performance in all sectors will be influenced by the
extent of labor unrest as well as by management effi.ciency.
Recent Economic Reforms
18.       Bangladesh, on May 17, 1975, adjusted its exchange rate from
Tk. 18.9 - E 1 to Tk. 30 - E 1. At the same time, it abolished the multiple
exchange rates it had applied to inward remittances and foreign travel,
export subsidies and the import license tax. It aliso announced that some
import liberalization would be introduced and imporl: procedures streamlined.
In July 1975, Bangladesh entered into a Standby Arriingement with IMF, ena-
bling it to draw the equivalent of two tranches under the Regular Facility
(about $75 million) between October 15, 1975 and July 28, 1976. During the
World Bank/IMF Annual Meetings, the Bangladesh delegation reconfirmed their
Government's determination to implement the provisions of the Standby Agree-
ment.
19.       The inadequate export performance in receiit years is the principal
justification for a change in the exchange rate and exports are expected to
be the principal beneficiaries of the adjustment. rhe new exchange rate has
enabled jute purchasing agencies to offer a higher jute price for the current
season. This should lead to recovery of some of th,- jute land switched to
rice in recent years. The Aus rice crop (transplanted between July and
mid September) is the principal competitor for jute land, though some of
the land under Aman rice (transplanted between July and mid September)
could also be planted with jute. A switch back to jute obviously would
reduce the total rice crop. The maximum diversion of rice acreage to jute
has been estimated at about 2.5% of the rice acreage. On this basis, the
possible reduction in potential rice output could be about 225,000 tons.



-6-
Even at the lower post-devaluation export prices, the recovery in volume of
jute production and exports should mean additional foreign exchange earnings
that would enable imports of wheat in amounts at least three times as large
as the foregone rice output. In addition, there would be employment bene-
fits, as jute is more labor intensive than rice.
20.       The export of jute manufactures is still constrained by the inter-
national economic recession, affecting particularly such items as carpet
backing and hessian. Stocks of hessian have been reasonably high in import-
ing countries. Nevertheless the devaluation, by permitting downward adjust-
ments in the export prices of Bangladesh's jute products, has restored
importer interest and there have been some indications of an increase in
orders. Should consumer demand recover during 1975/76, and should the
prices of synthetic substitutes rise due to cost inflation, as the trade
expects, the improved competitive position of jute products could lead to a
recovery in exports; the evidence on this score has so far been very poor.
The exchange adjustment should also provide some relief towards eliminating
operating losses of the jute manufacturing industry. These losses resulted
from the necessity to maintain export prices (determined by international
competition), at levels much below domestic production costs. Government
policy forced the major share of the burden of financing these deficits on
the commercial banks. The higher taka receipts from the exchange adjustment
should permit the industry to discharge some of its accumulated debts to
banks thereby improving its capital structure presently characterized by
excessive debt and inadequate equity.
21.       The budget for 1975/76 projects an improved fiscal performance
including a large current account surplus, resulting from an increase in
current revenues substantially larger (27%) than the projected growth in
current expenditure (13%). Revenue returns for the first quarter indicate
a short fall of 10-15%, but the authorities expect that compensatory in-
creases in succeeding quarters should enable targets to be reached. Most
of the revenue increase would result from sales taxes and from higher im-
port duty yields. Efforts to control inflation will be helped not only
through achieving a current account surplus, but also by the demonetization
of 100 taka notes in May 1975, and strict controls over the expansion of
bank credit. The fiscal/monetary measures agreed with the IMF include con-
trol over credit and monetary expansion, and limits on bank financing for
the budget. Other important policy measures, however, are still needed.
No action has been announced as yet on several key problems which, if re-
solved, would considerably improve the prospects for 1975/76 and later
years: the need to reduce heavy food subsidies; the need to increase direct
taxation, especially of agricultural incomes and particularly those of large
farmers; and the need for improved financial performance of state enterprises.
Balance of Payments and External Assistance
22.       Bangladesh commenced 1975/76 with an improved external payments
position. Stocks of foodgrain, which were at a very low level on July 1,
1974, were up by about 300,000 tons to 528,000 tons. The aid pipeline of



-7-
approximately US$1.2 billion was almost US$400 million higher than it was
on July 1, 1974. The pipelines for food and commodity aid were somewhat
higher than a year earlier, and the pipeline of project aid was 60% greater.
Bangladesh's international reserves by end of FY75 vere estimated at
US$269 million, or more than double the level on Ju]y 1, 1974.
23.       Merchandise exports are expected to reach about US$420 million.
This is predicated on an improvement in the world economic climate and a
revival of demand for jute. It should permit a redtiction in the high level
of stocks of jute goods in Bangladesh. Provided supplies are adequate and
export prices are competitive, Bangladesh should increase the volume and
value of jute exports in 1975/76. However, in view of the continued reces-
sion it is possible that the anticipated level of exports may not be
achieved. It should also be possible to maintain ozr improve the level of
earnings from tea, sugar and leather, as compared tc, 1974/75, since favora-
ble demand conditions for these products should continue in 1975/76 and as
the exchange adjustment improves their competitivene ss.
24.       Merchandise imports are projected at US$1'170 million in 1975/76.
Foodgrain imports are projected at 1.5 million tons. Because of favorable
weather foodgrain output has conformed to estimates; hence it should enable
Bangladesh to meet normal consumption requirements sLnd build up foodgrain
stocks further to about 728,000 tons. Capital goodEs imports are estimated
at US$250 million, much of which could be disbursed from the existing proj-
ect pipeline. Raw materials, intermediate and constmer goods, amount to
US$820 million, or US$320 million in excess of the level of comparable im-
ports in 1974/75.
25.       The external capital requirements of Bangladesh are estimated to
be about US$1,200 million in 1975/76. This level of' capital inflow should
enable Bangladesh to achieve a level of imports suff'icient to permit a modest
rate of growth, to provide for any contingencies reEculting from unforeseen
changes in foodgrain output or industrial needs, ancl to build up reserves
to a level that would enable it to deal with temporary imbalances between
receipts and payments. The Government now expects t:o disburse at least
US$550 million from the pipeline of US$1.2 billion on July 1, 1975. This
would leave a sum of US$650 million to be disbursed out of new commitments
in 1975/76.
26.       Following the Aid Group meeting held in Jtme 1975, revised estimates
made by the Government and reviewed with IDA show that disbursements from the
Aid Group out of new commitments in 1975/76 could anLount to about US$525 mil-
lion. The- Standby Arrangement with the Internationa.l Monetary Fund (para-
graph 18) would enable Bangladesh to draw a sum of US$75 million from the
Regular Facility by the end of July 1976, and US$32 million may be available
from the Oil Facility. A further US$35 million of disbursements from non-
Aid Group sources is feasible. This would about bridge the deficit in the
balance of payments; however, IDA feels that the Government's estimates of
disbursements out of the pipeline existing on July 1, 1975 may be too opti-
mistic. On the other hand, some members of the Aid Group have not as yet



- 8 -
estimated their expected disbursements out of new commitments, while others
have indicated the possibility of increasing their contribution. The abili-
ty of Bangladesh to disburse the required volume of aid will depend ulti-
mately on the speed with which agreements are signed and the aid utilized
IDA has encouraged members of the Bangladesh Aid Group to increase the
proportion of their aid which can achieve the rapid transfer of resources the
country continues to require to expand agriculture output, maximise capacity
utilization in industry, increase employment and expand exports. In 1975/76
Bangladesh will need aid disbursements from commodity assistance of an un-
usually large magnitude. IDA has therefore encouraged donors to increase
program credit commitments to Bangladesh.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
27.       After Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and the Association
in August 1972, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated initially
on reactivation of IDA credits for uncompleted projects financed under
credits to Pakistan before the independence of Bangladesh. Eleven such
credits in an aggregate amount of US$151.35 million (including US$44.1
million for the repayment of amounts that had been disbursed under the
corresponding previous credits to Pakistan) have been made to Bangladesh.
In addition, ten new credits have been made totalling US$390.2 million.
Of these, US$275.0 million have been for program credits. The project
credits have emphasized agricultural development, but also included amounts
for population, telecommunications and transport.
28.       Negotiations are underway between the Government of Bangladesh
and the various bilateral and multilateral donors concerning the assumption
by Bangladesh of a portion of the debt contracted by Pakistan before Bangla-
desh became independent.  Until such negotiations are complete, it is not
possible to estimate precisely Bangladesh's total public indebtedness, or
its total debt service.  With respect to the Bank Group, Bangladesh has
agreed to accept liability as of July 1, 1974 for about US$92.4 million of
debt with respect to projects in Bangladesh completed before independence.
Agreements for a Consolidation Loan of about $54.9 million and a Consolida-
tion Credit of about $31.0 million (based on January 1, 1960 exchange rate)
were signed on February 14, 1975.
29.       Annex II contains a swmmary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of November 30, 1975 and notes on the status of
execution of ongoing projects. In October 1975 Bangladesh applied for
membership in IFC. After an initial slow start, disbursement performance
under the program credits has been good, keeping pace with the estimates
made during appraisal. In contrast, disbursements under project credits
have lagged far behind expectations. Reasons for this include Government
procedures for hiring consultants and for awarding procurement and civil
works contracts, and shortages of construction materials such as cement.
Various ways of improving this situation are being discussed with the Gov-
ernment. Monthly meetings to discuss project issues were initiated in



- 9 -
January 1975, both in Washington and in Dacca. Rec:ent signs of progress
have included some improvements in Government procedures for reviewing
tender awards and consultants contracts, and the esttablishment of a Project
Implementation Bureau, to monitor the progress of projects and to assist in
breaking bottlenecks. While there has been modest improvement in disburse-
ment performance over the past year, additional efiorts is needed to improve
project implementation procedures so as to permit projects to proceed on
schedule.
30.       As stated previously, Bangladesh's severe balance of payments
difficulties require that increased amounts of aid be given in a flexible,
fast disbursing fashion. Program lending should, t:herefore, remain a feature
of IDA assistance. However, long-term improvement in the Bangladesh economy
can be expected only if sound policies, programs, and development projects
are pursued. Thus, in addition to program lending, projects of the highest
priority must also be supported. Given its low per capita income, Bangladesh's
investment needs cannot be met from local resources. In view of Bangladesh's
foreign exchange difficulties, IDA credits should cover all foreign exchange
costs. Taking into account the level of financing expected to be available
from other external lenders, and in order to direci: IDA lending to those
sectors (such as rural development) where the percentage of foreign exchange
costs is relatively low, the financing of local currency expenditures is
also justified. The Association recognizes the prLme importance of the
agricultural sector and of efforts to close Bangladesh's food gap. The
recently approved Population Project fits within the strategy of reducing
the food gap in the future. The Ashuganj Fertilizer Project, the Barisal
Irrigation Project and the currently proposed Karnafuli Irrigation Project
are designed to assist in increasing food production irn the immediate future.
Several sector studies supported by the Association - for example in industry
and transportation (also assisted by the United Ki:gdom) - should help the
Government and the Association to develop a suitabLe pipeline of projects
consonant with mutual assessments of economic priorities.    Further economic
studies will be oriented to the same goal. Finally, the Association has
provided funds under the Technical Assistance Credit to assist the government
in preparing development projects for financing by the Association and other
lenders.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
31.       Agriculture is clearly Bangladesh's most important economic sector,
on whose development growth as well as welfare depend. Agriculture produces
more than 55% of the nation's GDP and 80% of employment. The rice crop,
which covers approximately 75-80% of the cultivated area, provides most of
the country's foodgrain requirements. Wheat acreage is still relatively
small, though it is likely to become a more significant part of foodgrain
supply. Between 1969/70 and 1974/75 jute cultivation earned between 75 and
87% of Bangladesh's foreign exchange, either directly, through the export
of raw jute, or indirectly through the export of jute goods. At the same
time, jute manufacturing is Bangladesh's most important industry.



- 10 -
32.       Bangladesh lies on a deltaic plain of 33 million acres, of which
approximately 22.5 million acres are cultivated.    Most of the soils are
fertile.  It has a tropical monsoon climate with high rainfall (over 50
inches a year). About 80% of the rainfall is concentrated in the monsoon
months of June to October, with the remainder occurring primarily during the
period ilarch to Ilay.  In areas with adequate moisture, many farmers plant
two or more crops, resulting in a relatively high cropping intensity (about
140% in recent years).   There are, however, rany problems iniherent in the
agricultural sector:   few opportunities exist for expanding the area under
crops; as much as one-third of the country is threatened by severe anlual
floods; during the dry season some 80% of the land remains fallow due to
lack of water; severe cyclones periodically afflict farms near the coast;
with Bangladesh's extremely high population density, farms are generally
small and fragmented, and agriculture is characterized largely by subsistence
farming. As a result of these factors, while population has grown at about
3% per year during the last ten years, foodgrain production has increased by
less than 1% per year, which resulted in a growing gap between foodgrain
supply and demand and a consequent need for large-scale foodgrain imports.
33.       Faced with these problems the Government is evolving a development
strategy which concentrates on increasing agricultural (particularly food-
grain) production through the rapid spread of new higlh-yielding rice varie-
ties (EHYV), with provision, where possible, of irrigation by low-lift pumps
and tubewells. Irrigation has thus become of crucial importance to increase
cropping intensity and yields, and to decrease uncertainties and wide fluc-
tuations in the farmers' production. The reality is, however, that, even
withi improved and expanded irrigation facilities and an increase in crop
production, Bangladesh will continue to require substantial foodgrain imports
for a number of years.
Irrigation in Bangladesh
34.       The development of water resources in Bangladesh has presented
many difficulties involving irrigation, flood control, drainage, and
protection from both saline intrusion and saline inundation. The need to
maintain a minimum flow in the rivers during the dry season (both in order
to prevent. saline intrusion and larmful effects on navigation and fisheries)
constrains the potential for surface water irrigation. In many parts of
the country the flat terrain precludes the development of large storage
reservoirs for either controlling the impact of the floods or releasing
water for irrigation in the dry season.    Farmers in Bangladesh lhave for
centuries used bucket-lift irrigation methods for cultivating their land
near the numerous rivers, man-made channels, and low-lying water bodies.
35.       Early in the 1960s small pumps (low-lift, diesel-driven pumps of
one or two cubic feet per second capacity) were introduced, and this was
the key factor in expanding dry-season irrigation from 1 million acres in
1960 to over 2.5 million acres in 1974.   The major item in irrigation de-
velopment in Bangladesh is now the low-lift pump program of the Bangladesh
Agricultural Inputs, Supplies and Services Corporation (BAISSC).1/
',t Formerly, Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC).



- 11 -
36.       In view of the favourable response of farmers to low-lift pump
irrigation, the Government is giving priority to projects that would create
suitable conditions for this type of development. Th,e success of the low-
lift program will depend on the implementation of appropriate procedures
for selecting pump-sites, on improved maintenance operations, and on the
establishment of water charges or the introduction of changes in the pat-
tern of ownership of irrigation facilities to encourage more efficient use.
Low-lift pump irrigation is already practised in the Karnafuli Project area.
hiowever, pump utilization is limited not only by the absence of the condi-
tions mentioned above, but also by water availability. Existing channels
provide a natural water distribution system for low-lift pump irrigation
in the dry season, and with the provision of water control, the project
area would become suitable for the expansion of pump irrigation. The
regulators and flood control embankments will increase the cultivation
of LIYV rice during the monsoon season by protecting the areas from excessive
flooding.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The proposed project was prepared by consu:Ltants financed under
the Irrigation Engineering Credit (S-14) and working with the Bangladesh
Water Development Board (INDB). An Association mission appraised the pro-
ject in September/October 1974, and negotiations were held in Washington
during August, 1975. The Government's negotiating team was led by Hir. Sul-
tanuzzaman Khan, Secretary to the MIinistry of Flood Control, Water Resources
and Power. The appraisal report (No. 779a-BD dated December 31,1975) on
the proposed project is being circulated separately. Annex III provides
a Development Credit and Project Summary.
Description of the Project
38.       The proposed project would cover areas of about 38,000 acres and
8,000 acres in the flood plains of the Halda and Ichamati Rivers (both of
which are tributaries of the lower Karnafuli River). HIost of the area con-
sists of wide, flat, flood plains, intersected by the two rivers and numerous
channels. Flood protection and drainage in the project areas is rudimentary;
large areas are flooded several times during the monsoon season, with conse-
quent reduction in crop yields. IHowever, soil permeability is low and is
ex;cellent for rice production. The many rivers and channels supported by
tidal-induced back water from the Karnafuli river make the area suited for
low-lift pump irrigation, which, in fact, has already been adopted by the
farmers where water is available in sufficient amounts during the dry season.
Farmers utilize primarily two cubic feet per second (cfs) capacity low-lift
pumps, which are rented by the Bangladesh Agricultural Inputs, Supplies and
Services Corporation (BAISSC) to groups of farmers. BAISSC collects the
pumps at the end of the dry season for maintenance a-d storage during the
monsoon and is also responsible for the supply of key agricultural inputs.



- 12 -
39.       The Halda Unit has a population of about 207,000 and the Ichamati
Unit 37,000; the two project areas are aiong the mqost densely populated in
Bangladesh (2,600 persons per square mile compared to the national average of
about 1,400).  Thus farms are smaller than in most parts of the country.    At
present, a minimum area of about 1.5 acres is required to support an average
farm family at a subsistence level. IHowever, in the project areas 60%o of
households are either landless or operate farms smaller than this size.
40.       The proposed project would provide irrigation, flood control and
drainage, improvement of navigation for country boats and agricultural in-
puts in the Halda and Ichamati Units. The irrigation facilities to be pro-
vided under the project, would expand the dry season rice area from the
present 20,000 acres to about 38,000 acres. In the wet season, project
works would reduce flooding and provide supplementary irrigation. This
would increase yields and permit a shift from local to high yielding rice
varieties on 15,000 acres. About 840 units of 7-10 hp diesel-powered low-
lift pumps, each serving an average area of 45 acres, would irrigate the
area from an extensive network of natural and project-improved channels. In
the Halda Unit, the channel system would be supplied by tidal recharge, where-
as in the Ichamati Unit it would be by a main pumping plant. In both areas,
high-level channels would be filled by relift pumping stations.    Both proj-
ect areas would be protected from outside flooding by perimeter embankments
and regulators on the channels.   The Icharnati pumping plant would serve to
drain excess water in the unit during the wet season. Channiel excavation
ancl the regulators would make navigation by small boats possible in most
parts of the project area.
41.       ilajor works to be constructed under the project would be as
follows:
ifalda Unit
(a)  sixteen gated regulators at tne outlets of chaninels to the
Karnafuli and lialda Rivers;
(b)  five cargo-transfer stations at selected regulator sites;
(c)  improvement of 41 miles of existing channels and the excavation
of 6.5 miles of new channiels;
(d)  twenty-seven relift pumping stations with a total of 71 low-
lift, 2 cfs pumps to supply the channels in the higher areas;
(e)  about 300 low-lift, diesel-powered two cfs pumps (bringing
the number of pumps fielded in the area up to about 710) to
raise water fromn the channels to adjacent farm lands;
(f)  small earthfill channels check structures; and



- 13 -
(g) flood protection embankments, 36 miles long, iorith some borrow
areas used for drainage and irrigation water supply.
Ichamati Unit
(a) a main pumping plant at the Mahfez Channel wi;:h four 40 cfs
units for irrigation and flood drainage;
(b)  a relift pumping plant with three 17 cfs units;
(c) power transmission lines to the pumping plant3;
(d) three gated regulators at the outlets of channels to the
Karnafuli and Ichamati Rivers;
(e) improvement of 16 miles of existing channels and the excavation
of four miles of new channels;
(f) about 70 low-lift, diesel-powered, two cfs pumps (bringing
the number of pumps fielded in the area up tc about 130) to
raise water from the channels to adjacent farmlands;
(g) a box culvert under the Chittagong-Kaptai Highway;
(h)  two channel check structures, one of them gated; and
(i)  flood protection embankments 12 miles long, along with an
exterior diversion channel.
The project also includes provision of workshops, equipment and vehicles
for the maintenance of civil works and pumps, and a fisheries component
described below in paragraph 46.
42.       Pump groups would be formed in the project areas by the Integrated
Rural Development Program (IRDP) of the Ministry of Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives, which would be assisted in pump siting and
distribution layout by WDB and consultants. Pump groups would complete
their own water distribution systems within areas served by each low-lift
pump. IRDP would conduct training programs in improved irrigation practices
for selected members for each pump group at the Thana Training and Development
Centers (TTDCs). During negotiations it was agreed with the Government that
the Rauzan and Hathazari Thanas would be incorporated into the IRDP structure,
so as to have full IRDP coverage of the project areas (section 3.07 of the
Development Credit Agreement - DCA).
43.       The Directorate of Extension and Management (Ministry of Agricul-
ture) has an average of-ten Union Agricultural Assistants (UAA) per thana,
who are supervised by Thana Agriculture Officers (TAO). The Directorate
has embarked on a program for replacing the TAOs by Ttiana Extension Officers



- 14 -
(TEO) who are college diploma holders, to assure higher technical competence;
in addition, it is intended that two Village Extension Agents (VEA) would
replace the present UAA in each union. This program will be assisted under
the proposed IDA Agricultural and Rural Training Project. The Bangladesh
Rice Research Institute (BRRI), primarily through its substation at Comilla
(located about 90 miles from the project area), would provide rice research
training to TEOs, who, in turn, would give this training to VEAs and selected
farmers from each pump group at the TTDCs during periodic one-day courses
organized by IRDP, in association with the Directorate of Extension and
Management. The project will provide funds for the procurement of addi-
tional transport- facilities and agricultural equipment to improve training,
extension and supporting services to farmers. Six agricultural demonstra-
tion areas would be established. The Ministry of Agriculture, in consulta-
tion with the Mlinistry of Local Government, Rural Development and Coopera-
tives, would prepare a detailed program for training and extension services
in the project areas, and submit this to IDA for review and comment within
one year of the signing of the Credit Agreement (section 3.06 of the DCA).
BAISSC would be responsible for multiplying and distributing HYV seeds.
The IDA-financed Cereal Seeds Project (Credit lio. 410-BD, 1973) would sup-
port this part of the project through its seed processing plant to be
established at Chittagong. Distribution to farmers would be done through
Thana Central Cooperative Associations (TCCA) cooperatives. BAISSC would also
procure and distribute fertilizer to TCCA for distribution to farmers.
44.       Fisheries production is reported to be declining, due apparently
to the development of irrigated agriculture in Bangladesh. The decline
is attributable in part to the deterioration of the spawning habitat through
modification of river courses, and the increased use of pesticides. The
proposed project, involving regulation of channel flows with no regulation
of the Halda river itself, was designed to have minimal impact on fisheries
production. However, since knowledge of fishery in bangiauesh is limited,
further specialized studies, including studies of fish management practices
and the design of a carp spawning facility, are proposed for financing under
the proposed credit. With such facilities and improved fisheries management,
fish yields in the area can be increased substantially. A similar problem
was noted during the appraisal of the Chandpur Irrigation Project (Credit
340-BD, 1972). Based upon studies included in that project, a carp hatchery
for the Chandpur area has now been designed, and proposals for its financing
are included in the presently proposed credit. The project would also include
equipment and consultants for the Chandpur Fish Research Station and for further
field investigations required to develop programs for improvement of fisheries
in the Chandpur area and in the area of the proposed Muhuri irrigation pro-
ject which is expected to be considered by the Executive Directors early in
1976.
Project Execution
45.       The Bangladesh Water Development Board (WDB), under the Mlinistry of
Flood Control, Water Resources and Power, would have overall responsibility



- 15 -
for management and execution of the irrigation and flood control component
of the project works, and would be directly responsible for project prep-
aration, design and construction of all civil works (other than the fish
hatchery). Responsibility for procurement and distribution of low-lift pumps
would rest with BAISSC. IRDP would be responsible for the formation of farmers
pump groups and their integration into the TCCA structure. The Ministry of
Agriculture would be responsible for strengthening extension services to the
farmers. The Ministry of Forests, Fisheries and Livestock would be respon-
sible for the implementation of the fisheries development program. A senior
WDB official has been appointed as Project Director to coordinate the
activities of the various agencies responsible for the implementation of the
irrigation and flood control component of the Project. He will chair an
interdepartmental Project Implementation Committee (PIC) comprising senior
technical officers of the participating agencies.  A Central Evaluation Com-
mittee (CEC) which was established in December 1974 fcr the Barisal Irriga-
tion Project (Credit No. 542-BD, 1975) to review periodically progress and
problems on certain irrigation projects, will also take care of this project.
The CEC, consisting of senior representatives of the various ministries and
agencies involved in project implementation, would follow-up project develop-
ments and ensure interagency coordination at a higher level.
46.       Proposals for project management and interagency coordination have
been agreed upon. Formal establishment of the PIC would be a condition of
disbursement of credit funds for the Project's irrigal:ion component (paragrapn
4(b)(iii) of Schedule 1 of the DCA). Each year's program, to be prepared by
the Project Director in consultation with the PIC befcore each construction
season, would detail the activities and works to be imiplemented by each
agency, including cost estimates of physical works.    These programs would
be sent to IDA by August 31 of each year, for review amd comment. A similar
program, following the same procedure, would be prepared by the Department
of Fisheries for the fishery development component of the project (section
3.04 (b) of the DCA). Consultants would be engaged to assist WDB and the
other agencies involved in project implementation. They would assist WDB in
the preparation of work programs, designs and contract: documents, and the
supervision of construction. Consultants would also assist the Department
of Fisheries in implementing the fisheries developmen1: program. The appoint-
ment of qualified and experienced consultants, acceptable to IDA, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA, would be conditions of disbursement of
credit funds for both the irrigation and the fishereie development components
of the Project respectively (paragraphs 4(b) and (c) of Schedule 1 of the DCA).
47.       The Government has undertaken to operate and maintain all project
facilities at acceptable standards and to make available sufficient funds
for such purposes (section 4.03 of the DCA). The WDB would be responsible
for operating and maintaining the main and the relift pumping plants and for
maintaining channels and embankments. BAISSC, in association with the pump
groups organized under the TCCAs, will operate and maintain the low-lift
pumps. It is intended that as the managers and techn:icians of the pump



- 16 -
groups receive training and gain experience on the job, the farmers asso-
ciations would progressively take over responsibility for the operation of
the low-lift pumps. The Department of Fisheries would be responsible for
operation and maintenance of the Chandpur carp hatchery. The Project
Director and the Department of Fisheries would be responsible for preparation
of detailed manuals specifying project operation and maintenance procedures,
and designating the responsible agencies and officers to implement them.
These manuals woutd be submitted to the Association for review and comment
within two years of signing of the proposed Credit (section 4.02 of the DCA).
Cost Recovery
48.       The stated Government policy is of gradual decrease in nationwide
subsidies to farmers for low-lift pumps. In 1974 BAISSC substantially in-
creased the rental charge for low-lift pumps; the farmers now pay an annual
rental fee which covers operation and maintenance and a minor part of capital costs.
The Government also intends that farmers benefitting from primary project in-
stallations will pay their operating and maintenance costs and eventually
repay as much of the investment costs as practicable. Assurances have been
obtained during negotiations that, within two years from the date of signing
of the proposed credit, the Government will prepare proposals for the re-
covery from the farmers of the full costs of the low-lift pumps (amortized
over the expected life of the pump at a reasonable rate of interest) plus
the costs of operation and maintenance of such pumps and the operation and
maintenance of civil works and the main and relift pumping plants, and as
much of the capital costs of the civil works as possible (section 4.04 of
the DCA). The recovery of these costs will commence within eighteen months
of completion of the physical works of the Project.
Project Cost and Financing
49.       The project is estimated to cost US$30.3 million equivalent, in-
cluding US$2.6 million in taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange component
of US$9.4 million. US$18.9 million of the proposed IDA credit of US$22.0
million would finance the full foreign exchange costs of the project plus
part of the local costs, or 69% of project costs, net of taxes. US$3.1
million of the proposed IDA credit would be applied to refinance the remain-
ing unrepaid amounts under Irrigation Engineering Credit (S-14, 1973), which
financed the preparation of this project and other proposed irrigation
projects. The remaining US$11.4 million equivalent of project costs would
be contributed by the Government through annual budget appropriations. Once
the project is completed, the recurrent cost of operating and maintaining
the facilities will be US$0.6 million equivalent per year. Two revolving
funds to cover local expenditures on the irrigation component and the fish-
eries component have been established; it is a condition of credit disburse-
ment that initial contributions to the funds covering the estimated expendi-
tures during the following quarter be made (paragraphs 4(b)(iii) and 4(c)(i)
respectively of Schedule 1 of the DCA). The Government has agreed to re-
plenish these funds, on the first day of each month, and to maintain bal-
ances adequate to cover estimated expenditures for the following three months
(section 3.02 of the DCA).



- 17 -
Procurement
50.       Vehicles, equipment and materials would be procured after inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Banl; Group guidelines. A
15% preference margin or the prevailing customs duty if lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in evaluation of bids. Off-the-shelf items
costing less than US$10,000 each, which are not practical for international
tendering, would be purchased through normal governraent procurement proce-
dures acceptable to IDA. The aggregate cost of such items would not exceed
US$200,000.
51.       Civil works, with an estimated cost of US$17.0 million (including
contingencies), would not be suitable for international competitive bidding.
These works, which are relatively small and simple, would be scattered over a
wide area. Construction would be seasonal and suitable for labor intensive
methods. For these works, contracts would be awarded on the basis of com-
petitive bidding, advertised locally and in accordance with procedures ac-
ceptable to IDA.
Disbursements
52.       Disbursements from the proposed credit would be made over a period
of five years at the rate of 100% of the cif costs of directly imported
vehicles, equipment and materials; at 100% of the ec-factory price if manu-
factured locally and at 65% of the off-the-shelf price if procured locally.
For consultant services, disbursements would cover i:he actual foreign
exchange costs and 50% of local costs. Disbursemenl:s for civil works would
be at 100% of certified foreign expenditures and at 60% of certified month-
ly local expenditures.
Economic Justification
53.       The primary benefits from the project wouLd be a 50% increase in
rice production, from the present 93,000 tons of padldy to 141,000 tons at
full development in 1983. At the projected world market price for milled
rice of US$250 per metric ton cif Chittagong, the project's economic rate of
return would be about 15%. The net foreign exchange savings from rice
imports would be around US$3.3 million (in 1975 dol:Lars) annually. The
project would lead to increased income for 20,000 farm families, most of
whom are very small farmers operating on an average of about 1.6 ac. Average
farm income would increase from about US$90 to abou'; US$120 per capita per
year. The demand for hired labor would also increase substantially and
thereby create additional employment opportunities for landless laborers and
"marginal" farmers.  However, the realization of these benefits is dependent
on timely project implementation. Weaknesses in the organization of, and
lack of coordination among, agencies responsible for executing water control
projects have resulted in administrative inertia in the past and may lead
to slower than anticipated implementation of this project. Notwithstanding



- 18 -
possible difficulties we feel that with the assistance to be rendered
by the project consultants, and with the establishment of an acceptable
project implementation organization, potential obstacles to successful
project implementation have been reduced. Even if project completion is
two years later than expected the economic rate of return would be 13%.
Environmental Impact
54.       The Halda River is an important spawning ground for carp in Bangla-
desh. It is a major source of supply of carp fry and fingerlings used for
stocking tanks throughout the country. As there is no structure proposed
on the Halda River, the project itself is expected to have minimal impact
on breeding conditions. However, knowledge about fisheries in Bangladesh
is limited, and the project provides for support to the Department of
Fisheries to prepare and implement programs to ensure that fish production
in the project area does not decline. Regarding public health, the project
should improve conditions because of the increased availability of fresh
water on a year-round basis. Bilharzia is not present in Bangladesh. Con-
sequently, no adverse environmental effects are expected to result from the
project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of Bangladesh and the Association, the Recommendation of the Com-
mittee provided for in Article V, Section 1() of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association and the text of the Resolution approving the proposed
Credit are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
56.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are referred to in paragraphs 42 and 47, and 46 through 49 of this
report. Initial contribution to the Irrigation Fund, establishment of the
PIC and appointment of the engineering consultants have been made conditions
of disbursement in respect of the irrigation and flood control component of
the Project (paragraph 4(b) of Schedule I of the DCA) and initial contribu-
tion to the Fisheries Fund and appointment of fisheries consultants are
condition of disbursement in respect of the fisheries component (paragraph
4(c) of Schedule I of the DCA).
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
articles of Agreement of the Associat:ion.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. B. Knapp
Attachments
January .5, 1976






AJNEX I
DUMSh    AT - B30i8311          Page      1   of    3   Pages
As                                           M      1rnlon (eid-1972.)
laftm, mortality vaet (pen tweend flee birth)              ::T0w.                                  i220-U0 LPjp     3
ILet oecstee     at berth (year.)                                                                       50i  o       5i
ths   mp.4otoion rte1                                      3.5            3.14            3:24         z.9 la       2.7Ta4
pbals  -      =:z                                                     2.6i3                             2a    9WA.
Age sntiruture (paren  -urat)4
65 and over                                                   f           37       ~       2    ~      3           37
=        41mde7yraLtioq                                     I 0  j           9              0 :~.9      218
Urbe, poecalAtton as percent af total                                                      17 a         20 Ak       29 £ta0
Finily plaiting. I f of scoop  ar inmul4ttl  (lieu..)        ..175                                      ..220
No. of wornae (Sof woyriad  wlvn          .....                                       .            i5
ER   M7  b.foramin (thousand.)                            17. 400&..i    22,300 Is.      (0,100 As   221,00W &&     29CO0
Psroontaga aeplayed to egrlaltur.                          76            n72.1                              Lz    1
Peroentage U_pLoyad                                      2.              . 
ftr  o not    income remind by higbest 5%               19            17 4&,,                                     fr
P.rcen't of national Incas receive  by highust 205           5             42 4Ljjj                     l3 gL-      5W
Peraent of natinawa income remeind by lowesft 20%             7             9                            5           3
Percent Of national .Ocan veneiwd by least 40%              18 ffjjj                                     3 
9 nweed by inalleet 10% or eansy. 
Thphat¶hovrFeinsn                                         10,W/           7.600 Lt.      27,360 tos    14.80       1,770 /d,t
Ppapa tinn per nmictg parson                            110,0W0 N       7030            8, 13210     5,2.10      1,J.. 1  !;
Populaton per hospta'l bed                              211,0W *         8,12  lj~       110a        160/.a        20~
Per capita calorie supply as % nf requrvowat.                              co 2 /1,        82           90          9   ds
fur ospIta protein apply, total Cgrw. per dayT6                                            4 ..  3      5) 3~
Of *chio, sdool and piles..                                                              l14 /a       16 Ab       ioI#
Death rate 1-i . year 1.!                                  6.
¶~L  ~f prisary school earllma  ratio                   4,2 La_4"      50 Lg1.mo       7            79 At       89/
yeers ofa lioogprovided, fprst ad amaod level                10 zLS         10 10          12                       132 71
Vocational acrolinamit M S of fen. school enrellat          ...28                                         6/a         3 
Moult literacy rateS                                        ..             *,.,                         J           8 1
rap go. Of perams pe      room (urban)                     ...                             .2.                     2 3
Feroamt of ocotpid unts ViUthct piped water                 ......65 I
ho"ses to acotuiity (am 9 of total pqpasatlo)               5.*                            *            .~7j
Peroeat of Ouca1 popalstion ooowtad to   lc.   et            ..                            ..                        32 17
~~~ivrey     per 100W population                        ..6                            1114          239.         2a
Passngr care per 1O0W population.                                             Ia             2                       L 25
Eleotric power cemoeptina (kwh p.o.)                          3             12 fl           23 Ia        07         411.,4d
Newsprintmcnsumpvtion p.c. kgper year                       ..0.2/Ta                       0.27;         . 0 7;-    3.0 ajd
bias,. rig-re refar either to thc. Latast period, or to          ancut o     etoutltaue                57vOhc        r
the latest years. Latest periode rejw to principle to            d    tetitiou by a"e and  oC f national pspzlstiea.
the years 1956-60 or 1966-701 the latest years to prin-       A. protein etoanards (mprgmluente) for Lll econtries a",atab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                          iSabel by UDA boonamo leoacrobk Servia provide for a ioi.ma
A   The Per Capita flaP etiats is At -aMt potion for              allowsane of 60 gree of total protein per daj, ant 20 pam of
yours other thee 1960, calculated by the .eee coon,rsioa       iS. actul  and  55 proteim, of which 10 grame should be aniel
technique as the 1972 World Bank Atlas.                       protAin. Thee atasadsd are smwswbt looser than theme of 75
/j Averag   number of daughters per women of reproductive         gro   of tota  protein and 23 pee of -1-ea protein As an
-0.                                           4,w~~~~~~~~~~~~arage fbr the warld, fropoaed by TAO to the Third Whyld FPOOd
Population growtb rates arc for the decades snding to          SurveY.
290and 1970.                                           ZLSae studies hen suggeastad that crede death rates of children
ILMat Of population, Under 15 ad 65 and over L.ppua           aw s   through 6 say be aced as a float e~onpaxtioalndloSs. of
hcof qos 15-61 for age, depedncai relc and to later         .burtin
forts of ages 15-61  for ocooceic dependency ratio.           Peroatage enrolled of qormeepced±cg popu"laion of schoo ^P
Yj AO reforsnce standardo represst physiological r               a deftine  far each s0istZy.
#Olrementa for tonal activity and health, taking
~j 1972;  /b 1961;    /A  Ictisete;   j4  We.t nalaysfia;  ta ogit      d only;   a1. ProJection, 1973;   ag  19,65-70;
19160.61;   a   1960-72;    a4  Municipalties, regency caiasad        te   lc.    ,t   rancaatretc;            I    o
deftInition of urban assP Demogruaphic 4 arbpk 1972, p. i1i;    Aj 1972-73;    /i Fmtto Of POPulation uner 15irand 65
and O'er to t-ot-a labor force;  7~thInalde only;   &   Ganetted aresa of lO0.000 r eon inhabitants; ~   k   I
colateof abr LrisinAgo gro     15-59; 3B80 rePort gives A figuft Of 180.1 alliion based on the 1971. population
can.e. Thw differenceis adoe to changes in the dsft.otion of a worker. In the 2971 cacti., persona sam cl.assfied
oLy4 on tho basis Of their omi  atl~iites; tlac led to the exClUealo  of seserl Categories, etch as housewives;
I 1963414    a nfotiacholda;   4i  1971;   /t  1969;  Iu   Data refer to housling unit.;  t. 1967-68;    Lw  WNumbr on
the regiaetr, not all working in the country;  4-. Nurse. 1a in . rowenn t sarvicec ony      GoyDveniant hoepitals only;
1L 96E;        Including rural hospitlal.   /nb 1969-70;    LM   1966;      4     996,           AprIet       noli
aSperctagP Of PoPula-ton in 6-10 age group;    LaL  Eatleat  which includes enava, studacte;         Approximate
sarcilnt a percettage Of population in 1.1-15 age group;   Z&   Up io ad of secod lent;     I&j l965;    /fl   15 years
and ove;    /gjPopulation of tO Years and ocer based o     -s Percent sample data of 19,71;  isaj 1966;   /a   Definition
of literacy            Zw_oa; L   1966-67.
iSlec.tion of Ma.laysia a - nobjective country is beawi an  .aasi' maci.e. tn wiotteling a high rate Of economct
growth and adequate level of welar   concurrently .016 divr.sifying its econeao   tructue.
Janiuary 1976



ANNEX I
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC DEEOMN          AAPage 2 of 3 Pagea
(Asunts in millionB of U.S. dollars)
Act,als        Estimates         1960 ~1/ 161/       17        196       Av. I1/
A,Ac0-9     to lsEtmts                               16-195               93-      17        967-69   1974     1975
NAT10iiAL ACCOA. 167-NM                          973        1974      1975     1976        1965     1970      1976      1980
In Contn       927             Prices& Exchange Rlate          Average Annual Growth Rates            As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                     6012          5,702        6,350     6,49     6,6          4.       3.3       6.5       4.2       98.5    101.7    10.4
Gains f'rom Terms of Trade(+                  89              -        -107        -92      -98                                                1.5     -1.7     -1.4
Gross Domestic Income                      6,101          5,702       6,243     6,4~04   6-,788       5.6      2.5       6.0       4.2       100.0   100.0o    100.0
Imports(incl. NF'S)                          879            747          617      687      7 59      20.6      6.8       0.6       5.4      14.4       9.9     10.7
Exports     1  (import capacity)             598            37 3         263       227      257      12.3    -14.6     -13.2       8.0        9.8       4.2      3.5
Resource Gap                                 281            374          35-4     4~60      50-2                                              4.6       5.77     7 .2
Consumption Excpenditures                  5,668          5,800        6,2126   6,424    6,780        5.7      3.6       5.2       3.9      92.9       99 .7   100.3
Investment        (inc. stocks)              785            27 6         370      440      510       13.3      8.8      22.5       6.8      12.9       5.9       6.9
Domestic Savings                              433           -98           17       -20        8       4.3     10.0         -          -      7.1       0.3     -0.3
National Savings                              416            -74          52         9       36       8. 7    20.5          -         -      6.8        0.8      0.1
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                      Data at Cusrrent Prices                                                              As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                               .             100          155       150      248         .        .      35.5      16.2         .      17       12
Intermediate goods (eXcLfuels)              .             176          220      275      418          .        .      33.2      14.7         .      24       23
P'uels and related materials
of which:   Petroleum                     .              23           87      143      138         .         .     80.3       20.0        .       10       12
Consumption goOds(nc(l. ffoodgr.ins)         .            428          439      645      512         ..        .       4.5      10.1         .      49       53
TotalMrh       Ipos      cf                547            727          901    1,213    1,316          .        .      22.0      13.7               100      100
Exports
Primary products (gad, fuels)                .            120           128       84      125         .        .      -1.3      13.8         .      35       23
F'uels and related mnaterials
of which: Petroleum
Manufactured god _                                        214           243      286     2188         .       ..      10.4      18.5        ..      65       7 7
Total March. Thcort     (fob)              481            344           371      370     413         ..        .        .3      17.5               100-     100
Tourism and Border, Traote
Merchandise Trade Indices                In Constant 1972/73           Prices & Exchange Rate
Export Price Index                          61            100           108      133      133         .        .      10.0       8.5
Import Price Index                          52            100          152      187      184          .        .      22.6       7.7
Terms of Trade Index                       118            100            71      72        72        .         .      11.5       0.7
Exports Volume Index                       148            100          101       81       91         .         .      -3.2       8.3
VALU'E ADDED HY SECTOR                  Data at 1972/73                 Prices & Exchange Rates        Average Annual Growth Rates           As Percent of Total
Agriculture                              3,542          3,402        3,788    3,7 12   3,920         .        ..       4.9        3.8       59      61       59
Industry aLnd Mining                       420           412           47 2     467      508         .         .       7.2       7.0         7       8        7
Service                                  2,050         1,888         1 940    2 145    ~g2 270.                        6.4       4.0        74      31       34
Total                                    6,012         5,702         6,200    6,324    6,698                           5.5       4.2       100     100      100o
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)
Current Receipts                           317            298          525      744                  .        .      35.3         .          5.3     8.3     11.4
Current Expenditures                       365           389           590      664                  .        .      19.5         ..         6.1     9 .3    10.2
Budgetary Savings                          -48           -791          -6-5     8                    .        .                   .         -0.8    -1.0      1.2
Other Pablic Sector
Public Sector Investment                  421            253           284      322                  .        .       8.4         .          7 .0    4.5      5.0'
US $ million-i'
CuRRENT   EXPENDITURE DETAILS                             Actual                  Estimiates      DETAIL ON                                 At end 1972    P and ER
As % Total Current Exend.)                 1969/70    1972/73    1973/74 ~1974/75 1~975/176     PUTBLTC SECTOR                        First Plan      % Of Total-
Education                                     .         14.8      14.7        15.5      15.0    INVESTMENT PROGRAM                     (1973/74   -   1977/78)'
Other Social ServiCes                         .          4.0       3.8         4.3      4.7     Social Sectors                            7 58          15.3
Agriculture 6 other Economic                                                                    Agriculture                             1,302           26.4
Services                                 .         11.2       8.4         7.2       7.1    Industry and Mining                     1,024           20.7
Administration and Defense                    .         67.4      62. 7       60.4     54.4     Power                                     529           10.7
Other                                         .          2. 7     10.4        12.6     18.8     Transport and communications              802           16.3
Total Current Expenditures                             100.0     100.0       100o.0   100.0     Other                                     524           10.6
____________________________________________________________________________ Total Total dExpenditures                          100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                    1960-      1965-     1970-    197 6 -      FINA-NCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)                1965        1970      1975     1980             Domestic Borrowings                   784           15.9
Average ICOR                                                      7. .7           T.                  Public Se.ctor Savings              2,022           40.9
Import Elasticity                                        .        1.29        .       1.4            Program aid counterpart             1,009           20.4
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                           .       0.22          .        .            Foreign Project Aid112                              22.8
Marginal National Savings Rate                           .       0.35          .        .             Total Finanocing                   4,940          100. 0
LANOR FORCE ANDT                                   Total Labor Force                                    Value Added Per Worker (1972/73        Prices LA_p._Rates)
OUTTFJT PER WORKER                  In Millions            of Total            19 61 - 73         in U.S.Dollars       Percent otf Average          1970 - 73
1960/61    1972/73    1961       1973      Growth Rate          1970        1973        1970       1973       Growth Rate
Agriculture                          16.1      20.5       85        78           2.0                 ..        166          ..76
Industry                             1.0       1.8         5         7           5.0                ..        229           ..        105
Service                               1.8      3.9        10        15           6.7                ..        484           ..        222
Total                               18.9      26.2       100       100           2.8               248        218                     100
sot applicable          - nil or negligible                        -Not e:  All figures are on fiscal year basis July 1 - June 30.
not available          -  less than half the
smallest unit shown
I/  Data prior to 1972 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan.                                                                                             J-Ur      1976
2/  These are original Plan targets. which are out of reach is the present circumstances.



Awl
Page 3 of 3 Pegw
OAIOOLADESD
8EAICS OF P    WOT3S   XALL ASSmws AND LSB
(asntt in MIl7ions of U.S. dollars at Current prices)
Ang. Annual
Actal                          Estimated                                    Projectod                                    Groeth R.Se
1966/67  1969/70  1972/73   1973/74       197475                    IM'L         fl7,LZ!,     1 79-l                              1976-1980
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMHNTS
Exports (inol. NFS)                       447          515        373          400           426           420         537          597         717         870                        16.4
Diporto (incl. NFS5)                     -556        -639        -747         -937       -1286          -1,410      -1    .      -1.660      -.2054      -2 L1                        13.4
Resourei B.Iie     sX-)                 -_ir          -tr2       -374         -53 7         Ig            -990       -1,166      -1,263      -1,337       -1,448                       11.0
Interest (not)                             ,                                     -            -5           -25          -46         -68         -92         -106                      50.0
Direct ICveat_ent   ono                    -. ..
Workera' Remittanco                        .                       20            30           35            35           35          35           35          35                        -
Current Tranrs      (nt)                           I-2                                        11            30           30          31          37           38                        6.1
B1a nce on Current Accounts             3            -49                5                                            -1a  1 -  -1.357 -1 43                                1           14.0
Private Direct Tnveestrout                 ..          ..         -             --                                                                                                      -
Official Capital Grants                    ..          ..         190           130          383           200          220         300         300          300                       10.6
Public M&LT Loans
Di.burssoent.                            .,          .,          95          219           596           868         973        1,044       1,155        1,304                      19.4
-Repayrnts                             ----                       -           -11           -16           -3           -79        -103        -126 8                                 42.0
Neth?isiiiriiita                           ..          .            3          SU           '                3-3                    91        1,027       7*17.6
Other H&LT loans
Diob-r-emnts                             ..          ,.          71           38            62             ..
-Repsylomnta                              ..          ..          _            _             _             ..          .. ..
Net 1iburs.en ..                           .. 't.. 71 o2                  93                                                                     50          50
Actal                      Btiated
Capital Trane.ctions n.e.i.                -           ..          -7           76           -51           -180                1/                       72             V73/74      1974/75
Change in Net Resewv   (- increaee)        ..          ..         -20            43         -155        SB? ANiD D      s   l1                        /7
Gross Recorcee (eod period)                ..          .,         157          114           269         N     DebtDu     hureed                   37        175       491         1,330
ORANT AND LOAN  OMKrT3HNTS
Officiol Orants & Grant-like               ..          ..          ..          ..            321          Deterewt ox Public Debt                              - -                     5
Repayvents 0t Public Debt                 .                   11            16
Public H&LT Loane                                                                                         Total Public Debt Serrice                                                    2 11  21
TBRD                                     ..          *-         _            _             -            Otber Debt Serviee (nmt)
IDA                                      ..          .-          68           74           150          Total Debt Servi,e (not)
Other                                    ..          ..          71           38            62
Other Multilateral                       ..          ..          11            28           82        roe-den   x Jport eer,ntn  (%)
Oovernents                               ..          ..         107           622          867
Suppliers                                                        _ ''  30      57           -           Public Debt Sm-vice                        .                   2.8            4.9
Fioonaial Institutions                   ..          ..         -             -             -           Total Debt Sm-vie                         ..         .. .s                    ..
Bonds                                    ..          ..         -             -             -           TMS-Direct 7hreat. Inc.                   **
Public Loans n.e.i.                      ..          ..         -
Total Public N&T I7,rn                     ..          ..          287        819          1,161        Average Tesr  of Peblin Debt
1/                               Actual Debt Oxttating on DRe. 31974                          Lnt. as % Prior rear D04D                            -         -              1.0
WlTorlAL BEan -                                 Lebs4edO0nlyercent                                          AMort. as S Prio- Year D0&D               *                    6.3            3.3
World banko                                       549
IDA                                              204.0                     26.2                         I8RD Debt out. & DLabisred
Other  htilt.lteral                                5.6                       0.7                             as % Public D*bt 0&D                                        -              4.1
0overncootx                                      369.2                      47.5                             a% Puablic Debt Service                * 
Suppliers                                        119.6                      15.4
Fiococia1 Inotitutices                            23.8                       3.1                       7ID  Debt Out. & Di,bureed
Bonod                                                                                                       as % Public Dobt O&a                    ''         7.8      19.6           15.7
Public Debts o.e.i                                 -                         -a % Public Debt Ser-ice                                               *          -         1.7            1.7
Total Public H&LT Debt                           777.1                     100.0
Other MHLT Debts                                   -                         -
Short-ters Debt (disb. only)                      27.2                       -
cot oPplicablo                                                   e  staff estimate
cot ovai loble                                                   - nil or negligible
ccnt availabl soparateLy                                       __  leas then half the
but inoluded in total                                               ecallest unit shown
1/  Oogotiatlo.  are _oderw_y between the Govert of bangladesh ond varifus bilateral end m1lttlateral donors concern4ig tho ceexeption of x portion of the debt coir-teted by Plkiit-n
before BDeglade.h becaue independent.   Util such   egotlationl ate c...plete it in not poosible to e.tinate precisely Baogladeeh total public debt or debt tonic..
January 1976



ANNEX II
BANGIADESH                     Page 1 of 10
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of November 30, 1975
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
US$ Million net of
Credit                                                   Exchange Adjustment
Number   Year               Purpose                      Amount      Undisbursed
339      1972      Cyclone Area Reconstruction
(replaces Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971) 25.0          14.7
340      1972      Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184 of 1970)                 13.0         9.0
341       1972     Tubewells (replaces Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                                14.0         7.4
343      1972     Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)           7.3         1.8
345      1972     Reconstruction Imports                    50.0          0
353      1973     Small-Scale Industry (replaces
Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970)              3.0         0.4
367      1973      Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)               7.0         2.2
368      1973      Dacca Water Supply and Sewage (replaces
Credit No. 41-PAK of 1963)              13.2         2.1
S-14      1973     Irrigation Engineering (replaces
Credits Nos. S-8-PAK and S-10-PAK
of 1969 and 1970)                        3.15        0.1
381       1973     Foodgrain Storage (replaces Credit
No. 83-PAK of 1966)                     19.7         0.8
407      1973      Education (replaces Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and 1966)            21.0        10.2
408      1973      Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                                25.0        17.6
409       1973     Technical Assistance                      4.0          3.1
410       1973     Cereal Seeds                              7..5         7.3
424 /a    1973     Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation     8.7          7.3
458      1974      Imports Program                          50.0          2.4
487      1974      Second Telecommunications                20.0         19.5
515       1974     Third Imports Program                    75.0         18.6
527 /b   1975     Ashuganj Fertilizer                       33.0         33.0
529      1975      Consolidation Credit                     31.0          0
533      1975      Population                               15.0         15.0
542      1975      Barisal Irrigation                       27.0         27.0
591 /b   1975      Fourth Imports Program                  100.0        100.0
SUBTOTAL                         572.55       299.5
Principal Repayment                                 0.20
Credits held by Association                       572.35
B.   IBRD Loans to Bangladesh
1087     1975     Consolidation Loan                        54.9         0
TOTAL                            627.25       299.5
/a   Increase in Credit amount from $4.1 million to $8.7 million not yet effective.
7b   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project: U'S$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18. 1972- Effective Date: January 17. 1973;
Closing Date: June 30. 1976
Implementation of the original project, firmanced under Credit No.
228-PAK of 1971, had not commenced prior to the suspension of disbursements.
The repair work on damaged port terminal buildings ha.s been completed and
repairs of landing facilities are expected to be completed in mid 1976.
Contracts have been signed for all equipment componerLt of the telecommunications
system. Earthwork has been completed for about 50% cf primary roads, and
70 cyclone shelters are under construction or complete. Activation of the
cyclone warning system is expected soon. Progress has been slow due in part
ot administrative delays and the severe shortages of construction materials
in Bangladesh. The materials are now arriving and the progress is expected
to improve in the next construction season. Project completion is expected
to be about two years behind the schedule anticipated at appraisal. In
June 1974, the Government submitted to the Association a proposal for reducing
the scope of the project in order to cope with the sharp increase in
construction costs since the Project was appraised. The proposal involved
reductions in the feeder roads to be financed by the Credit (financing for
these roads has been obtained from the World Food Prcogram), reductions
in the fisheries subproject, and minor reductions in other project items.
Given the very early stage of procurement under the project, it was decided
not to formally amend the project at that stage, and it was agreed that
the Government's proposals for reducing the project provided a reasonable
basis for proceeding for the time being. A revised proposal from the Gov-
ernment, based upon revised cost estimates, concerninig the amendments re-
quired in the project description and allocation of dhe amounts of the
credit to each subproject is expected shortly.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:   US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18. 1972; Effective Date: January 17. 1973,
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project is far behind schedule and cont:inues to be plagued with
problems. Major flooding, work stoppages caused by 100% increase in con-
struction labor costs, shortages of cement, fuel, and operable construction
equipment, ineffective management, inadequate provis:ion of local funds and
general inflation are factors which have delayed project construction. There
is some improvement in construction recently. Outstanding contractor claims
1/   These notes are designeddto inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a b)alanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
have recently been resolved. Manufacture of the electrical and mechanical
equipment for the regulators and pumping plant has been completed, and
delivery is being made to the sites. Delays in finalizing the low-lift pump
specifications by WDB retarded procurement. Tenders have now been issued.
Continuing inflation and other adverse factors are expected to increase the
Project costs substantially over the appraisal estimate.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of November 6. 1972;
Effective Date: January 13. 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1976
This project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 208-PAK of
1970 and credits from Sweden and Canada. Although bids had been received in
1971, no contracts were awarded before Bangladesh independence. The present
Credit is again in conjunction with a Credit from Sweden and a grant from
Canada. Construction on this project began during January 1974. In April 1974,
IDA approved award of the contract for supply of the well pumps and engines.
Signing of the contract documents has been delayed but delivery has commeneed
on the basis of a letter of intent. Due to initial delays, present imple-
mentation is about 18 months behind schedule. In January 1974, the Govera-
ment and the engineering consultants signed a revised contract providing for
the additional engineering and agriculture consulting services needed for
the project. In February 1974, the agricultural consultants (who were under
sub-contract to the engineering consultants) withdrew from the project,
stating that the salary scales in the revised contract signed by the
engineering consultants were inadequate to attract staff of the calibre re-
quired for the project. Proposals to replace the agricultural consultants
and expand their activities have been agreed in principle by the Government,
and the financing of the additional agricultural consultant costs is current-
ly under consideration by a bilateral aid agency. Drilling of the tubewells
has progressed satisfactorily in the past construction season.
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project: US$7.3 Million Credit of November 15,
1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1975
The project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1969, and goods and services valued at about US$2.2 million were received
in Dacca prior to suspension of disbursements. Three out of the four
microwave systems in the Project are under installation and are scheduled
to be commissioned by March 1976, and about one year behind schedule. The
fourth system is a replacement of a coaxial cable system in the original
project. This change was agreed to by IDA and was caused by price increases
demanded by the original contractor which made the choice of a microwave
system more economical. The bid invitation for this sytem has been included
with the bids that have already been invited for other microwave systems
under Credit 487-BD. Even so, the system is scheduled to be commissioned
in late 1977 or early 1978. A request for extension of the Closing Date
for this Credit will be considered after receipt and evaluation of the
tender when the commissioning date of the microwave system will be more



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
precisely known. The foreign costs of the project are expected to be
within the original estimates of US$7.3 million. The local costs are estimated
to increase from Tk 39 million to Tk 59 million due to higher labor and
construction costs and the imposition of a 20% tax or all imported goods.
Cr. No. 353    Small-Scale Industry Project: US$3.0 killion Credit of
January 19, 1973: Effective Date:   MaY 14. 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976
The Project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 192-PAK
of 1970. The Credit has financed notional repayment of amounts previously
disbursed under Credit No. 192-PAK (US$187,000) and p-ayment of outstanding
amounts for consulting services performed under Credit No. 192-PAK (US$12,000).
Disbursements for new activities up to June 30, 1975 amounted to approximately
US$2.4 million. The balance amount available is expe!cted to be disbursed
during 1975/76. A UNDP/UNIDO technical assistance project has made some
limited progress toward reorganization of BSIC.
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water SupPly Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 9. 1973: Effective Date: June ;'. 1973
Closing Date: June 30, 1976
The project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 42-PAK under
which US$3.3 million was disbursed. The work has progressed at a slow rate,
but will improve now that several civil works contracts are under way.
Physical progress had been curtailed by lack of cement, slow delivery of
pipe, and slow preparation of designs and contract documents. While the
immediate requirements for pipe and cement are on hand, several supply and
construction contracts are yet to be tendered. WASA has been requested to
hasten the preparation of contract documents and the tendering for this work.
Management, labor and union problems are now being better addressed follow-
ing the appointment of the new Chairman. While collection performance has
improved, financial operations and financial management remain weak. The
Government has increased the water rates by 50 percent effective July 1, 1975.
However, unless the performance in billing and collection improves and leakage
is reduced, further rate increases would be necessary to meet the financial
covenants of the Credit Agreement. The Association has agreed to extend the
Closing Date by one year to June 30, 1976. At that U:ime a decision will
be made, based upon the progress over the year in meeting the financial
covenants, as to whether or not to extend the Closing Date for the additional
1 to 1-1/2 years required to complete the project.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project: US$13.2 Million Credit of
April 9. 1973; Effective Date: June 7. 1973
Closing Date: June 30. 1976
The project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963. By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$6.0 million



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
had been disbursed. The work has progressed at a slow rate but will improve
now that several civil works contracts are under way and tubewell materials
and equipment have been delivered. Right-of-way acquisition and contractor
performance continue as major problems. Management and labor problems continue,
and financial operations and the financial condition of the WASA remains
weak. The Government has increased the water rates by 50 percent, effective
July 1, 1975. However, unless performance in billing and collection improves
and leakage is reduced, further increases would be necessary to meet the
financial covenants of the Credit Agreement. The Association has agreed to
extend the Closing Date by one year to June 30, 1976. At that time a decision
will be made, based upon the progress over the year in meeting the financial
covenants, as to whether or not to extend the Closing Date for the additional
1 to 1-1/2 years needed to complete the project.
Cr. No. S-14   Irrigation Engineering Project; US$3.15 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973: Effective Date: July 8. 1973
Closing Date: December 31, 1975
When IDA suspended disbursements under the original credits to
Pakistan (Credit Nos. S-8 and S-10) in December 1971, the Dacca Southwest
feasibility studies were completed and the Karnafuli-Muhuri studies were
about three-quarters completed. Interim financing from Sweden allowed the
work to continue. The feasibility studies for the Muhuri and Karnafuli projects
are now completed. A preliminary draft report for the Comilla-Noakhali project
(Dakatia Unit) was submitted, but the Government decided not to proceed with
the project at this time. Funds remaining in the Credit are being used
to finance detailed engineering and preparation of contract documents for
the Muhuri project by the Consultant. The Closing Date has been extended
from July 31, 1975 to December 31, 1975.
Cr. No. 381    Foodgrain Storage Project; US$19.7 Million Credit of May 18,
1973; Effective Date: July 17. 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975
The project is also financed by a credit from the Kingdom of
Sweden of 25.0 million Kroner. The project was originally financed by a
US$19.2 million IDA Credit No. 83 of 1966 and a 25 million Kroner credit
from the Kingdom of Sweden. The project was almost completed at the time
of Bangladesh's independence and 95% of the present IDA and Swedish credits
were used for repaying the previous credits. The remaining funds (US$1.25
million from IDA and about US$0.25 million equivalent from Sweden) are being
used to pay outstanding bills for work completed prior to the war, comple-
tion of some supporting facilities for the grain storage silos, replacement
of spares and equipment damaged during the war, and a feasibility study for
a second grain storage project. The Closing Date has been postponed by one
year to December 31, 1975 due mainly to delays in reaching agreement with
the consultants for design of modifications for the jetty at Chittagong and
with the consultants preparing the feasibility study for a second stage



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
project. The designs for the jetty modifications have been approved and
we are awaiting receipt of proposed arrangements for construction. The
feasibility study for a second grain storage project was completed in
October 1975 and is under review. Supervision missions have reported serious
deterioration in the silos mechanical equipment due to inadequate maintenance.
The management and staffing of the Directorate of the Silos is inadequate.
Delays in ordering spare parts (for which funds are available under the
Credit) increase the risk of breakdown.
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project was originally financed by two IDA Credits 49-PAK and
98-PAK. By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$7.7 million
had been disbursed out of the US$17.5 million aggregate total of the two
former credits. The Credit 407-BD added US$3.5 million to the total of the
original Credits, in order to help the Government meet part of the increases
in total project cost. Progress on the Agricultural University portion
of the project was delayed initialLy due to difficulties in reaching agreement
with the consultant architects on a revised contract. Construction has also
been delayed due to shortage of building material, delays in the preparation
of equipment lists, and furniture designs. The recernt devaluation of the
Taka has somewhat reduced the cost overruns but the costs of the project is
still estimated at 150% of appraisal estimates. The Government has submitted
to IDA proposals for modification of the project to mieet the cost overrun.
These proposals are currently under review. Implementation is about 20 months
behind the appraisal schedule. Progress on the technLical education portion
of the project is about 12 months behind the appraisaLL schedule. The
graduates are facing severe problems of unemployment, and the curriculum
needs revision to make it more relevant to job requirements. The Government
will be making recommendations on the development plan of the Agricultural
University shortly.
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 53-PAK. By
December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$3.62 million had been
disbursed, out of the original credit of US$22.5 mil:Lion. The new credit
adds US$2.5 million to the original credit amount, in order to help the
Government meet part of the increase in total projeci: cost as a result of
currency realignments. Four construction contracts were signed in September
1973 for the Sitalakhya Bridge and the Feni Section of the Dacca/Chittagong
road worth about US$9.2 million.  A fifth contract wLth consultants for
construction supervision was signed in February 1974 but they were in the



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
field earlier. Shortage of spare parts, administrative delays and deficiencies
in some contractors performance have delayed certain elements of the project.
Construction of the 1300-foot bridge over the Sitalakhya River previously
on schedule is now likely to be completed two years behind schedule, in mid-
1979 due to technical difficulties compounded by poor contractor performance.
However, the twenty-mile Feni bypass road construction project is well on the
way to completion, and plans for paving the road are now under preparation.
The estimated cost of civil works has increased by about 60%, in line with
worldwide trends. However, the total overall project cost increase is con-
siderably less, being about 25%. Disbursements, which in the past have been
slow, show signs of improvement.
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Effective Date: August 20, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975
After a slow start, the Government has recently begun to take advan-
tage of the funds available under this credit for preinvestment planning, fea-
sibility studies and technical assistance for agencies involved in project
planning and implementation. Contracts have been signed with consultarts
for six projects with an allocation from this credit of about US$1.3 million.
These studies have played a key role in the preparation of the Ashuganj Fer-
tilizer Project and three other projects which are under consideration. An-
other five subprojects involving US$1.7 million of credit funds have been
recently approved and arrangements for selection of consultants are underway.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project is about 20 months behind appraisal schedule. Follow-
ing a year of virtual stagnation, the Seed Certification Agency has been
established, seed legislation has been drafted and procurement of equipment
and construction of buildings has started. However, serious staffing, pro-
curement and financial problems remain. The Government has been trying to
obtain additional bilateral financing to help meet the cost overrun. However,
the Government has now agreed to proceed with the full project, and to meet
the full cost overrun of other financing does not become available. Re-
cruitment of key personnel has been extremely slow due to the lengthy pro-
cedures required by the Government; appointments are required in particular
for the head of the Seed Certification Agency and for the general manager
(field) of Bangladesh Agricultural Inputs Supplies and Services Corporation
(BAISSC). A full time official in charge of coordination in the Ministry of
Agriculture has just been designated. Procurement of farm machinery has
been held up because of bidders failure to comply with tender specifications
and by the Government's unsuccessful efforts thereafter to arrange for bi-
lateral financing. BAISSC is evaluating bids received for processing plants.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973; Effective Date: September 27,
1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Detailed investigations have indicated that: the damage to the
Chittagong offshore oil terminal was more severe thank previously believed.
Consultants were appointed late in 1973 to study several alternative tech-
nical solutions. An Amending Agreement modifying the project description
in line with the consultants' recommendations and increasing the amount of
the credit from US$4.1 million to US$8.7 million was approved by the Execu-
tive Directors on September 16, 1975. The Amending Agreement is not yet
effective. The procurement of spare parts, tools and equipment for the
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority, Bangladesh Inland Water Trans-
port Corporation, Chittagong Port Trust and Bangladesih Engineering and Ship-
ping Corporation suffered from initial delays, reflezting in part the lack
of familiarity of the agencies with IDA procedures aad slowness in reaching
decisions as to which spare parts had highest priority. Progress has now
improved and it is expected that all orders will be placed by early 1976.
Disbursements for this portion of the project are expected to be completed
by June 30, 1976, one year later than originally anticipated.
Cr. No. 458    Imports Program; US$50 Million Credit of February 7, 1974;
Effective Date: February 7, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1976
By June 1974, licenses for the full amount of the credit had been
issued to the various eligible industries. As of November 14, 1975, dis-
bursements amounted to US$47.4 million and, in addition letters of credit
guaranteed by IDA had been opened for US$1.2 million. Import orders have
been placed for the balance, and the credit is expected to be fully disbursed
by the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
---   June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Credit became effective July 23, 1974. Procurement work is well
in hand with the major orders expected to be placed by December 1975. Local
telephone expansion has lagged about a year behind schedule due to slower
than expected deliveries from the local factory (hanmpered by labor unrest).
However, the factory production is now picking up and the shortfall in
project targets is expected to be made up by 1977. According to present
cost estimates, foreign costs are likely to be within the original estimates.
The local costs will increase from Tk 470 million tc Tk 680 million due to
higher labor and construction costs and the imposition of a 20% tax on all
imported goods. Under the Credit Agreement, BTT is to establish a modern
accounting system and is to be transformed into a Board with adequate auton-
omy. Accounting consultants have been appointed. The Board was legally
established before the June 30, 1975 deadline, but t:he ordinance was revoked



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
almost immediately thereafter. A new ordinance establishing a Telecommunica-
tion Board was recently promulgated. We are waiting further information on
the regulations under which the new Board will operate.
Cr. No. 515    Third Imports Program; US$75 Million Credit of October 9,
1974; Effective Date: October 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Provision was made to reimburse the Government for up to US$10 mil-
lion for eligible imports paid for after July 1, 1974, but prior to the
date of the credit. Disbursements amounted to US$54.2 million as of
November 14, 1975, and in addition letters of credit guaranteed by IDA amount
to US$10.6 million. The Credit approved on October 9, 1974 was for US$50
million, but after the Fourth IDA Replenishment Agreement became effective,
an amendment increasing the credit amount was approved on February 27, 1975.
The Amending Agreement was signed on March 10, 1975 and became effective on
April 7, 1975. The Government has allocated the full amount of the Credit
among the various eligible industries, and import orders are being processed.
It is expected that by March 1976 the bulk of disbursements would have taken
place.
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project is being cofinanced by Asian Development Bank, KfW, and
the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of $109
million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit.   Site preparation work
is proceeding on schedule but overall the project is about six months be-
hind schedule due primarily to delays in awarding the General Engineering
and Management Assistance Contracts.   These contracts were signed in late
November/early December and the firms are expected to commence work in
Bangladesh early in 1976. Commencement of commercial production is now
expected by February 1979. Anticipated project costs overall remain con-
sistent with original estimates.
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:   US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project is being cofinanced by six lenders providing a total
of about $25 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Notwithstanding
the delay in declaring the Credit effective, the Government has made substantial
progress in project implementation. The organizational structure of the
Population Control and Family Planning Division (body responsible for the
population program) has been defined and its staff is being placed in position.
The Population Program Officers, who are responsible for the population
programs of five non-health ministries, have been trained abroad and have
initiated the schemes of their respective ministries. Negotiations with the



ANNFX II
Page 10 of 10
architectural consultants for the Building, Planning and Design Unit of the
Ministry of Health are in progress and agreement on a contract is expected
shortly. The Government is proceeding with the selection of required con-
sultants and advisors for other parts of the project. However, because of
institutional problems, the implementation of a few project components is some
months behind schedule.   In particular, the Government has still to formally
appoint a number of key personnel, including some oE the Population Program
Officers.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 MiLlion of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project consultants are mobilizing staff. Procurement of local
construction materials and construction of office aad storage accommodation
in Barisal is proceeding.
Cr. No. 591    Fourth Imports Program; US$100 Million of November 25, 1975;
Effective Date: December 29, 1975
Closing Date: September 30, 1977



ANNEX III
Page 1
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:             US$22.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Standard
Project
Descriptions:     Halda Unit - Major Works
(a) sixteen gated regulators at the outlets of channels
to the Karnafuli and Halda Rivers;
(b) five cargo-transfer stations at selected regulator
sites;
(c) improvement of 41 miles of existing channels and the
excavation of 6.5 miles of new channels;
(d) twenty-seven relift pumping stations with a total
of 71 low-lift, 2 cfs pumps to supply the channels
in the higher areas;
(e) about 300 low-lift, diesel-powered two cfs pumps
(bringing the number of pumps fielded in the area
up to about 710) to raise water from the channels
to adjacent farm lands;
(f)  small earthfill channel check structures, and
(g) flood protection embankments, 36 miles long, with
some borrow areas used for drainage and irrigation
water supply.
Ichamati Unit - Major Works
(a) a main pumping plant at Mahfez Channel with four
40 cfs units for irrigation and flood drainage;
(b) a relift pumping plant with three 17 cfs units;
(c) power transmission lines to the pumping plants;
(d) three gated regulators at the outlets of channels to
the Karnafuli and Ichamati Rivers;



ANNEX III
Page 2
(e)  improvement of 16 miles of existing khals ard the
excavation of four miles oE new channels;
(f) about 70 low-lift, diesel-powered, two cfs pumps
(bringing the number of pumlps fielded in the area
up to about 130) to raise water from the channels to
adjacent farmlands;
(g)  a box culvert under the Chtttagong-Kaptai Highway;
(h)  two channel check structures, one of them gated, and
(i)  flood protection embankment:s 12 mi long, along
with an exterior diversion channel.
Minor Works and Supporting ServLces (both Units)
(a) workshops, equipment and vehicles for maintenance
of civil works and pumps;
(b) transportation (field vehicles, motorcycles,
bicycles), and agricultura:L equipment (hand
sprayers, grain dryers) to strengthen agricul-
tural extension and supporl:ing services and the
establishment of six agricultural demonstration
areas;
(c) consultants to assist the Government in project
implementation, and
(d) fisheries research and development program in
the Chandpur, Muhuri and Karnafuli areas, including
provision of consultants and construction of a
carp hatchery at Chandpur.
Project
Financing:        US$22.0 million equivalent of which US$9.4 million is
expected to be in foreign exchange and US$9.5 million
in local currency. US$3.1 mill:Lon are expected to
refinance the remaining unpaid amounts under IDA
Irrigation Engineering Credit S-14 BD, which financed
the preparation of this project and other proposed
irrigation projects.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Estimated
Costs:            Estimated project costs are summarized below:
(US$ million)
For-        /a % of
Local   eign   Total-   Total
I. Halda Unit Land
Acquisition           2.15    -      2.15     7.1
Construction           5.90   2.17    8.07    26.6
Low-lift Pumps         0.42   0.89    1.31,    4.3
Subtotal        8.47    3.06   11,53    38.0
II.  Ichamati Unit
Land Acquisition       0.48    -      0.48     1.6
Construction           1.68   0.94    2.62     8.6
Low-lift Pumps         0.08   0.17    0.25     0.8
Subtotal        2.24    1.11    3.35    11.0
III. Equipment and
Vehicles              0.15   0.32    0.47     1.6
IV.  Consulting Services    0.23   0.42    0.65     2.2
V. Design, Management
and Administration    1.40    -      1.40     4.6
VI. Fisheries Development
Program               1.45   1.85    3.30    10.9
Basic Cost     13.94    6.76   20.70    68.3
VII. Physical
Contingencies         1.29   0.62    1.91     6.3
VIII. Expected Price
Increases             5.67   2.02    7.69    25.4
TOTAL PROJECT
COST           20.90Lk 9.40   30.30 lb 100.0
/a   Discrepancies in currency conversions due to rounding.
T-   Includes US$2.6 million equivalent taxes and duties.
Estimated
Disbursements:                    (US$ Millions)
FY1976     FY1977     FY1978      FY1979     FY1980
4.1        4.4         6.5        6.0        1.0
Accumulated
Disbursements:      4.1         8.5       15.0       21.0       22.0



ANNEX III
Page 4
Procurement:        (a)  Vehicles, equipment and materials would be procured
after international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines. A 15% preference margin
or prevailing customs duty if lower, would be ex-
tended to local manufacturers in evaluation of bids.
Off-the-shelf items costing 'Less than US$10,000 each,
which are not practical for Lnternational tendering,
would be purchased through normal government procure-
ment procedures acceptable to IDA. The aggregate
cost of such items would not exceed US$200,000.
(b) Civil works, with an estimated cost of US$17 million
(including contingencies), would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding. These works which
are relatively small and simple would be scattered
over a wide area and construction would be seasonal
and suitable for labor intensive methods. For these
works, contracts would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, adverti;ed locally and in accord-
ance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Such proce-
dures would not, however, preclude foreign contractors
from bidding.
Consultants:        (a)  Consultants would be retaine(I to assist the Water
Development Board, and other agencies concerned in
the implementation of the irrigation and flood con-
trol component of the projects, in the preparation
of work programs, designs and contract documents
and the supervision of construction. About 100 man-
months of consulting services would be provided.
(b) Consultants would also be ret:ained to assist the
Department of Fisheries in the preparation of work
programs, designs and contract documents and the
supervision of construction of the carp hatchery at
Chandpur; the initial operation of the hatchery, and
the investigative programs in the Chandpur, Muhuri
and Karnafuli areas. About 190 man-months of con-
sulting services would be provided.
Rate of Return:     15%
Appraisal Report:   Report No.      779a-BD        dated December 31 , 1975.



