Report No. 779a-BD                                                               FILE  Copt
Bangladesh: Appraisal of the
Karnafuli Irrigation Project
(Halda and Ichamati Units)
December 31, 1975
Irrigation and Area Development Division
South Asia Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at 30 to the Pound
Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to the US Dollar and coosr-
quently the Taka, US Dollar rate is subject to change. The rate below
has been used throughout this report, except where stated to the con-
trary.
US$1                -    Tks 13.0
Tk 1                -    US$0.077
Tk 1 million        -    US$77.000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)              -    0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)              -    1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)    -    640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)              -    30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 maund (md)             -    82.3 lbs (37.3 kg)
1 metric ton (ton)       -    26.8 md
1 cubic foot per second
(cfs)                  -    0.028 m3/sec



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BADC           -    Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BAISSC         -    Bangladesh Agricultural Inputs, Supplies
and Services Corporation
BRRI           -    Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
CEC            -    Central Evaluation Committee
GDP            -    Gross Domestic Product
GOB            -    Government of Bangladesh
HYV            -    High Yielding Varieties (of rice)
IRDP           -    Integrated Rural Development Program
IRRI           -    International Rice Research Institute (Philippines)
MFWP           -    Ministry of Food Control, Water Resources and Power
NEC            -    National Economic Council
PEP            -    Project Evaluation Proforma
PIC            -    Project Implementation Committee
TAO            -    Thana Agriculture Officer
TEO            -    Thana Extension Officer
TCCA           -    Thana Central Cooperative Association
TIP            -    Thana Irrigation Program
TTDC           -    Thana Training and Development Center
UAA            -    Union Agriculture Assistant
VEA            -    Village Extension Agent
WDB            -    Water Development Board
GLOSSARY
Aman           -    Rice planted before or during the monsoon and harvested
in November or December (B. aman is broadcast, T. aman
is transplanted)
Aus            -    Rice planted during March and April and harvested during
July and August (B. aus is broadcast, T. aus is
transplanted)
Boro           -    Rice planted in winter and harvested during the period
April to June
Khal           -    Natural drainage channel
Paddy          -    Unhulled rice
Project Eval-  -    A project report prepared for the Planning Commission.
uation Pro-          Approval of the PEP by the NEC is required before
forma (PEP)          local funds for the project can be released.
Thana          -    Smallest administrative unit in Bangladesh.  There are
413 thanas in the country. Six or seven thanas form
a District, and there are 19 Districts in the country
Union          -    A unit of local self government.  There are about 10
unions in each thana
FISCAL YEAR
Ju   1 - June 30






BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ................   ..........       i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION         .....................................     1
II.   BACKGROUND      ................................1 
General . ....................................            1
Agricultural Development ....................             2
Irrigation Development ....................   ..          3
III.   THE PROJECT AREA .......................;                       4
General..                                                 4
Climate..                                                 5
Topography and Soils .                .                   5
Existing Irrigation and Drainage                          6
Farm Size and Land Tenure.                                7
Agricultural Production .               .                 8
Transportation and Marketing .            .               8
IV. THE PROJECT..9
:D . ~   enra ......................................               9
General..9
Project Features..                                        9
Water Quality, Demand and Supply   .        .12
Engineering Design......                                 13
Construction Schedule   .             .13
Cost Estimates.                                          13
Financing   . .16
Procurements and Contracts   .           .16
Disbursements   .                 .16
Accounts and Audit   .               .17
Environmental Impact   .              .17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Bangladesh in September-October 1974, comprising Messrs. R.R.
Morton, P. Garg, U. Hpu, P. Ljung, and A. Feinstein (Consultant).
Mr. L. Sprague contributed to the Annex on Fisheries.



-2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MA1AGEMENT .       ......................   17
Implementation of Project Works .............          17
Consulting Services ............ .............         18
Operation and Maintenance ..................  .        19
Agricultural Supporting Services ............          19
Recovery of Costs ... ................ .. ....... .    21
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES ...           22
Crop Calendars and Cropping Patterns    ........       22
Yields and Production .....      ..................    23
Marketing ................... .. . ...................  24
Prices ........... ...........................         24
Farm Income         .................................  25
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  .......................          26
General . ....................................         26
Rice Production .............................          26
Employment Opportunities .................  ...        27
Income Distribution ..........................         27
Economic Rate of Return ........... ..........         27
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...........           29
ANNEXES
1.  Agricultural Development
2.   Climatic Data
3.   Project Works
4.   Fisheries Development Program
5.   Irrigation Water Requirements
6.   Construction Schedule
7.   Cost Estimates
8.   Schedules of Expenditures, Proposed Credit Allocation,
and Disbursements
9.   Agricultural Supporting Services
10.   Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
11.   Prices for Economic and Financial Analyses
12.   Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets
13.   Farm Labor Analysis
14.   Economic Analysis
NAP NO.
11537     Project Location
11538     Project Area



BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture dominates the economy of Bangladesh.  It accounts for
over half of GDP, 75% of employment, and over 80% of exports. Although rice
is grown on about 80% of the cultivated acreage and represents about two-
thirds of the value of agricultural production, rice production has not
been able to meet the requirements of a rapidly growing population. In
1960/61 food grain imports amounted to 0.7 million tons and had, by 1974/
75, risen to 2.4 million tons. The First Five-Year Plan (1974-78) gives
high priority to increasing rice production through promotion of modern
inputs (improved seeds, fertilizers and pesticides) and through further
expansion of irrigation from low-lift pumps and tubewells.
ii.       The proposed project would provide irrigation, flood control and
drainage to a net area of about 38,000 ac in the lower Halda River Basin,
and 8,000 ac in the lower Ichamati River Valley. Because of the irrigation
facilities to be provided under the project, the dry season rice area would
expand from the present 20,000 ac to about 38,000 ac. In the wet season,
project works would reduce flooding and provide supplementary irrigation.
This would increase yields and permit a shift from local to high yielding
rice varieties on 15,000 ac. About 840 units of 7-10 hp diesel-powered
low-lift pumps, each serving an average area of 45 ac, would irrigate the
area from an extensive network of natural and project-improved channels
(khals). In the Halda Unit, the khal system would be supplied by tidal
recharge whereas in the Ichamati Unit it would be by a main pumping plant.
In both areas, high-level khals would be filled by relift pumping stations.
Both project areas would be protected from outside flooding by perimeter
embankments and regulators on the khals. The Ichamati pumping plant would
serve to drain excess water in the unit during the wet season. Khal exca-
vation and the regulators would make navigation by small boats possible in
most parts of the project area. In addition to pumps and civil works, the
project would provide a fisheries development program as well as workshops,
equipment and vehicles for both operation and maintenance and agricultural
supporting services.
iii.      The Water Development Board, under the Ministry of Flood Control,
Water Resources and Power, would have overall responsibility for execution
and management of the irrigation and flood control component of the project
works. Several Government agencies would be involved in implementing the
project. Interagency coordination would be provided by an interdepartmental
Project Implementation Committee chaired by the Project Director. The Minis-
try of Forests, Fish and Livestock would be responsible for the implementa-
tion of the fisheries development component of the project. A Central Eval-
uation Committee comprising senior representatives of the various ministries



- i:i -
and agencies involved and chaired by the Minister of Flood Control, Water
Resources and Power, would periodically review project progress and resolve
coordination problems. Consultants would be engaged to assist in project
implementation.
iv.       The estimated cost of the project is US$30.3 million equivalent of
which US$9.4 would be in foreign exchange and US$2.6 million equivalent in
local taxes and duties. Out of the proposed credit of US$22.0 million,
US$18.9 million would be used for financing the full foreign exchange costs
and some local costs, or about 68% of the total project cost net of taxes
and duties. The remaining US$3.1 million of the proposed credit would re-
finance an earlier technical assistance credit (Credit S-14-BD). Contracts
for the supply of vehicles, equipment and imported materials amounting to
about US$3.6 million would be awarded after international competitive bid-
ding. Because international competitive bidding would not be practical for
the civil works, which are small, simple, labor intensive and scattered,
these works, with an estimated cost of US$17.0 million, would be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding locally advertised. Foreign contrac-
tors would not be precluded from bidding. Project implementation would
take four years.
v.       At full development by 1984, annual paddy production in the proj-
ect area is expected to reach about L41,000 tons compared to the current
93,000 tons and a projected production of 115,000 tons under "without proj-
ect" conditions. The project related increase of 26,000 tons (17,000 tons of
milled rice) would represent a net foreign exchange savings of about US$3.3 mi1lion
annually. The project would lead to an increased income for some 20,000 farm
families, most of whom are very small farmers operating on an average about
1.6 ac. Average farm income would increase from about US$90 to about US$120
per capita per year. At the projected World Market price for milled rice of
US$250 per metric ton cif Chittagong, the project's economic rate of return
would be about 15%.
vi.       The proposed project is su:Ltable for an IDA credit of US$22 mil-
lion equivalent. The Borrower would be the People's Republic of Bangladesh.



BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF THE KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh (GOB) has
requested an IDA credit of US$22 million -- US$18.9 million for financing
the Karnafuli Irrigation Project and US$3.1 million for refinancing an
earlier technical assistance credit -- Credit S-14-BD. This would be
the fourth IDA credit for irrigation projects since Bangladesh independ-
ence. Two IDA credits have also been provided to finance technical assis-
tance to the Government in project preparation. The status of IDA-financed
projects for irrigation development in the country is described in Chapter
II.
1.02      Feasibility studies for the Karnafuli Project were carried out
for the Bangladesh Water Development Board (WDB) by a joint venture of con-
sulting engineers -- International Engineering Co., Inc., USA, and Rahman
and Associates, Bangladesh. The studies began in 1970 under IDA Credit
S-10-PAK. When disbursements for this credit were suspended in December
1971 due to the war of independence, a draft report on a combined irriga-
tion and flood control project had been completed. On resumption of studies
under Credit S-14-BD, dated April 9, 1973, the basic data was updated and
the irrigation and flood control components analyzed on a phased develop-
ment basis. A revised feasibility report was completed in March 1974.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission,
comprising Messrs. R.R. MIorton, P. Garg, U. Hpu, P. Ljung and A. Feinstein
(Consultant), who visited Bangladesh in September-October 1974. Mr. L.
Sprague contributed to the Annex on Fisheries.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Bangladesh has an area of 55,000 sq mi of which 8,500 sq mi are
forested, about 5,000 sq mi are rivers and swamps, and about 35,000 sq mi
are cultivable. The population density of Bangladesh is among the highest
in the world with about 1,400 persons per sq mi (a total population of 77
million in 1974, increasing at about 3% annually). Practically all suita-
ble land has been brought under cultivation. At least one-third of the
land is flooded every year due to its location on the alluvial delta
plain of three of the world's largest rivers - the Brahmaputra, Ganges
and Meghna.



-2-
2.02      About 90% of the population live in rural areas and at least 80%
are dependent on agriculture, predominantly rice and jute cultivation. About
one-third of all rural households are landless and about two-fifths of the
labor force is under-employed all year around. Although nearly three-quar-
ters of the adults are illiterate, currently some 56% of the children ages
six to ten are enrolled in primary schools. The per capita income which
has been constant since the mid-1960s of about US$100 (in 1975 prices) per
year is among the world's lowest. The country's most pressing problem is
an overall food deficit and the resultant outflow of foreign exchange for
essential food grain imports.
Agricultural Development
2.03      Agriculture contributes about 55% of GDP and accounts for about
80% of exports -- mainly raw jute, jutegoods, and some tea. Possibilities
are limited for expanding the cultivated area of 22.5 million ac and gains
in production will require more intensive land use and higher yields. While
soil fertility is generally good and temperatures allow year-round cropping,
irrigation is essential for crop production during the dry season (November
- March). About 2.5 million ac are deeply flooded (over 15 ft) annually
and cultivation is possible only after the flood subsides in November. An
additional area of 5.5 million ac is flooded from 3-15 ft and is therefore
only suitable for one crop of low-yielding long-stalk or floating rice.
In addition, abnormal floods, cyclones and drought often limit production
(Annex 1).
2.04      The total cropped area in 1973/74 was 30.5 million ac:  rice,
24.4 million ac; jute, 2.0 million ac and other crops 4.1 million ac. The
cropping intensity is about 140%. Although the area of 22 million ac of
rainfed rice has not changed significantly since 1960, irrigated dry-sea-
son rice has increased from 1.0 to 2.6 million ac. Rice production in the
1960's, not keeping pace with the population, increased at an average of 2%
per year. The present level of annual food grain imports is 2.0 - 2.5 mil-
lion tons, or about 20% of total consumption.
2.05      The average land-holding villager owns about 1.5 ac.  He may rent
another acre from farmers with larger holdings. His total area is usually
fragmented into four to five plots. Most of the rice produced by the aver-
age farmer goes to feed his family; his cash earnings are small and he is
usually in debt.
2.06      A primary objective of the Government is to improve village living
standards by raising agricultural production. As the short-term approach
to increasing food grain production, the First Five-Year Plan (1974-1978)
proposed a rapid spread of high yielding rice varieties (HYV), with the
provision of fertilizers, pesticides and, where possible, of irrigation by
low-lift pumps and tubewells.
2.07      Ministries and agencies principally involved in agricultural devel-
opment are:



-3-
Ministry of Agriculture         -    responsible for the procurement and
through the Bangladesh               distribution of seeds, fertilizers,
Agricultural Development              insecticides, low-lift pumps, tube-
Corporation (BADC) 1/                wells and fuel for operation;
Ministry of Agriculture         -    responsible for research, training
through its specialized              and extension;
departments
Ministry of Local Government, -    responsible for developing and ex-
Rural Development and Coop-          panding farmers' cooperatives and
eratives through its Rural           cooperative associations and for
Development and Cooperative          strengthening local government
Division and its Integrated          institutions;
Rural Development Program
(IRDP)
Ministry of Flood Control,    -    responsible for the planning, design
Water Resources and Power            and construction of water development
through its Water Development        projects.
Board (WDB)
Irrigation Development
2.08      For centuries, Bangladesh farmers have used bucket-lift irriga-
tion methods for cultivating a dry-season rice crop (boro) on land near
low-lying water bodies and perennial rivers. Almost no water resource
development took place until WDB was established in 1959 and BADC in
1962. Irrigation is now available for about 2.5 million ac: 0.2 mil-
lion ac by gravity supply; 0.2 million ac by groundwater from tubewells;
1.1 million ac by low-lift pumps, and 1 million ac by traditional methods.
Flood protection has been provided for about 1.5 million ac, of which 1.3
million ac is primarily saline water protection in the coastal region.
Partial flood protection is provided for about 0.9 million ac.
2.09      The IDA has financed two completed large scale water control proj-
ects: Dacca Demra (Credit No. 1-PAK, 1961, US$1 million) provides flood pro-
tection for about 10,000 ac and irrigation for about 15,000 ac, and Brahma-
putra Right Embankment (Credit No. 39-PAK, 1963, US$5 million) gives partial
flood protection for a gross area of about 580,000 ac. The IDA also financed
3,000 low-lift pump sets in 1967 (US$4.1 million from Credit No. 76-PAK) and
3,800 pump engines in 1968 (US$3.5 million from Credit No. 117-PAK) to pro-
vide irrigation for about 275,000 ac. Currently, IDA is financing construc-
tion of the Chandpur II Irrigation Project (Credit No. 340-BD, 1972, US$13.0
1/   In mid-1975, the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC)
was reorganized into Bangladesh Agricultural Inputs, Supplies and Serv-
ices Corporation (BAISCC). All subsequent references to BADC in this
report should be taken to imply BAISCC.



-4-
million), to provide flood prot:ection for about 140,000 ac and irrigation for
about 75,000 ac; the Northwest Region Tubewells Project (Credit No. 341-BD,
1972, US$14.0 million) to provide irrigation from groundwater for about
180,000 ac, and the Barisal Irrigation Project (Credit No. 542-BD, 1975,
US$27.0 million) to provide irrigation for about 140,000 ac by low-lift
pumping. An additional irrigation and flood protection project (Muhuri
Project), prepared along with the Karnafuli Project with the help of IDA
Credit No. S-14-BD (1972, US$3.15 million) is under processing and will be
presented to the Board after evraluation of the bids for the major civil
works contract. The IDA is also financing a Technical Assistance Credit
(Credit No. 409-BD, 1973, US$4.0 million) to assist the Government in
planning and preparing several types of projects, including irrigation
schemes. In addition, US$18.2 million has been disbursed under the Recon-
struction Import Credit (Credit No. 345-BD, 1972, US$50.0 million) and US$1.0
million under the Third Import Program Credit (515-BD, 1974, US$75.0 million)
for materials and spare parts for tubewells and low-lift pumps.
2.10      The major item in irrigation development is currently the low-
lift pump program of BADC. However, pump utilization -- about 15-20 ac
per cfs -- is far below its potential and this is partially due to the
Government's large subsidy of farmers' pump costs which allow profitable
utilization with inefficient practices. Frequently, pumps are located
where water supply is inadequate for optimum irrigation. Inadequate
supply of spare parts and other maintenance problems have also adversely
affected the program. There is a lack of practical advice to farmers in
the organization and management of pump groups, and group membership is
unstable. Fuel and fertilizer supplies are also unreliable.
2.11      The Government is taking steps to correct these deficiencies and
is now giving priority to projects that would create suitable conditions
for expansion of low-lift pump irrigation. With the provision of water
control, the Karnafuli project area would become suitable for such a
development. Flood levels in the project area do not inhibit the cul-
tivation of HYV rice during the monsoon season, and existing khals (chan-
nels) provide a natural water distribution system.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project would comprise two sub-projects -- the Halda Unit and
Ichamati Unit -- located around two tributaries of the Karnafuli River in
southeast Bangladesh, some 130 mi from Dacca (Map 11537). About 244,000
people live in the area, of which 190,000 belong to farm households. The
nearest town is Chittagong, located at the mouth of the Karnafuli River,
ten miles west of the project. It is the main port of Bangladesh and is
a divisional and district headquarters with good transportation and mar-
keting facilities.



3.02      The Halda sub-project area is situated on the wide, flat plain
of the lower Halda River and comprises parts of the Rauzan and Hathazari
thanas of the Chittagong District. It has a gross area of 48,000 ac and
a net agricultural area of 38,300 ac. The area's population is about
207,000 of which 160,000 belong to farm households.
3.03      The Ichamati sub-project area is situated on the east side of the
valley of the Ichamati River and comprises a part of Rangunia thana, 1/ also
of the Chittagong District. It has a gross area of 10,000 ac and a net
agricultural area of 7,900 ac. It is somewhat less densely populated than
the Halda area and has a population of about 37,000 with 30,000 belonging
to farm households. Both areas are interlaced with numerous small rivers
and khals.
Climate
3.04      The project area has three main seasons:  the monsoon from June
to October, during which about 80% of total annual rainfall is recorded;
the dry season from November to February, which has very little rainfall
and the lowest temperatures and humidities, and the pre-monsoon season
from March to May, which has the highest temperatures and evaporation
rates with occasional heavy rain storms. Cyclones, originating in the
Bay of Bengal in April-May and September-November, periodically cause
severe damage along the coast, west of the project area. However,
because of its location, the project would not be affected by cyclones.
3.05      Mean monthly temperatures vary between about 67aF in January
and 83°F in May. The mean dirunal range in temperatures is about 20°F
in the dry season, and 9°F in the rainy season. Relative humidity ranges
from 65% to 85%. Annual rainfall averages about 110 inches. Evaporation
ranges from 3 inches in January to 6 inches in May (Annex 2).
Topography and Soils
3.06      Most of the area consists of wide, flat, flood plains, intersected
by the two rivers and numerous khals. Elevations in the Halda Unit range
from about 6 ft above mean sea level (YSL) in the low areas, to about 14 ft
MSL along the river banks. In the Ichamati Unit, elevation is from 8 ft MSL
in a large saucer-shaped depression (named Gumai Bil) that occupies about
half the unit's area to about 20 ft MSL along the river banks and 25 ft
MSL at the northern and western project boundaries. In both units, soils
are deep and nearly level. Where slight natural gradients occur, individ-
ual plots have been leveled to form terraces. Topsoil textures range from
loam to clay, with silty clay loam and silty clay being the most common.
1/   Rangunia thana is one of the four thanas in Bangladesh that will receive
a comprehensive package of family planning services under the Population
Project (Credit No. 533-BD, 1975, US$15 million). (For further details,
see Annex 9, paras 9-10).



-6-
Soil permeability is low to moderate and is excellent for rice production.
The two areas are seasonally flooded with depths seldom exceeding 4 ft in
the Halda Unit but slightly above 5 ft in the Gumai Bil depression of the
Ichamati Unit. With a delayed transplanting, the majority of the two areas
is suitable for transplanted aman during the wet season although yields are
below optimum. During the dry season, irrigation is essential for rice cul-
tivation. Vegetable and winter (rabi) crops are cultivated with residual
soil moisture after harvest of the wet season crop. The many rivers and
khals supported by tidal-induced back water from the Karnafuli River make
the area suited for irrigation by low-lift pumps. This has already been
adopted by the farmers where water is available in sufficient amounts
during the dry season.
Existing Irrigation and Drainage
3.07      The principal source of water for the project areas is the
Karnafuli River, which is regulated by the Kaptai Reservoir some 40 mi
upstream of Chittagong (30 mi from the Halda and 15 mi from the Ichamati
outlet). Diurnal tidal fluctuations in the Bay of Bengal back fresh water
up the Karnafuli into the Halda and Ichamati Rivers and thence into the khals
throughout the project areas. Present low-lift pump irrigation is dependent
on this tidal recharge in most parts of the area. However, the limited dura-
tion of the high tides reduces both the irrigated area per pump and the num-
ber of pumps that can be profitably used.
3.08      Present irrigation in the project area is primarily by 2 cfs ca-
pacity low-lift pumps. These are rented by BADC to farmers organized under
the Thana Irrigation Program (TIP). The BADC collects the pumps at the end
of the dry season for maintenance and storage during the monsoon. It is
also responsible for the supply of fuel and lubricants, fertilizers, pesti-
cides, and seeds. The TIP is responsible for organizing pump groups, pro-
viding pump operators, and collecting fuel and rental charges. Some 410
pumps are currently fielded in the Halda project area, while 60 are in the
Ichamati area. Average area per pump is about 40 ac. It is unlikely that
these numbers of pumps could increase substantially since pump utilization
is already limited by water availability with pumping from many khals pos-
sible only at high tide. Run-off in the Halda and Ichamati drainage basins
and their tributary khals is too low during the dry season to aid this situ-
ation appreciably.
3.09      Flood protection and drainage in the project area is rudimentary.
Khals convey excess water to the principal rivers, which are backed up during
tides. Large areas are thus flooded several times during a monsoon season
with consequent reduction of crop yields.



-7-
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.10      The Halda Unit has an estimated population of about 207,000
distributed in 10,000 non-farm households, 5,000 households of landless
agricultural laborers 1/ and 18,000 farm households. The number of non-
agricultural workers is relatively high in this area due to ample fishing
opportunities in the Halda River, a well developed marketing system and the
proximity to the urban labor market in Chittagong.
3.11      The Ichamati Unit has an estimated population of about 37,000
distributed on 1,200 non-farm households, 800 households of landless agri-
cultural laborers 1/ and 3,900 farm households. The two project areas are
among the most densely populated in Bangadesh (2,600 persons per sq mi com-
pared to the national average of 1,400). Consequently, farms are smaller
than in most parts of the country.
3.12      At present, a minimum area of about 1.5 ac is required to support
an average farm family at a subsistence level. However, as can be seen
below, about 60% of all farming households are either landless or operate
farms smaller than this size. If all households are included in the com-
parison, only about 20% have holdings in excess of 1.5 ac.
No. of Holdin sL b     Area of HoldingsL/b       Average_Lb
Farm Size/a         as % of Totaf          as % of Total          Family Size
(Persons)
Less than 0.25 ac         22                      2                   5.0
0.25 - 1.00 ac            28                      8                   5.7
1.00 - 2.50 ac            24                     20                   6.9
2.50 - 5.00 ac            17                     32                   8.0
Over 5.00 ac               9                     38                   9.9
/a   Operated area (owned and rented).
/b   The farm size distribution in the two units are almost identical.
The figures given here are averages for both areas.
3.13      The average farm size is 1.9 ac of which 1.6 ac are cultivated
and the remaining 0.3 ac is farmstead, ditches and foot paths. If the
holdings below 0.25 ac are excluded, the average is 2.4 ac. An agro-
economic sample survey indicates that a relatively high proportion,
1/   Holding less than 0.25 ac.



- 8 -
over 20%, of the land is owned by absentee land owners, mainly persons
who have--permanently or, more often, temporarily--migrated to Chittagong,
or by non-farm households in the area. Only about two-thirds of the farm-
er-owned area is owner operated since farmers exchange land under a var-
iety of arrangements such as share cropping, cash-lease or long-term
rental. Share cropping, the most common type of lease, is usually
based on a 50-50 sharing of the crop with expenses shared on a variable
basis between the landowner and the sharecropper. The exchange of land
is a way of minimizing the risk of a major crop loss, and is consequently
most common in areas subjected to frequent floods such as in the Gumai Bil
depression. About 5% of the farms are tenant operated.
Agricultural Production
3.14      Rice is by far the most important crop and accounts for 94% of
the cropped area. There are three crops of rice - aus, aman, and boro.
Aus, a crop with a short growth period, is usually broadcast with the
early rains in March-April and harvested in July-August. Aman, the
main crop, is all transplanted. It is sown generally in June-July,
transplanted a month later and harvested in November-December. However,
in some low-lying areas, transplanting is delayed until the monsoon flood
recedes. Boro, which is cultivated with irrigation, is sown in December-
January, transplanted a month later and harvested in May-June.
3.15      Aus is grown on 20,000 ac, aman on 42,000 ac and boro on 22,000 ac.
The HYV rice is becoming increasingly popular and accounts for 48,000 ac, or
56% of the area under rice cultivation. The local variety yields are rela-
tively low: 0.5 tons of paddy per ac for aus; 0.8 tons per ac for aman,
and 0.9 tons per ac for boro. The HYV aus, aman and boro presently give
yields of about 1.0, 1.2 and 1.7 tons per ac, respectively.
3.16      During the dry season, about 4,800 ac of pulses, oilseeds and
vegetables are grown utilizing residual soil moisture after the harvest-
ing of the rice crop. Sugarcane, a year-round crop, occupies about 400
ac. No jute is grown in this area.
3.17      The present cropped area is about 90,000 ac which, on a net cul-
tivated area of about 46,000 ac, gives an overall cropping intensity of
194% (the average for Bangladesh is 136%). In most of the project area,
the cropping intensity is about 200% but the average is pulled down by
the low-lying Gumai Bil depression in the Ichamati Unit, which is liable
to a flooding depth of about 5 ft or more and thus has a cropping intensity
of only 125%. The total production is: 93,000 tons of paddy; 500 tons of
pulses and oilseeds; 3,400 tons of vegetables, and 4,000 tons of sugarcane.
Present and projected farming practices are detailed in Annex 1. Cropping
patterns and yields are detailed in Annex 10.
Transportation and Marketing
3.18      The transportation network within the project area is only skele-
tal.  The Chittagong - Kaptai Highway, which cuts through both the Halda and



- 9 -
the Ichamati Units, and the Chittagong - Rangamati Highway, through the Halda
Unit, are the only paved all-weather roads in the area. Other roads are gen-
erally usable only during the dry season. The Chittagong-Nazir Hat Railroad
follows the western border of the Halda Unit and carries about 15,000 pass-
engers per day. However, frequent bus service on these roads gives good con-
nections to Chittagong. The Karnafuli, Halda and Ichamati rivers are used
throughout the year for both cargo and passenger transport. During the mon-
soon season, the large network of khals forms a widespread water transport
system, thereby permitting access to most villages.
3.19 -   The farmers usually take their paddy by carry-pole, oxcart or
boat to the village market where it is bought by intermediary traders,
who either bring the paddy to the town markets for resale to wholesale
dealers or have it milled by local hullers for direct sale. About
200 rice hulling machines are operating in the area and major rice
mills exist in Chittagong. Many of the private dealers have small go-
downs (generally 10-20 tons capacity) for the storage of paddy and rice.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The proposed project would provide irrigation, flood control and
drainage, and improved agricultural supporting services to farmers in a net
area of about 38,000 ac in the lower Halda Valley and 8,000 ac in the Ichamati
Valley. Irrigation would depend on low-lift pumps drawing from an improved
khal system, which would be supplied by tidal recharge in the Halda Unit and
a main pumping plant in the Ichamati Unit. The pumping plant would also be
used for drainage during the monsoon season. The project would enable a
major increase in crop yields through the construction of facilities to
create favorable conditions for growing HYV rice.
Project Features
4.02      The main components of the project, details of which are given
in Annex 3, are as follows:
halda Unit - Major Works
(a) sixteen gated regulators at the outlets of khals to the
Karnafuli and Halda rivers;
(b) five cargo-transfer stations at selected regulator
sites;
(c) improvement of about 41 mi of existing khals and the
excavation of about 6.5 mi of new khals;



- 10 -
(d) twenty-seven relift pumping stations with a total of
71 low-lift, 2 cfs pumps (or equivalent) to supply the
khals in the higher areas;
(e) about 710 low-lift, diesel-powered 2 cfs pumps (of
which about 410 are for replacing the existing pumps)
to raise water from the khals to adjacent farm lands;
(f) small earthfill khal check structures, and
(g) flood-protection embankments about 36 mi long, with
some burrow areas to be used for drainage and irri-
gation water supply.
Ichamati Unit - Major Works
(a) a main pumping plant at Mahfez khal with about 150 cfs
pumping capacity for irrigation and flood drainage;
(b)  a relift pumping plant with about 50 cfs pumping
capacity;
(c) power transmission :Lines to the pumping plants;
(d) three gated regulators at the outlets of khals to the
Karnafuli and Ichamati rivers;
(e) improvement of about 16 mi of existing khals and the
excavation of about 4 mi of new khals;
(f)  about 130 low-lift, diesel-powered, 2 cfs pumps (of
which about 60 are for replacing the existing ones)
to raise water from the khals to adjacent farmlands;
(g) a box culvert under the Chittagong-Kaptai Highway;
(h) two khal check structures, one of them gated, and
(i) flood protection embankments about 12 mi long, along
with an exterior diversion channel.
Minor Works and Supporting Services (both Units)
(a) workshops, equipment and vehicles for maintenance
of civil works and pumps;
(b)  transportation (fie.ld vehicles, motorcycles,
bicycles), and agricultural equipment (hand
sprayers, grain dryers);



- 11 -
(c) to strengthen agricultural extension and
supporting services and the establishment
of six agricultural demonstration areas;
(d) consultants to assist the Government in proj-
ect implementation, and
(e) fisheries development program (Annex 4).
4.03      The project would provide a reliable water supply to the 20,000
ac presently under inadequate irrigation and expand the irrigated area to
38,000 ac. In the wet season, the project would reduce flooding and allow
supplementary irrigation. This would permit both higher yields and a shift
from local varieties to HYV varieties on 6,000 ac. About 840 low-lift pumps, 1/
powered by a 7-10 hp diesel engine each serving an average area of 45 ac, would
irrigate the area from an extensive network of natural and project-improved
khals. In the Halda Unit, the khal system would be supplied by tidal recharge
whereas in the Ichamati Unit, it would be by a main pumping plant. In both
areas, high level khals would be filled by relift pumping stations. Low-
lift pumping has already been adopted in the project area, but expansion is
limited by the water availability. Khal excavation and the regulators would
make small-vessel navigation possible in most parts of the project area.
4.04      On-Farm Water Distribution.  Farmers in the project area, and
elsewhere in Bangladesh where low-lift pumps are used, have shown an
ability to adopt irrigation with only little additional on-farm improve-
ment works. Paddy fields are already leveled and, in most cases, are
fully or partially diked. water distribution is from plot-to-plot with
some small ditches constructed by the farmers. Difficulties are often
the result of improper location of the pump or inadequate pump group man-
agement. Pump groups would be formed in the project area under the direc-
tion of IRDP, which would be assisted in pump siting and distribution layout
by WDB and the project consultants. Pump groups would complete their own
water distribution systems within areas served by each low-lift pump. The
IRDP would conduct training programs in improved irrigation practices for
selected members from each pump group at the Thana Training and Develop-
ment Centers (TTDC).
4.05      Fisheries Development Program.  The carp spawn fishery is a
unique and important fishery on the Halda River. It is a major component
of the Bangladesh fishery industry. The project concept, of regulating
khal flows with no regulation of the Halda River itself, was designed to
have minimal effect on the fishery. However, knowledge of the fishery
is limited and further specialist study of the Halda fishery is consid-
ered essential in implementation of the project.   The proposed credit,
1/   Most of the 470 units currently in the project area will become due
for replacement during the project implementation period.



- 12 -
therefore, provides for detailed specialist studies of the fish habitat
on the Halda River with particular regard to the potential effect of the
project on fisheries in the area. The planned research program would also
encompass fisheries in the Ichamati and Muhuri Rivers and the Chandpur II
Irrigation Project (Credit No. 340-BD) currently under development. The
studies would include recommendations regarding location and costs of
prawn and carp hatchery facilities that could serve the three project
areas. (For further details see Annex 4.) Expatriate consultant serv-
ices would be required and the program, including construction of a carp
spawning and rearing station in the Chandpur project area is estimated to
cost about US$4.4 million equivalent, with $2.4 million as foreign exchange.
Water Quality, Demand and Supply
4.06      Quality.  The rivers entering the project area provide good qual-
ity water well suited for irr:Lgation. Water quality measures have been
carried out at a point severaL miles downstream of the mouth of the Halda
River since the construction of the Kaptai power plant. Salinity levels
at this point are generally no higher than 100 parts per million (ppm).
Occasionally salinity has risen to several hundred ppm and only once to
above 2,000 ppm, which is undesirable for irrigation. However, these
readings coincided with spring tides and were made well below the proj-
ect area. Thus, sea water intrusion would not pose any supply or opera-
tional threat to the project.
4.07      Demand.  Monthly pumping requirements in the dry season would
increase from 4 inches in January to 11 inches in February then decline to
6 inches in May (Annex 5). The total irrigation requirements for the boro
crop would be 42 inches or some 133,000 ac ft. The peak pumping from the
khals during February would average 1,700 cfs for about nine hours per day.
Supplementary irrigation for the aman crop in September and October would
require about 26,000 ac ft in a typical year.
4.08      Supply.  The project: would depend primarily upon the Karnafuli
River for its irrigation water supply.  The Karnafuli has been regulated
since 1962 by the Kaptai Reservoir, at the river's outlet from the Chitta-
gong Hill Tracts. With an average year-round flow of 20,000 cfs, the Karna-
fuli discharges from 4,000 to 8,000 cfs (8,000 to 16,000 ac ft per day)
throughout the dry season. This compares with peak project demands of
some 1,300 ac ft per day. The Water and Sewer Authority is presently
planning an intake on the Halda River to divert about 30 cfs to the
Chittagong municipal water supply. Eventually, these withdrawals could
approach 100 cfs. Combined with peak project requirements, these demands
are less than 20% of minimum releases. A minor part of the catchment area
for the Kaptai Reservoir is located in India. Any likely diversions in
India would have no effect on the supply of water to the project areas.
Consequently, there is ample water available for the project.
4.09      The Kaptai power plant presently serves a combined base-load and
load-following role in the eastern electrical grid of Bangladesh. A third



- 13 -
unit, scheduled for 1976, will increase the plant's capacity from 80 to
130 MW, permitting more peak operation and increased wet-season genera-
tion. According to Power Development Board Operation plans, base flows
will always be comfortably in excess of project diversion requirements.
4.10      Water would enter the two project units through regulator struc-
tures at the khal outlets to the Karnafuli, Halda and Ichamati Rivers and,
in addition, through the main pumping plant at Mahfez Khal in the Ichamati
Unit. When tides back up these rivers to levels above those in the khals,
the regulator gates would automatically open and permit flow into the proj-
ect area until, with the receding tide, river levels fall below those of
the recharged khals. The gates would automatically close and khal water
levels would gradually decline with pumping, until the onset of the follow-
ing high tide. With khal improvements and relift pumping provided under the
project, water would freely circulate to within 3/4 mi of all irrigated land.
Engineering Design
4.11      The project feasibility study effectively covers the planning and
preliminary design for the engineering works and the agricultural develop-
ment plan. The WDB would be responsible for the detailed engineering de-
sign, with technical support from the consultants (para 5.04). The WDB
has already completed the design of the main pumping plant and the regu-
lator at the mouth of Whitaker Khal in the Ichamati Unit.
Construction Schedule
4.12      The construction of the project is estimated to take four years.
The WDB has already started construction of the main pumping plant at Mahfez
Khal and the Whitaker Khal regulator in the Ichamati Unit. Construction is
exceedingly slow due to lack of funds and, to date, only the foundation has
been completed. The proposed project would provide funds for the completion
of these structures. Other construction works would begin in January, 1976
and should end in mid-1978 (Annex 6). About 40% of the Halda Unit and 20%
of the Ichamati Unit would be operational for the 1977-78 dry season.
Cost Estimates
4.13      Total project costs are estimated at US$30.3 million equivalent,
including US$2.6 million in taxes and duties. The foreign exchange com-
ponent is estimated at US$9.4 million or 31% of the total. Estimates are
based on preliminary designs, with unit prices at May 1975 levels. These
prices are based upon costs prevailing in Bangladesh as appropriate. Phys-
ical contingencies of 15% have been applied to civil works costs and the
cost of equipment and vehicles for the fisheries development program and
5% to all other equipment and vehicle costs. Projected price increases
due to inflation have been applied to estimated annual expenditures at
the following percentage rates:



-14 -
Foreign Exchange
Year            Civil Works       Equipment          Local Costs
1975               16                12                   25
1976               14                10                   20
1977               12                 8                   17
1978               12                 8                   15
1979               12                 8                   13
The resulting expected price increases amount to US$7.7 million, or 34%
of the estimated project cost at 1975 prices and 25% of the estimated total
project cost.
4.14      Estimated project costs, presented in greater detail in Annex 7,
are summarized below:



- 15 -
For-                     For-            % of
Local    eign   Total   Local    eign  TotalLa  Total
----(Taka million)- -     …-----(US$ million)--      (%)
I. Halda Unit
Land Acqui-
sition        27.9       -    27.9      2.15      -     2.15       7.1
Construction   76.7    28.2  104.9       5.90    2.17   8.07       26.6
Low-lift Pumps  5.4    11.6   17.0       0.42    0.89   1.31        4.3
Subtotal  110.0    39.8  149.8       8.47    3.06  11.53       38.0
II. Ichamati Unit
Land Acqui-
sition          6.3      -      6.3     0.48      -     0.48       1.6
Construction   21.8    12.2   34.0       1.68    0.94   2.62        8.6
Low-lift Pumps  1.1      2.2    3.3      0.08    0.17   0.25        0.8
Subtotal   29.2    14.4   43.6       2.24    1.11   3.35       11.0
III. Equipment and
Vehicles         1.9     4.2    6.1      0.15    0.32   0.47        1.6
IV. Consulting
Services         3.0     5.5    8.5      0.23    0.42   0.65        2.2
V. Design, Man-
agement and
Administration 18.2       -    18.2       1.40      -    1.40       4.6
VI. Fisheries
Development
Program         18.9    24.2   43.1       1.45    1.85   3.30      10.9
Basic Cost  181.2    88.1  269.3    13.94    6.76  20.70         68.3
VII. Physical
Contingencies  16.7      8.0   24.7      1.29    0.62   1.91       6.3
VIII. Expected Price
Increases       73.8    26.1   99.9      5.67    2.02   7.69       25.4
TOTAL
PROJECT         /b              lb/cc
COST      271.7- 122.2  393.9/   20.90/c  9.40  30.30-/C  100.0
/a   Discrepancies in currency conversions due to rounding.
/b   Includes Tk 33.8 million taxes and duties.
/c   Includes US$2.6 million equivalent taxes and duties.



- 16 -
Financing
4.15      The currently proposed IDA credit of US$18.9 million (excluding
US$3.1 million for refinancing credit S-14-BD) would finance the full for-
eign exchange costs and some local costs or about 69% of the total project
costs net of taxes and duties. The GOB would contribute the remaining
US$11.4 million through annual budget appropriations. To ensure prompt
payments of local expenditures for all goods and services assurances have
been obtained that the Government would establish two revolving funds --
one for the irrigation and flood control component and one for the fish-
eries development program -- and that it would replenish these funds on
the first of each month to maintain balances adequate to cover the esti-
mated expenditures for the following three months. A condition of dis-
bursement for the irrigation and flood control component and for the
fisheries development program would be that initial contributions of
Tk 2.0 million and Tk 500,000, respectively, have been made to the
funds.
Procurement and Contracts
4.16      Vehicles, equipment and materials would be procured after inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A
15% preference margin, or prevailing customs duty if lower, would be ex-
tended to local manufacturers in evaluation of bids. Small off-the-shelf
items costing less than US$10,000 each, which are not practical for inter-
national tendering, would be purchased through normal Government procure-
ment procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Such purchases would be
limited to a total of US$200,000.
4.17      Civil works with an estimated cost of US$17.0 million (including
contingencies) would not be suitable for international competitive bidding.
These works which are relatively small and simple would be scattered over
a wide area and construction would be seasonal and suitable for labor inten-
sive methods. For these works, contracts would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally and in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA.
Disbursements
4.18      Disbursements from the proposed credit would be made at the rate
of 100% of the cif cost of directly imported vehicles, equipment and mate-
rials; at 100% of the ex-factory price of goods manufactured locally, and
at 65% of the off-the-shelf price if procured locally. For consultant
services and staff training, disbursement would cover the actual foreign
exchange costs plus 50% of local costs. Disbursement for civil works
would be at the rates of 100% and 60% of certified monthly foreign and
local expenditures, respectively. Disbursement would not be made against:
previous work on the main pumping plant or the Whitaker Khal regulator; the
costs of land acquisition; local costs of agricultural extension services;



- 17 -
staff salaries, overhead and expenses of implementing agencies, and taxes
and duties. Undisbursed funds would be cancelled unless an alternative
use was approved by IDA. The categories to be financed, the allocation
of the proposed credit, and expenditure percentages to be disbursed under
each category are summarized in Annex 8. Estimated expenditure and dis-
bursement schedules are also shown in Annex 8.
Accounts and Audit
4.19      Assurances have been obtained that GOB would cause WDB, BADC, the
Department of Fisheries and other departments and agencies responsible for
carrying out any part of the project, to prepare and maintain project accounts
and financial statements in accordance with sound accounting practices, and it
would employ independent auditors acceptable to IDA to audit these project
accounts and that certified copies of audited accounts and of the auditor's
report would be sent to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal
year.
Environmental Impact
4.20      Halda River is an important spawning ground for carp in Bangladesh.
It is a major source of supply of carp fry and fingerlings used for stocking
tanks throughout the country. As there is no structure proposed on the Halda
River, the project itself is expected to have minimal impact on breeding con-
ditions. However, knowledge about the fishery is limited and the project
provides for specialist studies (Annex 4). Regarding public health, the
project should improve conditions because of the increased availability of
fresh water on a year-round basis. Schistosomiasis is not present in
Bangladesh. Consequently, no adverse environmental effects are expected
to result from the project.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Implementation of Project Works
5.01      The Water Development Board (WDB), under the MMWP would have over-
all responsibility for management and execution of the project works except
those included under the fisheries development program. The WDB would be
directly responsible for project preparation, design and construction of
all civil works. In order to streamline WDB's operations and to improve
its performance, the GOB has recently made a number of organizational
changes -- among them are the appointment of a full-time chairman for
the Board, separation of planning and implementation wings within the
Board and a greater delegation of authority to the regional chief engi-
neers. Responsibility for procurement and distribution of low-lift pumps
would belong to BADC. The IRDP would be responsible for the formation of
farmers' pump groups and their integration into the Thana Central Coopera-
tives Association (TCCA) structure (Annex 9). The Ministry of Agriculture
would be responsible for strengthening extension services to the farmers.



- 18 -
The Ministry of Forests, Fish and Livestock would be responsible for the
implementation of the fisher:Les development component of the proje t.
5.02      In order to ensure coordination between the various departments
and agencies responsible for implementation of the irrigation and flood
control component, a Project Implementation Committee (PIC) would be es-
tablished. The PIC would be chaired by the Project Director and consist
of senior officers of the participating agencies. The Project Director
would be a senior WDB official. Problems not resolved at this level and
problems in implementation of the fisheries development component would
be referred to the Central Evaluation Committee (CEC). The CEC was formed
for the Barisal Project (Credit No. 542-BD) by a Government order dated
December 13, 1974 to periodically review progress and problems on IDA-
financed projects and would thus function also for this project. The
members of the committee are the Secretaries of the various Ministries
concerned with project implementation and the Chief, Flood Control and
Water Resources Division, Planning Commission. Appointment of the Project
Director and the members of the PIC would be a condition of disbursement
for the irrigation and flood control component.
5.03      Annual Work Programs.  Annual programs for the irrigation and
flood control works and for the fisheries component, to be prepared by
the Project Director and the Director of Fisheries, respectively, would
detail the activities and works to be implemented. Assurances have been
obtained from GOB that the annual work programs - supported by maps,
detailed description, and cost estimates of the physical works to be
executed -- would be sent to IDA for review and comment by December 31,
1975 and by August 31 of each; subsequent year.
Consulting Services
5.04      The Government would retain a consultant, acceptable to IDA,
to assist WDB, and the other agencies concerned in implementation of the
irrigation and flood control component. The consultant would assist WDB
in the preparation of works programs, designs and contract documents and
the supervision of construction. Given the minor role of the consultant
in this project, it is envisaged that, for reasons of economy and effi-
cient service, the consultant to be engaged for the proposed Muhuri proj-
ect, would also work for this project. However, the Government would have
the option to select another consultant. It is estimated that about 100
man-months of consultant services would be required for the irrigation
and flood control component. Terms of reference for the consultants are
given in Annex 3. The appointment of qualified and experienced consult-
ants, acceptable to IDA, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,
would be a condition of disbursement for the irrigation and flood con-
trol component.



- 19 -
5.05      The Government would also retain consultants, acceptable to IDA,
to assist the Department of Fisheries in the implementation of the fisheries
development program. These consultants would assist in: the preparation
of works programs, designs and contract documents and the supervision of
construction of the carp hatchery at Chandpur; the initial operation of
the hatchery, and the investigative programs in the Chandpur II, Muhuri
and Karnafuli Irrigation Project areas. A total of about 190 man-months
of consulting services would be provided for the fisheries development
program. Terms of reference for these consultants are given in Annex 4.
The appointment of qualified and experienced consultants, acceptable to
IDA, on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of
disbursement for the fisheries development program.
Operation and Maintenance
5.06      Irrigation and Flood Control Component.  The WDB would be respon-
sible for 0 & M of the main and the relift pumping plant and for maintenance
of khals and embankments. The annual cost of 0 & M and replacements is esti-
mated at Tk 7.5 million. The BADC would be responsible for the provision of
fuel and maintenance facilities for low-lift pumps. Assurances have been
obtained from the Government that: (a) sufficient funds would be made avail-
able at all times to operate and maintain all facilities in accordance >Ath
sound engineering practices, and (b) the Project Director would be respon-
sible for preparation of detailed manuals specifying project 0 & M proce-
dures. These manuals would be submitted to IDA for review and comment
within 24 months of the signing of the Credit Agreement.
5.07      Carp Hatchery.  The Department of Fisheries would be responsible
for the 0 & M of the carp hatchery in the Chandpur Project area. The proj-
ect would provide funds for an expatriate hatchery management specialist
and for part of the costs for 0 & M equipment and materials for the first
two years of operation of the hatchery to ensure that adequate operating
procedures are established. Assurances have been obtained from the Gov-
ernment that: (a) sufficient funds would be available at all times to
operate and maintain all facilities in accordance with sound hatchery
management practices, and (b) the Director of Fisheries would prepare
detailed manuals specifying 0 & M procedures. These manuals would be
submitted to IDA for review and comment within 24 months of the signing
of the Credit Agreement.
Agricultural Supporting Services
5.08      The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for agricultural
research and extension, and, through BADC, for procurement and distribu-
tion of agricultural inputs in the project area, while the Ministry of
Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives is responsible for
the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), cooperatives, and the
Thana Irrigation Program (TIP) (Annex 9). The IRDP at present only covers
the Rangunia thana.



- 20 -
5.09      Agricultural Research.  The Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
(BRRI), which was established in 1970 and works in close cooperation with
the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), Los Banos, Philippines,
is responsible for research on various aspects of rice improvement and
production, and for rice production training. The BRRI and its substa-
tions are adequately staffed with qualified personnel and their work
progress has been satisfactory. The project would draw on the services
and facilities of BRRI, including the Institution's sub-station at Comilla
located about 90 mi northwest of the project area.
5.10      Agricultural Extension Services.  The Directorate of Agriculture
(Extension and Management) in the Ministry of Agriculture maintains exten-
sion agents at both the thana and union levels. The Union Agricultural
Assistants (UAA), an average of ten per thana, are the basic field exten-
sion workers. Their work is supervised by Thana Agriculture Officers
(TAO). As there is a vital need to strengthen agricultural extension,
the Government plans to replace the TAO's who are mostly diploma holders,
with college graduate Thana Extension Officers (TEO) to ensure higher tech-
nical competence. It also plans to extend extension services to the village
level by appointing a minimum of two Village Extension Agents (VEA), to re-
place the present one UAA, in each Union. The Rural Training Project, ap-
praised by IDA with Board Presentation scheduled for December, 1975 would
help to produce more trained personnel for posting as VEA.
5.11      The BRRI would give rice production training to TEO, who would
in turn, give this training to VEA and selected farmers from each pump
group at Thana Training and Development Centers (TTDC) during periodic
one-day courses organized by IRDP. In agreement with the farmer's groups,
two pump units near to each of the three TTDC would be designated as demon-
stration areas. These would serve as focal points for training VEA and
farmers under practical conditions. Assurances have been obtained from
GOB that the Ministry of Agriculture, in consultation with the Ministry
of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives would prepare a
detailed program for training and agricultural extension services in the
project area for review with IDA within one year of signing the Credit
Agreement. Assurances have also been obtained that GOB before comple-
tion of the project would extend IRDP to cover the two remaining thanas
(Rauzan and Hathazari) in the project area. The credit would provide
funds for procurement of additional field vehicles, motorcycles and
bicycles to improve training and extension services to the farmers, as
well as funds for equipping the six small demonstration areas.
5.12      Seed.  The BADC would be responsible for multiplying and distribut-
ing HYV seeds. Seed multiplication would be done on BADC farms and also on
approved private seed farms under the registered seed growers' scheme. Once
new varieties have been introduced to an area, farmers retain seed from their
previous harvest or obtain seed from their neighbors. However, to sustain
high yields, it would be necessary to periodically introduce fresh seed. The
IDA-financed Cereal Seed Project (Credit No. 410-BD, 1973) aims to improve
the quality of seed production. One of the proposed six seed processing



- 21 -
plants would be established at Chittagong, 10 mi west of the project area.
Distribution to farmers would be made through TCCA cooperatives, and approved
private dealers.
5.13      Fertilizer.  The BADC would also procure and distribute fertilizers
to TCCA and approved private dealers for distribution to farmers as at pres-
ent. This procedure has been quite satisfactory until recently, when BADC
could not obtain adequate supplies for distribution. Fertilizer use in the
project area increased from an average of 20 lb of nutrient per ac in 1965-66
to 57 lb nutrient per ac in 1972-73, but this dropped to 50 lb in 1973-74 due
to a short supply. Fertilizer use is expected to increase to an average of
120 lb nutrient per ac at full development. The Bangladesh Fertilizer Proj-
ect (Credit No. 527-BD, 1975) aims to increase the annual production of nitrog-
enous fertilizer by 528,000 tons of urea (243,000 tons nutrient), and bilateral
aid would help to increase the supply of phosphate and potash fertilizer. It
is envisaged that the requirement for additional storage facilities would be
provided under a proposed IDA fertilizer marketing and distribution project.
A study of these requirements is presently financed by the Technical Assis-
tance Credit (No. 409-BD, °73).
5.14      Other Inputs.  Agrochemicals and sprayers for plant protection
are now procured by BADC, and are distributed to farmers through TCCA and
approved dealers at subsidized costs. The proposed credit would provide
for procurement of ample sprayers for the project area. Since harvesting
generally takes place in the pre-monsoon season with its thunder storm
rains, rice production from the boro crop in the project area is reduced
by a lack of paddy drying facilities. In view of the major increase in
boro crop production generated by the project, the proposed credit would
provide funds for procurement of 30 simple diesel-powered dryers to be
operated by cooperatives and located in villages throughout the area.
These dryers would have sufficient capacity to ensure optimum production
from harvested paddy.
Recovery of Costs
5.15      The Irrigation Ordinance of 1963, which is still in effect, allows
user charges of up to 10% of the increased gross income from a project. The
First Five-Year Plan proposed that such a charge should be levied for large-
scale gravity-irrigation projects, gradually increasing from Tk 50 per ac in
1974 to Tk 150 per ac in 1978. This recommendation has so far not been im-
plemented and at present no water charges are collected.
5.16      Following the First Five Year Plan, BADC, in 1974, substantially
increased the rental charge for low-lift pumps. The farmers now pay an
annual rental fee of Tk 600 per pump which covers maintenance and a minor
part of the capital costs, plus their own operating costs. The rate of
pump subsidy is scheduled to be reduced over the plan period. In 1974,
the total cost to the pump group (rent plus operating costs) was about
Tk 100 per irrigated ac while the farmers usually paid about Tk 125 per
ac to the head of the pump group, who realized some profit from the oper-
ation.  During the 1974175 boro season, the cost to the pump group rose to



- 22 -
Tk 140 per ac. With the project, the annual cost of low-lift pump irrigation
including fuel, maintenance and recovery of the pump cost over seven years at
10% interest, would be about Tk 310 per ac, or 13% of the projected increase
in net farm incomes. For the civil works and the major pumping stations, the
annual 0 & M costs and capital recovery costs (at 10% interest) would amount
to Tk 200 per ac and Tk 630 per ac, or 8% and 27% of the incremental net farm
incomes, respectively (Annex 11 2).
5.17      With the present level of charges (Tk 140 per ac), 6% of the in-
crease in net farm incomes would be collected giving a cost recovery ratio
of 12%. If full costs for the low-lift pumps and only 0 & M costs for the
civil works, together representing Tk 510 per ac or 22% of incremental net
farm incomes, were collected, the cost recovery ratio would be 45%. It is
judged that a recovery of a substantial part of the capital cost would seri-
ously affect the incentives of the participating farmers.
5.18      Assurances were obtained that within two years of the Credit sign-
ing, the Government, in consultation with IDA, would prepare proposals to
recover from the project beneficiaries, the full costs for operation, main-
tenance and replacement of the low-lift pumps (amortized over the expected
life of the pumps with a reasonable rate of interest) plus the operation
and maintenance costs of the civil works plus as large a proportion of the
capital costs of the civil works as is compatible with the maintenance of
adequate incentives for the farmers. Assurances were also obtained that
the Government would start the recovery of the proposed charges within 18
months of the completion of the physical works included in the project.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Crop Calendars and Cropping Patterns
6.01      Rice would continue to be the dominant crop after completion of
the project, but there would be considerable changes in the relative impor-
tance of the various rice crops. The reliable water supply would enable
cultivation of HYV boro in most areas in the dry season. Irrigated HYV
boro produces much higher and more stable yields than aus and, since
their growing seasons overlap, the increase in the HYV boro area would
be accompanied by a decrease in the area under aus. The availability of
supplementary irrigation in the wet season would increase the comparative
advantage of HYV aman over local T. aman and cause a shift to HYV aman.
On the whole, the cropping intensity would increase from 150% to 186% in
the Ichamati Unit while basically remaining constant at 203-204% in the
Halda Unit (Annex 10).
6.02      The present and projected future cropping patterns are as follows:



- 23 -
Halda Unit                    Ichamati Unit
Future    Future               Future    Future
without    with                without    with
Present   Project   Project   Present   Project   Project
(---…       ------thousand acres----------------…      -
Rice (paddy)
Aus (Local)             11.0       6.0        5.5       1.0        0.5       1.0
Aus (HYV)
- rainfed              7.0       8.0         -        1.5        1.4       0.1
- irrigated             -        4.0        4.0        -        0.6        1.0
T. Aman (Local)         20.0      10.0        4.5       3.0        1.8       0.6
T. Aman (HYV)
- rainfed             15.0       5.0         -        3.8        3.0       1.0
- irrigated             -       20.0       30.0        -         2.0       5.0
Boro (Local)             2.0        -          -         -          -         -
Boro (HYV)              18.0      20.0       28.0       2.2        2.4       5.0
Subtotal          73.0       73.0      72.0       11.5      11.7       13.7
Other Crops
Rabi crops               3.4       3.4        3.4       0.2        0.2       0.2
Vegetables
and Sugarcane          1.4       1.4        1.4       0.2        0.2       0.4
Subtotal           4.8        4.8       4.8        0.4       0.4        0.6
TOTAL                   77.8      77.8       76.8      11.9       12.1      14.3
Yields and Production
6.03      Estimated paddy yields at present and at full development are
summarized below:
Future without       Future with
Present            Project             Project
lds/ac   tons/ac   Mds/ac   tons/ac   Mds/ac   tonsTac
Aus (Local)              14      0.52        15      0.56        17      0.63
Aus (HYV)
- rainfed              28      1.04       30       1.12       32       1.19
- irrigated             -        -        40       1.49       47       1.75
T. Aman (Local)          21      0.78        22      0.82       24       0.89
T. Aman (HYV)
- rainfed              32      1.19       34       1.27       36       1.34
- irrigated             -        -        40       1.49       45       1.70
Boro (Local)             25      0.93         -        -         -         _
Boro (HYV)               46      1.71        48      1.79       52       1.94



- 24 -
Only very minor yield increases are assumed possible without the project.
These yields were projected assuming that fertilizer use in the project
area would increase from an aggregate 5,000 tons per year at present to
about 11,000 tons per year at full development. Use of pesticides is
projected to increase to about 60 tons. Paddy production would increase
from 93,000 tons at present to 141,000 tons at full development (Annex 10).
Marketing
6.04      The project area, which is one of the most developed in Bangladesh,
presently has a food grain surplus of about 30% of total supply. 1/ The
48,000 ton increase in paddy production would increase the surplus to 63,000
tons or 45% of total production by 1985, even with the projected population
increase. From a national point of view, there would be no problem in mar-
keting this surplus since Bangladesh food grain imports have doubled over
the last decade to over two million tons and, with a projected population
growth of 2.9% per year, annual food grain demand is expected to reach 20
million tons by the late 1980s.
6.05      Not only does the project area export some 20,000 tons of rice
but also the volume of internal sales is high - about 12,000 tons. Con-
sequently, all chains in the marketing system are well developed. The
project areas are located only about 10 mi from Chittagong, the second
largest city in the country, and rail, road and river communications are
well developed. Thus, it is reasonable to expect that the marketing sys-
tem would readily keep pace with the increased rice production.
6.06      The hulling industry adapted efficiently to the increased demand
when HYV rice and pump irrigation were introduced in the late 1960s and
early 1970s. Presently, there are about 200 private hullers oper-
ating in the area. These hullers generally have a capacity of about 10 md
of paddy per hour. At present, they are working well below capacity. Con-
sequently, it is expected that the private sector will be capable of handling
the increased volume of paddy from the project.
Prices
6.07      Prices for rice and farm inputs used in this report are derived
from the Bank's projected 1985 world market prices in 1975 constant prices.
Production of crops other than rice is relatively small and most of the out-
put is consumed locally. Projected prices for these products are based on
the historical ratios between their prices and the price of rice, since
these ratios have been fairly constant during the last decade.
1/   Based on an assumed per capita consumption of 16 oz per day.  (The
average consumption in Bangladesh in the late 1960s was just below
16 oz.)



- 25 -
6.08      Based on a projected world market price of US$320 per ton fob
Bangkok for high grade rice (5% broken), the price for low-to-medium qual-
ity rice (25%-35% broken) cif Chittagong is estimated at US$250 per ton.
After allowance for transport and handling, the equivalent farm gate price
is Tk 75 per maund of aman paddy, which is the preferred variety. Boro
and aus are priced somewhat lower.
6.09      An adjustment of the official exchange rate (approximately TK 13 -
US$1) for the protection provided by import restrictions and duties, giving
a shadow exchange rate of Tk 16 - US$1, has been done in the economic anal-
yses. The assumption behind the shadow exchange rate and all projected prices
used for financial and economic analyses are discussed in Annex 11.
Farm Income
6.10      Income to farm households includes the net value of crops pro-
duced on the farm and off-farm earnings from paddy processing, wage labor
and fishing. Most of the rice is consumed on the farm but part of the
production from larger farms is sold. The high population density and
complex land tenancy arrangements have resulted in a wide variety of live-
lihoods and income levels in the project area.
6.11      Present and projected farm budgets have been analyzed on the
basis of three representative farm sizes: 1.0 ac, 3.0 ac and 5.0 ac
(Annex 12). Only the value of crop production has been included as in-
come in this analysis. Off-farm incomes are discussed in para 6.12.
Since GOB intends to reduce or eliminate subsidies for agricultural
inputs and low-lift pumps, it is assumed for this analysis that no sub-
sidies will exist in the future. The annual net income from farming,
including the imputed value of produce consumed on'the farm (in 1975
terms), for the three representative farm types, presently without irri-
gation, are:
Present      Future with Project       Increase in
Farm Size        (Tk)                (Tk)                Percent
1.0          1,970              3,540                     80
3.0          5,490              10,300                    88
5.0          8,170              15,500                    90
In the derivation of these farm incomes, cash payments for hired labor and
inputs, including the O&M and capital recovery costs of low-lift pumps,
Tk 310 per ac (para. 5.16) has been charged as production costs. It is
also assumed that the farmers will pay a fee of Tk 200 per irrigated ac
to cover all 0 & M costs of the main and relift pumping plants and civil
works. The estimates for the 3.0 ac farm are based on a cropping pattern
that reflects the average for the project area. A slightly higher inten-
sity is assumed for the 1.0 ac holding and a slightly lower intensity for
the 5.0 ac holding.



- 26 -
6.12      Off-farm employment is substantial in the project area.  Families
with 1.0 ac holdings typically have off-farm incomes of about Tk 1,600 per
year.  For these families, off-farm employment is a necessity, since a mini-
mum holding of about 1.5 ac is required to support the average farm family.
A larger proportion of the members of the richer farm households have at
least some elementary education and, consequently, better employment oppor-
tunities are open to them. This brings the off-farm income of the families
holding 3.0 ac and 5.0 ac farms up to Tk 1,800 and Tk 2,100, respectively.
The total labor requirements would increase about 15% under the project.
For families holding 1.0 ac farms, these increased oportunities to work on
the farm would not, to any noticeable extent, conflict with off-farm employ-
ment. Since the daily income from off-farm employment for the larger farmers
is higher than the cost of hiring farm labor, requirements for these farms
would be met by hired farm laborers. Consequently, off-farm incomes would
not decrease due to the project. The total family income for the submarginal
farmers (1.0 ac holding), small farmers (3.0 ac holdings) and large farmers
(5.0 ac holdings) would increase at least 44%, 66%, and 71%, respectively,
under the project if non-farm incomes remain at their present level. How-
ever, the project would have substantial indirect employment effects in
addition to the employment opportunities created in agriculture (Annex 13).
This would lead to increased non-farm incomes for the landless laborers and
submarginal farmers.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
7.01      Bangladesh presently Imports about 20% of its food grain demand.
This severely strains its already troubled foreign exchange situation. The
primary national benefit from the project would be increased rice production
and the resultant foreign exchange savings. The population in the project
area would benefit directly from increased farm incomes and an increase in
employment opportunities in agriculture, transportation and marketing. The
project would also discourage migration to the already overcrowded urban
areas of Dacca and Chittagong.
Rice Production
7.02      The project would provide reliable irrigation to an area of 38,000
ac. This would cause a major shift in the cropping pattern and increase the
production of milled rice by some 17,000 tons over the projected production
without the project. This represents annual gross foreign exchange savings
of about US$4.3 million (in 1975 dollars) based on a projected rice price of
US$250 per ton cif Chittagong. After deducting foreign exchange costs of
spares and replacements, fuel, fertilizer, and pesticides, the net annual
foreign exchange savings attributable to the project would be about US$3.3
million.



- 27 -
Employment Opportunities
7.03      Increased production would result from the cultivation of high
yielding rice varieties and shifts in the cropping calendar, rather than
more intensive land use. Therefore, farm labor requirements in the area
at full development would increase by only about 15%. Over the same
period, the available labor force would increase from an estimated 73,000
in 1974 to about 88,000 in 1985 (excluding women, who in Bangladesh nor-
mally do not work in the field), that is by about 21%. Annual field labor
requirements in the area presently total an estimated 6.8 million man-days,
about 39% of the present labor supply, and would reach about 7.8 million,
or about 37% of the estimated supply at full development (Annex 13). The
26,000 landless laborers presently supply about 1.0 million man-days of
farm work and this amount would increase 40-45% with the project.
7.04      The employment opportunities for landless laborers in marketing
and transportion would increase substantially as a result of the increased
rice production. The project would increase the marketed volume of paddy
from about 48,000 tons at present to 89,000 tons, or about 85%.
Income Distribution
7.05      Agriculture in the project area is relatively well developed com-
pared to other areas in Bangladesh. Nevertheless, farms in the area are
smaller than in most other parts of the country and the proportion of land-
less laborers is somewhat higher. Consequently, it is estimated that the
present average per capita income in the project area is only about US$90 1/
compared to the national average of US$100. Due to the unbalanced income
distribution in the project area, about 70% of the families have a per
capita income of less than US$90.
7.06      The project would increase the net farm incomes of the "submarginal"
farmers (1.0 ac), who presently do not have irrigation, by about 80% and the
incomes of "small" (3.0 ac) and "large" (5.0 ac) farmers by about 90% (para.
6.11). However, the demand for hired labor would increase and create addi-
tional employment for landless laborers and sub-marginal farmers. The median
income would increase from about US$70 at present to about US$90. The proj-
ect would, therefore, substantially reduce the level of absolute poverty In
the area.
Economic Rate of Return
7.07      The project's rate of return on the irrigation and flood control
component is estimated to be about 15% (Annex 14). The rates for the sub-
projects are:
1/   This estimate is based on a "normal" world market price of rice (5%
broken) of US$320 per ton fob Bangkok.



- 28 -
Halda Unit                     15%
Ichamati Unit                  14%
The economic analysis is based on the following assumptions:
(a)  a three year construction period;
(b)  full agricultural development is reached five
years after the completion of the project;
(c)  projected 1985 world market prices in terms of
1975 dollars for rice, fuel and fertilizers
(see Annex 11);
(d)  all farm labor is valued at about 50% of the peak
market wage (see Annex 13) and construction labor
at the market wage;
(e)  allowance is made for the protection provided by
import restrictions and duties by using a shadow
rate of US$1.00 = Tk 1.6;
(f)  costs and benefits of fisheries development program
are excluded from the analysis;
(g)  taxes, duties and subsidies are omitted, and
(h)  a 40 year project life.
Other important benefits, such as higher employment and income in trade
and industry based on agricultural production in the project area, were
not quantified.
7.08      The sensitivity of the estimated rate of return to changes in
costs, prices and other assumptions is as follows:
(a)  completion delayed two years                        13%
(b)  increase in construction cost of 15%                13%
(c)  decrease in the price of rice by 15%                12%
(d)       (a) + (b)                                      12%
(e)       (a) + (b) + (c)                                10: %
(f)  increase in cost of crop inputs by 15%              14%
(g)  increase in fuel and operating cost by 25%   :    14%



- 29 -
(h)  all farm labor valued at full market wage    :    14%
(i) Taka valued at the official exchange rate
of Tk 13 = US$1                                     13%
(j) Taka valued at a shadow exchange rate of
Tk 19 - US$1                                   :    17%
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACIED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurances have been obtained from GOB that:
(a) the Government would establish two revolving funds--one
for the irrigation and flood control component and one
for the fisheries development program--and would re-
plenish the funds, on the first of each month, to main-
tain balances adequate to cover estimated expenditures
for the following three months (para. 4.15);
(b)  the WDB, BADC, the Department of Fisheries and other
departments and agencies responsible for carrying out
any part of the project would prepare and maintain
project accounts and financial statements in accord-
ance with sound accounting practices, and independent
auditors acceptable to IDA would be employed to audit
project accounts which would be sent to IDA within six
months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.19);
(c) the Project Director and the Director of Fisheries
would prepare and submit to IDA, for review and com-
ment, annual works programs for the irrigation and
flood control component and the fisheries develop-
ment program by December 31, 1975 and by August 31
of each subsequent year (para. 5.03);
(d) the Project Director would prepare detailed operation
and maintenance manuals for the irrigation and flood
control component and submit these to IDA, for review
and comment, within two years of signing the Credit
Agreement (para. 5.06);
(e) sufficient funds would be made available at all
times to maintain all project facilities in accord-
ance with sound technical and financial standards
(paras. 5.06 and 5.07);



- 30 -
(f) the Department of Fisheries would prepare detailed
operation and maintenance manuals for the carp
hatchery and submit these to IDA, for review and
comment, within two years of signing the Credit
Agreement (para. 5.07);
(g) the Ministry of Agriculture, in consultation with
the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development
and Cooperatives, would prepare a detailed program
for training and extension services in the project
area, and submit this to IDA for review and comment,
within one year of signing the Credit Agreement
(para. 5.11);
(h) the Rauzan and Hathazari thanas would be incorporated
into the IRDP structure (para. 5.11);
(i) within two years of the Credit signing, the Government,
in consultation with IDA, would prepare proposals to
recover from the project beneficiaries,the full costs
for operation, maintenance and replacement of the low-
lift pumps (amortized over the expected life of the
pump with a reasonable rate of interest) plus the
operation and maintenance costs of the civil works
plus as large a proportion of the capital costs of
the civil works as is compatible with the maintenance
of adequate incentives for the farmers. Also the Gov-
ernment would start the recovery of the proposed changes
within 18 months of the physical works included in the
project (para 5.18).
8.02      Conditions of disbursement for the irrigation and flood control
component 1/ would be that:
(a) the Government would have made an initial contribution
of Tk 2.0 million to the revolving fund (para. 4.15);
(b) the Project Director and the members of the PIC have
been formally appointed (para. 5.02), and
(c) a consultant, acceptable to IDA, would have been
appointed upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA (para. 5.04).
1/   Items I(a), II(a) and III(a) in the Proposed Credit Allocation (Annex 8,
Table 2).



- 31 -
8.03      Conditions of disbursement for the fisheries development program 1/
would be that:
(a) the Government would have made an initial contribution
of Tk 500,000 to the revolving fund (para. 4.15), and
(b) a consultant, acceptable to IDA, would have been appointed
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.05).
8.04      With the above assurances, the proposed project is suitable for
an IDA credit of US$22 million under standard IDA terms. The Borrower
would be the People's Republic of Bangladesh.
December 31, 1975
1/   Items 1(b), IT(c), II(d), IlT(b), and III(c) in the Proposed Credit
Allocation (Annex 8, Table 2).






ANNEX 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
KARNAULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Agricultural Development
The Role of the Agriculture Sector
1.        Agriculture dominates the economy of Bangladesh.  It employs
directly about 80% of the labor force, generates 55% of the Gross Domestic
Product (GDP), and accounts for over 90% of the country's foreign exchange
earnings. The major exports are raw jute and jute manufacture. Nearly three
quarters of all industries are based on agriculture and growth is highly
dependent on it. The production of rice, by far the most important crop,
is insufficient for feeding the rapidly increasing population, which was
estimated at 77 million in 1974. Accordingly, the import of food grains
has been increasing from 0.7 million tons in 1960-61 to as much as 2.8
million tons in 1972-73. The production of vegetable oils, pulses, and
other protective and protein-rich foods have also been inadequate and the
deficits have to be made up by imports.
2.        Therefore, the First Five-Year Plan of the Government of Bangla-
desh (1973/74 to 1977/78) gives major emphasis to agricultural development
with the main objective of gradually replacing the traditional and greatly
unstable agriculture by a modern agriculture capable bf sustained growth.
The specific aims are: to attain self-sufficiency in the production of
food grains; to increase the production of foreign exchange earning crops,
and to increase the supplies of protein food.
Constraints to Agricultural Development
3.        Bangladesh is a generally fertile deltaic plain of 55,000 sq mi
of which approximately 35,000 sq mi is cultivated. Temperatures allow year-
round cropping and the spread of rainfall over eight months from March to
October enables farmers to practice double cropping in areas not likely to
be deeply flooded during the wet season or inundated with saline water.
However, agricultural development is constrained by a number of related
factors:
(a) Possibilities for further expansion of the cultivable area
of 22.5 million ac are limited, and therefore agricultural
production can be increased only by more intensive use of
the cultivable area and by more efficient production each
time it is used.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(b)  About 2.5 million ac are deeply flooded (over 15 ft) and
cultivation of such land is possible only after the flood
subsides in November. A further 5.5 million ac are annually
flooded from 3 to 15 ft and are suitable for cultivation of
only one crop of' floating rice.
(c) During the dry season from November to March, irrigation is
essential for food grain production.
(d) Abnormal floods, droughts and cyclonic storms occur from
time to time and hamper agricultural production.
(e) With a population density of over 2,000 per sq mi of
cultivated land, farms are very small (2.5 to 3 ac on the
average) and fragmented, and agriculture is characterized
largely by subsistence farming.
4.        To attain the specific aims indicated in paragraph 2, the First
Five-Year Plan gives priority to increasing agricultural production through
programs for intensive land use and higher yields. This is to be achieved
by: accelerating the spread of seed-based technology involving improved
cultural practices; increasing the use of HYV seed, fertilizers and pesti-
cides, and using small and quick-yielding types of irrigation and drainage
development (e.g., low-lift pumps and tubevells). Emphasis is also placed
on improving the supporting services including planning, research, exten-
sion and credit, as well as on development of the necessary rural infrastru-
ture.
Crops and Cropping Seasons
5.        The total cropped area in Bangladesh is 30.5 million ac, which,
on a net cultivated area of 22.5 million ac, gives a cropping intensity of
about 136Z (Table 1). This must be considered as remarkable since at least
one third of the land is deeply flooded every monsoon season. Rice accounts
for 24.4 million ac or 80% of the cropped area, jute 2.0 million ac or 7%
and other crops the remaining four million ac or 13%. Rainfed and flood-depen-
dent rice accounts for about 22 million ac and this has not changed signi-
ficantly since 1960.  Irrigated dry season rice, however, increased from
1.0 to 2.5 million ac during this period.  The last five years of rice
production has averaged 10.7 million tons.
6.        There are three crops of rice -  aus, aman and boro.  Aus, a crop
with a short growth period, is usually broadcast with the early rain in
March-April and harvested in July-August. Mostly traditional varieties are
grown. Yields are usually low due to heavy weed growth, heavy incidence
of pests and diseases and poor tillering. Aman, the main crop, is either
broadcast (B.) or transplanted (T.) depending on water availability and



ANNEX 1
Page 3
flood depths. The B. aman, which has a 220-250 day growth period, is sown
about the same time as aus and may elongate up to 15 ft depending on the
depth of flooding during the monsoon. It is harvested in November-December.
The B. aman is a low input crop due to inherently low and unstable yields.
The T. aman is sown in June-July, transplanted a month later, and harvested
in November-December. It has an average growth period of 150 days. The
yield is higher and the crop is more reliable than B. aus and B. aman. The
boro crop which is cultivated with irrigation in the dry season, is sown in
December-January, transplanted a month later, and harvested in May-June.
Rice yield potential is highest during the boro season.
7.        Jute is sown about the same time as aus paddy and harvested in
July-August. Pulses and oilseeds are winter or rabi crops. These are
sown in November-December and harvested in February-March. Temperate
zone vegetables such as cabbage, cauliflower and tomatoes, are also
grown as rabi crops, whereas tropical vegetables, such as brinjal, okra,
gourds and pumpkins are grown as kharif or wet season crops. Sugarcane
is planted in November and harvested more than a year later between
December and March.
High Yielding Varieties of Rice (HYV Rice)
8.        A number of HYV varieties of rice have been released in Bangladesh
since 1966 (see Table 2). Of these, one dwarf variety called IR-8 which is
non-sensitive to photo period and very responsive to fertilizer application
has been found to do well with controlled irrigation as a boro and early aus
crop. The yield of this variety is two to three times that of the local
varieties and therefore the farmers are highly inclined to take up this
crop. With availability of irrigation mainly from low-lift pumps, the area
under this variety has increased from zero to over one million acres in the
country and production has been boosted from 0.6 to 2.0 million tons during
the last seven years.
9.        Recently released were two other varieties, Chandina (BRRI-1)
and Mala (BRRI-2). Both are suitable for boro and aus seasons. They
have a shorter life period, are taller and of better eating quality than
IR-8. It is expected that they will gradually replace IR-8.
10.       For the aman crop, a number of high yielding varieties have been
tried but none could be introduced on any scale until 1970. At that time,
a new IRRI variety imported from the Philippines (IR-20 or Irrisail) was
found suitable as a transplanted aman crop. However, it cannot withstand
flooding over one foot. The area under this crop has presently reached
1.2 million ac -- mostly under rainfed conditions.
December 1975



KANIAFULI IRRIGAiTION PROJE-CT
(HALIA AND ICHAIarI tUN=)S
Areg Under ffSn (Qoa in Bumaldesh
(Nilion Acres)
1960-61
1964-65
Average    1965-66      1966-67      1967-68      1968-69      1969-70      1970-71      1971-72      1972-73      1973-74
1. Rice
(a) Aus                  6.64        7.32         6.96         8.22        7.66         8.46         7.88         7.42         7.24         7.68
(b) Aman                14.52       14.67        14.06       1l.68        )l-4h        14-84        14.18        13.37        14.12        14.13
(cj)  oro                1.04        1.14        1.39         1.53         2.01         2.18         2.42         2.19         2.43         2.60
Total Rice       22.2C      23.13        22.41        24.43        24.07        25.48        24.48        22.98        23.79        24.41
2.  Wheat                    0.15        0.14         0.18         0.19         0.29         0.30         0.31         0.31         0.30         0.30
3.  Other Cereals            0.22        0.20         0.24         0.26         0.29         0.28         0.30         0.25         0.18         0.24
4.  Pulses                   0.93        0.83         0.90         0.89         0.92         0.91         0.92         0.89         0.78         0.70
5.  Oilseeds                 0.74        0.67         0.70         0.75         0.80         0.78         0.76         0.69         0.68         0.63
6.  Spices                   0.41        0.36         0.39         0.42         0.41         0.42         0.40         0.39         0.38         0.35
7.  Sugarcane                0.32        0.38         0.41         0.42         0.41         0.40         0.40         0.35         0.32         0.36
8.  Potato                   0.14        0.15         0.17         0.19         0.21         0.21         0.21         0.19         0.19         0.20
9.  Sweet Potato             0.10        0.11         0.15         0.16         0.17         0.18         0.18         0.17         0.16         0.15
10. Fruits & Vegetables      0.62        0.58         0.58         o.60         0.63         o.64         0.63         0.58         0.58         0.59
11. Jute                     1.73        2.20         2.17         2.34         2.17         2.46         2.20         1.68         2.21         2.02
12. Cotton                   0.01,       0.04         0.04         0.04         0.03         0.03        0.02          0.03         0.04         0.02
13. Tea                      0.08        0.10         0.10         0.10         0.11         0.11         0.11         0.11         0.11         0.11
14. Tobacco                  0.10        0.11         0.11         0.11         0.11         0.11         0.11         0.10         0.12         0.11
15. Others                   0.10        0.54         0.49         O.54         0.51         0.53         0.50         0.39         0.40         0.31
Total All Crops 27.8F       29.54        29.04        31-44        31.13        32.84        31.53        29.11        30.24        30.50
Net Cropped Area
Including Current
Fallow                  21.92       22.33        22.43        22.48       22.41        22.49        22.48        22.47        22.47        22.48
Cropping Intensity       127S        132%         129%         140%        139%         146%         140%         130%         135%         136%    CD
Source:  Bureau of Agricultural Statistics, Ministry of Agriculture



BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(hALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Some New High Yielding Rice Varieties 1/
Maturity           Height            Yield  3/         Grain            Table
Name           Season  2/              (days)              (cm)           (md/ac)            Type           Quality            Additional Remarks
IR-5           Aman                      140               110               45              Medium          Good              Highest yielding aman released so far, but has to be transplanted in
early June because of low cold resistance when temperature drops in
October and November. Little acceptance by the farmers, since it did
not readily fit into rotations.
IR-8           Boro/                     170                100              50              Coarse          Fair              Cold sensitive, photo insensitive, medium resistance to  sheath  blight
(Aus)                   (140)                                                                                  but susceptible to other diseases and pests. 4/
IR-20          Aman                  120-135               110               40              Medium/         Very Good         Fair drought and cold tolerance, mildly photosensitive, resistant to
(irrtsail)                                                                                   Fine                              bacterial blight,  and    medium resistance to leaf streak and stem
borer.
IR-442         Aman                  140-150            125-150              45              Medium/         Good              Fair drought tolerance, non-cold tolerant, non-photosensitive, reaction
(late aus)                                                                   Fine                               to pests and disease not fully assessed, can resist flood up to 5 feet
and be totally submerged for    six days.
BRRI-I         (Boro)/                  (150)                85              50              Medium           Good             Poor drought tolerance, cold resistant, photo insensitive, resistant
(Chandina)    Aus                       130                                                                                    bacterial blight                 medium resistant stem borer.  Water
requirements about 15% lower than IR-8.
BRRI-2         (Boro)/                  (150)           115-120               50             Medium          Very Good         Similar to BRRI-1, but faster initial growth rate.  The first HYV
(Mala)         Aus                      130                                                                                    suitable for aus.
BRRI-3         Boro                  160-170              80-85              50              Medium          Ryood             DrTought tolerant photo insensitive, cold sensitive, resistant to
t          Aus                       130               90-95             40                                                 bacsterial blight and root rots, moderately resistant to leaf streak,
(Aman)                  (140)               (100)            (45)                                               stem borer.  Wide flexibility in transplanting time (December-August).
Purbachi       Boro/                     150                  90             40              Coarse          Very Poor         Poor drought tolerance, cold susceptible, photo insensitive, extremely
(Chinese)      (Ais)                   (130)                                                                                   disease and pest susceptible.
NOTES:  I/  Other varieties are undergoing pre-release trials.
2/  Secondary season within brackets.
3/  Estimated long-term  average on farms.
4/ Bacterial blight, sheath blight, leaf streak, root rots and stem borer - when not mentioned very susceptible.
1E
D 



BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Climatic DEta
(Chittagong Station)
Jan.    Feb.    Mar.    Apr.    May    June    July    Aug.    Sept.    Oct.    Nov.    Dec.
Season                                   Dry                Pre-Monsoon                        Monsoon                         Dry
Temperature (OF)
Mean of max. monthly              87      90       98       103     105    96       93       94       94        94      89      88
Mean                              67.3    71.6    78.3       83.1    83.0  82.6    82.1    81.7    82.2         81.3    74.7   69.2
Mean of min. monthly              47      49       60        66      67    71       74       72       74        61      57      51
Relative IIumidity (                67.4    65.3    66.7       71.9    75.6  83.5    85.4    85.2    84.1         80.5    72.3   71.1
Wind Velocity (mph)                  3.4     4.2      4.0       8.2     8.2   7.2      8.5      6.o      5.6       3.3     2.0    2.6
Daylight (hrs/day)                  11.0    11.5    12.0       12.7    13.2  13.5    13.4    12.9    12.3         11.7    11.1   10.8
Sunshine (% of daylight hr)         86      82       76        75      67    41       40       41       49        67      89      85
Evaporation (inches)                 3.48    3.94    5.46       6.03    6.10  4.32    4.54    4.64    4.34         4.04    3.53   3.06
Precipitation (inches)
Mean monthly 1/                    0.43    0.77    2.17       4.48   10.39 22.29   25.35   22.72   12.56         8.71    1.45   0.57
Minimum                            0       0        0         0       0      8.24    7.28    0.11    3.33        1.77    0       0
Lower quartile                     0       0        0.40      1.74    5.24 16.01   16.67   14.45    8.18         5.51    0       0
Median                             0.03    0.37    1.35       3.22    9.14 21.07   23.54   22.93   12.22         8.81    0.14   0
Upper quartile                     0.54    1.04    2.20       7.06   13.78 30.34   29.54   29.65   14.71    10.82    1.44   0.18
Maximum                            2.69    4.59   14.81    13.97   24.99 37.76   52.66   42.78   29.88    22.79   10.52   5.76
1/ Of months having rainfall
Source:  Meteorological Department, Government of Bangladesh



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
KARNAFVLI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Projects Works
1.        The project would improve water control over a gross area of
48,000 ac in the lower Halda Valley and 10,000 ac in Ichamati Valley,
thus enabling dry-season irrigation of 38,000 net ac through the provision
of a reliable fresh water supply and low-lift pumps. It would also reduce
the extent, depth, and duration of flooding during the wet season and permit
supplementary irrigation of the aman crop. Both the Halda Unit and the
Ichamati Unit would be constructed over a four-year period (Annex 6).
Halda Unit
2.        The aim of this unit is to provide water for dry-season irrigation
on 32,000 net acres on both banks of the Halda River. Tidal action will
fill the numerous khals of the area twice daily through gated regulators on
khal outlets to the Halda and Karnafuli Rivers. The construction of new
khals and the deepening of existing ones will permit the distribution of
water to low-lift pumps throughout the project area and to 27 relift stations
supplying khals in higher peripheral areas. In addition, flood protection
would be provided by means of perimeter embankments.
3.        Regulators.  Nine regulators in the east portion and seven west
of the Halda River will operate to admit water to the khals during the dry
season and to drain the project area in the wet season. Each structure will
have from two to eight reinforced concrete barrels with 6 ft wide by 5 ft high
flap gates at either end. During the dry season, the riverside gate will be
locked in a raised position, leaving the inner gate free to conduct water to
the khals when tide-induced river levels are higher than the water levels
within the project. With the ebbing tide, these gates will automatically
close, retaining the water within the project area though river levels are
lower. With the advent of the monsoon season, riverside gates will be
lowered and interior gates will be locked in a raised position. Thus, high
river levels will close the outer gate, preventing the backing up of water
into the project area. When tides recede and khal water levels are higher
than those in the river, the gates will automatically open to drain excess
interior water.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        Cargo Transfer Facilities.  At the mouths of five principal khals,
facilities will be built to carry small country boats around the regulator
structures and over the embankments. Each facility will consist of a water-
tight box into which a boat can be floated and secured. The box will then
be raised along rails by winches and lowered into the water on the other
side of the regulator. Each installation will be operable by two men.
5.        Khal Improvement.  In the eastern part of the project area, 5
mi of new khals will be excavated and 23 mi improved. In the western area,
similar work will be done for 1.5 mi and 18 mi respectively. This will
require the excavation of about 0.5 million cu yd of earth, some of which
will be used to build check embankments at khal outlets where regulators
will not be built. Khal improvement is required to ensure the circulation
of ample water to all low-lift pump sites and to the relift pump batteries.
The resulting system will put all of the net irrigable area within 3/4 mi
of a dependable water supply. In the lower area, fed directly by tidal
recharge, all khals will have their inverts at mean sea level (MSL) or lower,
while khals in the relift area will be excavated to at least elevation 4 ft
MSL.
6.        Lift Stations.  At 27 points around the periphery of the tidal
recharge area, earth embankments will be constructed as checks between the
lower and upper khals. At each of these points, a number of low-lift pumps
will be provided to lift water to the higher reaches of the khal, from which
it can be withdrawn for irrigation. For maintenance economy, these pumps
will be of the same type as the 2 cfs irrigation pumps. The number of units
at a particular lift station will be sufficient to supply a day's irrigation
water to the upper area in a 12--hour pumping period. In all, 71 pumps will
be supplied.
7.        Irrigation Pumps.  The project would provide 2 cfs capacity pumps
which, when operating an average of 8-9 hours per day, would irrigate 40 to
50 ac. The pump lift from the khals would seldom exceed 10 ft. Ideally
for such discharge/lift conditions, an axial-flow pump operated through a
speed reduction gear by a 5 hp diesel engine would be most efficient. How-
ever, this size unit is not widely manufactured, and efficient maintenance
would be dependent on imported spare units and replacement parts. To date,
all pump experience in Bangladesh has been with heavier duty, and simpler,
centrifugal pumps, and such pumps are currently being both assembled and
manufactured in the country. They are generally designed for a head lift
of 40 ft and operated by imported 16 hp diesel engines. While maintenance
can be carried out locally, the capital cost of these units and their fuel
consumption, in relation to required duty, are unnecessarily high. There
is, therefore, an urgent need to develop for Bangladesh, a low-cost pump-
engine unit to deliver capacities of about 2 cfs over a static head range
of 4 ft to 12 ft, with an operating speed consistent with optimum engine
life and fuel consumption. Under the Barisal Irrigation Project (Credit



ANNEX 3
Page 3
No. 542-BD, 1975, US$27.0 million), the Government and the project consul-
tants will undertake a detailed review of low-lift pump technology and will
prepare designs and specifications which should aim at (a) a reasonable
balance between efficiency and initial cost and (b) simplicity in design
and fabrication to allow a wider choice of suppliers, including local
manufacturers.
8.        The low-lift pumps currently in use in the project area were
procured from a number of manufacturers (Indian, German, Japanese,
British and American) and the variety of types imposes an unnecessary
burden on the ADC maintenance workshops. Thus, the new pumps to be supplied
under the project will be the standardized and more efficient pump unit to be
provided under the Barisal Project. A total of about 710 irrigation pumps will
be required in the Halda area, 300 of these will be provided under the project.
9.        Embankments.  The embankment for the east side will run for 24 mi
along the Karnafuli and Halda Rivers and then up the left bank of Sarta Khal,
which defines the northern boundary of the project. On the west side, the
embankment will extend from the Chittagong-Kaptai Highway, up the Halda
and back along the right bank of Sonai Khal. The embankments will prevent
overflow of the Karnafuli and Halda Rivers into the project area for all flows
up to the 50-year flood. Material for the embankments will be excavated from
borrow trenches along the inside of the dike. These ditches will then im-
prove drainage within the project area and provide irrigation water for
pumps now drawing from the adjacent rivers. All embankments will have a
crest width of 14 ft suitable for paving, if this is ever desired. The
total quantity of earthfill required for these works will be about 4.5
million cu yd.
10.       Operation. Maintenance and Buildings.  The project would provide
workshops, equipment, vehicles and buildings for the operation, maintenance,
and interim replacement and reconstruction of the project works, including
low-lift pumps and headquarters facilities.
Ichamati
11.       The Ichamati Unit on the left bank of the Ichamati River will be
similar to the Halda development, bringing a dependable irrigation water
supply to 6,000 net ac and flood protection to a gross area of 10,000 ac.
The main difference is that a major pumping plant on the Karnafuli
River will fill the khals of the project area, which, lying some 12 mi
upstream of the Halda area, can rely less upon tidal fluctuations in the
Karnafuli and Ichamati Rivers. In addition, a single relift pumping
station will supply higher areas, rather than a number of small pump
batteries as in Halda.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
12.       Minor Works. The unit will have three gated regulator structures
similar in design and function to those at Halda; the project will not
depend upon them for irrigation water, but when tides permit recharge, they
will result in energy savings at the main pumping plant. Khal improvement
will be carried down to elevation 5 ft MSL in the low-lying area and to
elevation 14 ft MSL in the relift area. This will provide a depth of at least
2 ft of water for dry-season pumping. Improvements will be made along 16 mi
of khals, and 4 mi of new khals will be excavated, for a total volume of
400,000 cu yd. Two check structures will be built: an earthfill one to
prevent water in the lower area from returning to the Ichamati River and a
gated one between the lower and relift areas to prevent back flow in the
dry season but permit drainage in the flood season. The project will supply
70 low-lift, 2 cfs irrigation pumps, to bring the total number in the pro-
ject area up to about 130. Finally, operation and maintenance facilities
would be provided in proportion to those for Halda.
13.       Main Pumping Plant.  Located at the mouth of Mahfez Khal on the
Karnafuli River, this plant will have four 40 cfs units serving both irri-
gation and drainage functions. For this reason, each bay will have two
upstream and two downstream gates, enabling discharge, as well as gravity
flow, in either direction. The units will be single-stage axial-flow pumps
driven by 125 hp electric motors. The pumping station will be reinforced
concrete and will contain an erection bay and control room, an overhead
bridge crane, and all essential auxiliary mechanical and electrical equip-
ment. A half-mile upstream of the station, a new culvert will be constructed
on Mahfez Khal where it passes under the Chittagong-Kaptai Highway.
14.       Relift Pumping Plant.  A smaller plant with three 17 cfs units
will be built on Kurmai Khal to lift irrigation water to 2,100 net ac.
The pumps will be driven by 25 hp electric motors. The units will be
protected by a reinforced concrete roof and serviced by means of a monorail
hoist. Each bay will have slide gates upstream and downstream for dewatering
and flood-season gravity drainage. A flap gate on each discharge line will
close when the pump is shut off to prevent backflow from Kurmai Khal.
15.      FEbankments. A perimeter dike 12 mi in length and with 350,000
cu yd of earthfill will protect; the project area from 50-year-frequency
floods in the Karnafuli and Ichamati Rivers. Along much of its length,
construction will consist of slightly raising and improving existing embank-
ments, bringing the crest width up to 8 ft. Borrow material for the
northern stretch of the dike will be excavated from the outside of the
embankment so that the resulting ditch will divert wet-season runoff from
the area north of the project to the Ichamati River.
Alternatives Investigated
16.       The feasibility study examined the possibility of extending the
irrigated area in the Halda Unit from 32,000 ac to 34,000 ac. This would,
however, require the construction of two primary pumping plants plus some



ANNEX 3
Page 5
rather extensive channel improvements. The economic rate of return of
this expansion would be only 2-3%. The study also examined the extension of
the drainage system. The economic rate of return of this incremental invest-
ment (which had to be combined with the irrigation expansion), was also on
the order of 3%. This left two basic alternatives for the Halda sub-project:
irrigation only (Stage 1) and irrigation plus flood control (Stages I & 2).
The cost estimates in Annex 7 and the analysis of project benefits in Annexes
10, 12, and 14 are presented for Stage 1 and Stage 2 separately.
17.       In a similar manner, three alternative development plans were
investigated for the Ichamati Unit. The economic rate of return for the
whole project unit turned out to be substantially higher than for only
partial development. Consequently, the results from this analysis are not
presented in this report.
December 1975



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants
for Irrigation and Flood Control Components
General
1.        The Government of Bangladesh, through the Water Development Board
(WDB), would like to engage the services of a consulting firm to assist WDB
in preparing the work programs, designs, specifications and contract docu-
ments and in supervising the construction of the project facilities. The
consultants would also provide on-the-job training to the technical and
professional staff assigned by the Board to this project. It is expected
that consulting services would be required for a four-year period begin-
ning about January 1976. The consulting requirements are estimated to
total about 100 man-months of professional expatriate staff.
The Project
2.        The proposed project would provide irrigation, flood control and
drainage, and improved agricultural supporting services to farmers in a
net area of about 38,000 ac in the lower Halda Valley and 8,000 ac in the
Ichamati Valley. Irrigation would depend on low-lift pumps drawing from
an improved khal system, which would be supplied by tidal recharge in the
Halda Unit and a main pumping plant in the Ichamati Unit. The pumping plant
would also be used for drainage during the monsoon season. The project would
enable a major increase in crop yields through the construction of facilities
to create favorable conditions for growing HYV rice. The main components of
the project are as listed below:
A.   Halda Unit - Major Works
(a)  sixteen gated regulators at the outlets of khals to
the Karnafuli and Halda rivers;
(b) five cargo-transfer stations at selected regulator
sites;
(c) improvement of about 41 mi of existing khals and the
excavation of about 6.5 mi of new khals;



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 2
(d) twenty-seven relift pumping stations with a total
of 71 low-lift, 2 cfs pumps (or equivalent) to
supply the khals in the higher areas;
(e) about 710 low-lift, diesel-powered 2 cfs pumps
(of which about 410 are for replacing the existing
ones) to raise water from the khals to adjacent farm
lands;
(f)  small earthfill khal check structures, and
(g) flood protection embankments about 36 mi long, with
some burrow areas to be used for drainage and irriga-
tion water supply.
B.   Ichamati Unit - Major Works
(a) a main pumping plant at Mahfez khal with about 150 cfs
pumping capacity for irrigation and flood drainage;
(b) a relift pumping plant with about 50 cfs pumping
capacity;
(c) power transmission lines to the pumping plants;
(d) three gated regulators at the outlets of khals to
the Karnafuli and Ichamati rivers;
(e)  improvement of about 16 mi of existing khals and
the excavation of about 4 mi of new khals;
(f) about 130 low-lift, diesel-powered, 2 cfs pumps
(of which about 60 are for replacing the existing
ones) to raise water from the khals to adjacent
farmlands;
(g) a box culvert under the Chittagong-Kaptai Highway;
(h) two khal check structures, one of them gated, and
(i) flood protection embankments about 12 mi long, along
with an exterior diversion channel.
C.  Minor Works and Supporting Services (both Units)
(a) workshops, equipment and vehicles for maintenance
of civil works and pumps;



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 3
(b)  transportation (field vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles)
and agricultural equipment (hand sprayers, grain dryers),
and
(c)  to strengthen agricultural extension and supporting serv-
ices and the establishment of six agricultural demonstra-
tion areas.
Responsibilities of the Consultant
3.        The responsibilities of the consultants would be as follows:
A.   Engineering Services
(a)  review of all pertinent reports, data, preliminary
project planning and design for the project, in
particular the Feasibility Report dated March 1974;
(b)  assisting WDB in:
(i)  formulation of final project plan;
(ii) formulation of design criteria for all structures,
channels and canals;
(iii) preparation of detailed project layout, scope of
contracts, engineering and construction schedules;
(iv) preparation of final construction plans and drawings,
detailed designs, specifications and tender documents;
(v)  preparation of cost estimates of project works;
(vi) pre-qualification of contractors, evaluation of
bids and drafting of contract documents;
(vii) preparation of specifications and tender documents
of vehicles and equipment to be procured by the proj-
ect and assistance in the evaluation of the bids;
(viii)  supervision of construction of all civil works,
including installation of electrical and mechanical
equipment, certification of monthly progress meas-
urements for interim and final payments to con-
tractors, approval of construction equipment,
methods and materials, and direct supervision of
all works in relation to contract specifications;



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 4
(ix) preparation of O&M manual, and
(x) provision of on-the-job training to WDB's staff.
B.   Reports:
The consultant shall maintain full and continuous liaison with
designated officers of the Board. Regular project review meetings will
be held as determined by the Board. In addition, the consultant shall
prepare and submit to the Board the following documents:
(a) an Inception Report, three months after the con-
tractual starting date of the consultant, present-
ing the conclusions and recommendations of the
consultant on items of Section 3A; b(i), b(ii),
b(iii);
(b)  quarterly progress reports, at calendar quarters,
describing progress of works in detail and sum-
marizing the consultant's staffing and activities
during the reporting period and his work program
for the coming quarter. The reports will present
a summary statement of all of the consultants'
certified expenditures on the project to that
period and a detailed forecast of expenditures
for the coming quarter, together with a summary
forecast for the subsequent three quarters. Each
report will incorporate updated schedules for all
construction contracts, and
(c) a final report, on completion of the consultants'
contractual services, incorporating a full set of
"as-constructed" drawings and identifying all
aspects of the completed project works which
require specialized operation and maintenance
procedures, and detailing such procedures.
Services to be Provided to Consultant
4.        The following will be provided by the Board to the consultant:
(a) all available maps, drawings, data, reports and any
other information pertinent to the design and execu-
tion of the project;
(b)  reasonable office accommodation equipped with necessary
furniture and utilities in the project area;
(c) all local transport facilities and equipment required
by the consultant;



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 5
(d)  reasonable furnished family living quarters acceptable
to the consultant;
(e)  exempt or bear the c:ost of, any taxes, duties, fees,
levies or other impositions imposed under Bangladesh
laws and regulations or the laws and regulations in
effect in territories or any political subdivision
or agency thereof, on the consultant and his per-
sonnel (other than personnel who are citizens or
permanent residents of Bangladesh) in respect of:
(i) any payments made to the Consultant or to such
personnel in connection with the carrying out
of the agreed-to services;
(ii) any equipment, materials and supplies brought
into the country for the purpose of carrying
out the services and which will subsequently
be withdrawn therefrom, and
(iii-) any property brought into Bangladesh by the
personnel of the consultant and his dependents
for their personal use and which will subse-
quently be withdrawn therefrom upon departures
of such personnel; however, to qualify for
these exemptions, shipment of such property
will have to be arranged by contract no later
than three months after the arrival of the
staff members;
(f)  facilitate prompt clearance through customs of any
equipment, materials and supplies required for the
services and of the personal effects of the consult-
ants' personnel;
(g)  ensure that the consultants' personnel and their
dependents are promptly provided with any necessary
entry and exit visas, residence permits, exchange
permits and travel documents required for their
stay in the territories of the Government, and
(h)  issue all necessary permits and authorizations for
the carrying out of the services.
Necessary Procedures to be Followed by Invited Consulting Firms
5.        Invited consulting firms are requested to submit their proposals
addressed to ........(name).................
.......................... (address).  The proposals must reach 
................... (name) not later than .
(date and time).



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 6
6.        The proposals should state clearly the following:
(a) terms and conditions under which they would carry out
the duties and responsibilities specified above (finan-
cial terms are not desired at this stage);
(b) the proposed composition of the team (with names and
qualifications) which they intend to assign to the
project both in the field and at the home office,
number of man-months of each individual, for both
expatriate and Bangladesh personnel, and
(c) a list of vehicles and equipment which they anticipate
would be required in the carrying out of their work.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Fisheries Development Program -
Introduction
1.        Knowledge about fisheries in Bangladesh is very limited.  Virtually
no data exist on which an assessment of the ecological effects of irrigation
and flood control projects can be made. Consequently, this credit would
provide support to the Department of Fisheries, under the Ministry of Forests,
Fish and Livestock, in preparing and implementing programs to insure that
three IDA-financed irrigation projects do not result in a decline in
fisheries production. The project would provide: a carp hatchery in the
area covered by the Chandpur II Irrigation Project (Credit No. 340-BD);
vehicles, boats and scientific equipment for the research station at Chandpur,
and consultants to assist in development of the research station and in the
design, construction and operation of the hatchery. The technical assistance
would make the Department of Fisheries capable of assessing the impact of
future irrigation and flood control projects on fisheries, and, capable of
designing programs to remedy any negative effects ivich might result from
such projects. The consultants terms of reference would include: monitoring
fishery development within the Chandpur Project area; studies of fishery
development in the proposed Muhuri Irrigation Project area and the Karnafuli
Irrigation Project area, and preparation of programs for increasing fish
yields in these areas including the preliminary design of a carp spawning
facility, probably located on the lower Halda River, as well as a shrimp
spawning facility, possibly located in a saline estuary of the Meghna River
delta.
2.        This Annex gives a background on fisheries in Bangladesh, with
specific emphasis on the three project areas, and describes the works, equip-
ment and services this credit would provide.
Fisheries in Bangladesh
3.        Inland fisheries in Bangladesh are of considerable economic
importance and rank second to agriculture in contributing to the GNP. Avail-
able fish production statistics are, however, unreliable and estimates given
1/   This Annex is based on the findings of Mr. L. Sprague who visited
Bangladesh in April 1975.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
by different Government agencies are often at variance with each other. The
total production of fish from inland waters in 1970 was estimated at 730,000
tons. There are some 500,000 - 600,000 full time fishermen and some five mil-
lion people derive a substantial part of their livelihood, directly or in-
directly, from fish production and trade. Due to the revival of the export
trade with India and the development of a shrimp export trade with the US,
Japan and Europe, the fisheries sector contributed about US$7 million to
foreign exchange earnings in 1974.
4.        Traditionally, fish is a very valued item in the Bangali diet
furnishing more than 80% of the intake of animal protein. Once, in the not-
too-distant past, the fisheries were considered adequate to furnish the animal
protein requirements of the country. In the recent past, however, a combina-
tion of factors has changed the picture radically and, at present, the aver-
age per capita consumption of animal protein is among the lowest in the world.
Among these factors are: the rapid population growth; injudicious fishing
practices; increased pollution from rural and urban industries; changes in
agricultural practices, including increased use of chemicals; lack of adequate
Government support for fisheries development, and the favoring of agriculture
over fisheries in most resource conflicts without an adequate evaluation of
relative benefits.
5.        In spite of the unfavorable development of fisheries in Bangladesh,
the potential for substantial gains is excellent. The inland fishery is
considered not to be excelled either in area or potential by any other fresh
water fishery in the world. The main inland fishery resources are: (a)
rivers, estuaries and their tributaries; (b) fresh water and brackfish water
impoundments; (c) man-made lakes; (d) tanks and ponds, and (e) paddy fields.
No reliable information about the areas of these different types of water is
available and the full potential can, consequently, not be accurately assessed.
6.        The most important commercial fish are carp, prawns and the Indian
shad (Hilsa ilisha). Over 200 different species of fish and prawns have been
recorded in Bangladesh, of which about ten groups comprising 30 species are
of principal economic importance (Table 1).
7.        Unlike marine fisheries, inland fisheries are labor intensive.
The fishermen operate a variety of gear ranging from primitive types of fish
baskets and traps to the most efficacious and modern types of gill nets and
seines. Bangali fishermen are generally credited with considerable tradi-
tional skill and professional ingenuity. Commercially caught fish are mar-
keted through wholesalers who auction the catch to retailers in big cities.
In small towns, fish are sold directly to retailers. Fish are usually pre-
served in ice at the landing terminals and very often marketed in an un-
satisfactory condition. Some fish, particularly those caught in remote areas,
are sun dried. In recent years, some private companies have set up freezing
plants in Chittagong for shrimps and prawns.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Bank Involvement in the Fisheries Sector in Bangladesh
8.        While considerable theoretical information and practical ex-
perience from other countries exist, there is a substantial lack of specific
technical information about conditions in Bangladesh. This has so far pre-
vented the Bank Group from financing any major fisheries project in the
country. The Land and Water Resources Sector Study, 1/ published by the Bank
in 1972, provided a comprehensive assessment of the problems facing fisheries
in Bangladesh and outlined an action-program, which focused on institutional
changes, research and potential pilot s-1emes.  In order to alleviate the
impact on coastal communities brought about by the cyclone in November 1970,
IDA financed the Coastal Area Rehabilitation and Cyclone Protection Project
(Credit No 339-BD, 1972, US$25.0 million), 2/ which contained a fisheries
sub-project to replace boats and materials lost in the cyclone.
9.        The feasibility studies for the Chandpur II Irrigation Project
(Credit No 340-BD), and the proposed Muhuri and Karnafuli Irrigation Proj-
ects included consultant studies of the fisheries in the areas. In early
1973, a Bank mission with IBRD/FAO cooperative program assistance visited
Bangladesh to assist GOB in identifying and preparing an Inland Fisheries
Project for possible financing by the Bank Group. Further studies are
underway, financed in part by the Technical Assistance Credit (No. 409-BD),
to obtain more detailed information concerning lakes and ponds in the north-
west, which may provide a suitable basis for an inland fisheries project.
10.       Sufficient technical information is now available for the design
of a carp hatchery facility in the Chandpur II Project area. In order to
strengthen the Ministry of Forests, Fish and Livestock's capability to
execute fisheries development projects, equipment and consulting services
would be provided to its research station at Chandpur. The consultants
would also carry out detailed studies of the fisheries in the Muhuri and
Karnafuli Project areas which would result in programs for improving fish
yields in these areas and in the design of a carp spawning facility, pos-
sibly located on the lower Halda River in the Karnafuli Project area. It
is envisaged that financing for these programs can be taken up in connection
with future inland fisheries or irrigation projects.
Fisheries in the Chandpur Project Area
11.       The present fisheries in the Chandpur Project area, still largely
unaffected by project construction, include both a "fin-fish" and prawn
fishery. The species involved in the fisheries include a wide variety of
fishes. Most important are the carp (Cyprinidae) of which the most prized
are: the major carp; Katla, Catla catla; Mrigal, Cirrhina mrigala; Kalbous,
Labeo calbasu, and Rohu, L. rohita. Others that contribute significantly
to the catch include catfishes, Clariidae and Heteropneustidae, gobies,
Gobiidae, snakeheads, Ophiocephalidae, and climbing perch, Anabatidae. A
large variety of additional minor species may appear in the commercial
fishery and particularly in the subsistance fishery.
1/   IBRD Report No. PS-13.
2/   Replaced Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
12.       The prawn fishery catches at least six species.  The giant fresh-
water prawn, Macrobrachium rosenbergi, contributes an estimated 60% of the
catch. Approximately 30% of the prawn catch consists of M. malcolmsonii.
Four other smaller species constitute the remaining 10%.
13.       The commercial fin-fish fishery (mainly for major (Indian) carp)
is conducted in the South Dakatia River and the larger khals (natural chan-
nels). The subsistance fishery, primarily for fin-fish, is concentrated
along the smaller waterways. The catch of fin-fish is estimated to be in
the range of 1,000 - 1,500 tons per year. The prawn fishery is primarily
commercial and conducted in the South Dakatia River and the major khals.
The catch of some 40 - 50 tons per year is largely exported. There are
3,000 - 4,000 full-time fishermen in the project area.
14.       An important characteristic of the Chandpur fishery is that many
of the spawning adults are never, or at least not long, in the area. The
major carps spawn somewhere upstream, probably in the Meghna River and the
giant prawn downstream in the saline estuary.
15.       The freshwater prawn has rather exacting requirements for the
successful completion of its life history. These requirements are not
found in the Chandpur area. The eggs are laid and carried by the female
for about two and a half weeks before they hatch. When they hatch, the larvae
must be in brackish water (12-16 parts per thousand of salt) or reach brack-
ish water within four to five days. When the larval development is completed,
about two and a half months after hatching, the juveniles drop to the bottom
and start migrating by crawling along the bottom to fresh water where they
will grow to maturity. Since the only brackish water found close to the
Chandpur area is about 50 mi downstream in the Meghna River delta, it is
presumed that the larval development occurs there. The shrimps enter the
Chandpur area at the end of this migratory cycle. The details of this cycle
are largely unknown.
16.       Also, the spawning of carp requires specific hydrological and eco-
logical conditions, which are not present in the Chandpur area (see para 24).
Carp young are washed in with the flood from the Meghna River. Survival
and growth rates of these young fish, and to a lesser extent the shrimp,
almost certainly depend upon the high production of fish food when three
quarters of the land is flooded. The water is then reasonably clear, shal-
low, warm, full of nutrients and relatively still for several months. The
young major carps grow to 7-8 inches long before flood waters begin to re-
cede in September or October. The role of floods for providing food for
shrimp is not known but has been found to be significant in many other parts
of the world.
17.       The Chandpur II Irrigation Project contains an embankment around
the project area and regulators with sluices at the northern and southern
inlets of the South Dakatia River. With the project works, and the result-
ant exclusion of flood inflow, only an insignificant number of shrimps and
carps can enter the area.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
18.       Since conditions favorable for carp spawning are not present in
the area, eggs and fry must be supplied from alternative sources. The sup-
ply of such eggs and fry from natural spawning areas is already becoming
inadequate, and, consequently a hatchery facility utilizing induced spawning
techniques is regarded as the only feasible way of supplying young fish to
the project area. Such a facility would be provided under this project.
19.       Much less information is available about the requirements of a
fresh water prawn hatchery, even though some success has been reached with
such facilities in Malaysia, the Hawaiian Islands and a few other similar
tropical areas. It is, however, clear that such a facility preferably
should be quite large and located well outside the Chandpur Project area.
Adequate background information on salinity levels, pollution effects, land
structure, land availability, transportation of fry, costs of construction,
operation, maintenance, etc., are wholly inadequate to recommend physical
facilities at this time and a considerable amount of investigation will be
required to provide data on these and related factors. Equipment and con-
sulting support for such an investigation would be provided by this project.
20.       After implementation of the carp hatchery facility at Chandpur,
the water hyacinth, Echinochornia Crassipes, will be almost the only factor
restraining fishery development. Except for a few miles at each end, thic
floating plant now covers the South Dakatia River from bank to bank from
February into July or August when it is washed away by the floods. Follow-
ing the institution of water control measures, the growth of the water
hyacinth may become a serious problem since it will no longer be cleared
by flooding. Chemical control of the water hyacinth is possible but would
eliminate most or all of the biological productivity of the water and fish-
ery. Furthermore, chemical control results in the dying of the weed and
its sinking to the bottom where it is very slowly oxidized. Annual growth
far exceeds decay rates and eventual fouling of many of the waterways might
be expected. Part of the fisheries program would be concerned with adequate
measures to control the water hyacinth.
Fisheries in the Muhuri Irrigation ProJect Area
21.       Existing fisheries in this area are presently of only minor im-
portance. The primary feature of the proposed Muhuri Irrigation Project
would be a cross-dam and a regulator at the mouth of the Feni River. These
works would create a shallow fresh water reservoir in the present Feni
estuary and stabilize water levels in the Feni, Muhuri and Selonia Rivers
as well as in the numerous khals in the area. It is expected that the proj-
ect would exclude the giant fresh water prawn and some migratory fish from
the area. The existing fishery in the Feni River estuary appears to be very
small, possibly not more than 5 kg/'ac, but the reservoir would have the
potential of becoming an important production area. However, because of its
size and the difficulty of instituting fisheries regulation and management
in the reservoir, it is not expected to have the yield potential of managed
ponds or even the rivers and khals. An estimated 80 kg/ac of surface water



ANNEX 4
Page 6
yield per year is probably a realistic target. In combination with the in-
creased water surface area that would be created by the regulator, this
yield increase would mean a manyfold increase in the catch.
22.       To fully realize the fish production potential of the waters in
the Muhuri Project, it would be necessary to stock the area with finger-
lings of major carp and possibly other species rather than rely on natural
propagation, to devise a management system for the fisheries appropriate
to the local socio-economic conditions and to introduce pond culture into
the project area. However, none of these steps can be taken on the basis
of the present level of available information. This project would provide
equipment and consulting services for the preparation of a fisheries pro-
gram for the Muhuri Project area.
Fisheries in the Karnafuli Irrigation Project Area
23.       The carp spawn fishery is an almost unique and very important
fishery on the lower Halda River from Sattaghat near Gahira to its con-
fluence with the Karnafuli River.
24.       Conditions required for spawning of the commercially important
carp species in rivers are not fully understood. However, it is known that
spawning takes place during the early part of the monsoon season, usually
in late May or early June, when there is a very rapid rise in water -- one
meter or more, which occurs within a period of a few hours -- with a simul-
taneous decrease in water temperature. It also has been observed that the
spawning activity takes place at or near the surface in relatively shallow
areas (two to three meters) of the river. Little or no spawning takes place
in deep places or along edges of the river where the banks are steep. Gen-
erally, the same spawning grounds are utilized year after year. There are
other spawning grounds for major carp in Bangladesh, none of them, however,
as important as that on the Halda River.
25.       The young fish grow rapidly in calm waters such as flooded agri-
cultural lands, ox-bow lakes, and ponds. However, because adult fish of
these carp species normally spawn only in rivers and then only during the
monsoon season, fish eggs and young fish (commonly called fish seed or fry)
must be collected annually from these rivers for stocking in other waters.
26.       Subsequent to the spawning, fishermen with small boats and fine-
mesh nets rapidly collect great masses of spawn as the semibuoyant eggs
drift rapidly downstream in the turbulent flood waters. Carp eggs are placed
in live-wells in the boat and subsequently transferred to very small, ex-
cavated pools located adjacent to the river. Eggs hatch within 10 to 20
hours and, after a period of a few days, the fry are shipped in clay jugs to
various regions of the country and many are exported to India. Due to dif-
ficult transport conditions, including flooded roads, unreliable transport
and the rather delicate nature of very young fish (characteristic of prac-
tically all fish species), mortality during shipment is often high.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
27.       The peak carp spawning period in a particular river normally is
confined to a period of 4 to 12 hours and there is usually only one such
mass spawning period each year although occasionally two and, rarely, three
or more major spawning occurrences; may be recorded during the spawning season.
28.       There is general agreement among fisheries scientists, fish farmers,
fish fry collectors and dealers that supplies of fry from traditional spawn-
ing grounds all over Bangladesh have decreased sharply during past years
with a rather precipitous decline occurring in the past few years. The sig-
nificant decline of fish fry supplies has been attributed in part to a de-
terioration of the spawning habitat through modification of the river courses.
For example, annual stocks of carp fry taken from the Halda River declined
from 326 to 145 million from 1945 to 1953 following excavation of canals
that essentially cut off several loops of the river. Although straightening
of the river course may have improved small craft navigation by reducing the
distances between river ports, it has also irreparably damaged adjacent
spawning grounds to the extent that these areas are no longer utilized for
spawning purposes. Other factors thought to contribute to the recent decline
of fish fry stocks (1972 production was estimated at 25% below average pro-
duction recorded for the previous two years) included major irrigation and
embankment projects, industrial and urban river pollution, and the increased
use of agricultural inputs required for the new varieties of rice.
29.       The project concept, of regulating khal flows with no regulation
of the Halda River itself, was designed to have a minimal impact on the
fishery. However, knowledge of the fishery is limited and further special-
ist studies of Halda carp spawning are considered essential in the imple-
mentation of the project. The proposed credit, therefore, provides for
detailed specialist studies of the fish habitat on the Halda River with re-
gard to the potential effects of the project and for the design of a carp
spawning facility probably to be located on the Halda River.
30.       Other fisheries in ponds, khals and the other rivers in the Karna-
fuli Project area are of minor importance relative to the carp spawn fish-
ery. They are comparable to existing and potential fisheries in most other
areas of Bangladesh. There is some movement of fish through the khal out-
lets which would be regulated under the proposed project. Since the regu-
lators would be open during high tide in the dry season and during low tide
in most of the wet season, it is not anticipated that the yield reduction
would be significant. Improved yields would require fisheries management
including stocking to supplement natural reproduction. Stocking would be
required particularly because flood control measures may limit the natural
restocking of off-river areas. This stocking would be especially important
in the Ichamati Unit, which presently is more flooded than the Halda Unit.
Furthermore, most of the water in the Ichamati Unit would be supplied by a
major pumping plant and not through khal regulators. It is possible that
the fisheries in the Ichamati Unit would be effected by the effluent from
the Karnafuli Paper Mill at Chandraghona, 3 mi upstream from the pumping
plant.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
31.       In spite of these minor negative aspects of the project, it is
highly likely that fish yields can be increased substantially with improved
fisheries management.
Components of the Fisheries Development Program
32.       The primary objective of the fisheries development program would
be to create a Bangali ability to carry out field investigations to assess
the impact of irrigation and flood control projects and to design fisheries
development projects. Consequently, an essential feature of the program
would be the employment of specialist consultant technical assistance per-
sonnel who could be absorbed into the working staff of the Department of
Fisheries. The consultants would assist the Government in conducting a
major investigation of fisheries in the Chandpur, Muhuri and Karnafuli
Project areas. The 192 man-months of consulting services that the credit
would provide is estimated to cost US$1.3 million. In addition, the project
would provide equipment, vehicles and boats to be used for the investigative
program, both at the existing research station at Chandpur town and in the
field.
33.       The project would also provide funds for a carp hatchery in the
Chandpur Project area to remedy the project's negative effects on the carp
fishery and to serve as a focus of research on the design and operation of
hatchery facilities. A training program would also be carried out at the
hatchery. The Government would be assisted by consultants in the design,
construction and operation of the hatchery.
34.       The investigative program and the physical components of the
fisheries development program are described below. Draft terms of reference
for consulting services are outlined in Appendix 1 to this Annex.
Investigative Program
35.       The investigative program would be carried out by the Department
of Fisheries with the assistance of consultants. The studies would be along
the following main lines of investigation:
(a) inventories of fisheries and their related economic activities
in the Chandpur, Muhuri and Karnafuli Project areas, including:
-    magnitude of the fisheries of each specie in terms
of numbers, weights and value;
-    origin of the recruitment of fish to the areas and
routes of migration;
-    balance between commercial and subsistance fisheries;
-    type and location of landing facilities and marketing
outlets;



ANNEX 4
Page 9
-    socio-economic characteristics of fishermen (number
of full-time and part-time fishermen, capital equip-
ment, incomes, skills, etc.);
-    regulations of fisheries and their enforcement, and
-    monitoring changes in the variables listed above during
the completion and initial operation of the Chandpur
Project to collect data that can be used for assessment
of future irrigation and flood control projects of this
type.
(b) assessment of fisheries potential in the Chandpur, Muhuri
and Karnafuli Project areas, with special emphasis given
to the carp spawn fishery on the lower Halda River, including:
-    physical environment (salinity, temperature,
pollutants, hydrology, etc.);
-    aquatic vegetation;
-    important predator control, and
-    potentials for development of other fish and shrimp
species for commercial or subsistance purposes.
(c) identification of a suitable location for a fresh water shrimp
hatchery which includes:
-    inventory of fresh water shrimp fisheries in
Bangladesh;
-    spawning grounds and routes of migration, and
-    physical requirements for spawning both in natural
habitats and in hatcheries.
(d) based on the studies listed above, development of programs
for the improvement of fisheries in the Chandpur, Muhuri
and Karnafuli areas, would include:
-    hatchery site investigations;
-    preliminary design of a carp spawning facility,
probably to be located on the lower Halda River;
-    preliminary design of a fresh water shrimp hatchery,
possibly located in the Meghna River delta;
-    recommendations regarding needed changes in fisheries
management practices, regulations, enforcement and
infrastructure, and



ANNEX 4
Page 10
-    assessment of costs and benefits of the proposed
programs.
(e) assessment of the proposed Chandpur hatchery's effectiveness
with the special objective of refining the design and
operation of future carp hatcheries;
(f) monitoring the carp stocking program in the Chandpur Project
area in order to identify problems and to assess costs and
benefits.
Vehicles, Boats and Equipment for the Chandpur Research Station
and for the Field Investigations
36.       Work at the station is divided into three phases:  (1) Fisheries
Biology, (2) Fisheries Technology, and (3) Fisheries Training. The Fisheries
Training Institute is operated for the training of extension personnel em-
ployed by the Department of Fisheries. Extension workers are required to
complete a training program of 18-months before they are assigned to the
field. The Institute has its own building and a training staff of about
six teachers and ten training aides.
37.       The Fisheries Technological Division is housed in a good building
with several moderately well-equipped laboratories. It has a staff of about
15 research officers and 15 aides.
38.       The Fisheries Biology Division is housed in a separate building.
It has a staff of about 20 research biologists and 30 aides. Work in this
division consists of research on pond fertilization, water chemistry, biol-
ogy and life cycles of mussels and shrimp, pituitary spawning of fish,
toxicity of insecticides to fish, taxonomy of fish and parasites of fish.
The research being done by research officers and biologists has historically
been of good quality. However, many of the research personnal need addi-
tional training in fisheries. Most have B.S. or M.S. degrees in Botany
and Zoology but have had no formal work in fisheries.
39.       Poor soil quality is a factor that severely limits the future
development and expansion of the station. Ponds built at the station go
dry during the dry season (except for a few which have a depth of approxi-
mately 12 ft) since the soils have an inadequate clay content for the re-
tention of water. Ponds are filled entirely by rain water with some seepage
through sandy soils and these ponds can be drained only by pumping. Another
undesirable feature is that during years of extremely heavy rainfall, flood
waters overtop the ponds resulting in damage to dams and premature termina-
tion of experiments.
40.       Although some features make establishment of a large research
station for pond fish culture at Chandpur impractical, certain research
facilities and equipment should nevertheless be added. The station is



ANNEX 4
Page 11
ideally located for research on fish population dynamics in riverine and
adjacent irrigated environments. Therefore, research relating to capture
fisheries and irrigation project fisheries should be expanded at the
Chandpur station.
41.       Its proximity to the Chandpur Project area offers a unique
opportunity to strengthen the fisheries investigative and management insti-
tutional framework, as well as to develop an effective working relationship
'between the operation of the proposed carp hatchery facility and the manage-
ment of the Chandpur Irrigation Project. Future work at the station should
involve obtaining significant data and experience in order to develop the
in-house capability to design, and operate improved hatchery facilities.
42.       A modern research vessel designed for work on the major river
systems of Bangladesh will be provided by an agreement between GOB and the
Danish Government. The vessel, which will be delivered in 1975, will
primarily be used for fisheries investigations. A significant amount of
the vessel's operation will be concerned with investigations which seek to
clarify the distribution and abundance of carp, fresh water shrimp, and to
define the major migrations of these species throughout the flood plain
system. The work of the vessel would assist in determining if it is pos-
sible to operate the water control structures of the Chandpur Project in
a way that is compatible with flood control, and agriculture objectives and
at the same time provide fisheries benefits to the project areas. Since the
vessel would be of utmost importance for the investigation of the Chandpur
fisheries, the project would provide funds for equipment and materials to
cover part of its operations and maintenance costs over four years up to a
maximum of US$60,000 each fiscal year. 1/
43.       In addition, the project would provide the following equipment and
material for the research station and the field investigations:
1/ This would not duplicate the provisions made by the Danish Government.



ANNEX 4
Page 12
Approximate
cif cost in US$
3 pickup trucks                                    20,000
3 boat trailers                                     5,000
3 fiberglass boats with motors                     28,000
1 200 gallon fish transport tank on trailer         2,000
Equipment for pollution studies,
chemical analysis                       33,000
Sealant for tanks                                  45,000
Field Laboratory equipment 1/                      50,000
183,000
Carp Hatchery Facility
44.       A modern fish hatchery complex is needed to supply the great
numbers of fry and fingerlings required to stock the waters within the
Chandpur Project area. Construction of the hatchery would involve construc-
tion of ponds and hatchery buildings on about 50 ac of land to be provided
by GOB. The hatchery would also serve as a focus for the Department of
Fisheries training and research activities. The training program would
establish a domestic competence to operate and maintain carp hatchery facil-
ities. The research program -- carried out under the direction of the
Chandpur Research Station -- would help refine the design of future carp
hatcheries.
45.       Major elements requiring significant capital outlays include the
following:
(a) construction of hatchery ponds;
(b) construction of concrete tanks for spawning of carp species
and growing carp from larvae to fry;
(c) construction of a field laboratory with facilities for
storage of fertilizers and feeds, garage, workshop and
offices;
1/   For a tentative list see Table 2.



ANNEX 4
Page 13
(d) construction of a fish hatching laboratory;
(e)  construction of a training and dormitory building, and
(d) purchase of equipment required in hatchery operations
and the transport of fish to various locations in the
project area.
46.       The various components are discussed in paragraphs 47-54 and the
costs are summarized below:
Costs
Taxes
Local     Foreign   and Duties   Total
( …------- Taka Million --------)
Item
Land Acquisition                     1.00        -           -          1.00
Civil Works
Ponds                          2.88        0.45        0.20       3.53
Concrete Pools                 0.62        0.50        0.18       1.30
Buildings                      1.19        0.25        0.09       1.53
Subtotal                  4.69        1.20       0.47        6.36
Vehicles and Equipment
Tubewells and Generator        0.35        0.50        0.18       1.03
Vehicles and Boats             0.08        0.53        0.58       1.19
Laboratory Equipment           0.06        0.30        0.13       0.49
Field Equipment                0.03        0.15        0.07       0.25
Pipes, Valves, etc.            0.24        2.00        0.90       3.14
Subtotal                  0.76        3.48       1.86        6.10
Design, Management and
Administration                 1.20         -           -         1.20
Basic Cost                           7.65       4.68        2.33       14.66
Physical Contingencies /1            0.82       0.70        0.35        1.87
Expected Price Increases             2.85       1.64        0.88       5.37
TOTAL COST                    11.32        7.02        3.56      21.90
/1   15% of civil works, equipment and vehicles.
The major components of the hatchery facility would be:



ANNEX 4
Page 14
47.       Earthen ponds.  The surface water area of the complex would Le
about 15 ha. Earthen banks would be required to provide ponds of convenient
production units of approximately 1 to 2.5 ac in size. The ponds would be
designed with an overflow system whereby each pond could be filled and the
water level maintained throughout the breeding season. Step (brick) walkways
would be constructed on one side of each pond to facilitate rapid removal of
young fish through seining with minimum damage to fish resulting from reduced
oxygen, handling, etc. Clay soil of good quality would be used in the banks.
All banks would be constructed with a top width of 2 meters and a slope of
2:1. Such a bank, with an assumed height of 3 meters, would have a cross-
section area of 24 m2. Banks of lesser widths (1 m) and steeper slopes
(1.5:1 or 1:1) could be utilized, thus reducing the volume of earth needed,
but the added costs of utilizing brick rip-rap to eliminate sloughing off
banks would result in greater total construction costs.
48.       Concrete pools. These would be required for:  holding brood fish
for relatively short periods; selective breeding and hybridization work, and
holding of eggs and rearing of fry. A minimum of 30 reinforced concrete
pools would be constructed. These pools would have an inside measurement
of about 25 square meters with a water depth of about 1 meter -- thus having
a volume of about 25 cubic meters. The general area would first be leveled
and excavated to receive a stabilizing course of boulder or brick, covered
by a 150 mm leveling course of cement (1:4:8 mixture) upon which the pond
floor and side walls would be constructed. The latter course, also 150 mm
wide would be a 1:2:4 cement mixture with reinforcement steel for added
structural strength. Each pool would be equipped with a water inlet and
an outlet. The water supply line, 50 mm in diameter, would span the length
of a series of pools. In addition, a drainage canal, with a sufficient
slope to quickly drain water from overflowing pools away from the area
(thus preventing the foundation from settling and the walls from cracking)
would line the pools.
49.       Fish Hatching and Holding Building.  A fish hatching and holding
house would be required for spawning of local carp species and of the Chinese
grass carp in particular. It would also serve as the principal facility for
holding fingerlings, harvested from rearing ponds, until the fish have voided
feces and been counted and/or weighed prior to their distribution. This
facility would be carefully located in order to provide optimum accessibility
from the various fingerling production ponds within the hatchery complex.
Suggested dimensions of the combination fish hatching and fish holding facil-
ity are 15 x 16 meters or a total of 240 square meters.
50.       Field Laboratory and Training Facilities.  A field laboratory with
adequate storage rooms for fish feeds and fertilizers, a garage workshop
and office space would be constructed. This building would be located so
that its facilities could be reached with convenience by station personnel
but still be secure from pilferage. The overall size would be 9 to 25 meters
or 225 square meters. A training and dormitory facility would be needed to
house visiting biologists and fish culturists during the fish breeding



ANNEX 4
Page 15
season when around the clock work is required to successfully induce the
carp to spawn. It would also be used for training of fisheries personnel
associated with the project. It :Ls estimated that an area of 225 square
meters would include sleeping space for 12 to 16 persons as well as a lecture
hall, bathroom and kitchen facilities.
,51.      Tubewells.  Since a secure supply of good quality water is the
prime requirement for an effective carp spawning facility, the hatchery
complex also requires three wells equipped with stand-by diesel driven
engines and pumps.  Six diesel engine, 20-25 hp driven pumps, would be
needed.
52.       Stand-by Generator.  Electrical service in the project area is
unreliable, and a stand-by diesel electric generating system would be avail-
able as it is essential that brood fish be spawned at precisely the right
time day or night, during the breeding season in order to obtain fish eggs
of acceptable hatchability as wel:L as high viability of fry.
53.       Tank.  A water storage tank of reinforced concrete (approximately
:2 x 4 meters and 3 meters in tota:L height) would be constructed. The tank
would have several 150 mm outlet ports to supply water by gravity feed to
field water lines supplying the various ponds of the hatchery complex. The
tank will also provide potable water, through a secondary pump, to the
dormitory and laboratory facilities.
54.       Equipment and Vehicles.  The project would provide:  one 2-ton
truck; two pick-up trucks; one tractor with trailer; two boat trailers; two
fiberglass boats with motors; two 200 gallon fish transport tanks on trailers;
laboratory equipment, and field equipment.
55.       Staff Training.  During the first year of construction of the
hatchery, ten staff members of the Fisheries Directorate would undergo
training in India for one month during the carp spawning season to observe
and actively participate in carp breeding programs with emphasis on master-
ing the skills needed for induced spawning techniques. The same program
would be repeated for five additional staff members the following two years.
Funds would be provided by the project to cover the foreign exchange cost of
this training. Also, an additional in-country training program would be
carried out at Chandpur for 12 fisheries officers by personnel who have
received training in India. This two to three week training program would
be held immediately prior to the peak of the fish spawning season in order
that the participants could quickly gain experience by assisting in the
carp spawning operation. The consultants provided by the project would be
available to assist in this training.
56.       Operation and Maintenance.  In order to ensure that proper operat-
ing and maintenance procedures are established for the hatchery, a qualified
and experienced hatchery management specialist would be provided by the
project for a period of three years.  The project would also provide funds



ANNEX 4
Page 16
for the foreign exchange cost of equipment and materials for operating the
hatchery during the first two years after its completion. (This amount would,
however, be limited to US$50,000 per year.) The principle techniques for
operating the carp hatchery and estimated production are described in Appendix
2 to this Annex.
December   1975



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Draft Terms of Reference for Fisheries Consultants
1.        The primary objective cf consultant technical assistance would be
to create a Bangali ability to carry out field studies to assess the impact
of irrigation and flood control projects and to design fisheries develop-
ment projects. Consequently, an essential feature in the employment of
consultant technical assistance personnel is that they would be absorbed
into the working staff of the Department of Fisheries and that they would
spend the majority of their time in the field. They would act as Government
staff and share full responsibilities in their fields of competence to the
extent requested by the Government. There would be one or two Governmental
counterparts (in the case of the hatchery facility possibly more) who would
take up the responsibilities of the technical assistance staff after t;keer
departure. Since a number of different specialists would be required, it
is believed that the necessary services could best be provided by a firm
of consultants specializing in fisheries. Since some of the consulting
requirements would be highly specialized, it is expected that the firm would
seek individuals for short-term assignments from outside its own core staff.
2.        Prime responsibility for the design and operation of the Chandpur
hatchery and the investigative programs at Chandpur, Muhuri and Karnafuli
would rest with the Department of Fisheries, which would provide all necessary
personnel and equipment. The consultants would provide the required spe-
cialized technical skills. The specialists who would be employed under the
project would include:
3.        Senior Fisheries Biologist (Administration).  He would assist the
Department of Fisheries in: organizing the team for the technical field
investigations; site selection, design, tender evaluation and supervision
of construction of the Chandpur hatchery; advising on staff selection, and
coordinating research and training activities at the hatchery. He would have
an advanced degree in Biological Sciences, at least ten years experience in
the fisheries field of which at least five would have been in the conduct
of independent, original technical investigation and 3 to 5 years of addi-
tional experience in the management of integrated technical teams. He would
have demonstrated a thorough familiarity with the problems of working and
living in the field in developing countries. This position would be provided
for a period of four years.
4.        Senior Fisheries Biologist (Research).  He would work closely with
the senior staff of the Department of Fisheries in developing the investiga-
tion program. He would assist in: selecting staff for the technical in-
vestigations; preparing cost estimates, lists of equipment required for



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 2
the investigations and a detailed work program for field investigations, and
in analyzing the requirements for short-term consultants. He would have a
Ph.D. or an equivalent degree in Biological Sciences and extensive interest
in and aptitude for field work. He would be experienced in technical in-
vestigations in fisheries, but his speciality may be in any subject agreed
upon between the Department of Fisheries and IDA. Primarily, he must have
demonstrated the qualities of imagination in designing investigative work,
adaptability to difficult technical and field conditions, resourcefulness
in getting the job done with available materials manpower and funds, and
flexibility of mind in assigning priority to those issues which further the
program objectives. The individual will be required to prepare fully
competent technical reports and may, with the approval of the Department of
Fisheries, also prepare articles for publication in international scientific
journals. The consultant would be required for the extent of the technical
investigation and for subsequent report writing up to a period of three
and a half years.
5.        Fisheries Biologist (Research).  This individual should have
similar qualifications as above but with less experience. This consultant
could be employed for about 12 months so that 3 to 4 individuals could
serve in this capacity, each bringing different skills and approaches to
the task, during the three and a half years the position would be provided.
6.        Hatchery Management Specialist.  This individual would be required
at, or prior to, the time of review of tender documents for the hatchery
facility. He would, under the supervision of the Senior Fisheries Biologist
(Administration), assist in the review of site location, tender documents,
design specifications and day-to-day construction of the hatchery facility.
He would develop the operational plan for the hatchery facility and a plan
for the distribution of the fry and fingerlings produced. He would also
develop, in cooperation with the Department of Fisheries and the Senior
Fisheries Biologist, a program foL assessing the effectiveness of the fry
and fingerling distribution, as well as a program for training hatchery
technical personnel. The specialist would have at least ten years experi-
ence with hatchery construction, management and operation with at least
five years as manager and at least three years of his experience would
have been with so called "warm water species." He would have had experience
in staff training and well documented experience in personnel management.
Funds for this position would be provided for a three year period.
7.        Unspecified.  An additional 24 months of uncommitted specialists'
time is included to meet needs for expertise in socio-economic surveys,
pollution studies, fish physiology, fish diseases and for special problems
not foreseen at present or to extend, if required, the period for the experts
listed above. These funds would also be used for short-term consultants (such
as Indian hatchery managers) who would lecture at the training programs discussed
in paragraph 55.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
Page 1
BAIGLADESH
KARNAFULI IlRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Carp Hatchery in the Chandpur Area
Spawning Techniques and Production
Spawning Techniques
1.        Fry production can be iinduced by hormone treatment only during
the regular cycle of reproductiorn. This is probably because the fish mature
in response to subtle photoperiodic changes. It may be possible in the
future to breed and select carp for greater flexibility in breeding and
thereby increase the efficiency of hatchery facilities.
2.        The carp breeders are raised in large ponds. A few months prior
to the breeding season, two- to four-year old adults are collected and
stocked as brood fish in ponds. Proper care of the breeders is taken and
with the advent of monsoon when the fish become fully mature and the tem-
perature of the water goes down, breeding operations are started. Fully
ripe males which freely ooze milt when gently pressed on the abdomen are
selected. Selection of a female breeder in prime condition is rather
difficult. Healthy breeders weighing 1.5 to 6.0 kg are preferable, as they
are easier to handle than larger fish which are quite strong.
3.        Breeders are selected and collected in hand nets and weighed.  The
quantity of pituitary extract required is next calculated from the weights
of breeders and the suspension prepared. The breeder, wrapped inside a
hand net, is then placed on a soft cushion and injected intramuscularly.
One set of breeders, consisting usually of two males and one female, is
then introduced into one breeding hapa. 1/ The breeding hapa are fixed by
bamboo poles in the marginal waters of ponds.
4.        Spawning ordinarily takes place within 3 to 6 hours after the
release of the injected breeders. The eggs, which are non-adhesive, sink,
1/   A breeding hapa is a rectangular mosquito net container (or a plastic
net) with a cover which opens on one side where it can be securely tied
after introduction of the breeders. Size of hapa varies from
1.8 m x 0.9 m x 0.9 m to 3.6 m x 1.8 m x 0.9 m according to the size
of breeders.



ANNEX 4
Appetndix 2
Page  2
and after fertilization swell to the size of a pea. Approximately 8 to 10
hours after fertilization, the embryo starts a twitching movement. By that
time, the eggs are properly water hardened and are removed from the breeding
hapa. A quantitative assessment of the eggs is made from the total volume
and the percentage of developing eggs is estimated from samples. The eggs
are next distributed uniformily over a number of hatching hapa. 1/
5.        The hatching hapa are tied to bamboo poles in marginal waters of
ordinary ponds. About 0.075 to 0.1 million eggs are uniformly spread on
the stretched bottom of the inner hapa. The eggs hatch out in 15 to 18 hours
after fertilization at a temperature of 21 to 31°C. After hatching, the
hatchlings escape to the outer hapa through the meshes of the inner one.
Eggs cases and bad eggs are left in the inner hapa which is removed when
all the eggs have hatched out. The hatchlings are left undisturbed in
the outer hapa until the third day after hatching. By that time, the yolk
is almost absorbed and the young fry start feeding. They are subsequently
collected and stocked in nursery ponds.
6.        The hydrological and climatic conditions observed during induced
spawning of carps has shown that (i) spawning occurs both in clear as well
as in turbid waters and during day or night, (ii) injected fish breed
successfully when the water temperature ranges between 24 to 31°C, the
optimum being around 27°C, 2/ (iii) fish breed through a fairly wide range
of pH and dissolved oxygen contents of water, (iv) cool, rainy days give
better results than hot, sultry days, and (v) rain and fresh rainwater are
conducive to successful spawning.
7.        The above breeding technique for carp is used throughout India
with slight modifications suited for the particular environment. In several
places where the water temperature in ponds is above the optimum, the in-
jected carps are introduced in breeding hapa fixed in flowing waters in
rivers. The temperature of river water is at least 2°C below pond temper-
ature.
Estimated Production from the Chandpur Hatchery
8.        A female carp, 3 to 6 kg in weight, has a high fecundity, producing
an average of approximately 200,000 eggs per spawning. However, mortality
1/   A hatching hapa consists of an outer hapa made of thick-meshed cloth
of nylon stitched in the shape of a rectangular trough without any
cover (size - 1.8 m x 0.9 m x 0.9 m) and inner hapa of similar shape
and made of round-meshed mosquito net (size - 1.75 m x 0.75 m x 0.45)
fitted inside the outer one.
2/   If the fish spawn at a higher temperature, the percentage of fertiliza-
tion and hatching is relatively low.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
Page 3
from the recently spawned and fertilized eggs through the larvae and very
early fry stages approaches 50%, even under good management procedures.
9.        Ponds of the proposed hatchery facility, when subdivided into
fingerling production units would afford a total of about 40 ac of rearing
ponds with a capacity of producing about 20-25 million small fingerlings.
The sizes of fingerlings produced are recommended to be smaller than those
ordinarily utilized for stocking farm ponds. The numbers produced may
therefore be somewhat greater. They require less space and feed costs are
reduced. Since the emphasis of the hatchery activities should be on release
of fry and fingerlings into the open waters of the project, the smaller
fish will be less subject to immediate recapture by local fishermen. On
the other hand, they may be somewhat more subject to predation by fish and
other predators. Almost no experience is available from which to validate
the specific effectiveness of a stocking program such as that recommended.
However, stocking of inland lakes of equivalent areas has proven to be
successful. Reasonable care must be taken to release fry and fingerlings
into shallow brush protected areas from which they can disperse through the
project area.  Some fingerlings are expected to be available for sale and
release in local ponds.
10.       About 25-30 million carp fry will be needed for the 20-25 millibi
fingerlings that the proposed facilities could produce. At the anticipated
50% survival rate from egg to fry state, about 50-60 million eggs will be
required. Hence 300-350 female carp must be successfully spawned to provide
the required number of fry for the production ponds of the facility out of
a breeding population of about 5,000 carp.
11.       With good management and the intensive use of cloth spawning
hapas, it should be possible to hatch an additional 50-70 million fry for
release in various parts of the project area.



ANNEX 4
BANGLADESH                         Table 1
KARNFULI IRRIGATION PROJECTS
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Principal Types of Commercially Important Fish Species
I.     Carps
a)  Catla catla                            Freshwater
b)  Labea rohita                                t
c)  Cirrhina mrigala                            "
d)  Labeo calbasu                              it
II.    Cat fishes
a)  Heteropneustes fossilis                     "
b)  Clarius balrachus                           "
c)  Silonia silondia                            "
d)  Pangasius pangasius                    Freshwater and estuarine
e)  Tachysulrus iella                      Estuarine
f)  Plotosus canius
III.   Feather backs
a)  Notopterus motopterus                  Freshwater
b)  N. chitala                                  t
IV.    Murrels
a)  Ophicephalus striatus                  Freshwater
b)  0. gachua                                   "
c)  0. marulius                                 "
V.     Indian shad
a)  Hilsa ilisha                           Freshwater and estuarine
VI.    Perch
a)  Lates calcarifer                       Estuarine
VII.   Pomfrets
a)  Pampus chinensis                       Estuarine
b)  Stromateus spp.                             "
VIII.  Thread fins
a)  Polydactylus indicus                   Estuarine
b)  Polynemus paradiseus                        "
c)  Eleutheronema tetradactylum                 "
XI.    Mullets
a)  Mugil tade                             Estuarine
b)  M. parsia                                   n
X.     Prawns
a)  Macrobrachium rosenbergii              Freshwater
b)  Penaeus carinatus                      Estuarine
c)  P. indicus                                  it
d)  Metapenaeus monoceros
e)  M. brevicornis
f)  Leander styliferus                          t



ANNEX 4
Table 2
BANGLADESH
KARNFULI -:RRIGATION PROJECTS
(I4ALDA ANID ICHAMATI UNITS)
Tentative List of Equipment for
Chandpur Research Station and Field Investigations
Field Laboratory Equipment
50 Aquaria
2 Compound microscopes
2 Binocular scopes
1 Drying oven
2 Dehumidifiers - air conditioners
1 Refrigerator - freezer
1 Chest-type home freezer
, Thermometers, Max - Min.
1 Thermometer, Recording
1 Water still or resin filter
1 PH meter
1 Electric generator or other source
1 Butane or other gas source
1 Analytical balance
1 Water pump and pressurized storage tank
to deliver water at 20 ft. head
1 Torsion balance
1 Centrifuge
1 Water bath
1 Oxygen meter
1 Air compressor, to 16 ' p.s.i., 20 gal. tank
1 Hammer mill with 15 hp) electric motor
1 Air compressor
1 Eckman dredge
1 Kemmerer water sampler
1 Magnetic stirrer
1 Titration lamp
1 W4ater bath, thermostatlic, 26" x 15" x 16"
) Dissecting kigs
1 Spectronic 20 colorimeter with line voltage regulator,
moisture-proof model
2 Portable low-lift pumps with
electric motors
2 Portable low-lift pumps with
diesel or gasoline motors
2 200-gallon fish transportation tanks, fiberglass
2 100-kg platform scales
2 1-kg torsion balances
1 Rainfall recorder
1 Plankton net
2 Hach Chemical Analysis Kits
Glassware, hardware, and miscellaneous equipment



ANNEX 5
Page 1
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Irrigation Water Requirements
1.        Theoretical monthly crop water requirements were determined on
the basis of the modified Penman indices for Comilla multiplied by appro-
priate growth stage factors. Peak percolation was taken as 3.5 inches per
month, a conservatively high figure in view of the impermeable soils in the
area which are further tightened by the plow pan. Pre-planting and trans-
planting requirements were taken as equivalent to six inches over the cropped
area.
2.        Rainfall was assumed 100% effective for the boro crop season since
it is low in amount during March and April and would then be retained by the
banked paddies, while in May ample pumping capacity would be available to
compensate for any loss through runoff. Lower-quartile monthly rainfall
were adopted as a further conservative factor.
3.        Water losses from low-lift pumping would be small due to the
compact service areas (average 45 ac per pump) and the proximity of the
channels to the irrigated fields. Water losses from the channels serving
a pump group would run to lower lying irrigated areas or return to the
channels and would thus not be lost to the system. Operation losses would
also be low since each service area would be small and the pump can be
stopped as soon as irrigation requirements are met. In view of this, and
the conservative percolation and rainfall criteria, an overall efficiency
of 85% was assumed.
4.        Boro crop nurseries would be sown from late December through
January. Transplanting would take place about a month after planting and
the crop would be harvested from late May through June. This calendar has
been simplified to determine monthly pumping requirements. The resulting
demands are derived in Table 1 and summarized as follows:
Month                Inches of Water Pumped
January                        3.9
February                      10.8
March                         10.1
April                         10.4
May                            6.7
Total              41.9



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Over the entire 38,000 ac, this amounts to about 133,000 ac-ft for the boro
crop. Pumping requirements are greatest in February, reaching nearly 0.4
inches per day. At this time, a 2 cfs pump serving 45 ac would have to
operate for eight or nine hours per day. Aman crop irrigation would be about
20% of that for the boro crop and could easily be handled by the pumps.
December  1975



ANNEX 5
BANGLADESH                                   Table 1
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Boro Rice Water Requirements
(In inches)
Month                               January      February       March      April       Mav       Total
Evaporation index                     2.0           2.7          4.2        4.9        5.3
Crop factor                           0.60          1.25        1.32        1.42       1.40
Evapotranspiration                    1.2           3.4          5.5        7.0        7.4        24.5
Preplanting and transplanting         2.0           4.0           -          -          -          6.0
Percolation                           0.1           1.8          3.5 3*5              ,3-5        12.4
Gross field requirements              3.3           9.2          9.0       10.5       10.9        42.9
Effective rainfall                     -             -           0.4        1.7        5.2          7.3
Net field requirements                3,3           9.2          8.6        8.8        5.7        35.6
Pump requirements                     3.9          10.8         10.1       10.4        6.7        41.9
(1M~
H \J1



BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Construction Schedule
1975                                    1 976                                    1 977                                    1 978
I F  M 1AS<                     N ID  JI F IMIAl M    J S         S    N ID  JI F IM IA r              1GLL           N ID  JI F IM IA               SJJOvN ID
Dcirs, Is]   . ,   .L
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :hem 
Land Acij, s.1 i
Haida Un,it
Channel Improvemnent
Carpo Transfer,
Pac Imns
Cln,cks Stuctires
E m bankmenskts
Ichamati Unit
Channe,l Improvements
Re!qulatnr Structures
Chr-ck Stir. I ares
Civil VVorns
Pim,ps & Mntors
Gates & Hoists
Tran,smission &
Flectri:a  WVork 
Wet Season
World Bank-9810



BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI IDETS)
Cost Estimates
Taxes                                          Taxes
Local    Foreign    and Duties    Total        Local    Foreign    and Duties    Total
------------- (Taka Million)                           (US$ Million Equivalent)-
Halda-Irrigation (Stage 1)
Land Acquisition               6.3        -            -          6.3         0.48       -                       0 o.48
Construction
Regulators                  31.4      19.1          6.0       6.5           2.42      1.47         o.46        4.35
Cargo Transfer Facilities    5.1       2.7          0.7         8.5         0.39      0.21         0.05        o.65
Channel Improvements         1.5       0.1           -          1.6         0.12      0.01          -          0.13
O & M Facilities             1.7       1.3          0.1         3-10                  0.10         0.01        0.24
Subtotal             39.7      23.2          6.8       69.7          3.06      1.79         0.52        5.37
Low-Lift Pumps                 1.4      11.6          4-0        I72          0.11      0.89                     1.31
Total Halda Stage 1           47.4      34.8         10.8       93.0          3.65      2.68         0.83        7.16
Halda-Flood Control (Stage 2)
Land Acquisition              21.6        -            -        21.6          1.66       -            -          1.66
Construction
Embankmnents                25.8       3.4          1.6       30.8          1.98      0.26         0.12        2.36
Regulator                    1.4       0.9          0.1        2.4          0.11      0.07         0.01        0.19
Cargo Transfer Facilities    0.5       0.3           -         0.8          0.04      0.02          -          0.06
0 & M Facilities             0.8       o.4           -         1.2          o.o6      0.03                     0.09
Subtotal             285                     1.7           _         2.19      0.38         0.13        2.70
Total HIalda Stage 2          50-1       5.0          1.7       56 .8 3-85              0.38         0.13        4.36
a   Discrepancies in currency conversions due to rotunding.



BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAIATI UNITS)
Cost Estimates
Taxes                                             Taxes
Local    Foreign    and Duties    Total           Local    Foreign    and Duties    Total
(-- =Taka Million)                   ---         ------- (US  Million Equivalent)-
Ichamati Unit
Land Acquisition                 6.3       -                         6.3          0.48        -              -         0.48
Construction
Embank:ments and Checks        1.5      0.1             -          1.6          0.12       0.01            -         0.13
Regulators                     6.0      3.6            1.0        10.6          0.46       0.28           0.08       0.82
Channel Improvements           1.2       -              -          1.2          0.09        -              -         0.09
Maiin Ptmuping Plant and
Culvert                      8.0       7.2            2.2        17.4          0.62       0-.5           0.17       1.34
Relift Pumping Plant           0.9      0.9            0.4         2.2          0.07       0.07           0.03       0.17
0 & M Facilities               o.6      0.4              -         1.0          0.05       0.              -         0.08
Subtotal              18.2      12.2                                    1.4        0.94            0.2B      2.63
Low-Lift Pumps                   0.3      2.2            0.8         3.3          0.02       0.17           0.06       0.25
Total Ichamati Unit              L       14.4            4.4                      1.91       1.11           0.34       3.36
Vehicles and Agricultural
Equipment                      0.6      4.2            1.3         6.1          0.05       0.32           0.10       0.47
Consulting Services              3.0      5.5             -          8.5          0.23       0.42            -         0.65
Design, Management and
Administration                18.2       -              -         18.2          1.40                       -         1.40
Total Irrigation and
Flood Control                 144.1      63.9           18.2       226.2         11.09       4.91           1.40      17.40
a/  Discrepancies in currency conversions due to rounding.



BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Cost Estimates
Taxes                                            Taxes                v
Local    Foreien    and Duties    Total         Local    Foreign    and Duties    Total
------------- (Taka Million) ----------                   (U      lion Equivalent) -
Fisheries Development
Program
Vehicles and Equipment for
Chandpur Research Station    0.4        2.4         1.2         4.0          0.03       0.18        0.10         0.31
Hatchery in Chandpur Area
Land Acquisition             1.0         -           -          1.0          0.08        -           -           0.08
Construction                 4.7        1.2         0.5         6.4          0.36       0.09        0.04        0°49
Equipment and Vehicles        0.7       3.5         1.9         6.1          0.05       0.27        0.15         0.47
Design and Administra-
tion                        1.2         -           -          1.2          0.09        -           -           0.09
Subtotal              87          7                                                          0.19         1.13
Technical Assistance
Consulting Services          3.0       13.4          -         16.4          0.23       1.03          -          1.26
Training                     0.3        0.3          -          0.6          0.02       0.02                     0.04
0 & M Research Vessel         1.8       2.4         1.1         5.3          0.14       0.18         0.08        0.40
0 & M Hatchery                0.        1.0         0.4         2.1          0.°5       0.08        0003         o.16
Subtotal              5    .   17.1            I2U.                   0-4        1.31        0.11        -1.
Total Fisheries Develotpment
Program                     13.8       24.2         5          43.1          1.05       1.85        0.40         3.30
Physical Contingencies        14.0        8.0         2.7        24.7          1.08       0.62        0.21         1.91
Expected Price Increases      66.0       26.1         7.8        99.9          5.08       2.02         0.59        _.L69
GRAND TOTAL                   237- 9    122.2        I93.9 18.L30                                      2.60       30.30
a/ Discrepancies in currency conversions due to rounding.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA ANI) ICHAMATI UNITS)
Schedule of Expenditures
Total a/                      Year
Cost  -     1975         1976         1977        1978
--------- (Taka Million) -----------------
Halda - Irrigation (Stage 1)
Land Acquisition                  6.3         2.0          2.4         1.9           -
Expected Price Increases        1.7         0.2          0.6         0.9           -
Subtotal                     8.0         2.2         3.0          2.8           -
Construction                     69.7         6.0        18.6         22.9         22.2
Phlysical Contingencies        10.4         0.9         2.8          3.4          3.3
Expected Price Increases       32.0         0.7         4.5         10.8         16.0
Subtotal                   112.1         7.6        25.9         37.1         975
Low--Lift Pumps                  17.0          -            -          6.7         10.3
Plysical Contingencies          0.8          -            -          0.3          0.5
Expected Price Increases        5.5          -            -          1.7            8
Subtotal                    23.3          -           -           8.7        l76
Total Halda Stage 1             143-4         9.8        28.9         48.6         56.1
Halcda - Flood Control (Stage 2)
Land Acquisition                 21.6         6.5          8.6         6.5           -
Expected Price Increases        6.0         0.8          2.1? * 
Subtotal                    27.6         7.3        10.7          9.6
Construction                     35.2         3.1        11.1         12.7          8.3
Physical Contingencies          5.4         0.5         1.7          1.9          1.3
Expected Price Increases       16.0         0.4          2.9         6.4          6.
Subtotal                    56.6           0        1.7          21.0
Total Halda Stage 2              84.2        11.3        26.4         30.6         15.9
Ichamati Unit
Land Acquisition                  6.3         0.6          3.2         2.5           -
Expected Price Increases        2.1         0.1         0.8          1.2
Subtotal                      7          0.7         7            3.7
Construction                     3b.0         1.8        13.3         13.8          -.1
Physical Contingencies          5.2         0.3         2.0          2.1          0.8
Expected Price Increases       13.L         0.2          3.2         6.4          3.6
Subtotal                    52.6         2.3        18.,         22.3          9.5
a/ Discrepancies due to rounding.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
Page 2
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICH.AMATI UNITS)
Schedule of Expenditures
Total a/                        Year
Cost        1975     -  1976          1977         1978
---- (Taka Million) ----------------
Low-Lift Pumps                     3.3          -            -          0.6          2.7
Physical Contingencies           0.2          -            -          0.0          0.2
Expected Price Increases         1.1          -            -          0.1          1.0
Subtotal          4.6                                               -7 3.9
Total Ichamati Unit               65.6         30          22          26.7         13.4
Both Units
VJehicles and Equipment            6.1          -            -          2.9          3.2
Physical Contingencies           0.3          -           -           0.1          0.2
Expected Price Increases         2.1          -           -           0.8          1.3
Subtotal                     8.5          -                        3.8          4.7
Consulting Services              8.5         2.7          2.4          1.7          1.7
Expected Price Increases         1.9         0.2         0.4           0.5         o.8
Subtotal                    10.7         2.9          2.8          2.2          27
Design, Management and
Administration                    18.2         5.4          4.7         4.5          3.6
Expected Price Increases         6          0.7          1.1          2.1          2.6
Subtotal                    21.7         6.1          5.8          6.6          6.2
Total Irrigation and Flood
Control                          336.8        33.1        86.4        118.          98.8
a/ Discrepancies due to rounding.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
Page 3
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRFIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Schedule of Expenditures
Total
Costa/    1975      1976       1977     1978       1979
---------------Taka Million)-------------------
Fisheries Development Program
Vehicles and Equipment for
Chandpur Research Station            4.0        1.0      2.0        1.0        -          -
Physical Contingencies             0.6        0.1      0.3        0.2        -          -
Expected Price Increases           0.7        0.1      0.3        0.3        -          -
Subtotal                        373         77      72g         :7 
Hatchery in Chandpur Project
Area                              14.7        0.7      6.o        6.2       1.8         -
Physical Contingencies             1.9        0.0      0.7        0.9       0.3         -
Expected Price Increases           5.5        0.1      1.5        2.8       1.1         -
Subtotal                        22.1       O.8       Z2         9.9      3.2         -
Technical Assistance                24.4        1.2       5.5       6.1       6.8        4.8
Expected Price Increases           5.3       0.1       o.6        1.3       1.8       1.5
Subtotal                        29.7          3 ___             7:         7        Z 3
Total Fisheries Development
Program                             57.1        3.3     16.9       18.8      11.8       6.3
TOTAL PROJECT                      393.9       36.4    103.3      137.3    110.6        6.3
(US$ million) W                     30.3        2.8      7.9       10.6       8.5       0.5
a/ Discrepancies due to rounding.



BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Proposed Credit Allocation
Amount of the Credit Allocated
(Expressed in US Dollars Equivalent)
I. CIVIL WORKS
(a) Irrigation and Flood Control Component                  10,000,000               )
) 100% of foreign expenditures
(b) Carp Hatchery                                               530,000              )  and 60% local expenditures
II. EQUIPMENT, VEHICLES AND MATERIALS ./
(a) Irrigation and Flood Control Component                    2,500,000              )100% of foreign expenditures
) for directly iqMorted goodo
(b) Fisheries Development Program                               659,000              )
)  100% at  -fctory cost for
(c) 0 & M Research Vessel                                       240,000              )  looally manufactured goods.
(60,000 per year) )
) 65% of cost for imported goods
(d) 0 & M Carp Hatchery                                         100,000              )  procured locally.
(50,000 per year)   )
III. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(a) Consulting Services - Irrigation and Flood
Control Component                                           650,000              )  100% of foreign expendltures
(b) Consulting Services - Fisheries Development                                      )  506  of local expendituroe
Program                                                   1,45,000              )
(c) Staff Training - Hatchery                                    30,000                 100% of foreign expenditr
IV. UNALLOCATED                                                   2,750,000
TOTAL                      18,900,000
Excluding materials financed under Category I.                                                                        r4cD



ANNEX 8
Table 3
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Schedule oi' Disbursements 1/
Bank Fiscal Year                              Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester                                  US$ Million Equivalent
1976
1st
2nd                                                 .1
1977
1st                                                 6.5
2nd                                                 8.5
1978
1st                                               12.0
2nd                                               15.0
1979
1st                                               18.5
2nd                                                21.0
1980
1st                                                21.5
2nd                                                22.0
1/ Includes US$3.1 million to refinance the Irrigation Engineering Technical
Assistance Credit S-14 BD.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Agricultural Supporting Services
General
1.        The Ministry of Rural Development, Cooperatives and Local Govern-
ment is responsible for the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP),
cooperatives, the Thana Irrigation Program (TIP) and Rural Work Programs
(RWP). The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for agricultural research
and extension, procurement and distribution of agricultural inputs, and in-
stallation, operation and maintenance of low-lift pumps and tubewells. The
success of any agricultural and rural development work depends on effective
coordination between these two Ministries at all levels.
Rural Development Programs
2.        With the objective of tapping rural initiatives and associating
the rural population with rural development, the Government introduced three
closely related programs: the Rural Works Program (RWP); the Thana Irriga-
tion Program (TIP), and the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP).
The first two provide the infrastructure on which to develop the productive
capacity of the land, and the third provides the cooperative organization
through which increased productivity can be realized. The above programs
were initiated by the Bangladesh Academy for Rural Development which, after
extensive socio-economic research and experiments, recommended that all
rural development activities should be based at the thana level where there
should also be a Thana Training and Development Center (TTDC) for integrating
rural development activities of different departments and for giving training
to model farmers and local leaders in various fields.
3.        RWP was first started on a countryside basis in 1962 and included
the construction and maintenance of roads, bridges, irrigation channels and
culverts, community buildings and embankments. It made considerable pro-
gress until about 1967 when it began to deteriorate due to political inter-
ference and later because of annihilation of local government institutions.
The Government proposes to revive the program with several changes, including
reestablishment of local government institutions in modified forms with more
representation in project committees by village institutions. The GOB also
intends to maintain stricter supervision and financial control of project
works. It will also emphasize water development. So far, only the Union
Councils have been elected, and pending the election and formation of the
Thana and District Councils, the Circle Officer (Development) is responsible
for RWP in the thana and the Deputy Commissioner is in charge at the district
level.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
4.        TIP, started in 1966, provides the infrastructure to systematically
carry out formation of pump or tubewell irrigation groups in order to develop
other small scale drainage and wat:er control schemes. The RWP has been ex-
panded into TIP in order to finance the training of: model farmers; irri-
gation group managers; members of the managing committees; pump and tubewell
operators, and mechanics. The RWP will also finance TIP workshops and go-
downs. The rapid expansion of low-lift pump irrigation from 320,000 ac
in 1968 to over 1.2 million ac in 1973 was achieved under the TIP. However,
advice in the organization and management of pump groups was lacking, group
membership was unstable and pump utilization was inefficient and therefore
the program did not function as well as it should have. The role of the
Circle Officer (Development) has been undermined for the past two years. To
strengthen TIP, he will again be given the administrative leadership at the
thana level with responsibilities for initiation and approval of low-lift
pump schemes and selection of sites for deep tubewells.
5.        IRDP is a program to organize rural people into a two-tier coopera-
tive structure consisting of small village cooperatives and the Thana Central
Cooperative Association (TCCA). It would take on functions such as super-
vised credit, input distribution, and machinery use. The coverage of IRDP
will be extended from 99 Thanas in 1972 to 250 throughout Bangladesh by 1977.
The IRDP is already functioning in one of the thanas (Rangunia) where thte
project is located, and assurances will be obtained from the Government that
IRDP will extend into the remaining two thanas (Rauzan and Hathazari) before
completion of project works.
6.        TTDC is a key element in integrating rural development activities
of different departments. At this center are the offices of the thana
level officials from each development agency:
1.  The Circle Officer (Development)
2.   The Thana Agriculture Officer
3.   The Thana Irrigation Officer
4.   The Thana Fisheries Officer
5.   The Thana Cooperative Officer
6.   The Project Officer IRDP
7.   The Thana Livestock Officer
In addition to the offices, the TT:DC has a meeting hall, a workshop and
storage facilities. It provides training for model farmers and local
leaders in various fields.
Extension
7.        The Directorate of Agricultural Extension and Management, under the
Ministry of Agriculture, is responsible for extension through demonstrations
and training programs. Agricultural Officers are assigned to extension
services at divisional, district, subdivisional, thana and union levels.
Subdivisional Agricultural Officers and above, are college graduates whereas



ANNEX 9
Page 3
most of the Thana Agricultural Officers (TAO) and about 50% of the Union
Agricultural Assistants (UAA) are matriculates or high school graduates, who
are trained in the Agricultural Extension Training Institute for two years.
The remaining 50% of the UAA have no basic training in agricultural extension.
The TAO is responsible for coordinating extension work at the thana level
and supervising UAA, (an average of ten per thana) who are the basic field
extension workers, plant protection workers and statistical assistants. The
TAO and UAA are generally not provided with transport of any kind.
8.        The First Five-Year Plan aims to strengthen agricultural extension
services throughout the country. Agriculture graduates will be assigned as
Thana Extension Officers, and TAOs will serve as their deputies. The plan
also aims to more than double the number of UAA who will eventually be re-
named Village Extension Agents (VEA). Salaries would be raised, particularly
for lower level officers, and better transportation and facilities would be
provided. The IDA-financed Rural Training Project will assist in increasing
the output of trained middle level agricultural extension workers for em-
ployment as VEA and will also provide equipment and materials for extension.
9.        Rangunia thana is one of the four thanas in Bangladesh that will
receive a comprehensive package of family planning services under the
Population Project (Credit 533-BD, 1975, US$15 million). One feature of
this project is that the UAA will introduce family-size considerations into
the advice he gives to the farmers. With the relative high requirements for
agricultural extension services that would result from the Karnafuli Project,
Rangunia would give interesting insight into the feasibility of the "UAA-
approach" for family planning. The Population Project will provide funds
for an evaluation of the effectiveness of this program and the conflicts
between agricultural extension and family planning. Given this evaluation
process, it is anticipated that any conflicts in the UAA's time can be
resolved and would not jeopardize the extension services that would be
required under the presently proposed project.
10.       To improve extension service in the project area, the project
would provide transportation to extension workers as well as some agricul-
tural equipment for use in the six demonstration areas. When the detailed
equipment lists are prepared for Rangunia thana it would be made certain
that duplicate funds are not provided for equipment already supplied under
the Population Project.
Research
11.       The Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI), a semi-autonomous
body under the Ministry of Agriculture, is responsible for research on various
aspects of rice improvement and production, and for training extension workers
in rice production. The BRRI which was first established in 1970, works in
close cooperation with the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI),
Los Banos, Philippines. The IRRI gives technical support by occasionally
providing experts and consultants; exchanging research materials; training
scientists, and procuring equipment. The Ford Foundation has been the



ANNEX 9
Page 4
major donor of foreign exchange for equipment. The USAID is sharing the cost
of training abroad with the Ford Foundation. Moreover, IDA Credit 410-BD
provides for development of physical facilities at the main BRRI station at
Joydepur and its substations.
12.       So far, BRRI has been concentrating on screening, selecting and
field testing materials supplied by IRRI, while paying increasing attention
on developing new varieties including crosses between the exotic and local
materials. The high yielding varieties of rice (HYV) that have been re-
leased include IR-8, IR-5 (Irrisail), Purbachi, BRRI-1 (Chandina) and BRRI-2
(Mala) which are all suitable for the project area (Annex 1, Table 2).
13.       Four substations for rice research have been set up to supplement
the research activities at the main BRRI station in Joydepur in order to make
it possible to select and test varieties under different climatic and hydro-
logic conditions. One of the substations is located at Comilla about 90
mi northwest of the project area. It has a 92 ac field, two research
officers, one farm superintendent and several field assistants.
Seeds
14.       Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC), a semi-
autonomous body under the Ministry of Agriculture, is responsible for
importing, producing and distributing rice seed in Bangladesh. Seed of HYV
rice may be imported ocassionally by BADC for distribution to farmers. But,
in general, HYV rice seed is multiplied locally on BADC farms and by private
growers who are approved by BADC under Registered Growers Schemes. Farmers
usually retain seed from the previous harvest or obtain seed from their
neighbors, but may ocasionally obtain fresh seed from BADC through TCCA
and UAAs to introduce new varieties or to sustain high yields. The BADC
has recently started a new seed production program with IDA Credit 410-BD
to produce about 10,000 tons of certified rice seed annually. Under this
program, BADC will distribute certified seed through TCCA as well as approved
private dealers. One of the six seed processing plants will be established
at Chittagong, ten miles west of the project area.
Fertilizer
15.       The BADC is responsible Eor the procurement and distribution of fer-
tilizer. Fertilizer is brought into the project area mostly by road and rail
from the Chittagong port and from Fenchuganj and Ghorasal fertilizer plants.
Distribution is made through TCCA and approved private dealers located in
every hat (small market place).  This procedure has been working satisfactorily,
but recently, due to shortage of supplies and consequent introduction of
complicated sales procedures, it has not been possible for farmers to get
timely deliveries or desired quantities. With the additional production of
500,000 tons of urea from the proposed new factory at Ashunganj to be
financed by IDA (Credit No. 527-BD, 1974), there should at least be no problem
regarding the availability of urea in about five years.



ANNEX 9
Page ',
16.       In the past, farmers have been reluctant to use high dosages of
fertilizer on rice and other crops. The local varieties of rice are not
very responsive to fertilizer application and are susceptible to lodging with
higher fertilizer dosage. Farmers also frequently risk losing their invest-
ment on wet season rice (aus and aman) due to flood, drought or pests.
However, with the introduction of high-yielding rice varieties which are
responsive to fertilizer, farmers are now well aware of the benefits of
using higher dosages of fertilizers on HYV rice. Annual fertilizer require-
ments in the project area would rise from about 5,000 tons at present to
11,000 tons at full development.
17.       The cost of triple super phosphate (TSP) and muriate of potash
(M/P) is currently subsidized by the Government, however GOP aims at elimi-
nating the subsidy completely in the course of the plan period. (For
further details see Annex 11, Table 2). As the increased use will be on
MYV rice, it is expected that elimination of subsidy will not adversely
affect fertilizer use.
Plant Protection
18.       Pesticide materials and application equipment are imported by
BADC and handed over to the Plant Protection Division (PPD) of the Direc-
torate of Agricultural Extension. PPD is responsible for ground operation
which involves training of farmers, storage and distribution of pesticide
materials, and storage, maintenance and use of application equipment.
19.       The PPD has a plant protection inspector in each district, with
assistants at the thana level. There are only two or three sprayer operators,
called mukadams, in each thana. Their role is to operate the motorized
sprayers and to train and supervise the farmers spraying with hand sprayers.
The supply of functioning sprayers is, however, very limited, and farmers
often have to apply liquid pesticides by splashing them on crops with bundles
of sticks, leaves or reeds. This is very wasteful.
20.       Major rice pests are stemborers, leafhopper, army worm, rice hispa,
leadfolder and rice mealy bug, of which the first two frequently cause severe
crop damage. So far, the damage caused by disease is less serious than that
from pests. Pesticides are sold at subsidized prices through TCCA and pri-
vate dealers approved by BADC. To ensure adequacy of sprayer equipment, the
project will procure and distribute sprayers in the project area.
Credit
21.       A survey conducted in 1966 showed that farmers in Bangladesh were
getting credit to the extent of 86% from non-institutional sources (friends
and relatives 52%, landowners, traders and money lenders 34%), while insti-
tutional sources provided only 14% (cooperatives 8%, the Agricultural Deve-
lopment Bank 5% and "Taccavi" or relief 1%). The amount of institutional
credit has increased about four times since then but because of rapid in-
flation, there has been only a slight increase in real terms. During the



ANNEX 9
Page 6
same period, there was a considerable increase in the utilization of low-lift
pumps, and in HYV rice seed and fertilizer input (6 times, 10 times and
2-1/2 times, respectively). Accordingly, it does not appear that there has
been any appreciable increase in t:he relative importance of agriculture
credit from institutional sources.
22.       Of the different types of institutional credit, the Government has
decided to discontinue "Taccavi" since it is, in fact, a sort of relief
grant rather than a loan. Other agricultural credit institutions are also,
for the most part, in severe financial trouble since the recovery rate has
been very low. They have weak finiancial structures because of little capital,
few deposits and heavy dependence on advances at concessional rates from the
Government and the Bangladesh Bank. Their equity has been greatly impaired
by borrowers' defaults, and their income is insufficient to cover borrowing
costs at current rates and administrative expenses. In addition, they have
organizational problems such as inadequate staffing and accounting methods.
Loans are not supervised effectively and are probably misused to a large
extent.
23.       However, in spite of grave weaknesses in agricultural credit insti-
tutions, Bangladesh farmers have rapidly increased their use of low-lift
pump irrigation, fertilizer and HYV seed. Their inputs have apparentl- been
financed largely out of the farmer's own resources, from sale of small por-
tions of his crop or from income earned in secondary occupations. This sug-
gests that, while viable credit institutions may make it easier to modernize
agriculture, the inability of agricultural credit institutions to operate
efficiently and to expand at a rapid pace may not be a serious impediment to
agricultural development in Bangladesh. 1/
24.       Nevertheless, the Government intends to improve credit availability
through IRDP which has a better recovery rate than the Agricultural Develop-
ment Bank and the Cooperative Bank (70% as against 30% and 22%). The IRDP
will establish a two-tier cooperative structure consisting of small village
cooperatives and a federation (TCCA) at the thana level. The TCCA functions
as a supportive organization to promote the growth of primary cooperatives.
It also helps integrate them into a unified cooperative system. The main
activities of the TCCA are: (a) to extend agricultural credit through
the primary societies affiliated with it; (b) to establish members' savings
deposits; (c) to assist in planning and supplying inputs and services, and
(d) to train primary cooperative managers and model farmers. Primary co-
operatives comprise 30-50 farmers associated at village level for the
purpose of sharing the use of a low-lift pump and tubewell as well as
marketing facilities.
1/   IBRD report No. 455-BD "Bangladesh - Development in a Rural Economy."



ANNEX 9
Page 7
25.       Nationalized commerical banks, more specifically the Solani Bank,
have recently begun providing agricultural credit in some parts of Bangladesh
and may develop agricultural lending operations in the project area in which
case they would lend to primary cooperatives through the TCCA. Their experience
in commercial banking, adapted to agricultural credit operations, would
impose more vigorous financial discipline in agricultural credit operations.
26.       A Bank Group mission reviewed the agricultural credit situation
in 1973 and discussions are continuing with the Government, to consider pro-
posals for improving the country's agricultural credit institutions.
December 1975



ANNEX 10
Page 1
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNIT)
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
General
1.        The present cropped area for the whole project is about 90,000 ac,
which on a net cultivable area of 46,000 ac, gives a cropping intensity of
195%. This is considerably higher than the average of 136% for the whole
country. Rice is the dominant crop and accounts for 94% of the cropped area.
Minor crops, mostly pulses, oilseeds, chillies, vegetables and sugarcane,
account for the remaining 6%. Jui:e is not grown in the area. Cropping
calendars are shown in Figure 1.
Present Cropping Patterns and Procluction
2.        Halda Unit.  The present: cropping pattern is presented in Table 1.
The cropped area in this unit is 77,800 ac which, on a net cultivable area
of 38,300 ac, gives a cropping intensity of 203%. About 95% of the area is
double cropped (35% aus followed by T. aman, 8% aus followed by rabi crops
or vegetables, and 52% T. aman followed by boro). About 4% of the area is
triple cropped in the sequence aus - T. aman - rabi crops. Sugarcane is
grown all year round on 1% of the area. The Halda Unit is therefore one of
the most intensively cultivated areas in the country.
3.        High yielding rice varietties (HYV) account for 40,000 ac or 55%
of the area under rice. Since fertilizer use in the Chittagong District,
where the project is located, is higher than in other parts of the country,
the average paddy yields in the project area are also higher. The yields of
local aus, T. aman and boro are 14, 21 and 25 md of paddy per ac, respect-
ively. These can be compared with HYV yields of 28, 32 and 46 md per ac
for aus, T. aman and boro, respectively. The present overall yield of paddy
is estimated at 29.3 md per ac or 1.10 ton per ac. Lack of proper flood
control and dry season irrigation are presently the major restrictions to a
total shift to high yielding varieties.
4.        Present cropped areas and production are given below (for further
details see Table 1):



ANNEX 10
Page  2
Area           Production
(1,000 ac)        (1,000 ton)
Rice (paddy) - Aus                          18                 13
- Aman                        35                 34
- Boro                        20                 33
Subtotal              73                 80
Other Crops  - Rabi crops                    3.4                0.9
- Vegetables                   1 .0               2.8
- Sugarcane                    0.4                4.0
Subtotal               4.8
Total All Crops                             77.8
5.        Ichamati Unit.  The present cropping pattern is presented in
Table 2. The cropped area is 11,900 ac which, on a net cultivable area of
7,900 ac, gives a cropping intensity of 150%.  The overall cropping pattern
is affected by the prolonged flooding in excess of 5 ft in the Gumai Bil
depression where the cropping intensity is only about 130%. About 5,000 ac,
or 63% of the net cultivable area, are double cropped. Double cropping
includes aus followed by T. aman and boro followed by T. aman. Some 37% of
the area is cropped with a single crop of T. aman.
6.        The transplanting of aman is normally delayed until the flood
recedes. This reduces yields somewhat below what could be expected with
the high input of fertilizers under ideal conditions. In spite of this,
yields are basically the same as in the Halda Unit. Flooding and the lack
of dry season irrigation are severe constraints to a more intensive culti-
vation.
7.        The present cropped area and production are as follows:
Area           Production
(1,000 ac)       (1,000 ton)
Rice (paddy) - Aus                         2.5                2.1
- Aman                        6.8               6.9
- Boro                        2.2               3.8
Subtotal        11.5              12.8
Other Crops  - Rabi crops                  0.2               0.04
- Vegetables                 0.2                0.56
Subtotal         0.4
Total All Crops                           11.9



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Future Cropping Patterns and Production
8.        Increased irrigation from the project would enable expansion of
boro rice cultivation in the dry season from 20,000 ac to 33,000 ac. The
cultivation of HYV boro (primarily IR-8) would, however, replace cultivation
of aus since the harvesting of this variety generally cannot be completed
in time to allow the next planting before the early rains. The HYV varieties
would be grown for the entire boro crop and 90% of the aman crop (in areas
not likely to be flooded by more than one foot). Local T. aman would give
higher and more stable yields since supplementary irrigation could be given
in case of drought or shortage of rainfall. Total paddy production is pro-
jected to increase from 93,000 tons at present to about 141,000 tons at full
development.
9.        Halda Unit.  The future cropped area and production are also given
in Table 1. The projected cropped area is 76,800 ac which, on a net culti-
vable area of 37,700 ac, gives a cropping intensity of 204%. It will be
noted that the net cultivable area at full development will be less than
that of the present by about 600 ac which will be required for construction
of flood protection embankments. Rice will continue to dominate, accounting
for 93% of the cropped area (aus 12%, T. aman 44% and boro 37%). The minor
crops will account for the remaining 7%. The most significant change wi-1
be the increase in the boro acreage from 20,000 to 28,000 ac, the irrigated
HYV T. aman area from nothing to 30,000 ac and the irrigated HYV T. aus also
from zero to about 4,000 ac. At fuLl development, the total paddy production
would be 118,000 tons as against 80,000 tons at present. Some 46% would be
produced in the dry season and 54% during the wet season.
10.       Ichamati Unit.  The future cropped area and production are given
in Table 2. The projected cropped area is 14,300 ac which, on a net culti-
vable area of 7,700 ac, gives a cropping intensity of 186% which is a great
improvement from that of the present 150%.  About 200 ac are needed for con-
structing flood embankments and the net cultivable area will be reduced by
this amount.  Rice will continue to dominate, accounting for 96% of the total
cropped area (aus 15%, T. aman 46% and boro 35%). The most significant
changes will be the increase in boro acreage from 2,200 to 5,000 ac and
irrigated HYV T. aman from zero to 5,000 ac and HYV T. aus from zero to 1,000
ac. At full development, the total paddy production from this unit would be
22,500 tons as against 12,800 tons at present. Some 44% of this would be
produced during the dry season and 56% during the wet season.
11.       In evaluating the project, it has been assumed that the IR-8 boro
crop would expand at the expense of aus. This is a conservative assumption
since it is quite possible that Chandina, which has a shorter life than IR-8
(see Annex 1, Table 2), will replace IR-8 to some extent and this will make
it possible to raise a crop of aus or vegetables on part of this land during
the aus season.



ANNEX 10
Page  4
Future Crop Yields
12.       With an assured water supply, flood control, improved farm manage-
ment, an adequate supply of inputs, expanded use of HYV seed, and an improved
extension service, crop yields are projected to increase over a five year
development period as shown below:
Present        Future
Yield         Yield
--------md/ac--------
Aus (local)                             14            17
Aus (HYV) rainfed                       28            32
Aus (HYV) irrigated                     -             47
T. Aman (local)                         21            24
T. Aman (HYV) rainfed                  32             36
T. Aman (HYV) irrigated                 -45
Boro (local)                           25
Boro (HYV)                             46             52
Pulses and oilseeds                     6              7
Vegetables                              75           120
December  1975



ANiNEX 10
BANGLADESH                                                                       Table 1
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA UNIT)
Area. Yield and Production of Crops - Present. Future Without and With Project--Stages 1 and 2
PRESENT                     FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT                  FUTURE WITH PROJECT                   FUTURE WITH PROJECT
Stage - I                             Stage - 2
CROPS                                                  Area       Yield   Production        Area       Yield   Production         Area       Yield   Production         Area       Yield   Production
(I,000 ac)  (md/ac) (1,000 tons)  (1,000 ac)  (md/ac) (1,000 tons)  (1,000 ac)  (md/ac) (1,000 tons)   (1,000 ac)  (md/ac) (1,000 tons)
RICE (PADDY)
Aus    -  Local                                             11           14          6             6          15          3              6          15          3            5.5          17           3
- HYV, rainfed                                        7          28          7             8          30           9             -           -           -             -            -          -
-  HYV, irrigated                                     -           -          -             4          40          7              8          45         14            4.0          47           7
Subtotal                                         18          19         13             18          27         19             14          32         17            9.5          30          10
Amnan   -  Local                                            20            i         i6             G          22          8                         22           7           4.5          2'           4
-  HYV, ranfed                                       15          32         18             5          34           6             -           -           -             -            -          -
-  HYV, irrigated                                     -           -          -            20          40         30             27          42         42           30.0          45          50
Subtotal                                         35          26         34             35          34         44             35          37         49           34.5          42          54
Boro   -  Local                                              2           25          2             -           -          -              -           _-                        -            -          -
-  HYV                                              18           46         31            20          48         36             24          52         47             28           52         54
Subtotal                                         20          44         33             20          48         36             24          52         47             28          52          54
TOTAL PADDY                                                 73           29         80            73          36         99             73          41        113             72          44         118
OTHER CROPS
Pulses                                                     1.4            6       0.3            1.4           7        0.4            1.4           7        0.4            1.4           7        0.4
Oilseeds                                                   0.5            6       0.1            0.5           7        0.1           0.5            7        0.1            0.5           7        0.1
Chillies                                                   1.5            8       0.5            1.5           9        0.5            1.5           9        0.5            1.5            9       0.5
Potatoes and Vegetables                                    1.0          75        2.8            1.0         120        4.5            1.0         120        4.5            1.0         120         4.5
Sugarcane                                                  0.4         270        4.0            0.4         300        4.5           0.4          300        4.5            0.4         300        4.5
TOTAL OTHER CROPS                                          4.8                                   4.8                                  4.8                                    4.8
TOTAL ALL CROPS                                           77.8                                  77.8                                 77.8                                   76.8
Net Cultivated Area                                       38.3                                  38.3                                 38.3                                   37.7                         13
Cropping Intensity                                        2037                                  203%                                 203%                                   204%
0



ANNEX 10
BANGLADESH                                                                Table 2
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(ICHAMATI UNIT)
Area. Yield and Production of Crops - Present, Future Without and With Project
PRESENT                             FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT                          FUTURE WITH PROJECT
CROPS                                         Area         Yield      Production           Area         Yield       Production           Area         Yield       Production
(1,000 ac)    (md/ac)   (1,000 tons)         (1,000 ac)    (md/ac)   (1.000 tons)          (1,000 ac)    (md/ac)   (1,000 tons)
RICE (PADDY)
Aus   -  Local                                          1.0           14           0.5               0.5            15           0.3               1.0            17           0.6
-  HYV, rainfed                                  1.5           28            1.6              1.4            30           1.6               0.1            32           0.1
-  HYV, irrigated                                  -             -             -              0.6            40           0.9               1.0            47           1.8
Subtotal                                      2.5           22            2.1              2.5            29           2.8               2.1            32           2.5
Aman  -  Local                                          3.0           21           2.4               1.8            22           1.5               0.6            24           0.6
-  HYV, rainfed                                  3.8           32            4.5               3.0           34           3.8               1.0            36           1.3
-  HYV, irrigated                                  -             -             -              2.0            40           3.0               5.0            45           8.4
Subtotal                                      6.8           27            6.9              6.8            33           8.3               6.6            42          10.3
Boro  -  Local                                            _            _              _                _
-  HYV                                           2.2           46            3.8               2.4           48           4.3               5.0            52            9.7
Subtotal                                      2.2           46            3.8              2.4            48           4.3               5.0            52           9.7
TOTAL PADDY                                            11.5           30          12.8              11.7            35          15.4              13.7           44           22.5
OTHER CROPS
Pulses and oilseeds                                     0.2            6          0.04               0.2             7          0.05               0.2             7          0.05
Potatoes and vegetables                                 0.2           75          0.56               0.2           120          0.89               0.4           120          1.79
TOTAL OTHER CROPS                                       0.4                                          0.4                                           0.6
TOTAL ALL CROPS                                        11.9                                         12.1                                          14.3
Net Cultivated Area                                     7.9                                          7.9                                           7.7
Cropping Intensity                                     150%                                         152%                                          186%



ANNEX 10
Figure 1
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Cropping Calndar
Feb.    Mar.    Apr.    May    Jun.    Jul.    Aug          Sep.    Oct.    Nov.   Dec.
Crops - 
B. aus
T. aus
T. aman
Boro
Rabi
Sugarcane            Harvesting
LEGEND
-:, 13: B. broadcast rice T: transplanted rice.
Rabi: winter crops other than rice, including pulses,
Nursery   Growing period                             mustard, potatoes and chilies.
period    in the field
World Bank-9689(R)



ANNEX 11
Page 1
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Prices for Economic and Financial Analyses
General
1.        The estimated future farm gate prices of rice and agricultural
inputs are derived from projected 1985 world market prices in 1975 currency
values 1/ with appropriate adjustments for freight, handling and processing.
Production of other crops is relatively small and most of the output is
consumed locally. Projected farm gate prices for these products are based
on the typical ratio between their prices and the price of rice.
2.        Bangladesh has experienced rapid inflation since independence.
Drastic price increases on several essential commodities have been caused
by severe shortages on the domestic and international market. Other prices
have been controlled at relatively low levels. This has resulted in black
market prices on controlled goods that differ substantially from official
prices and in severely distorted relative prices.
3.        In order to isolate the effects of the project from the effects
of expected changes in relative prices when the economic situation in
Bangladesh stabilizes, projected 1985 prices are used both for present and
projected future farm budgets. The pattern of domestic (financial) prices,
arrived at in this manner, is quite close to the price situation in the
early 1970's.
4.        For the financial analyses, including farm budgets, the approxi-
mate official exchange rate of US$1.00 = Tk 13.0 is used. International
price comparisons carried out before the devaluation in May 1975 and analyses
of the system of import duties indicate that a rate of Tk 16.00 = US$1.00 is
a reasonable estimate of the value of foreign exchange to the economy. Con-
sequently, this value has been used in the economic analysis.
1/   Forecasts from the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department,
(Draft, April 1975) in 1973 currency values, adjusted by a factor of
1.34 in order to bring the estimates up to May 1975 currency values.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Rice
5.        The projected 1985 price used as a basis for economic and financial
analyses is US$224 per metric ton of low to medium quality rice (25Z-35%
broken) fob Bangkok. 1/ This represents a sharp decline from the shortage
related prices which have recently averaged more than US$400 per metric ton.
Adding shipping and insurance costs, this gives a projected price of US$250
per metric ton cif Chittagong. lransport and marketing costs between Chitta-
gong and likely deficit areas are added to the cif price in order to give
the local market price for millecl rice. Assuming an average milling yield
of 65% and deducting the costs for local transport and milling gives a
financial farm gate price of Tk 75 per maund for aman varieties, which have
roughly the same quality as imported rice. Prices for boro and aus in 1973
and 1974 were about 89% and 86% of the aman price.
Other Agricultural Products
6.        Before the recent rapicd increase in rice prices, the ratios between
the price of other crops and the price of rice were fairly stable. After
the expected relative decline of the rice price, these ratios should stabi-
lize around their historic long-t:erm values. The estimated 1985 farm gate
prices for different crops are shown in Table 1. Since these crops are not
internationally traded, the economic farm gate prices are assumed to be the
same as the financial prices.
Diesel Fuel
7.        The price of high speed diesel fuel (HSD) is expected to remain
on its present level of about USS'12.50 per barrel fob Ras Tanura (Saudi
Arabia). This gives a cif price of US$13.50 per barrel in Chittagong. The
cost for in country marketing andl transport is Tk 2.20 per gallon and taxes
and duties amount to Tk 1.70 per gallon. This gives a projected price of
Tk 8.80 per gallon for the farm budget analysis and an economic price of
Tk 8.20 per gallon when taxes are deducted and the Taka is evaluated at the
shadow exchange rate.
Fertilizers
8.        By 1985, Bangladesh is likely to be self-sufficient in urea and
may even have a small surplus for export. The opportunity cost for urea
1/   The Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department's latest forecast
for 1985 is US$320 per metric ton of high quality rice (5% brokens).
The price for low to medium quality rice is assumed to be 70% of the
price for high quality rice (see note in Annex 11, page 1).



ANNEX 1 1
Page 3
is consequently based on the price fob Chittagong. The international urea
price is projected to decline from the present shortage-related high of
around USU65 per kilogram nitrogen nutrient fob Persian Gulf to USU34 per
Kg in 1985. The proximity to major markets in Southern Asia gives an ex-
pected price of US435 per kilogram nutrient fob Chittagong. Adding the
costs for marketing and transport to deficit areas gives a financial price
of Tk 88 per maund of urea (46% N) in the project area.
9.        The prices of phosphate and potassium fertilizers are likewise
projected to decline from the present highs of USJ72 per kg phosphate
nutrient fob Morocco and US012 per kg potassium nutrient fob Vancouver
to US147 per kg and US.9.3 per kg, respectively. Transportation and insur-
ance are expected to add an average of about USU6.0 and USJ5.8 per kg
nutrient, respectively. Adding the costs for local marketing and transport
gives the estimated unsubsidized prices to the farmers in the project area
of Tk 128 per maund of triple super phosphate (46% P205) and Tk 54 per maund
of muriate of potash (60% K). The corresponding economic prices are shown
in Table 1.
Pesticides
10.       The two most common chemicals for rice plant protection in Bangla-
desh are diazinon (granular) and sumithion (emulsifiable concentrate). Their
prices which are assumed to remain at their present levels, are shown in
Table 1.
Taxes and Subsidies on Agricultural Inputs
11.       Most agricultural inputs are procured by BADC and sold to the
farmers at subsidized prices. The amount of subsidy has recently been
reduced and further reductions are recommended in the First Five Year Plan.
Urea is presently sold at an unsubsidized price while the rate of subsidy
for most other inputs is about 60% (see Table 2). The present farm budgets
are calculated with the present rate of subsidies while the future farm
budgets are based on the assumption that all subsidies would be removed.
Agricultural Labor
12.       One part of the wage for farm workers is paid in kind, normally
two meals per day. The cash part increased substantially during the last
1-2 years when rice prices skyrocketed, and the real wage remained basically
constant. In the mid-sixties, the peak wage was Rs 3-4 or equivalent to
about 0.20 maund of paddy. Around 1970, the peak wage was about Rs 5 in
the project area (also, this is roughly equal to 0.20 maunds of paddy). In
1974 when the peak wage had risen to about Tk 14 it was just worth 0.18
md of paddy.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
13.          It is assumed that in the long run, the peak market wage will
equal 0.20 maunds of paddy. Consequently, it is assumed that the peak
market rate will follow the trenc' of the rice prices and be about Tk 15
per man-day in 1985. The wage during the agricultural slack season is
approximately equal to half the wage during the peak season.
December 1975



ANNEX 11
Table 1
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Summary of Price Proj,ections for 1985
Financial Price                    Economic Price
Crops                         /aund                           Tk/maund
Aus paddy                         65                                   79
Aman paddy                        75                                   92
Boro paddy                        67                                   82
Pulses                           100                                  100
Oilseeds                         190                                  190
Chillies                         190                                  190
Vegetables                        46                                   46
Potatoes                          52                                   52
Sugarcane                         15                                   15
Agricultural Inputs
Urea (46% N)                      88                                  106
TSP (46% P205)                   128                                 156
W1P (60% KJ                       54                                   64
Diazinon                         800                                 950
Sumithion                      3,100                                3,700
Diesel fuel                        8.80 o                               8.20 2/
Peak wage rate                    15    3/                            15    3/
Animal power                      10    4/                             10     /
1/ The financial prices are shown net of subsidies.
2/ Tk/gallon.
~*/ Tk/man-day.
L' Tk/animal-day.



BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Subsidy Situation for Major Inputs in 1974  /
Subsidized Price
Estimated Cost to GOB in 1974                  to Farmers                     Subsidy in 1974
GOB actual                                                                                 In percent of
procurement and      Estimate based on                                                       GOB cost
Input          distribution cost   world market price            1973/7         1974/75           Tk                _
Urea  v/ Tk/md          42                    84                    30            (50)           (-8)             _
TSP      Tk/md         113                    93                    20            40              73             65
M/P      Tk/md          68                    72                    I              30             385
Diazinon Tk/lb           5.5                                       free             2              3.5           64
Sumithion Tk/lb         20                                         free             8             12             60
i/  The Government estimate is based on actual cost of local production while the estimate used here is based
on the world market price. The projected world market price for urea is close to the cost of local production.
The GOB price is dated April 1974 and is likely to have increased somewhat since then. Consequently, the price
to the farmers is approximately the same as the cost to GOB.
/ For TSP and M/P the estimates from GOB differ slightly from the estimates based on the world market price.
This can be explained by the rapid changes in world market prices in 1973 and 1974, which means that the
date of purchase has a considerable effect on the price.
i/ This table was prepared based on the latest available data. It does not incorporate the effects of the
break down of the Ghorsal urea plant in September 1974 or the devaluation in May 1975. However, it is
expected that GOB will adjust the prices to take recent developments into account.
p F



ANNEX 12
Page 1
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Crops Inputs and Farm Budgets
General
1.        Present agricultural practices in the project area are discussed
in Annex 1. The expected overall changes in cropping patterns, yields and
production due to the project are described in Annex 10. This Annex discusses
the impact on the individual farm. The purposes of this micro analysis are:
(a)  to estimate the effects of the project on farm incomes
for representative farm sizes and cropping patterns in
order to determine their distributional impact;
(b) to compare the income levels of the project area farmers
with those of farmers in other areas;
(c) to determine the capacity of the project beneficiaries
.c repav part of the project cost, and
(d)  to analvz-  :he effects of different Governmnt policies
regarding input subsidies and water charges.
Crop Input Requirements
2.        Present and projected unit input requirements under the project
are given in Table 1. The estimated current levels of inputs are derived
from an agricultural survey carried out in the project area in 1970. These
results have been adjusted and updated with information supplied by the
Ministry of Agriculture and BADC. Future requirements are based on recom-
mendations by the Directorate of Agricultural Extension and Management and
on observed cultural practices of the progressive farmers of the area. For
the different inputs, the estimates are:
(a) Fertilizers. The generalized doses recommended tend to
be based more on abstract notions that balanced doses are
per se good, rather than on well-documented evidence.
They appear to overstate the importance of TSP and M/P.
Consequently, while farmers have rapidly increased the
applications of urea, the TSP and M/P consumption is only
slowly increasing. The recommended mix is 100:100:50
(urea: TSP: M/P) while the present mix is roughly



ANNEX 12
Page 2
100:39:11. In "future without project" conditions,
this is expected to improve slightly to 100:52:21. It
is unlikely that the farmers even after full development
of the project will apply the recommended doses and the
"future with project" mix is assumed to be 100:60:30.
This means that while roughly the full recommended dose
of urea is applied, only 60% of the recommended TSP and
M/P dosages are used.
(b)  Farm Labor. Labor requirements for each operation and
crop are presented in Table 1 and the resulting monthly
labor requirements in Table 2. These estimates are based
on the assumption that no substantial change in farming
practices will take place.
(c)  Irrigation.  In the economic analysis, the costs of pumps,
fuel and maintenance are treated separately as part of
the initial and recurrent project costs. In the farm
and crop budgets, the average per acre cost to the pump
group for irrigation is entered as a lump sum in the
crop and farm budgets.
(d)  Animal Power, Seeds and Other Requirements.  Bullocks used
for land preparation are usually owned by the larger land
holders and rented by the smaller holders. However, the
imputed cost of a pair of bullocks to the owner is roughly
equal to the daily rental charge. This has consequently
been uniformly applied for all crops and farm sizes. The
estimated crop inputs also include requirements for seeds
and depreciation of farm equipment.
Crop Budgets
3.        Crop budgets based on financial prices are presented in Table 1.
The prices used in this analysis are discussed in Annex 11. The present
subsidized prices are used for the present crop budgets while no subsidies
are assumed for the future. The proportion of labor requirements supplied
by the household varies with farm size (see para 4 below).
Model Sizes for the Farm Budget Analysis
4.        Households in the project area can, somewhat arbitrarily, be
classified into four groups according to their economic situation:
Landless workers, most of whom earn their living as daily
workers in the fields, in construction or distribution,
make up about 44% of the households in the area.
Sub-marginal farmers cultivate less than 1.5 ac of land,
which is presently the minimum area required to support



ANNEX 12
Page 3
an average family. Usually more than half of the house-
hold income comes from work outside the family farm. In
the farm budget analysis, a 1.0 ac farm has been chosen
to represent those 27% of the households that operate
more than 0.25 ac but less than 1.5 ac.
Small farmers cultivate an area of 1.5 - 4.0 ac and typically
have a per capita income that is well below the national
average. About 19% of the households belong to this cate-
gory, which is represented in the farm budget analysis by
a 3.0 ac farm.
Large farmers are defined as the "upper 10 percent." These
farmers own more than 4.0 ac. However, they are far from
being "large" by any standard. Their families typically
number about ten persons and their per capita income rarely
exceeds $100. The median holding size for the "large" farmers
is roughly 5.0 ac and this size has been chosen to represent
this group in the farm budget analyses.
Farm Budget Analyses
5.        At present, 50-55% of the farms have dry season irrigation.  The
remaining 45-50% of the farms will be provided with low-lift pump irrigation
under the project. Both groups of farmers will benefit directly from the
project, but to a different extent. Consequently, six farm models have been
chosen for the budget analyses: 1.0, 3.0 and 5.0 ac farms, presently with
irrigation and without irrigation.
6.        Budgets on an annual cash flow basis for the six representative
farm models are given in Tables 3-5. The following assumptions have been
made in the analysis:
(a) Crop Yields and Total Input Requirements
Projected yields used in the analyses are given in Annex 10.
Crop inputs have been estimated based on the input require-
ments discussed above and given in Table 1.
(b) Hired Farm Labor
The monthly labor requirements (based on Table 2) have been
calculated for each farm size. Since the number of family
members varies with the farm size, the total labor availa-
bility for each farm model has been calculated. On the
average, 30% of available family labor is employed outside
the farm. Since the average daily wage for outside work
is generally higher than the cost of hiring farm labor, non-
farm work is usually given preference over farm work. Based



ANNEX 12
Page 4
on the 1970 socio-economic survey in the project area, the
monthly amount of hired labor for each farm model was esti-
mated with the following formula:
Hired man-days = Total Earm labor requirements minus net
available family labor plus 10% of total
farm labor requirement.
This means that even if the family theoretically can supply
all labor, on the average 10% of the requirements are hired
and that outside work is given priority over work on the
family farm.
(c) Non-Farm Income
Current levels (see Tab].es 3-5) are estimated from the socio-
economic survey. The reasons for the higher non-farm in-
comes for the large farms are their large family sizes and,
primarily, better educat:ional background which results in
higher wages. The number of days worked outside the farm
is shown in Annex 13, Figure 1. The project will increase
the demand for labor in the area (see Annex 13). Although
the non-farm income for the sub-marginal farmers will increase
somewhat by the project, it has been assumed as constant in
the analysis.
(d) Net Cultivated Land
The area given in the surveys is based on the gross size
of the farms. Since a part of this area is taken up by
homesteads, ditches, paths, trees, etc., the net culti-
vated area is somewhat lower. The figures given in Tables
3-5 are based on the results of the agricultural survey.
(e) Prices
Present and future production and inputs are valued using
the projected financial prices (in 1975 Taka) which are
discussed in Annex 11.
(f) Subsidies
For the present budgets, it has been assumed that urea is
unsubsidized while other fertilizers and pesticides are
subsidized to the extent of 60% (see Annex 11). No sub-
sidies are assumed to exist in the future.



ANNEX 12
Page S
(g) Cropping Patterns
Reflect the average for the project area, but give a
somewhat higher intensity for the small farms and some-
what lower for the large farms.
(h) Irrigation Costs
Without Government subsidies, the average per acre cost
of secondary pump irrigation, including fuel, driver,
maintenance and pump rent or installment payments, re-
covering the initial investment cost over seven years,
would be about Tk 310. It is further assumed that the
farmers will pay a water charge of Tk 200 per ac that
would cover the O&M costs for civil works.
(i) Family Sizes
Based on the 1970 agro-economic survey, the following
family sizes have been assumed:
Holdings              Number of Persons         Number of Workers
1.0 ac                        6.3                      1.9
3.0 ac                        7.7                      2.3
5.0 ac                        8.6                      2.6
Distributional Effects of the Project
7.        For farms that will be provided with irrigation under the project,
the income levels will change as follows:



ANNEX 12
Page 6
Farm       Gross Value of  Production  Net Value of  Nonfarm  Total Family
Model        Production        Cost      Production    Income    Income
(1)         _  (2)      (-3)=(1)-(2)    --(4)   (5)=(3)+(4)
------   -------                 Tk -------…
1 ac farm
P          2,460           490           1,970       1,600       3,570
W          3,010           760           2,250       1,600       3,850
Wi         4,680         1,350           3,330       1,600       4,930
W          5,010         1,470           3,540       1,600       5,140
Increase 2        66              -             57          -           34
3 ac farm
P          7,380         1,390          5,490        1,800       7,290
W          9,060         2,750          6,310        1,800       8,110
Wi        14,110         4,460          9,650        1,800      11,450
W         15,070         4,770          10,300       1,800      12,100
Increase %       66              _              63          -           49
5 ac farm
P         12,110         3,940          8,170        2,100      10,270
W         14,800         5,570          9,230        2,100      11,330
WI        23,020         8,550          14,470       2,100      16,573
W         24,560         9,060          15,500       2,100      17,600
Increase %       66               -             68          -           55
/a   P = present, W   future without project Wl   future with stage 1 of
project (irrigation only), W = future with project (both irrigation
and flood control), increase due to project = (W-W)/W.
Consequently, for farmers who will be provided with irrigation, the net
income from farming will increase 57-68%. The corresponding total family
income will increase 34-55%.
8.        The family income figures give an exaggerated picture of income
inequalities since the family size increases with the farm size. The
present per capita income for the 1.0 ac farmers and the 5.0 ac farmers is
Tk 570 and Tk 1,190, respectively. After the project is implemented, the
comparable figures will be Tk 820 and Tk 2,050. 1/ The average per capita in-
come in the project area is presently US$85 compared to the national average
of US$85-100. Two-thirds of the families have a per capita income of less
than US$85.
Farmers' Ability to Pay Water Charges
9.        The gross and net production values will increase on the average
Tk 2,860 and Tk 2,370 per irrigated acre 2/, respectively. According to the
1/   The farm income figures presented above includes the inputed value of
home consuption valued at farmgate prices. To make them comparable
to national income figures they have to be adjusted for the difference
between farmgate and local retail prices. Income estimates in US
dollars take this into account.
2/   Before water charges.



ANNEX 12
Page 7
1963 Irrigation Ordinance, this would permit a water charge of about Tk 290
per irrigated acre, which is somewhat below the unsubsidized pump charge.
However, the ordinance refers primarily to gravity irrigation schemes and
not to schemes like the Karnafuli Project (see para 5.15).
10.       The annual operating, maintenance and capital recovery costs for
low-lift pumps would be Tk 310 per irrigated ac. The annual O&M costs for
civil works and relift pumps and replacement of the relift pumps every
seventh year are Tk 180 for the Halda Unit. The annual O&M costs for civil
works and the main and relift pumping plant in the Ichamati Unit are Tk 300
per irrigated ac. On the average, the annual O&M costs would be about
Tk 200 per irrigated ac. The recovery over 30 years at 10% interest of all
civil works investments would require a water charge of about Tk 590 per
irrigated ac in the Halda Unit. The recovery of all capital costs in the
Ichamati Unit would give a water charge of Tk 870 per irrigated ac. The
overall capital recovery cost would be Tk 630 per irrigated ac. Consequent-
ly, if all costs were recovered, the total charge would be Tk 1,080 and
Tk 1,480 per irrigated ac in the Halda and Ichamati Units, respectively. If
the water charge was set at the same level in both units, the total charge
would be Tk 1,140 per irrigated ac.
11.       For the estimation of the farmers' ability and willingness to pay
water charges, the concept of project rent has to be introduced. In simple
terms, project rent can be defined as the incremental net income when all
factors of production, except water and related services supplied by the
project, are given the rewards that are required for their cooperation. In
a world without uncertainty and interpersonal differences, project rent is
equal to the net incremental farm income minus the necessary rewards to family
labor and management for their extra input of labor and entrepreneurship.
12.       This calculation is complicated by the uncertainty about the yields
and to some extent, the crop prices that the farmers can expect. One way of
handling this problem is by introducing explicit probability distributions
and a function that shows the "utility" or "value" of different income levels.
(The theory behind the utility function is that the value of an additional
dollar is less if the income already is US$100 than if it is only US$50.) Un-
fortunately, this procedure would lead to severe estimation problems. Some
studies of farmers' behavior, however, show that a simpler approach is
feasible. The risk aversion of small farmers can be taken into account by
using a certainty equivalent (CE) instead of the expected value (EV). 1/
If the yields have a normal distribution which is known, CE can be expressed
as a function of EV:
CE = EV - n * s
Where s = the standard deviation
n = a factor that expresses the
farmers' risk aversion.
1/   For a fuller but still non-technical description of these concepts, see
for example H. Raiffa: "Decision Analysis," Addison-Wesley, 1968.



ANNEX 12
Page 8
13.       Some empirical studies from other countries indicate that the
farmers' choice of cropping patl:erns and production techniques can be
accurately predicted for values of n in the interval 1-2. Historic yield
figures from the project show that the yields in two years out of three
are within roughly ±20% from their average values.  This gives s = 0.2 * EV.
Since the farmers in the project: area are very poor, we assume that n 3 2.
Consequently, CE = 0.6 * EV. However, it is not very likely that two crops
fail in the same year. Based o01 these considerations, we assume for the
calculation of project rent thal: the certainty equivalent of the gross farm
income is 20% less than the ave rage, or expected, gross farm income. How-
ever, HYV rice gives more unstable yields than local varieties since it is
more susceptible to pests and d:Lseases, small variations in the water level
and interruptions in the water supply. Consequently, it is likely that the
farmers will regard HYV paddy as more of a risk than local paddy even after
the implementation of the project. The project is expected to cause a shift
from local to HYV rice. Thus, it is assumed that CE=0.80*EV for the "without
project" situation and CE=0.78*E:V for the "with project" situation.
14.       The next problem that arises in the calculation of project rent
is the value of family labor. Regressions based on the agro-economic survey
in the project area and on other studies in Bangladesh give a marginal
productivity of labor equal to 0.15-0.20 md of paddy per man-day for average
sized farms. This result has two implications:
(a) that hired labor basically is paid according to its
marginal productivity (see Annex 11), and
(b) that family members also required an implicit return
to their labor that is equal to the average market
wage.
15.       The overall labor demand would increase 10-15% with the project
(Annex 13). The market wage would move upwards and family workers would
require a somewhat increased return for their labor in order to compensate
for their lost leisure. The elasticity of the labor supply is impossible
to calculate due to lack of data. However, based on fragmented information
from other countries with similar economies, an elasticity of 2 seems to be
conservatively high. (A check on this assumption can be achieved from the
economic supply curve of labor shown in Annex 13, Figure 2, which indicates
an elasticity on the order of 1 in its middle range.) This implies that the
reward to farm labor should increase at least about 6%. Consequently, it
is assumed that the average wage for both hired and family labor would
increase from 0.17 to 0.18 md of paddy per man-day with the project.
16.       The reward for management and entrepreneurship can, in part, be
related to the capital employed in the production if this is not included
in the crop production cost. Bul: it is primarily a premium for the special
skills that farm management requ:Lre. It has been assumed that the "manage-
ment fee" is equal to 5% of the net return from farming.



ANNEX 12
Page 9
17.       These considerations give the following table for farms presently
without irrigation. The project rent per irrigated ac is roughly the same
for all farm sizes and the results for the 3.0 ac farm is summarized below:
Future Without Project   Future With Project
(Tk)                    (Tk)
1.   Expected Gross Value
of Production               9,060                  15,070
2.   Certainty Equivalent
of (1)                      7,250                  11,750
3.   Crop Inputs                      2,000                    2,930
4.   Labor Inputs                     4,670                    5,890
5.   Management Fee                     120                      310
6.   Implicit Land Rent                 460                    2,620
(6) = (2) - (3) - (4) - (5)
7.   Project Rent                                              2,160
8.   Project Rent per Irrigated
Acre                                                 1,030
18.       The theoretical project rent that has been calculated above does
not take into account the variations between farms, since it is calculated
as an average value. If the full project rent was collected in water charges,
half of the farmers would -- in theory -- be willing to pay the charge while
the other half would not think that irrigation was worth the charge.
19.       Exactly what allowance should be made for this, when an appropriate
level of water charges is determined, is difficult to say. Allowing a 20%
reduction to take account of the variation in land quality and "human varia-
tion" give a reasonable upper limit of the water charge. Thus, the potential
water charge would be in the order of Tk 800 per irrigated ac.
20.       Six basic alternative levels of water charges can thus be
identified:



ANNEX 12
Page 10
Water Charge
as Percent of
Total Charge   Incremental       Cost
per Irrigated  Net Farm          Recovery
Altern-                            Acre            Income           Index
ative          Description            (Tk)            (              t
1      Present policy:  A 40% sub-
sidy of the costs for low-
lift pumps and no other
charges                       140             6             12
2      Farmers pay full cost for low-
lift pumps and no other
charges                       310            13            27
3      Full costs for low-lift pumps
plus a charge covering total
O&M costs for civil works   510              22            45
4      Full costs for low-lift pumps
plus a charge in line with
the Irrigation Ordinance
(10% of incremental gross
farm income)                  600           25             53
5      Potential water charge based
on the concept of project
rent (para 11-17)             800            34            70
6      Full costs for low-lift pumps
plus O&M costs plus capital
recovery of civil works   1,140             48            100
19.       The analysis clearly shows that full cost recovery (Alternative 6)
would undoubtedly stretch the farmers ability to pay too far and their in-
centive to use irrigation water would be severely impaired. A cost recovery
in line with Alternative 3 or 4 should, on the other hand, be feasible.
However, still a number of other factors have to be taken into account when
a decision is made about the exact level of water charges; the most important
are:
(a) The project rent is highly sensitive to variations in the
expected crop prices. A 20% reduction of crop prices means
a 40% reduction of the project rent and would give a potential
water charge of about T'k 500 per ac.
(b) About one quarter of the farmers in the area already have low-
lift pumps. The project would provide a more stable source of
water and also some flood protection for their farms, but their
gains would be relatively small (Tables 3-5). An analysis along
the lines of paras 11-19 indicates that the potential charge
for the project's services for this group would be about Tk
220 per ac in addition to the full cost for low-lift pumps.
This amount is basically equal to the annual 0 & M cost for
civil works.



ANNEX 12
Page 1-1
(c)  It is difficult to update and monitor the incremental gross
and net farm incomes and the "rent" due to the project in a
situation of rapid inflation.
(d)  The inflation also means that the capital recovery cost for
civil works have to be tied to a price index otherwise the
charge would quickly become nominal.
(e)  The relatively low incomes in the project area might create
strong political pressure to keep the water charge at a low
level.
(f)  The difficulty of having substantially different water charges
in the project area than in other parts of Bangladesh. In
light of these factors, it is recommended that at least full
cost for low-lift pumps plus 0 & M for civil works be -
recovered. This represents a tripling of the present charge.
The 1.0 ac, 3.0 ac and 5.0 ac farms would, under Alternative 3, pay a charge
that is equal to 21-22% of their incremental net farm incomes. It would be
desirable to have a progressive charge structure, but it is not possible to
collect such charges for the low-lift pumps since these are distributed and
operated through the primary cooperative societies. The inadequate land
registration system and other administrative problems rule out a progressive
betterment levy to recover the 0 & M cost for civil works.
Subsidies
20.      At present, most agricultural inputs are subsidized by the Govern-
ment. These subsidies are clearly regressive, as can be seen from the fol-
lowing Table, which is based on the assumption that the present subsidized
prices remain unchanged in the future:
Fertilizer and   Net Farm Income Without Fertilizer
Pesticide Subsidy       and Pesticide Subsidies
Farm Size            (Tk)                         (Tk)
1.0 ac     P        110                         1,860
W        170                         2,250
W        330                         3,540
3.0 ac     P        320                         5,170
W        575                         6,310
W        900                        10,300
5.0 ac     P        510                         7,660
W        900                         9,230
W      1,620                        15,500
These subsidies benefit the large farmers more than the small farmers and
farmers with irrigation more than farmers without irrigation. Consequently,
they have a questionable effect on income distribution. Even more important



ANNEX 12
Page 12
is the indicated "automatic" increase in Government expenditure. The im-
plementation of the project would increase the Government's annual cost for
fertilizers and pesticides to Tk 15 million.
21.       The change in cropping pattern that would follow the provision
of irrigation water would increase the amount of subsidy per planted acre
by roughly Tk 200. If the present system of subsidies and water charges
remains unchanged, the total per acre subsidy at irrigation would be:
Tk/ac/year
Annuity on the investment in
irrigation facilit:ies              630
Operation and maintenance of
major irrigation facilities         200
Not recovered capital cost for
low-lift pumps                      170 /a
Subsidies on fertilizers and
pesticides                          100 /a
Total                        1,100
/a   GOB is, step-wise, reducing subsidies for
low-lift pumps, fertilizers and pesticides
(see Annex 11).
22.       The project would primarily result in a shift in the cropping pat-
tern from local aus to HYV boro. With no subsidies, the net cash income 1/
from local aus is Tk 630 per ac and from HYV boro Tk 1,400 per ac. With the
present level of subsidies, the net cash income 1/ from local aus is Tk 635
per ac and from HYV boro Tk 2,530 per ac. Consequently, with subsidies,
the cash income would increase Tk 1,895 per ac of which 60% would come from
subsidies and only 40% from pure productivity increase.
23.       As can be seen from the previous Table, most of the present sub-
sidies come from the low cost of irrigation water. There are indications
that farmers in Bangladesh use less fertilizer than what is optimal. The
subsidies can in this case be taken as an incentive to use more fertilizers.
However, the use of irrigation water is very profitable to the farmers even
if the cost of water is increased substantially.
r)ecember  1975
1/   Assuming that on the average 25% of the labor is hired.



BANCLADESH                                                                           ANNEX 12
Table I
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                                   Page 1 of 3 pages
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Crop Input Requirements (Financial Prices)
Aus (Local)                          T. Aus (HYV)                          T. Aus (HYV)                          T. Aman (Local)
(rainfed)                             (irrigated)
P            W    I       W           P        W       W1 WIP                                 WI       W            P       W        WI       w
FERTILIZERS AND PESTICIDES
Urea (46% N)        (md /ac)                  0.1     0.1      0.1      0.2         1.4      1.5        _      1.5           -      1.7      1.7      2.0         0.3      0.4      0.4      0.5
(Tk /ac)                    5        9       9       18          70      132        -      132           -      150      150      176          15       35       35       44
TSP  (46% P205 )  (md fac)                      0        0       0      0.1         0.6      0.8        -      0.8           -      0.9      1.0      1.2         0.1      0.2      0.2      0.3
(Tk /ac)                    0        0       0       13          24      102        -      102           -      115      128      154           4       26       26       38
M/P  (60% K)        (md /ac)                    0        0       0        0         0.1      0.2        -      0.2           -      0.5      0.6      0.7           0      0.1      0.1      0.1
(Tk /ac)                    0        0       0        0           3       11        -       11           -       27       32       38           0        5        5        5
Diazinon            (md /ac)                    0        0       0        0        0.01    0.01         -    0.01            -    0.01    0.01    0.01          0.005   0.005   0.005   0.005
(Tk /ac)                    0        0       0        0           2        8        -        8           -        8        8        8           1        4        4        4
Sumithion           (md /ac)                    0        0       0        0        0.01    0.01         -    0.01            -    0.01    0.01    0.01          0.005   0.005   0.005   0.005
(Tk /ac)                    0        0       0        0           7       31        -       31           -       31       31       31           3       16       16       16
Subtotal                                   5       9        9       31         106      284        -     284            -     331      349      407           23       86       86      107
ANNUAL FAMILY AND HIRED LABOR
Preparation         (m-d/ac)                   17       17      17       17          22       22        -       22           -       22       22       22          22       22       22       22
Planting and        (m-d/ac)                    2        2        2       2          18       18        -       18           -       18       18       18          18       18       18       18
Nursing
Crop Management    (m-d/ac)                     6        6        6       6           12      12        -       12           -       12       13       14          10       11       11       12
Harvesting and    (m-d/ac)                     21       22      22       23          27       28        -       28           -       32       33       34          24       25       25       26
Threshing
Subtotal                                 46       47       47       48          79       80        -      80            -       84       86       88          74       76       76       78
OTHER INPUTS
Animal Power        (a-d/ac)                   15       15       15      15           17      17        -       17           -       17       17       17           17       17       17      17
(Tk /ac)                  150      150     150      150         170      170        -      170           -      170      170      170         170      170      170      17'
Seed                (md /ac)                  1.4      1.4     1.4      1.4         0.6      0.6        -      0.6           -      0.6      0.6      0.6         0.6      0.6      0.6      0.6
(Tk /ac)                   16       16       16      16           11      11        -       11           -       11       11       11            7        7        7        7
Miscellaneous       (Tk /ac)                   10       10       10       10          20       30       -       40            -      30       30       40           10       15       15       1'
Subtotal                                176      176      176      176         201      211        -     221            -      211      211     221          187      192      192      192
Low-Lift Pump Cost (Tk/ac)                      0        0        0       0            0       0        -        0           -      200      200      200            0        0        0        0



BANGLADESH                                                                             ANNEX 12
Table 1
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                                     Page 2 of 3 pages
(EALDA AND ICHAM4ATI UNITS)
Crop Input Requirements (Financial Prices)
T. Aman (HYV)                         T. Aman (HYV)                           Boro (Local)                             Boro (HYV)
Srainfed)                            (irrigated)
P       W        wH       w            P       W         WI       W           P        W        WI       W            P                 HI 1     W
FERTILIZERS AND PESTICIDES
Urea (46Z N)        (md /ac)                  1.6      1.7      1.7      1.7            -      1.8      1.9      2.0         0.8        -         -        -         1.8      1.9      2.1      2.1
(Tk /ac)                   80      150      150      150            -     158      167      176           40        -        -        -          90       167      185      185
TSP  (46% P205 )  (ind /ac)                   0.6      0.8      0.8      0.8            -      0.9      1.0      1.2         0.3        -        -         -         0.7      1.0      1.2      1.2
(Tk /ac)                   24      102      102      102            -     115      128      154           12        -        -        -          28      128       154      154
M/P  (60% K)        (md /ac)                  0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2            -      0.3      0.4      0.6         0.1        -        -         -         0.1      0.4      0.6      0.6
(Tk /ac)                     3      11       11       11            -      16       22       32            3        -        -        -            3       22       32       32
Diazinon            (md /ac)                 0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01               -    0.01    0.01    0i01          040n9                 -         - n      0.01      .01    0.01G    C.Gi
(Ti /ac)                    2        8        8        8            -        8        8        8           1        -        -        -            2        8        8        8
Sumithion           ('d /ac)                 0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01               -    0.01    0.01    0.01          0.005        -        -         -        0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01
(Tk /ac)                    7       31       31       31            -      31       31       31            4        -        -        -            7       31       31       31
Subtotal                                 116      302      302      302           -      328      356      401           60        -        -        -         130      356      410      410
ANNUAL FAMILY AND HIRED LABOR
Preparation         (m-d/ac)                    22       22      22       22            -       22       22       22          22        -        -         -          22       22       22       22
Planting and        (m-d/ac)                    18       18       18      18            -       18       18       18          18                 -         -          18       18       18        18
Nursing
Crop Management   (m-d/ac)                      12       13       13      13            -       13       14       14          12        -         -        -          15       16       [6        16
Harvesting and    (m-d/ac)                      28       29       29      29            -       31       32       33          26        -         -        -          33       34       36        36
Threshing
Subtotal                                  80       82       82       82           -       84       86       87           78        -        -        -          88        90       92       92
OTHER INPUTS
Animal Power        (a-d/ac)                    17       17       17       17           -       17       17       17          17        -         -        -          17       17        17       17
(Tk /lac)                 170      170      170      170           -      170      170      170          170        -        -        -          170      170      170      170
Seed                (md /ac)                   0.6     0.6      0.6      0.6            -      0.6      0.6      0.6         0.6        -         -        -         0.6      0.6      0.6      0.6
(Tk /ac)                   11       11       11       11                    11      11       ll            7        _        _        _           11       il       il       il
Miscellaneous       (Tk /ac)                    30       30       30      40            -       40       50       50          10        -         -        -          30       40       50        50
Subtotal                                 211      211      211      221           -      221      231      231          187        -        -        -          211      221      231      231
Low-Lift Pump Cost (Tk/ac)                       0        0        0        0           -      lOD      100      100         140         -        -        -         740      310       310      310



BANGLADESH                                                                           ANNEX 12
Table 1
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                                   Page 3 of 3 pages
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Crop Input Requirements (Financial Prices)
Pulses & Oilseeds                         Chillies                       Potatoes & Vegetables                          Sugarcane
P       W        WI       W           P                 WI      W            P       W        WI       W            P        W        WI       W
FERTILIZERS AND PESTICIDES
Urea (46% N)       (md /ac)                     0       0        0        0         0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2          1.5      3.0      3.0     3.0          0.9      1.1      1.1      1.1
(Tk /ac)                    0        0       0        0           10      18       18       18          75      264      264      264          45       97       97       97
TSP  (46% P205)   (md /ac)                      0       0        0        0         0.1      0.2      0.2     0.2          1.0      2.3      2.3     2.3          0.5      0.9      0.9      0.9
(Tk /ac)                    0        0       0        0            4      26       26       26          40      294      294      294          20      115      115      115
M/P  (60% K)       (md /ac)                     0       0        0        0         0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1          0.4      1.2      1.2      1.2           0        0        0        0
(Tk /ac)                    0       0        0        0           3        5        5        5          12       65       65       65           0        0        0        0
Diazinon           (md /ac)                     0       0        0        0           0        0        0        0        0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01           0.01    0.02    0.02    0.02
(Tk /ac)                    0        0       0        0           0        0        0        0           2        8        8        8           2       16       16       16
Sumithion          (md /ac)                     0       0        0        0           0        0        0        0       0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01               0        0        0        0
(Tk /ac)                    0        0       0        0           0        0        0        0           7       4j       31 31                 0        0        0        0
Subtotal                                  0        0        0        0          17      49       49       49         136      662      662      664           67     228      228      228
ANNUAL FAMILY AND HIRED LABOR
Preparation         (m-d/ac)                   10       10      10       10          15       15       15       15          22       22       22       22          22       22       22       22
Planting and        (m-d/ac)                    2        2       2        2          22       22       22       22          22       26       26       26          18       18       18       18
Nursing
Crop Management   (m-d/ac)                      3        5       5        5          20       22       22       22          16       24       24       24          14       16       16       16
Harvesting and    (m-d/ac)                     18       20      20       20          36       38       38       38          40       58       58       58          86       94       94       94
Threshing
Subtotal                                 33       37       37       37          93       97      97       97         100      130      130      130          140      150      150      150
OTHER INPUTS
Animal Power        (a-d/ac)                    8        8        8       8           5        5        5        5          17       17       17       17          15       15       15       15
(Tk /ac)                   80       80      80       80          50       50       50       50         170      170      170      170         150      150      150      150
Seed                (md /ac)                  0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4         0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2           -        -        -        -           _         _       _         _
(Tk /ac)                    5       5        5        5          20       20       20       20         130      160      160      160         300      340      340      340
Miscellaneous       (Tk /ac)                    5        5        5       5           10      10       10       10          20       30       30       40          40       40       40        40
Subtotal                                 90       90       90       90          80       80      80       80         320      360      360      370          490      530      530      530
Low-Lift Pump Cost (Tk/ac)                      0        0        0       0           0        0        0



AhNEX 12
Ta-ble,C
13iNGIJiDEH
KARRAFULI IRRIGATION FPJECT
Mont.ply Labor Requirements
Mn man-days per acre)
Halda   Ichamati
CROP                             January rebruary  March  April  FAY   Jun,  gY  August  Septeember  October  Ioveber  Deosiber   Total   Unit                            Unit
d 1c )             P                         0.  C     7       13    2        2    -3         10         0          0           0           3          47             x
W1             0          0        7       13    2         2     13       11         0           0           0          0          .7       X
W              0          0        7       13    2         2    1L        10         0           0          0           0          42       X           2
Au, s                 P              0          0         7       26    10       4     18        12        0           0           0           0          79       X           A
HYV,raicfed'  7                   O         0         7       28   10        2       '1      12         0          0           0           0          80       x           x
WIf            -          -        -        -    -         -      -        -         -                       ---                             -
W              C          0        7       28   10         4     19       13         0          0           0           0          El       -           X
n               ~P              -          -        -        -    -         -      -        -                     _                       -          _        _          -
(HYV, irrig.       7               2         0         7       29   10         4    21        14         0          0           0           °          Sq       X           X
W_             0          0        7       28   10         9    22        14         0          0           0           0          86       X          ---
W              0         0         7       28   11         ,    22        15         0          0           0           0          S6       X           X
Amar                  P              0          C         0        0    0        7    1         21        3           3          17           E         7L        X          X
(Local),                           0          0        0        0    0        7      19       21         4          3          18           6          76       X           I
12             0         0         0        0    0        7    152        21        L           3          16           8          76       X          ___
w                         C        0        0    0         7     1,       21         1          L          19           8          78   Y               I
P              0         0         0        0    0        7    1S         21        )a          24         20           9          SC       X           X
'HYV, rainfed)   V                 O          0   0             0    0         7    1        21         5          4          20          10          £2       X           I
WI             -          -        -         -    -        -      -        -         -           --                     -           -       -
W              0          C        C        0    0        7    25         21         5          4          21          10          83       -           X
Aman                  P               -
(h-YV, irrig..)    F               0         3         0        0    C        7    1,         22         2          4          21          10          8.       X           x
WI             0         0         0        0    0        7    15         22         9          4          21          1            5                  ---
*              C         0         0        0    0        7    1,         22        5           5          22          11          97       x           x
3srs                  P             12         27        3         3   1l       16      0        0         0           0           C          4          7'       X           -
(locze.1)          lir-                       -        -        -    -         -      -        -         -          -           -           -           -       -           -
-lorc25                       -2          -~        -             -L      2-      -         -        -           -           -           -         B-        -          -
scrc                  P             12        2:            4      .   12L     22      C         0        0           0           C           4.        83        X           X
8317)          II 12                    2z                 14             22      0        0         0           0          0           LI         9o       X 
WI            12         r         r        5   15       23      0         0        0           0           0           4          92       X          ---
-             12        2E         3             i5      23       o        0         0          0           C           L          92       K           x
OTHER ROPS
uAises and
Cilseeds             P                         1                                0               0         0           0                                 33       X           X
V              2          2        7       13     0       0       C        0         0          0           j                      37       X           I
Wi             2         2         7       13    0        0      D         0        0           0           ,           8          37       X          ---
W              2         2         7       13    0        0       0        0        0           0                       6 9        37       X           X
h_lliesc             p                                 17        21    C        C      C        C         0           0         2           '17         93       X
V              6          6       -1        27    0        0      0         0        0           0         25          17          97        X           -
WI             6         6        16       2K    0        0       ?        0        0,          C          25          17          97       X          ---
W              6         6        19       25    0        0       0        0         0          0          25          17          97       X
ctatoes and
aegetables           F              ,         6        2Vl      20    0         C      D        0         C          0          2F          20         100       X           X
Vw                        4       30        25    0        0               0        0           0          32         22         130        X          X
WI             2         z        30       2E    0         0      3        C         0          0          32          2h         130       X          ---
W              3.        3        30       28    0        0       1        0         0          C          32          224        130       X           X
,ugarcane             F             26        26        26       10    2         2      2        2         2           2         16          2          1240      X
;V           21         26       28        14    2        2      2         2        7           2          .6         21         T,C        X           _
WI           28         28        28       14    2        2       2       .2         2          2          16          2L2        150       X
W             28        28        28       14    2        2       2        2         3           2         16          24         150       X           -
1/  P = Present
F    Future without project
Wl= Future with stage I of project IHalda Unit)                                                                                                                           SN
W = Future with project                                                                                                                                                    a -
2' X = Grewn
- = Not grown or negligible a:reage
li-ot applicable



ANNEX 12
Table 3
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Financial Budgets for 1.0 ac Farm
Presently without Irrigation    Presently with Irrigation
P      W      WI     W2        P      W      Wi      W2
Cropped Areas (Acres)
Aus   - Local                   0.4    0.2    0.1    0.1       0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1
- HYV, rainfed            0.3    0.5      -       -        -      -       -      -
- HYV, irrigated            -      -    0.1    0.1         -    0.1    0.1    0.1
Subtotal            0.7    0.7    0.2    0.2        0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2
Aman  - Local                   0.5    0.3    0.2    0.1       0.5    0.2    0.2    0.1
- HYV, rainfed            0.3    0.5      -       -      0.3      -       -      -
- HYV, irrigated            -      -    0.6    0.7         -    0.6    0.6    0.7
Subtotal            0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8        0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8
Boro  - Local                     -      -       -      -      0.1       -      -      -
- HYV                       -      -    0.6    0.6       0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6
Subtotal               -      -    0.6    0.6       0.7    0.6    0.6    0.6
Paddy, total                    1.5    1.5    1.6    1.6       1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6
Other Crops                     0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1       0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1
Total Cropped Area              1.6    1.6    1.7    1.7       1.7    1.7    1.7    1.7
Net Cultivated Area             0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8       0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8
Cropping Intensity (%)          200    200    213    213       213    213    213    213
GROSS PRODUCTION VALUE (Tk)  2,460  3,010  4,680  5,010    3,600  4,l10  4,680  5,010
Farm Production Costs (Tk)
Crop Inputs                     390    660    890    970       b80    840    890    970
Hired Labor                     100    100    120    140        120    120    120    14o
Total                m90    760  1,010  1,110       600    960  1,010  1,100
Net Production Value Before
Irrigation Costs (Tk)         1,970  2,250  3,670  3,900    3,000  3,h50  3,670  3,900
Irrigation Costs (Tk)
Low-Lift Pump Costs               -      -    220    220       100    220    220    220
Water Charges                     _       -    120    140         -      -    120    1h0
Total                  -      -    3h0    360       100    220    3h0    360
NET PRODUCTION VALUE (Tk)    1,970  2,250  3,330  3,540    2,900  3,230  3,330  3,5h0
Non-Farm Income (Tk)          1,60o  1,600  1,600  1,600    1,600  1,600  1,600  1,600
TOTAL FAMILY INCOME (Tk)      3,570  3,8,o  4,930  5,140    4,500  4,830  4,930  5,140



ANNEX 12
Table 4
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(RALDA AND ICIA.IATI UNITS)
Financial Budgets for 3.0 ac Farm
Presently without Irrigation    Presently with Irrigation
P      v      WI      W2       P       _      Wi     W2
Cropped Areas (Acres)
Aus   - Local                    1.3    0.5    0.3    0.3       0.6    0.3    0.3    0.3
-  HYV, rainfed           0.8    1.6       -      -         -      -       -      -
-  HYV, irrigated           -       -    0.5    0.3         -    0.5    0.5    0.3
Subtotal             2.1     2.1    0.8    0.6      0.6    0.8    0.8    0.6
Aman  - Local                    1.4    1.0    0.5    0.3       1.4    0.6    0.5    0.3
-  HYV, rainfed          .1.0    1.4       -      -       1.0    0.2       -      -
-  HYV, irrigated           -       -    1.9    2.1         -    1.6    1.9    2.1
Subtotal             2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4        2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4
Boro  - Local                      -      -       -      -      0.2       -      -       -
- HYV                       -       -    1.6    1.8       1.6    1.6    1.r    1.8
Subtotal               -      -    1.6    1.8       1.8    1.6    1.6    1.8
Paddy, total                    4.5    4.5    4.8    4.8        4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8
Other Crops                     0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3        0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3
Total Cropped Area               4.8    4.8    5.1    5.1       5.1    5.1    5.1    5.1
Net Cultivated Area              2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5       2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5
Cropping Intensity (%)           188    188    204    204       204    204    204    204
GROSS PRODUCTION VALUE (Tk)  7,380  9,060 14,110 15,070   10,390 13,070 1L,110 15,070
Farm Production Costs (Tk)
Crop Inputs                   1,190  2,000  2,700  2,930    1,420  2,520  2,700  2,930
Hired Labor                     700    750     750    Z70       570    680    750    770
Total              1,890  2:,750  3,S40  3,700    1,990  3,200  3,h05   3,700
Net Production Value Before
Irrigation Costs (Tk)         5,h90  6,310 10,660 11,370    8,L00  9,870 10,660 11,370
Irrigation Costs (Tk)
Low-Lift Pump Costs               -       -    650    650       250    650    650    650
Water Charges                                  360    420         -       -    360    420
Total                  -      -  1,010  1,070       2      6m   1,010  1,070
NET PRODUCTION VALUE (Tk)    5,490  6,310  9,650 10,300    8,150  9,220  9,650 10,300
Non-Farm Income (Tk)          1,800  1,800  1,800  1,800    1,800  1,800  1,800  1,800
TOTAL FAMILY INCOME (Tk)      7,290  8,110 11,450 12,100    9,950 11,020 11,450 12,100



ANI1" 12
Table 5
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Financial Budgets for 5.0 ac Farm
Presently without Irrigation    Presently with Irrigation
P      v      WI     W2        P      W       WI    W2
Cropped Areas (Acres)
Aus   - Local                   2.4    1.2    0.6    0.6        1.1    0.6    0.6    0.6
- HYV, rainfed            1.2    2.4      -       -        -       -      -      -
- HYV, irrigated          _        -    0.8    0.4         -    0.8    0.8    0.4
Subtotal            3.6    3.6    1.4    1.0        1.1    1.4    1.4    1.0
Aman  - Local                   2.2    1.6    0.8    0.5        2.2    0.8    0.8    0.5
- HYV, rainfed            1.6    2.2      -       -      1.6    0.4       -      -
- HYV, irrigated          _        -    3.0    3.3         -    2.6    3.0    3.3
Subtotal            3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8        3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8
Boro  - Local                     -       -      -      -      0.3       -      -       -
-  HYV                      -      -    2.6    3.0       2.6    2.6    2.6    3.0
Subtotal               -      -    2.6    3.0       2.9    2.6    2.6    3.0
Paddy, total                    7.4    7.4    7.8    7.8        7.8    7.8    7.8    7.8
Other Crops                     0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6       0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6
Total Cropped Area              8.0    8.0    8.4    8.4        8.4    8.4    8.4    8.4
Net Cultivated Area             4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3        4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3
Cropping Intensity (7)          185    185    195    195        195    195    195    195
GROSS PRODUCTION VALUE (Tk) 12,110 14,800 23,020 24,560   17,000 21,510 23,020 24t1.560
Farm Production Costs (Tk)
Crop Inputs                   1,960 3,220  4,400  4,760    2,320  4,150  4,400  4,760
Hired Labor                   1.980  2.35o  2.520  2,570    2.280  2.X480  2.52   2.570
Total              3,940  5,570  6,920  7,330      ,606,630   5920  7,330
Net Production Value Before
Irrigation Costs (Tk)         8,170  9,230 16,100 17,230   12,4oo 14,880 16,100 17,230
Irrigation Costs (Tk)
Low-Lift Pump Costs               -       -  1,050  1,050     h4o  1,050  1,050  1,050
Water Charges                             -    580    680         -      -    580    680
Total                  -      - 1,630  1,730          O  1,050  1,630  1,730
NET PRODUCTION VALUE (Tk)    8,170  9,230 14,470 15,500   11,990 13,830 1h,470 15,500
Non-Farm Income (Tk)          2,100  2,100  2,100  2,100    2,100  2,100  2,100  2,100
TOTAL FAMILY INCOME (Tk)    10,270 11,330 16,570 17,600   lh,090 15,930 16,570 17,600



ANNEX 13
Page 1
BA_GLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNIT)
Farm Labor Analysis
General
1.        The population density :Ln the Karnafuli area is one of the highest
in Bangladesh and this has resulted in relatively small farms and a large
number of landless households.  Fitshing and commercial activities are im-
portant in the area but underemployment is still substantial.
2.        The poorest 40% of the families in the two project areas are
landless or operate farms smaller than 0.5 ac. The project effect on this
group depends on how much employment the project will generate. Little
employment data exist but some rough estimates based on the 1970 agro-eco-
nomic survey and the 1961 and 1974 censuses, are presented in this Annex.
3.        Because of relatively high underemployment, current wage levels
(reported in the project area) probably overstate the economic opportunity
cost of farm labor. For the economic analysis, shadow wage rates have
been derived using the economic supply curve for labor, shown in Figure 1.
The assumptions behind the curve are discussed below.
Labor Supply
4.        Preliminary results from the 1974 census give a population of
207,000 in the Halda Unit and 37,000 in the Ichamati Unit. The population
of the Haida Unit grew at an annual rate of 1.4% during both the 1951-61
and the 1961-74 periods. It is projected that the overall rate of growth
of the Bangladesh population will be higher during the late 1970s and early
80s than during the 60s. Consequently, for this analysis it is assumed
that the population of the Halda Unit will grow at an annual rate of 1.5%.
5.        The population of the Ichamati Unit grew at an annual rate of 2.8%
between 1951 and 1961 and 3.0% between 1961 and 1974. The population density
in the Ichamati area is somewhat less than density in, for example, the
Halda and Muhuri areas, where the population is growing at about 1.5% an-
nually. For this analysis, it is assumed that the growth rate will continue
to be about 3% up to 1985, when the density is comparable to that of the
Halda area, and that it will slow down to about 1.5% after 1985.
6.        In Bangladesh, women normally do not work in the fields and,
therefore, only males are included in the estimates of the agricultural



ANNEX 13
Page 2
labor force. Adjusted labor force participation rates from the 1961 cen-
sus applied to the age-sex distribution from the 1974 census give a male
labor force of 73,000 or 30% of the project population. The estimates of
labor supply, given below, have been made using 240 days per year. This
allows for less than a full day's work for persons of extreme ages who
are also included in the labor force estimates. During peak agricultural
activities, people work more hours per day and basically all available
labor is engaged in agriculture. Consequently, the peak monthly labor sup-
ply is higher than the average for the year.
Year           Population     Male Labor Force    Annual Labor Supply
(persons)         (persons)         (million man-days)
1974             244,000             73,000             17.5
1980             270,000            81,000              19.4
1985             295,000             88,000             21.1
1990             318,000            95,000              22.8
Labor Demand
7.        Besides agricultural production, the labor force is involved in:
(a) farm and home maintenance; (b) off-farm subsidiary occupations such as
handicrafts, fishing, commercial activities, clerical and other services;
and (c) new development schemes. Some of the activities under (a) and (b)
are undertaken by women. Category (c) includes local construction work but
besides the proposed project no major works have been planned for this area.
8.        Farm labor. Estimates of monthly farm labor requirements for
various crops are given in Annex 12, Table 2. Estimates of the total month-
ly labor demand are given in Tables 1 and 2. Based on detailed calcula-
tions of labor supply and requirements for different farm sizes, the follow-
ing demand for hired farm labor has been estimated:
Million man-days
Hired
Supplied
Total         Supplied by   Supplied by      by landless
requirement  family labor  other farmers  laborers         Total
Present     6.75         5.14             0.60          1.01         1.61
Future
without
project     7.30         5.44             0.62          1.24         1.86
Future
with
project     7.76         5.67             0.65          1.44         2.09



ANNEX 13
Page 3
9.        Without the project, total farm labor requirements would fall
from 39% of the supply at present to about 35% in 1985. With the project,
the farm labor demand would still fall but only to about 37% of the supply
in 1985. The project would consequently just reduce the rate with which
the underemployment in agriculture would increase. The demand for hired
labor, however, would increase somewhat faster than the total labor demand
and a larger portion of the employment opportunities is expected to go to
the landless laborers.
10.       Non-farm employment.  The project area, which is one of the most
developed in Bangladesh, presently has a food grain surplus of about 30% of
supply. 1/ The 48,000 ton increase in paddy production would increase the
surplus to 63,000 tons or 45% of total production by 1985, even with the
projected population increase. Not only does the project area export some
30,000 tons of paddy but also the volume of internal sales is high (about
18,000 tons). Consequently, the marketing system is well developed and
offers a substantial number of employment opportunities. The marketed
volume of paddy is projected to inicrease about 85% with the project:
Future             Future
Present     without project      with project
…--*- (tons of paddy) --- - ------ --
Marketed internally      18,000         28,000             26,000
"Export" from the
project area           30,000         36,000             63,000
Total volume of sales   48,000          64,000             89,000
11.       Fishing in the rivers, khals and ponds in the project area creates
a substantial number of employment opportunities. Most of the fishing is
done for home consumption but it provides the primary source of protein and
is quite important in the family budget (Annex 4).
12.       The carp spawn fishery in the Halda River, however, provides a
substantial source of cash income to approximately 6,000 fishermen most of
whom are landowners and farmers. The average annual income per spawn fisher-
man is estimated to be between Tk 1,500 and Tk 3,000.
13.       During the dry season, stone and fire wood collecting in the
Chittagong Hill Tracts are rather important occupations for the people in
the Ichamati area. Because of the rather high cash incomes in the two
areas, there is a substantial demand for different types of traditional
services.
1/   Based on an assumed per capita consumption of 16 oz per day.  (The
average consumption in Bangladesh in the late 1960s was just below
16 oz.)



ANNEX 13
Page 4
14. r    The communications to Chittagong are very good. About one bus
every ten minutes connects the Halda Unit with Chittagong and the railway
from Chittagong to Nazirhat (some 5 miles north of the Halda Unit boundary)
carries about 15,000 passengers everyday. Consequently, Chittagong is an
important secondary source of employment for the people in the project area.
15.       At present, a farm size of about 1.5 ac is required to support
an average farm family, however, only about 20% of the households have
holdings larger than 1.5 ac. Thus, most of the farmers get a substantial
part of their income from non-farm employment. Households with holdings
smaller than 1.0-1.5 ac get more than half their income from off-farm employ-
ment. The 1970 agro-economic survey included a couple of questions about
off-farm employment and the results are suu.iarized in Figure 1. As can be
seen from this figure, even men on the largest farms (over 5 ac) work, on
the average, 55-60 days outside their own farm. Submarginal farmers (holding
less than 1.5 ac) typically work 80 or more days outside the farm. Landless
laborers work on the average about 200 days per year, a quarter of which is
in farming.
16.       Consequently, it is very difficult to classify the labor force
in the area but with some generalizations, the following composition
emerges:
Non-agricultural workers (Less than 50 man-days
per year in agriculture)                                17,000
Landless agricultural workers (Owning less than
0.25 ac but working more than 50 man-days per
year in agriculture)                                     9,000
Submarginal farmers (holding 0.25-1.5 ac)                 19,000
Small farmers (holding size 1.5 - 4 ac)                   17,000
"Large" farmers (holding more than 4 ac)                  11,000
Total labor force                                         73,000
17.       Using these figures and Figure 1, the total volume of off-farm
employment was estimated. The present overall employment situation is:
million man-days
Total supply                         17.5
Work on family farms                  5.1
Hired farm labor                      1.6
Non-farm employment                   7.0
Surplus                              3.8
Under-employment rate                22%



ANNEX 13
Page 5
Consequently, about 48% of the total employment is outside agriculture and
the "average" person in the labor force works about 16 days per month.
18.       A similar analysis for the Muhuri area showed that 45% of the
total employment was outside agriculture and that the "average" working
month was only 11 days. This confirms the impression by most outside
observers that the project area is one of the most highly developed in
Bangladesh.
19.       The present peak labor demand occurs in August when virtually
everybody is employed. Consequently, the monthly supply of farm labor can
lbe estimated at about 1.1 million man-days. The wage rate can then be
assumed to equal the ecommic opportunity cost of farm labor. The peak
monthly supply of farm labor is projected to increase to about 1.25 million
lby 1985.
20.       Without the project, saLes and cash incomes from farming are ex-
pected to increase about 30% and the input of fertilizers is expected to
increase about 60%. The value of agricultural production is expected to
grow slightly faster than the poptulation. Since it is assumed that all
subsidies would be removed during the period 1975-1985, total net farm
incomes would increase only 13% w:Lthout the project.
21.       The project would increELse the marketed volume of rice and the cash
incomes from farming about 40% ancl the input of fertilizers about 35%. Since
farming would be more cash oriented after the implementation of the project,
the value added in agriculture-related trade and transport and in the dis-
tribution of non-farm goods and services is expected to increase more rapidly
than the value added in agriculture. The net farm income would increase
about 19% due to the project.
22.       In view of the complex employment situation in the area and the
lack of data on consumption patterns, it is difficult to make any accurate
projections of non-farm employment. However, Arthur Gibb has made an
ambitious study of agricultural modernization and non-farm employment in
an area in the Philippines. 1/ The socio-economic structure of the area he
studied was in the early 1960s_quite similar to the present structure of the
Karinafuti area. The onlv major difference was that the proportion of tenant
farmers was smaller than in the Karnafuli area. Since wealthy landlords pre-
sumably have a higher preference for goods imported to the area (for example
motor vehicles and radios), the relative impact on the local economy of a
change in agricultural incomes can be assumed to be larger in the Karnafuli
area than in the area Gibb studied. He calculated the elasticity of demand
for formal sector non-agricultural labor with respect to changes in agricul-
tural income, i.e. the percentage chanze in non-farm employment when the
1/ A. Gibb, Agricultural Modernization, Non-Farm Employment and Low-Level
Urbanization - A Case Study of a Central Luzon Sub-Region, Ph. D. Thesis,
University of Michigan, 1974.



ANNEX 13
Page 6
agricultural income increased 1%.  The data he supplied makes it possible to
calculate the elasticity for the total non-agricultural employment.  For the
period 1961-1971, this elasticity was on the order of 0.9-1.3. It was argued
above that the impact on the non-farm employment of a certain change in agri-
cultural incomes should be larger in the Karnafuli area than the area Gibb
studied in the Philippines. A rough check on the applicability of Gibb's
results to the Karnafuli area can be achieved by correlating the change in
agricultural production and the change in non-agricultural employment between
the two latest census years (1961 and 1974). These figures indicate an
elasticity of about 1.1. Consequently, Gibb's lower figure (0.9) should
give a conservatively low estimate of the impact of the project.
23.       Agricultural incomes -- after deducting all crop production costs
except the cost of labor -- would increase 13% up to 1985 without the project.
With the project, agricultural incomes would increase 34%. This would give
an 11% increase in non-farm employment without the project and a 31Z in-
crease with the project.  Thus the overall employment situation is projected
to change as follows:
1985
Without      With
1974           ProJect     ProJect
--- -----(million man-days)-- ----
Work on family farms       5.1             5.4          5.7
Hired farm labor           1.6             1.9          2.1
Non-farm employment        7.0              7.8         9.2
Surplus                    3.8             6.0          4.1
Total labor supply  17.5             21.1         21.1
Under-employment rate    22%              28%          19%
24.       The employment situation in the project area would, consequently,
deteriorate without the project. However, the project would directly and
indirectly increase employment 10-15% and lead to a slightly lower under-
employment rate than the present.
Economic Opportunity Cost of Farm Labor
25.       Scarcity of detailed data on farm income levels, off-farm employ-
ment opportunities, and the agricultural labor force profile makes the
evaluation of economic shadow rates for farm labor extremely subjective.
Economic farm labor costs were estimated by using monthly shadow rates
reflecting different opportunity costs associated with various segments of
the labor force and slack and peak periods during the year.
26.       On the basis of available information about the project area and
experience from similar areas, it is postulated that the marginal opportunity



ANNEX 13
Page 7
cost of farm labor can be represented by an "S-shaped" curve. The marginal
opportunity cost of farm labor is positive at all levels of demand and
increases when more labor is absorbed into field work. The increase in
opportunity cost is initially slow and reflects the scarcity of alternative
productive employment, but it is more rapid when the full labor supply is
utilized.  At employment levels above the maximum available in the area,
the opportunity cost would again increase at a slower rate since a large
number of migrants would be attracted to the project area from neighboring
areas where there is substantial underemployment. In practice, it is
reasonable to approximate this idealized "S-shaped" curve by three straight
segments.
27.       Figure 2 gives the curve of approximate shadow rates used in the
analysis. The curve shows the estimated marginal opportunity cost of labor
as a function of demand (expressed as a proportion of the supply). The
shape of the curve is based on the following assumptions:
(a)  at minimum employment levels, the marginal cost would be
the value of additiona]. consumption needed for family
members to undertake field work (Tk 1.0 per man-day 1/),
plus the value of foregone activities such as fishing,
home improvement, etc., (Tk 1.5 per man-day);
(b)  when the monthly employment just exceeds the off-peak
family labor supply 2/ (60% of the full supply), the
marginal cost would be the minimum market rate (Tk 7.5 per
man-day);
(c)  at a monthly labor demand corresponding to the present
peak level, the marginal cost would be equal to the
maximum market rate (Tk 15 per man-day, see Annex 11);
(d) when the employment is equal to or larger than the estimated
supply of farm labor from the area, the labor would be
drawn from non-farm activities and opportunity cost would
increase to about Tk 18 per man-day, since at this wage
rate, a large number of migrants would be attracted to
the project area.
1/   Taken as 75% of the current average daily consumption of food grains
(16 oz per day).
2/   Farm family members of the labor force not regularly employed else-
where during slack periods.



ANNEX 13
Page 8
28.       The economic oportunity cost of farm labor is equal to the area
under the curve up to the employment level for each month. The increased
monthly labor costs due to the project are shown in Table 2.
29.       The total labor requirement will increase from 7.30 million man-
days without the project to 7.76 million man-days with the project. The
economic cost for this increase is Tk 3.32 million which gives an implicit
cost of Tk 7.11 per man-day.
December 1975



ANNEX 13
Table 1
IANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
IALDA UNIT
Future Economic Cost of Farm Labor
Monthly Farm                             Economic Cost
Labor Requirement                        due to Project
I hLW  2w                                Stage .       Stage 1 + 2
Month          ---- (1,000 man-lays) --                 ------- (Taka 1,000) ----
January        272         320         368                +238             +514
February       592         704         816                +893           +2,016
March          308         300         288                 -31              -99
April          610        515          419                -651           -1,271
May            413        453          476                +240             +384
June           746        850          917              +1,073           +1,875
July           832         780         682                -546           -1h,434
August         976        935          872                -538           -1,307
September      166        168          169                  +8              +11
October        131        160          169                +111             +146
November       785        796          826                +113             +431
December       485        532          558                +309             +486
Total        6,315      6,512        6,560             +1,219            +1,752
Incremental economic cost per man-day                        6.19             7.15
'W = future without project
WI = future with stage 1 of p:roject
W = future with project



ANNEX 13
Table 2
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
ICHAMATI UNIT
Future Economic Cost of Farm Iabor
Monthly Farm Labor
Reauirements                        Economic Cost
W    L/             due to Pro&ect
Month               T1,000 man-daysT                      (Taka l,OOj)
January             31              62                        +1)48
February            69             142                        +548
March               37              47                         +45
April               83              77                        -38
May                 55              89                        +195
June               109             169                        +602
July               146             137                        -92
August             176             170                         -81
September           32              32                           0
October             25              31                         +23
November           142             1L8                         +64
December            81              9                         +103
Total              986          1,201                       +1,517
Incremental economic cost per man-day                            7.06
1/ W= future without project
W = future with project



BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Days Worked                                 (HALDA ANO  ICHAMATI UNITS)
Outside the                                The Relationship Between Farm  Size
Famriv Farm                                     and Off-Farm  Employment
per Worker
per Year
1 70
160-
140
130
120 -
tlO -
100 -
90 -
70
60 -Total
50   -
40
,              Non Farm Work
30       -
20
10 4               Farmwor:aaadi1                                                      10                    "  t T      f ev  Size (ac)
1       2       3        4       5       6        7       8        9       19       11      12      13      14
oldBaN,- 8811



ANNE 1 3
Figure 2
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Marginal Economic Cost of Farm Labor
TAKA/MAN-DAY
20.0
18.0
16.0
14.0
12.0
10.0
8.0
6.0
4.0
2.0
LABOR DEMAND
0                                                                                        'hAS % OF LOCAL
10    20   30    40    s0   60    70    80    90   100   110   120                   SUPPLY
World Bank-9687(R)



ANNEX 14
Page 1
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Economic Analysis
Assumptions
The economic analysis is based on the following assumptions:
(a)  Benefits.  The direct benefits of the project would be:
increased agricultural production; reduced transport costs
through improved navigation possibilities on khals, and
increased fish yields. The project would also have
substantial secondary employment effects in trade and
transport. In this analysis, however, only increased
agricultural production due to the project is counted as a
project benefit. Expected crop yields and acreages are
shown in Annex 10. Farm. gate prices for paddy are derived
from the Bank's projected world market price for 1985 in
1975 currency values while prices for minor crops are based
on domestic market prices as discussed in Annex 11. The
benefits are summarized in Tables 1 and 2 for the Halda and
Ichamati Units, respectively.
(b) Crop Production Costs. Per acre input requirements are
shown in Annex 12. Prices for inputs other than farm
labor are discussed in Annex 11. Crop production costs
are summarized in Tables 3 and 4.
(c) Pricing of Labor. Farm 'Labor is evaluated at a seasonally
adjusted opportunity cost. The economic cost per man-day
is estimated at Tk 7.1 whlich is equivalent to 95% of
the peak wage rate. (For a detailed analysis, see
Annex 13).  Unskilled construction labor has been valued
at market wages.
(d) Low-Lift Pump Costs. It is estimated that about 500 and 70
low-lift pumps will operate in the Halda and Ichamati Units,
respectively, even without the project. Since there will
be about 780 and 130 pumps in the Halda and Ichamati Units,
respectively, after the implementation of the project, in-
-vestment and 0 & M costs are based on 280 and 60 pumps,
respectively, for the Halda and Ichamati Units. It is assumed
-that the pumps will be replaced every seventh year.  The
annual cost per pump is shown in Table 5.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
(e) Land Acquisition. Agricultural land used for project
works, has been valued at its opportunity cost based on
the resulting loss of crop production. This is reflected
in future cropping patterns.
(f) Investment Costs. All investment costs, net of taxes
and duties and price contingencies are included in the
economic analysis. The fisheries development program
is excluded from the investment costs.
(g) Development Planning. Construction would be phased over
three dry seasons. 1/ It is estimated that flood protection
will be provided to about 40% of the Halda Unit and 20% of
the Ichamati Unit after the two first dry seasons. A major
part of the khal excavation and a number of the khal
regulators would also be completed after two years. Thus,
it is assumed that about 20% of the agricultural benefits
would be obtained in the last construction year.  Most of
the new low-lift pumps will be delivered in the last con-
struction year. However, the formation of pump groups
might lag somewhat and it would take a couple of years
until the farmers have adopted their cropping patterns.
Farmers in the project area are the most progressive in
Bangladesh and have been quick to utilize low-lift pumps
and to grow HYV rice. Consequently, it is assumed that
full agricultural benefits would be reached five years
after the completion of project works. (This means that
the agricultural development would take six years.)
(h) Prices. Prices for internationally traded goods used
in the economic analysis are based on a shadow exchange
rate of US$1 = Tk 16.00 (approximately twice the offi-
cial rate) in order to reflect the effective protection
provided by duties and import restrictions. The price
assumptions are discussed in more detail in Annex 11.
Economic Rate of Return
Resulting cost and benefit measures are shown in Table 6.
Assuming a 40-year life of the project, the following economic rates
of return have been estimated:
1/   These three dry seasons cover parts of four calendar years.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
Karnafuli Project (Halda and Ichamati Units combined):          15%
Halda Unit                                                      15%
Irrigation component (Stage 1)                     :       14%
Flood control component (Stage 2)                  : /a   18%
Ichamati Unit                                                   14%
/a   Based on the incremental investment for flood control if it is combined
with the irrigation component. If the two stages are not combined, the
rate of return of flood control would be about 10%.
Sensitivity Analysis
Several tests were made to determine the sensitivity of the rate
of return estimates to various alternative assumptions. These reflect
the uncertainty in some of the more important factors in the analysis. The
results, which are presented in Table 7, show that the project is moderately
sensitive to changes in the price of rice and the shadow exchange rate and
delays.
December   1975



AN IL, 
Table 1
BANGLADESH
KARNAFUII IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA UNIT)
Annual Gross Benefits (Economic)
Gross Value
Paddy                Price                         (Tk million)--
Aus                     79              38.71            35.55            22.24
Aman                    92             109.48           120.52           134.14
Boro                   82               78.72           102.3           119.39
Subtotal                               226.91           258.41           275.77
Other Crops
Pulses and Oilseeds   145                1.93             1.93             1.93
Chillies              190                2.57             2.57             2.57
Vegetables and
Potatoes             49                5.88             5.88             5.88
Sugarcane              15                1.80             1.80             1.80
Subtotal                                12.18            12.18           12.18
Grand Total                            239.09           270.59           287.95
Less 5% Losses 2/                       11.95            13.53           14.4o
Annual Gross Benefits                  227-.1           257.06          273.55
Increase due to Project                   -              2?~.92          46.41
1/ W = Future without project
W1 = Future with stage I (irrigation) of project
W  = Future with project (irrigation plus flood control)
v/ In transport and handling.



ANNEX 1J
Table 2
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(ICHAMATI UNIT)
Annual Gross Benefits (Economic)
Gross Value
Paddy                      Price                         (Tk million)
(Tk/md)                   
Aus                          79                   5.81                 5.31
Aman                         92                  20.39                25.34
Boro                         82                   9.45                21.32
Subtotal                                         35-65                51.97
Other Crops
Pulses and Oilseeds         145                   0.20                 0.20
Potatoes and Vegetables    49                     1.18                 1.18
Subtotal                                          1.38                 1.28
Grand Total                                      37.03                53.35
Less 5% Losses                                    1.85                 2.67
Annual Gross Benefits                            35.18                50.68
Increase due to Project                            -                  15.50
/ W= Future without project
W = Future with project
2/ In transportation and handling.



ANNEX 14
Table 3
BANGLADESH
KARNAFUII IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA UNIT)
Annual Crop Production Costs (Economic)
Production Cost
Price                   (Tk million)
(Tk/md)        w                11W 1/
Urea (46% N)                 106         11.62           13.02            14.19
TSP (46% P205)               156          8.89           10.79            12.28
M/P (60% K)                   64          1.27 2.06                        2.52
Fertilizers Total                        21.98           25.87            28.99
Diazinon                     950          0.61            0.62             0.63
Siumithion                 3,700          2.33            2.37             2.41
Farm Labor 2/                  -              -           1.22  /          1.75 a/
Animal Power                  10 -/      12.88           12.88            12.72
Seed                          90          4.40            4.40             4.31
Miscellaneous                  -          2.39            2.53             3.26
Total Crop Production Costs              44.59           49-89            54.07
Increment due to Project                      -           5.30             9.48
1/ W = Future with Project, WI = Future with stage 1 of project, W = Future
with project.
2/ See Annex 12.
2/ Increment due to project.
W  Tk/animal-day.



ANNEX ?
Table L
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(ICHAMATI UNIT)
Annual Crop Production Costs (Economic)
Production Cost
Price                      (Tk million)
(Tk/.d)                WW                 w I/
Urea (46% N)                1061                   1.88              2.70
TSP (46% P205)              15t6                   1.42              2.30
M/P (60% K)                  64                    0.22              0.46
3.52              5.46
Diazinon                    95()                   0.10              0.12
Sumithion                 3,700                    0.37              o.48
Farm Labor 2/                 -                       -              l.52 2/
Animal Power                lc 4/                 2.03              2.36
Seed                         9C                    0.67              0.81
Miscellaneous                 -0.37                                  0.61
Total Crop Production Costs                        7l06             11.36
Increment due to Project                              -               .30
1/ W = Future without project
W = Future with project
2 See Annex 12
/ Increment due to project
W  Tk/animal-day



AmNEX 14
Table 5
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HAIDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Annual Operating and Maintenance
Costs For Low-Lift Pumps
With presently used low-lift pumps of 2 cwuec nominal capacity,
the reported consumption rates are as follows:
Diesel Fuel                0.625 gallons/hour
Lubricating Oil             0.00625 gallons/hour
Assuming:
Pump discharge - 2 cusec approximately 2 acre inches/hour
Pump service area - 45 acres
Boro pumpage = 42 inches
Aman pumpage - 8 inches
Diesel price = 8.2 Tk/gallon
Lubrication Oil Price   25.0 Tk/gallon
Gives:
Volume 1 45 x (42 + 8) - 2.250 acre inches
Time = 2.250 - 1,125 hours
Diesel Consumption = 700 gallona = Tk 5,740
Lubrication Oil - 7.0 gallons = Tk 180
Total Fuel and Oil - Tk 5,920
Annual Costs                          Tk
Fuel and oil                5,920
Driver                      1,200
Minor Spares /1             300
BADC Overhead              580
Total                       8,000
/1 Major spares are bought at the same time as the pumps and the cost of these
- are included in the costs for the pumps.



BANGIADESH
KARN'AFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Cost and Benefit Streams
(Tk million)
Civil Works                     low-Lift Pumps                         Crop Production
Construction     Operating       Investment
and              and             and                           Gross Value    Crop           Net Value of
Replacement      Maintenance     Replacement    Operating      of              Production    Crop Production =
Year        Costs            Costs            Costs          Costs         Production      Costs          Net Benefits
(1)              (2)            (3)             (4)                            (6)         (7) = (5)-(6)
1               140.0           0.0             0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0                0.0
2               85.8            0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0                0.0
3               64.8            2.0           14.3             1.2           12.4             2.9                9.5
4                0.0            6.5             0.0            2.7           35.5             7.9               27.6
5                0.0            6.5             0.0            2.7           48.8            10.8               38.0
6                0.0            6.5             0.0            2.7           55.7            12.4               43.3
7                0.0            6.5             0.0            2.7           58.8            13.1               45.7
8-9              0.0            6.5             0.0            2.7           61.9            13.8               48.1
10                0.0            6.5           14.3             2.7           61.9            13.8               48.1
11-16             0.0            6.5             0.0            2.7           61.9            13.8               48.1
17                0.0            6.5         - 14.3             2.7           61.9            13.8               48.1
18-23             0.0            6.5             0.0            2.7           61.9            13.8               48.1
24                0.0            6.5           14.3             2.7           61.9            13.8               48.1
25-28             0.0            6.5             0.0            2.7           61.9            13.8               48.1
29               26.8            6.5             0.0            2.7           61.9            13.8               48.1
30                0.0            6.5            0.0             2.7           61.9            13.8               48.1
31                0.0            6.5           14.3             2.7           61.9            13.8               48.1
32-37             0.0            6.5            0.0             2.7           61.9            13.8               48.1
38                0.0            6.5           14.3             2.7           61.9            13.8               48.1
39-40             0.0            6.5             0.0            2.7           61.9            13.8               48.1
)-D:b



ANNEX 14
Table 7
BANGLADESH
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECTS
(HALDA AND ICHAMATI UNITS)
Sensitivity Analysis
Rate of Return
Basic Case                                                      15%
Shadow Exchange Rate
(i) Foreign exchange valued at the official
rate of US$1.00 - TK 13                         13%
(ii)  Foreign exchange valued at
US$1.00 = Tk 19                                 17%
Price Labor
(i) Farm labor valued at the peak
market wage (Tk 15/man-day)                     14%
(ii)  Farm labor valued at the market
wage in the slack season (Tk 7.5/man-day)       15%
Commodity Prices decrease by 15%                               12%
Crop Inputs Prices increase by 15%                             14%
Construction and Replacement Costs increase by 15%             13%
Fuel and Operating Costs increase by 25%                       14%
Irrigated Area per pump reduced from 45 ac to 40 ac            14%
Delays
(i) Construction completed after 5 years
instead of 3 years                              13%
(ii) Full agricultural development reached
after 10 years instead of 6 years               13%






IBRD 11537
APRIL   1975
30                                                  91,00 lKasba   '%J                                                                                                                                                             J2-30'
DA  CA                                     Ramchandra
Mu,adnagar                                                                                                                                                                         BANGLADESH
Noroyanganj                                                      'M
KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
dwo0
Debi r                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT    LOCATION
-i3-30                                Daudkondi
Chandina
0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  23'30'-
Comilici
M   I  LL  A
Barura
N,
Matiob                                                                                                                                                                                                                           River systems
m                                           I   D I A
20
N
f                                                                                                   Railways
ganj                                                                                             C, H   I T  VA    G    0 ,,,   G                                                             District boundaries
Laksham                             B I                                                                                                                                       International boundaries
Chouddogramo                  Parashurom
H   I 'I',                                                                     District towns
0      Other urban areas
0
Rarngani                                                                                                             j  R A  c
unab                                                                                                                                                   0        5       10      15       20       25
MUHU RI
ECT                                                                                                                                                                  23,oo,-
nb                                        OPOSED)                                                                                                           0          10        2                    40
A    K   H                      L                                                                                        Karnafufi                                                                                       O
Lakshmipur                    haumohani                                                                                         Reservoir'
0            Begamgoni,
08howanigani                                                                                                                       NNI
Bashurnato
ULATO
CONSTRUCTI,oN  Nookholi
&            Companiganjo                (Pqozi                                                                                                             I  N        D       I A
REGULATOR.                                                                                           91
C hOD ro'hirhat 0           (PROPOSED)%                                                                        -D                                                                                                       Mh -p d.
f,*Y             -,p.-  b, M
KARNAFULI
Fatikghhari                                             N
,\FRCtECT                                                                        NEPAL?                 8 H U T A N
v          f           ,, "  Ron(lemati
t kunda
V                                                                                                                             azir Hot'      HALDA,                                                                                                 Z,             0       50      100      150
Ramgati                                                                                                                               kI
ICHAM T
U N I T,,__;
0                                  0
Hatic,                                         c           T  T                                                       dmghona                                                             A  N G
CZ?
Pah  tali
24-
Chittagc                 0                                                                                I N D
Ik
ho
Elandarban
B ay                o f               Bengal
'e;
MA
9,CY-3d                                                                                                                                                                        92-00,






18RD 11538
APRIL 1975
BANGLADESH
<  (     fAi !i,                                                      KARNAFULI IRRIGATION PROJECT
NT                                                                                                     PROJECT AREA
Project Boundary                                                                                     c
- ~>iL K                    dB                                                                         _      (C ociuso src flood enuocl menh crone onear  dLALANAGARI3
NT                                                                                                      U {j   s    ,4  /,   ,   =  *  Khal Regulators                                           A
NewP ChanInels
tEMtANKMEN]                                 A      MAin Pumping Plant                                             Por*u              Hochnunod
Check Structure
so)  K                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Channel lnmproernent
A     Portable Pump Lifts
~-t--    Khal Closure DikeK.cool n
F' lood Embanrkments
to!                             v S X Cargo Transfer Pocil,tVes
Culverts
olrco\   /  I                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Lift Areasho                                                            I        ~        cno  h                        0
7 ~~~.    2,          Kooloor ~~~~~~~N S    Not Seroed 0100 hig h0                                                    shod               Mo   u
- .-Proposed 33 kV Lines                      /                               N:
33 kV Lines
-    132 kV Lines                                                                                     REITPM   O
L.   ~ ~ ~   ~ ~~____Metalled Roads                                                                                                   PLuNT
cc~~~~~~~~~~~I
Unmetalled Rocads                                                           ttN
Railroads                        P|Too                                                      - S   tr:no
River, Khal                                                                    I         Jia
- -= Old River Channels
:O-International Boundarres
I                  1~~~~~~ote  dfler-u-con   sc.in of oarea  show
h  NOIA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~GLI
Kp-~~~
T.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'i-,  CHhotA.2i-.rc 
r0 Cnaun                                                                                                                                         In2
I   I   I     I                                                                                                   I            lrurn         T                       0        "
MILES                                           HALDA  UNIT                                             rI5te.LhI1                                                                                ICHAMATI UNIT
S                                           crA flmNfl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4s                   Nh-~~~~~~~IES



