CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 605 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Karnafuli Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 28, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 605 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Karnafuli Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 28, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 28, 1976, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(ij)  By a development credit agreement dated April 9, 1973, (Irrigation
Engineering Project) between the Borrower and the Association, the Association
granted to the Borrower a credit (hereinafter called Credit S-14) in various
currencies equivalent to three million one hundred fifty thousand dollars
($3,150,000) to assist in the financing of a project for engineering and other services
including, inter alia, such services for the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association is prepared to refund the Credit S-14 out of
the proceeds of the Credit provided for herein;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to   Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "BAISSC" means the Bangladesh Agricultural Inputs, Supplies and
Services Corporation, an agency of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;


﻿4
(b)   "CEC" means the Central Evaluation Committee, an interministerial
committee established by the Borrower's Order No. 1336-FC/51-123/74, dated
December 13, 1974;
(c)   "IRDP" means the Integrated Rural Development Program, an agency
of the Borrower's Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives;
(d)   "Project Area" means an area of about 38,000 acres, including an
irrigable area of about 32,000 acres, in the lower Halda Valley and about 8,000
acres, including an irrigable area of about 6,000 acres, in the lower Ichamati Valley;
and, for the fisheries development compu ient, including an area of about 67,000
acres around the confluence of Muhuri and Feni Rivers in Sonagazi, Feni,
Chhagalnaya and Mirsarai Thanas and approximately 133,000 acres on the east
bank of Meghna River near the town of Chandpur in -the Districts of Comilla and
Noakhali;
(e)   "Project Director" means the officer to be appointed by the Borrower
pursuant to Section 3.04(a) of this Agreement;
(f)   "PIC" means the Project Implementation Committee to be established
pursuant to Section 3.04(c) of this Agreement;
(g)   "Water Board" means the Bangladesh Water Development Board, a
body corporate constituted by the Bangladesh Water and Power Development
Boards Order No. 59 of 1972, and includes any successor thereto; and
(h)   "Taka" means Taka in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.0 1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in    various currencies equivalent to  twenty-two  million  dollars
(S22,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the


﻿5
Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Sectiou 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I r) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from   time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 15
and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 1 5 and September 15
commencing March 15, 1986, and ending September 15, 2025, each installment
to and including the installment payable on September 15, 1995 to be one-half
of one per cent (1/2 of 1() of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2') of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial.
engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall carry out Part A. I of the Project through the Water
Board. Part A.2 through BAISSC, Part A.3 through the Ministry of Agriculture
in consultation with the Ministry of Local Government. Rural Development and


﻿6
Cooperatives and IRDP, and Part B through the Department of Fisheries, and with
the full cooperation and assistance of all other ministries, agencies and authorities
of the Borrower as may be concerned with the Project activities.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, and without
restriction or limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall (i) establish or cause to be established two funds (hereinafter
called the Irrigation Fund and the Fisheries Fund, respectively) in commercial banks
to be used for the sole purpose of making payments of local expenditures for
goods and services required for the Project, (ii) deposit or cause to be deposited
in the said Funds, not later than the first day of each month, such amounts as
shall be required to maintain the said Funds at a level which will be sufficient
to meet local expenditures expected to be incurred by the Borrower in respect
of Parts A and B of the Project, respectively, during the next quarter, as estimated
on the basis of the Project work schedules, (iii) maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices, the operations and financial condition of the said Funds, and
(iv) authorize, (A) the Project Director or any other officials to make withdrawals
from the Irrigation Fund for purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, and
(B) the Director of Fisheries or any other officials to make withdrawais from the
Fisheries Fund for purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A
of the Project, and more particularly in, (i) the preparation of annual work
programs, final design and contract documents and supervision of construction,
and (ii) for the planning and implementation of extension services in the Project
Area, the Borrower shall employ engineering and, if necessary, agricultural
consultants, whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   In order to assist the Borrower in preparing and implementing a
fisheries development program, the Borrower shall employ fisheries consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Water Board to employ an
officer of appropriate qualifications and experience as the Project Director to
coordinate and supervise the implementation of Part A of the Project, with such
powers and functions as are considered by the Borrower and the Association to
be conducive to the satisfactory implementation of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Project Director and the Director of
Fisheries to prepare and submit to the Association by August 3 1 of each year


﻿7
of implementation of the Project, for review and comment by the Association,
annual work programs for Part A and Part B of the Project, respectively, supported
by maps, cost estimates and a description of physical works to be executed.
(c)   For the purpose of coordinating the participation of the Borrower s
agencies responsible for implementing Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
establish and maintain a Project Implementation Committee (PlC) under the
leadership of the Project Director, consisting of representatives of the Water Board.
BAISSC, IRDP, its Ministry of Agriculture and the Department of Fisheries, and
other ministries, agencies and authorities of the Borrower concerned with the
carrying out of the Project. Each such representative shall be a senior officer
concerned with the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the CEC to review periodically the
progress of the implementation of the Project, and to resolve any major
coordination problems which arise in connection therewith.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause its Ministry of Agriculture, in
consultation with the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives and IRDP, to prepare and submit to the Association, within one year
from the date of this Agreement, for review and comment by the Association,
a detailed program  for the development of agricultural extension services and
training in the Project Area.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, prior to the completion of physical works
under the Project, take necessary measures to incorporate Rauzan and Hathazari
Thanas into IRDP operations.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation. and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Associatioi shall otherwise agree. the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation. the plans, specifications. reports, contract documents and


﻿8
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites ilncluded in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project and upon request sball furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Water Board. BAISSC. IRDP,
Department of Fisheries, its Ministry of Agriculture, and any other ministries,
agencies and authorities of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof to maintain separate records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition related to the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Water Board, BAISSC, IRDP, Department
of Fisheries, its Ministry of Agriculture, and any other ministries, agencies and
authorities of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) related to the Project
for each fiscal year audited, in     accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements for


﻿9
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, within two years from the date of this
Agreement, (i) cause the Project Director to prepare and submit to the Association
for its review and comment, the detailed operation and maintenance procedure
manuals in respect of Part A of the Project, and designate promptly thereafter,
the agencies and officers responsible for said operation and maintenance, and (ii)
cause the Director of Fisheries to prepare and submit to the Association for its
review and comment, the detailed operation and maintenance procedure manuals
for the carp hatchery included in Part B of the Project.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all measures
required to ensure the adequate operation, maintenance and repair of works,
buildings. installations and equipment included in the Project in accordance with
sound engineering and financial practices.
(b) The Borrower shall make available to its agencies responsible for
operation and maintenance of facilities constructed under the Project sufficient
funds to operate and maintain said facilities.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, within two years from the date of this Agreement, prepare proposals to
recover from the farmers benefitting from the Project the full costs for operation,
maintenance and replacement of the low-lift pumps and other devices (amortized
over the expected life of such pumps and other devices at a reasonable rate of
interest) plus the costs of operation and maintenance of the civil works, under
Part A of the Project. Said recovery shall commence 18 months after completion
of physical works of the Project. The Borrower shall also recover as large a
proportion of the capital costs of the works included in Part A of the Project
as appears compatible with the maintenance of adequate incentives for farmers
participating in the Project. In formulating said proposals to achieve the required
recovery of costs the Borrower shall keep the Association informed and take into
consideration such comments as the Association may make.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that prior to the completion


﻿10
of the Project, the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Water Board or
BAISSC or IRDP or for the suspension of operations of any of them, unless
arrangements satisfactory to the Association shall have been made to replace it
by another body which will assume and perform all its functions in respect of
the Project and covenants applicable under this Agreement upon any such
dissolution, disestablishment or suspension.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, the event specified in Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date April 28, 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary or Deputy
Secretary of the Ministry of Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
(Planning Commission)
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh


﻿Cable address:
PARIKALPANA
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s / M. R. Siddiqi
Authorized Representalive
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S.M.L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Irrigation and Flood
Control
(a)   Civil works             10,000,000          100% of foreign
expenditures and
60%o of local ex-
(b)   Equipment,               2'500,000                                0
vehicles and
materials (ex-
cluding mate-
rials financed
under Category
(1 )(a))
)        directly                               100% of foreign
imported                               expenditures
G)         mallUfac-                              100% ex-factory
tured lo-
cally
(iii)      imported                               65%7
equipment
procured
locally
(C)   Consulting ser-            650,000          100% of foreign
vices                                       expenditures and
50% of local ex-
penditures
50  o  ocl0x


﻿13
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             o of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(2)   Fisheri >s
(a)   Civil works                530,000          100% of foreign
expenditures and
60% of local ex-
penditures
(b)   Equipment,                 990,000
vehicles and
materials (ex-
cluding mate-
rials financed
under Category
(2)(a))
(i)        directly                               100% of foreign
imported                               expenditures
(ii)       manufac-                               100% ex-factory
tured lo-
cally
(iii)      imported                               65%
equipment
procured
locally
(c)   Consulting ser-          1,450,000          100% of foreign
vices                                       expenditures and
50% of local ex-
penditures
(d)   Staff training              30,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(3)   Refunding of Credit           3,100,000
S-14
(4)   Unallocated                   2,750,000
TOTAL        22,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
0


﻿14
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term  "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except as provided
in paragraph 7 hereof;
(b)   expenditures under Category (1) until, (i) the PIC has been established,
(ii) an initial deposit of Taka 2,000,000 has been made in the Irrigation Fund,
and (iii) the engineering consultants referred to in Section 3.03(a) of this Agreement
have been appointed; and
(c)   expenditures under Category (2) until, (i) an initial deposit of
Taka 500,000 has been made in the Fisheries Fund, and (ii) the consultants referred
to in Section 3.03(b) of this Agreement have been appointed.
5.    Notwithstanding  the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further


﻿0                                            15
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
7.    The Association shall, on the Effective Date, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself, on behalf of the Borrower, under Category (3), the
amount required to refund the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding,
together with the service charges thereon, of Credit S-14. Any amount remaining
undisbursed in the Credit Account of Credit S-14 shall automatically be cancelled
on the same date.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to assist the Borrower to finance irrigation, flood control,
drainage and a fisheries development program in the Project Area and to provide
agricultural supporting services. It consists of the following parts:
Part A.     Irrigation and Flood Control Component
1.    Civil works:
(a)   Halda Unit
(i)         Construction of about sixteen gated regulators at the
outlets of khals to the Karnafuli and Halda Rivers;
(ii)        Construction of about five cargo-transfer stations at
selected regulator sites;
(iii)       Improvement of about 41 miles of khals and the
excavation of about 6.5 miles of new khals and the
construction of bridges and culverts;
(iv)        Construction  of about twenty-seven    relift pumping
stations (excluding pump installation) to supply the khals
in the higher areas;
(v)         Construction of small earthfill khal check structures;
(vi)        Construction of about 36 miles long, flood protection
embankments with some borrow areas used for drainage
and irrigation water supply; and
(vii)       Acquisition and use of vehicles and equipment for
maintenance of above works.
(b)   Ichamati Unit
(i)         Construction of a main pumping plant at Mahfez khal with
about 150 cubic feet per second (cfs) pumping capacity
for irrigation and flood drainage;


﻿17
(ii)        Construction of a relift pumping plant with about 50 cfs
pumping capacity;
(iii)       Construction of power transmission lines to the pumping
plants;
(iv)        Construction of three gated regulators at the outlets of
khals to the Karnafuli and Ichamati Rivers;
(v)         Improvement of about 16 miles of existing khals, the
excavation of about four miles of new khals and the
construction of bridges and culverts;
(vi)        Construction of a box culvert tinder the Chittagong-Kaptai
Highway;
(vii)       Construction of khal check structures;
(viii)      Construction of about 12 miles long flood protection
embankments along with an exterior diversion channel;
and
(ix)        Acquisition and use of vehicles and equipment for
maintenance of above works.
2.    Pumps:
(a)   Acquisition and installation of about 71 low-lift 2 cfs pumps
(or equivalent) at the relift pumping stations in the Halda Unit;
(b)   Acquisition  and  installation  of low-lift pumps (including
reinstallation of about 410 existing low-lift pumps) or any other
appropriate devices to raise water from the channels to the
irrigable farmlands in the lower Halda Valley;
(c)   Acquisition  and  installation  of low-lift pumps (including
reinstallation of about 60 existing low-lift pumps) or any other
appropriate devices to raise water from the channels to the
irrigable farmlands in the lower Ichamati Valley; and
(d)   Provision of' workshops and equipment to maintain said pumps
or other devices.


﻿18
3.    Training and Agricultural Extension Services:
(a)   Training of village extension agents and model farmers, and
provision of management training and assistance to farmers'
groups or cooperatives;
(b)   Establishment of two agricultural demonstration areas in each
thana in the Project Area; and
(c)   Acquisition  and  utilization  of agricultural equipment and
transportation to facilitate the strengthening of extension
services.
4.    Utilization of consultants' services to assist the Water Board in the
planning, design and execution of civil works included in Part A.1 of the Project
and to assist the Ministry of Agriculture in the planning and implementation of
extension services in the Project Area.
Part B:     Fisheries Developwment Program
1.    Construction of a carp hatchery facility around Chandpur.
2.    Acquisition and utilization of boats, vehicles, equipment and materials
for operation and maintenance of carp hatchery, for the Fresh Water Fisheries
Research Station at Chandpur, and to cover part of the operating cost of a fisheries
research vessel for a period of four years.
3.    Training abroad of about 20 officials of the Department of Fisheries;
about 15 in carp hatchery operation and management, and about 5 in other aspects
of fisheries research and development.
4.    Utilization of consultants' services to assist the Department of Fisheries
in the design of a carp hatchery and in preparation of works programs and contract
documents, the supervision of construction and the initial operation of the carp
hatchery, and development of programs for the improvement of fisheries in the
Project Area, including, inter alia, the preliminary design for a fresh water shrimp
hatchery, and development of carp spawning facilities.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Subject to paragraph A.2 below, contracts with respect to vehicles, equipment
and materials shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    (a)   Contracts with respect to equipment, vehicles and materials estimated
to cost less than $10,000 equivalent may be let through normal government
procurement procedures, provided that the aggregate of such contracts shall not
exceed $200,000 equivalent.
(b)   Contracts for civil works may be let on the basis of local competitive
bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:


﻿20
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Bangladesh if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Bangladesh equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in
Bangladesh.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   It, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 1 5% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to all contracts for (i) civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, and (ii) equipment, vehicles and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿21
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement,
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
a.s the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
-    Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determinatioin.


