Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11603-PU
STAF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND IRRMIGTION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJvECT (IOSP II)
APRIL 22, 1993
,5.,,t!l,~~- ;'  ; .I *X.i;)Z
Agriculture and Natural Resources
Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
T Tids docement has a resticted distribuon and may be used by reents only in the perfomance oft
their officiil duioes. Its contedt may no otberwise be disclosed witbout World Dank authoi



GM&=NC BQpIVALENT
(As of December 1992)
Currency Unit  -   Philippines Peso (W)
e 1.00    -   US$ 0.039
US$1.00   -   0 25.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                -            2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)              -            0.62 miles
1  square kilometer (km2)     -            0.3886 square miles
1 meter (m)                   -            10.76 square feet
1  cubic meter (mi)           -            35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (mcm) -             810.7 acre-feet
1 millimeter (mm)             -            0.039 inches
1  kilogram (kg)              -            2.2 pounds
1  cavan                      -            50 kilogram
20 cavans                     -            1 metric ton
ABBREllllIg _ AND ACRONYMS
cIS    -  Communal Irrigation System
DA     -  Department of Agriculture
DENR   -  Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DPWH   -  Department of Public Works and Highways
DSD    -  Design and Specification Department
FIG    -  Farmer Irrigator Group
FIO    -  Farmer Irrigators' Organizer
IA     -   Irrigators' Association
IDD    -  Institutional Development Department
IMIS   -   Irrigation Management Information System
IOSP   -   Irrigation Operations Support Project
ISF    -   Irrigation Service Fee
M&E    -  Monitoring and Evaluation
NIA    -  National Irrigation Administration
NIS    -  National Irrigation System
O&N    -  Operation and Maintenance
PM     -   Project Manager
RID    -  Regional Irrigation Director
RIO    -  Regional Irrigation Office
SMD    -  Systems Management Department
FISGAL YEA
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT (LOSP II)
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUNMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . v
I. AGRICULTURE IN THE EQ       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Role of Agriculture  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Rural  Poverty    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 2
Development ObJectives and Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
II. THE IRRIGATION SUBECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
The National Irrigation Administration  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Irrigators' Associations (As)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Support Services for Irrigated Agriculture   .   .  .  .  .  .  .  5
Operational Performance of Irrigation Systems . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Irrigation Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Irrigation Service Fees (ISF) and Collections  . . . . . . . . . 7
Government Irrigation Subsector Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
The Bank's Role in Irrigation Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Experience Under IOSP I .............. .. . .... 8
Lessons Learned  ..........  ...  ..    .          . .....  10
III.  PROJECT OBJECTIVE AND DESCRIPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Project Objective and Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Detailed Project Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Systems Improvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Systems Improvement ..... .. .... . ......   11
Urgent Repairs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Erosion Control Works ..C...o.r..............   12
Silt Excluders and Improved
Water Control Structures  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Improved Operation and Maintenance . . . . . . . . .;. . . . . 13
Institutional Development  .......  .  ..  ..  .    ....  14
IA Development  .........  ...  .   ........  14
Improvements in ISF Collection Process  . . . . . . . . . 14
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission to the
Philippines in December 1992, comprising Messrs./pmes. C. Gunasekara (Civil
Engineer) and S. Husain (Economist), EAlAN, and I. Naor (Irrigation Engineer),
R. Dy (Economist), E. Boerema (Agriculturist) and N. Raby (Sociologist),
Consultants. Peer reviewers were Ms. L. Bennett (WID Specialist) and Messrs:
J. Cunningham (Irrigation Engineer), and Y. Choi (Agriculturalist). Mr. C.
Madavo (Director, EAl) and Ms. Pamela Cox (Chief, EAlAN) have also endorsed
the project.
This document has a rested distdbuton and may be used by rcipints only in te perfonnumce
of thdr official duties, Its contents may not othrwie be discosed without Wold Bank authodzadoon.



( ii )
NIA Staff Training  .................. .  15
Irrigation Management Information System  . . . . . . . . 16
Technical Assistance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Provision of Equipment and Materials  . . . . . . . . . . 16
Agricultural Support Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FNM N4CING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Project  Costs  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   17
Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .  18
Procurement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   19
Disbursement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   21
Accounts and Audit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
V. PROJECTIMKEM    AT ON...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Status of Project Preparation.. . . . . . . . . . . .  22
Organizatiot and Management   ..22
Implementation Schedule...  24
Monitoring and Evaluation and Reporting Requirements  . . . . . . 25
VI.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION. PRICES. AND MARKET PROSPECTS . . . . . . 26
Agricultural Production     .     ..............    26
Prices and Markets.. 27
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICAT ION AND RISKS...............   27
Project Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . .27
Financial Analysis.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Economic Analysis            .....29
Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . 30
Risks                1.....31
VIII. AGREMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMEATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1: NIA's Operating Staff and Envisaged Reduction in Personnel
Annex 2: Institutional Development
Annex 3: NIA'S Investment Budget (1992 and 1993)
Annex 4: A Brief Review of IOSP I (Ln. 2948-PH) Performance
Annex 5: Criteria for Selection of Systems for Improvement
Annex 6: System Improvement, Operation and Maintenance Report (Pro-forma)



( 114 )
Annex 7: Project Cost Tables
Annex 8:  Terms of Refereace for Consultancies
Annex 9:  Agricultural Support Services and Production
Annex 10: Financing Plan, Loan Allocation and Disbursements
Annex 11: Supervision Plan--Bank Supervision Mission Schedule
Annex 12: Rice and Fertilizer Price Structures
Annex 13: Crop and Farm Budgets
Annex 14: Rent antd Cost Recovery Indices
Annex 15: NIA's Projected Financial Data
Annex 16: Eceitomic Analysis
annex 17: Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
TABLES IN TE1U
Table 2.1: ISF Rates
Table 2.2:  IOSP I Performance Indicators:  1987-1991
Table 4.1:  Project Cost Summary
Table 4.2:  Pi curement
Table 6.1:  Crop Area, Yields, Production and Cropping Intensities
FIGURES
Figure 1  -    NIA Organization Chart
Figure 2  -    Organization Chart for Project Implementation
Figure 3  -     Project Implementation Schedule
Hal:        IBRD No. 24576



( v )
PHILIPI~ZNU
SRCOND fRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT (IOSP II)
3Qan and Proiect Summary
Borro : ,              Republic of the Philippines
Loan Amount      :     'US$ 51.3 million
TeX"s            :    Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
ro1act:    The project aims to achieve sustainable improvement in
Qbkejti                the operational efficiency of the national irrigation
systems (NIS) and thereby help increase agricultural
production (mainly rice), expand small farmer incomes and
rural employment opportunities, and contribute to rural
poverty alleviation.
Project                The five and a half year project (mid-1993 to end-1998)
DescriptIon            would finance the second phase of the program launched
under the First Irrigation Operations Support Project
(IOSP I, Ln. 2948-PH, approved on June 2, 1988) and
benefit an area of about 640,000 ha covered by the NIS
through: (a) improvement of 18 NIS, urgent structural
repairs in another 14 NIS, construction of three sediment
excluders and improved water control structures on a
pilot basis, and erosion prevention measures in critical
areas; (b) continued support of the improved system-level
operation and maintenance (O&M) services achieved under
IOSP I, including the following measures to ensure the
sustainability of these services: maintenance of adequate
O0M expenditure, improved collection of irrigation
serce  fees (ISF), to cover 95X of projected O&M
exT - ses  by  1999,  and  increased  participation  of
I.r.gators' Associations (lAs) in O&N; (c) institutional
development through: (i) strengthening of existing IAs,
esxrblisbment of new IAs, and enhanced f,.nancial and
maiagement training; and (ii) strengthening of NIA
through improvements in the ISF collection ;rocess; staff
training in 0OK, appropriate engineering design
techniques, farmer training techniques, etc.; technical
assistance for various studies, IA development work and
staff training; and provision of high priority 06W
equipment and materials; and (d) improved agricultural



( vi )
support services in the NIS areas including research and
extension, farmer training in integrated pest management,
and promotion of IA-based seed production. A distinctlve
feature of the project is its emphasis on beneficiaries'
participation (through the UAs) in identification of
specific deficiencies and required improvements of the
NIS, and increasing responsibility for 06M of the
relevant portions of the systems serving them.
The project would Increase rice production, reduclng
and Risks              imports by about 100,000 tons p.s. thereby saving foreign
exchange; increase employment opportunities and incomes
for about 460,000 low-income farm families; strengthen
NIA through improved institutional and finawcial
capabilities to deliver irrigation services; bhnefit
local communities through greater participation in 061
activities, thereby reducing dependence on public funds
and improving the quality and reliability of irrigation
services; and benefit the environment through the
promotion of sustainable farming practices. The proposed
project does not face any major risk as it involves
improving existing irrigation systems and sustaining
their maintenance. The main potential risk would be tho
delays  in  implementation  due  to  inadequate budget
allocations and delayed fund releases by the Government
and inefficient procurement. To minimize these risks,
agreements were reached at negotiations on funding,
programs of work and procurement documents.



(Vi  )
Estimated Cost:
LFreign       Total
--------------US$ Millionn------------
Systems Improvement
(a)  Systems Imp.                   15.2             5.0          20.2
(b), Urgent Repairs                  4.1             2.2           6.3
(c)  Erosion Control Works           0.8             0.1           0.9
(d)  Silt Excluders and Improved
Water Control Structures       1.1            0.6           1.7
Incremental 06K                          20.0            2.2          22.2
Institutional Development
(a)  IA Developuent Program          1.5             0.1           1.6
(b)  Technical Assistance            0.5             0.5           1.0
(c)  Parcellary Mapping
for ISF Collection            0.2             0.1           0.3
(d)  NIA Staff Training              0.7             0.2           0.9
(e)  Equipment and Materials         1.0             3.1           4.1
Agricultural Sntpport Services            0.7            0.1           0.8
Total Base Cost                                14.2            m
Physical Contingencies                2.4            1.0           3.4
Price Contingencies                  4.9             1.3           6.2
Total Project Cost IA                          16.5          69.
Financir5g Plan:
IBRD 4k                             34.8            16.5          51.3
NIA                                  13.5            -            13.5
Government                           4.8             _             4.8
Total                         5lL1            169
Estimated Disbursements:
Asnk   FY                    122k    1996    1227    1898    1229
- ---------        US$ Million---------------
Annual                6.0     9.0    11.0    12.0      9.0     4.3
Cumulative            6.0    15.0    26.0    38.0    47.0    51.3
Rate of Return: 17X
NoR: IBRD No. 24576
Ia Including taxes and duties of about US$1.2 million.
Lk Including upto US$3.0 million of retroactive financing.



- 1 -
SZQCNP IRRIGATIQN OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT (10SF 11)
I. AGRICULTURE IN THE ECONOMY
Role of Agriculture
1.1       Agriculture continues to play a significant role in the erc-omy, both
in terms of its direct contribution to production and employment and as a basis
for activities  in the manufacturing and the services sector.   Although
agriculture' a share in national output has continuously dropped over the past two
decades, agriculture still accounted for 21X of GDP in 1991, and agriculture-
based industry accounted for another 13X of GDP. Agriculture employed 451 of the
workforce in the same year. At least one third of the services sector is also
linked to agriculture. Agriculture's slower decline in importance compared to
other southeast Asian countries, is a reflection of both agriculture's
comparatively strong performance and the industrial sector's failure to become
the main engine of growth and the principal source of labor absorption over the
past two decades.
1.2       During the second half of the 1980s, the agricultural sector grew at
an average annue rate of 31, contributing about 161 to domestic growth between
1985-90. Althotg.,A respectable, this sectoral growth rate during the period of
economic recovery was below both growth in the rest of the economy and the
sector's strong growth rate of over 51 p.a. during the 1970s. Several factors
account for this slowdown, including an overall downward trend in itternational
commodity prices affecting the Philippines' traditional export crops, a series
of natural calamities, continued macro-economic and sector-specific problems
which led to serious underinvestment in the sector, and the fact that the fruits
of the green revolution had been largely exploited by the early 1980s. Among
macro-economic and sector-specific problems were an overvalued exchange rate,
high interest rates, continuous deterioration of intersectoral terms of trade,
weak infrastructure and an inefficient transport system, and inadequate
agricultural support services.  The last two factora still pose significant
constraints on agricultural growth.
1.3       Crop production continues  to be  the most  important subsector,
accounting for 55 to 601 of sectoral value added during the 1980s. While the
country's main staples, rice and corn, remain the most important crops in terms
of value added and in hectarage, the traditional export crops - - coconut, sugar,
and to a lesser extent, bananas -- have continued to lose their importance. In
1991, rice contributed about 251 of the crop value added (161 of agricultural
value added). About 70X of the paddy was harvested from irrigated lands.
1.4       Rice Supply and Demind. Rice demand is projected to grow to about 7.5
- 8.0 million tons by the year 2000 or about 301 over the 1992 level of 6.3
million tons. Rice supply projections, based on assumptions briefly discussed
below, suggest that the Philippines will not be able to meet the rapidly
increasing demand for rice with domestic production alone over the next decade
and will have to resort to increasing imports (0.75 - 1.25 million tons) to cover



* 2 -
the balance.Y/ During the past two decades, growth in rice production has
mainly come from yield increases, as planted area (3.3 m ha) has largely remained
the same since thr late 1960s. Three factors have accounted for these increases:
the widespread acoption of high yielding varieties (HYws), increased use of
fertilizers and the relatively rapid expansion of irrigated area. The share of
irriga.zed area in total harvested area rose from 33X in the mid-60s to 602 by
1991. As most paddy farmers have already adopted the HYVs and, on average, are
already using as much chemical nutrient as is economically optimal under the
prevailing level of agricultural support, irrigation and drainage services which
are generally inadequate, most future growth in palay (paddy) production will
have to come either from expansion of irrigated area or from new technological
breakthroughs in the area of HYVs. Since the latter is uncertain, at least in
the medium term, and the former is limited principally by the Government's
financial capacity (para 2.15), rice production is not projected to exceed demand
by the year 2000.
Rural Poverty
1.5         Persistent widespread rural poverty is the most disappointing aspect
of past economic performance in the country.   Over two-thirds of all poor
households live in rural areas, where both the incidence and the severity of
poverty remain high. The incomes of more than half of all rural households fall
below the 1992 rural poverty line of 06,000 (US$230) per capita. The number of
poor rural households has increased from 2.3 million in the early 1960s to over
3.5 million by late 198fls; real wages have fallen; and landlessness has grown
steadily. Several factors were responsible for this pher.omenon: a continuing
high population growth rate (currently 2.3X p.a.), an increasing scarcity of
land, inadequate growth of the agriculture sector itself, and a failure of the
economy as a whole to provide sufficient employment opportunities outside
agriculture. Some 851 of total farmholdings (2.35 million) are less than 5 ha.
The average size of rice farms is only 2.7 ha; in national irrigation systems
(NIS) about 1.4 ha. About 731 of farms in the NIS are 1 ha or less in size.
Although the extent of poverty among rice farmers is lower than that among other
farmers, rice farmers account for the largest number of rural poor families due
to their preponderance among all farmers.
Development Objectives and Strateggy
1.6       The Government is aware of the critical role that agrizulture must
play in economic recovery and in spearheading the attack on rural poverty, and
it has implemented a series of institutional reforms to strengthen sector
management, policy reforms aimed primarily at reducing government intervention
in pricing and marketing and eliminating discrimination against agriculture,
measures to improve utilization of existing productive capacity, a Comprehensive
Agrarian Reform Program to achieve a better distribution of cultivable lands, and
higher allocation of public resources to agricultural development.   The
government objectives for the agricultural sector are stated in the Agricultural
Development Plan (1990) as follows: (i) to increase the productivity and real
incomes of small farming and fishing families; (Ui) to help ensure the
productivity of the agricultural resource base over the longer term; (iii) to
Y The World Bank, Philingines: Irrigated Agriculture Sector Review, Report No.
9848-PH, April 15, 1992.



attain self-sufficiency in rice and corn for food security; and (iv) to help
attain a favorable balance of trade for the country. Irrigated agriculture will
play an important role in meeting each of these objectives.
II. TH xJRTGATIQN SUBSECTOR
2.1       Irrigation development has been an  important factor underlying
agricultural growth in the Philippines over the past two decades. Irrigation
systems now serve an area of about 1.5 million ha, about 48X of the area
considered suitable for irrigation. About 951 of the irrigated area Is devoted
to paddy production.   In most lowland areas, average rainfal.l is generally
adequate for a rice crop in the wet season, with the exception of southern
Mindanao. However, rainfall is often not evenly distributed and dry spells
frequently necessitate supplementary water supplies in most areas. Provision of
irrigation in the wet season thus reduces the risk of crop failure and helps
increase yields.   For dry season cropping, irrigation is essential in all
climatic zones in the country.
2.2       There are three main irrigation systems in the Philippines:
(a) National Irrigation Systems (NIS). At present there are 165 NIS,
serving about 620,000 ha (excluding about 25,000 ha of developed NIS
area affected by volcanic mud flows from Mt. Pinatubo during 1991).
The National Irrigation Administration (NIA), a government-owned
corporation resporsible for irrigation development, builds, operates
and maintains NIS.   Three NIS are multi-purpose, reservoir-backed
systems: Magat, Upper Pampanga and Angat-Msasim, serving about 230,000
ha. The remaining 162 NIS (serving, on the average, about 2,500 ha
each) are run-of-the-river diversion systems (Map No. 24576). New NIS
are expected to bring about an additional 20,000 ha under irrigation
by 1998. Farmers in NIS pay an irrigation service fee (ISF).
(b) Communal Irrigation Systems (CIS). The CIS are small, mostly run-of-
the-river type, gravity systems, owned and operated by Irrigators'
Associations (IAs). There are about 6,200 CIS, averaging 115 ha, and
serving about 730,000 ha. Unlike the NIS, they are often built by
water users without NIA assistance. When NIA is involved, its role
is limited to financial and technical assistance ln the planning and
construction of physical works and development and training of the lAs
which own the systems and are responsible for their maintenance after
construction is completed.   Farmers in the CIS are not charged
irrigation fees, but they amortize the chargeable costs of the
irrigation investment.
(c) Punm-Lift Irrigation Systems (PIS2. The PIS serve about 200,000 ha.
Pump units that cover a service area from 20 to 100 ha are operated
and maintained by NIA at the initial stage and are then turned over
to the cooperatives. Smaller pump units of less than 20 ha each are
privately owned. The high cost of power has reduced the overall
financial attractiveness of the PIS for crops such as rice and has
constrained their further expansion. In some areas, farmers' groups
have asked NhA to convert their PIS to run-of-the-river communal
systems.



- 4
The National Irrigation Administration
2.3       The National Irrigation Administration (NIA), established in 1964, is
a Government-owned and controlled corporation responsible for planning,
constructing, operating, and maintaining all the NIS.  NIA is empowered to
investigate and to study all national water resources for irrigation purposes;
plan, construct, temporarily administer and periodically repair the CIS and PIS;
and to collect irrigation fees from the NIS and recover chargeable construction
costs from the (IS and PIS. NIA has also the authority to undertake related
projects (e.g. flood control, drainage, land reclamation, hydro-power
development, domestic water supply, road construction, and reforestation and
other activities to maintain ecological balance) in coordination with other
agencies.
2.4       As a semi-autonomous body under the Department of Agriculture (DA),
NIA has considerable operational freedom.  NIA is a mature agency with its
operation carried out through a network of national, regional, provincial and
system-level offices throughout the country. It is adequately staffed and, with
the excepr:ion of some items, has sufficient construction and maintenance
equipment. At the regional level, NIA has 11 offices, each headed by a Regional
Irrigation Director, who reports to the NIA Administrator. There are some 100
irrigation system offices, each responsible for one NIS or a cluster of NIS and
headed by an Irrigation Superintendent.   Another 67 provincial irrigation
offices, each headed by a Provincial Irrigation Engineer, are responsible for
CIS. At present, NIA has about 20,000 employees--approximately one-fifth are
women. Eleven thousand of these employees are involved in development projects
with which their employment is co-terminus. The remaining 9,000 are funded from
the operating budget (para. 2.12); of these, about 5,700 are at the system level,
and 1,100 each at the provincial, regional and central offices. Some reduction
in personnel is envisaged in the next few years (para. 3.11 and Annex 1).
Irrigators' Associations
2.5       Over the years, NIA has developed a successful strategy of beneficiary
participation by establirhing and maintaining irrigators' associations (IAs).
In this respect, NIA is well ahead of many irrigation authorities elsewhere,
which are still attempting to identify effective techniques for organizing
farmers into water users' groups. It was NIA's experience that hardware inputs
alone did not materially improve the performance of irrigation systems in a
sustainable manner. Appropriate and equitable operation was often impossible as
structural components required to control the operation of the system were not
only unappreciated by water users, but, because of users' unawareness of their
function, often damaged shortly after having been installed. NIA was generally
unable to satiafactorily maintain systems as O&M funds were always short and
deterioration reduced the flow of water that could be conveyed.   In many
irrigation systems, downstream reaches were not served during water-scarce
seasons as head-reach users refused to reduce diversions and NIA was unable to
impose an equitable sharing of the scarce resource.
2.6       To address this situation, NIA, in 1976, launched an  experimental
program with the Ford Foundation to test a strategy involving water users in all
facets of irrigation development in some conmmunal systems.   Naming it a
'participatory approach', it called for an active involvement of water users
organized in IAs in relevant decisions and activities starting at formulation and



design of a system and continuing throughout its operation. Encouraging results
prompted NIA to extend the concept throughout the entire CIS network, and nearly
all CIS (larger than 100 ha) are now operated and maintained through lAs.
2.7       Since 1981 NIA has been applying the participatory approach to the NIS
also. With the objective of achieving an equitable, timely and appropriate water
supply to all water users in a given system, NIA has been advising and assisting
water users to establish lAs and has provided training and guidance after IAs
have been established.   Furthermore, NIA has provided TAs with financial
incentives such as contracted maintenance work and contracts for collection of
ISF. More recently, NIA has embarked on a more advanced participatory phase
under which IAs will assume complete operational and mainterance responsibilities
of components of systems directly serving them (such as secondary or lateral
systems or parts thereof) while NIA will redeploy its staff to operate and
maintain more complex parts of systems such as main canals and large hydraulic
structures.   This approach, which will be supported under the project, is
expected to improve the performance of the systems and also reduce NIA's O&M
costs by an estimated 10-15X.
2.8       To date NIA has carried out IA organization activities over about
517,000 ha within the NIS (801 of the service area), comprising some 1,700 IAs,
with a membership of about 400,000 farm families. Each IA covers on the average
an area of 270 ha and members' land holdings are served by one lateral or common
water source.  A typical IA is registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) and has an elected board of directors and a roster of officers.
Of the 1,700 lAs in different stages of formation, over 1,400 are already
registered with the SEC and about 1,250 (covering about 380,000 ha) have entered
into contractual agreements with NIA for some O&M activities, ISF collection, or
both (further details on the IA development program are at Annex 2).
SuS=ort Services for Irrigated Agriculture
2.9       Through 1991, the Department of Agriculture (DA) provided extension
services to lowland paddy farmers in most areas. However, under the Local
Government Code of 1992, extension services of DA have been transferred to the
Provincial and Municipal governments. Services are also provided by input supply
traders, colleges and universities, credit institutions and non-governmental
organizations (NGOs). In recent years, allocation to extension has declined as
a share of total expenditures for agriculture, and most of the expenditure has
been directed towards salaries and allowances, with little fundXng available for
extension staff mobility and for the inputs and facilities required for farm
trials and demonstrations. As a result, most irrigation schemes do not usually
receive adequate attention from the extension services, and ver- few verification
trials and demonstration plots can be seen. NIA itself employs and trains Water
Management Technicians to assist farmers in using and maintaining irrigation
systems efficiently. However, in most areas there is little formal contact
between NIA staff and DA's agricultural extension personnel, although in some
instances good informal contacts have led to improved scheme performance.
Ooerational Performance of Irrigation Systems
2.10      Although there has been a modest improvement in recent years, the
performance of many of the irrigation systems in the Philippines falls below



expectations. Despite widespread double cropping, in 1991 total irrigated area
in the NIS reached only 891,400 ha, an irrigated cropping intensity of 140X (up
from 134X in 1987). In terms of irrigated cropping intensities recorded to date,
NIS reservoir systems had the highest at over 165; and the NIS diversion
systems, and communal and pump systems, about 1301. Due to the over-assessment
at the design stage of individual irrigation system service areas, it is
difficult to say at present whether the above irrigated cropping intensity
figures are accurate. A recent review of six NIS, using detailed field re-
surveys and hydrological re-assessments, revealed that actual service areas were
about 201 less than originally estimated. NIA is now verifying and updating
existing irrigation system service areas throughout the country.
2.11      Factors  which  have  adversely  affected  the  irrigation  system
performance include: the highly variable and generally low dry season water
supplies; less than adequate system management; and inadequate agricultural
support services. Also, flood control and drainage were not given appropriate
emphasis during design of some of the older NIS. For the most part, however,
poor operational performance reflects inadequate funding and institutional
weaknesses on the part of NIA and the MAs.  The most common problems are
deteriorating canals and structures, silted and defective diversion works,
inadequate drainage and on-farm facilities, and poorly maintained service roads.
In an effort to address the above problems, the First Irrigation Operations
Support Project (IOSP I, Ln. 2948-PH), was launched in 1988. IOSP I has resulted
in significant improvements in the performance of the NIS (paras. 2.18 - 2.22).
Irrigation Financing
2.12      NIA does not finance investment projects from its own resources or
loans. These are financed by the Government using foreign loans/grants and
counterpart local funds. NIA's investment budget was 03.8 billion in 1992 and
93.3 billion in 1993, including about 92.4 billion under the General
Appropriations Act (Annex 3). NIA, however, has to finance its operating budget.
This is financed principally from ISF collections, a 51 management fee charged
to the Government for the design and construction supervision of irrigation
projects, and rentals of construction equipment. In 1991, NTA's total operating
and non-operating revenues amounted to about 9695 million.   Of this, ISF
collection accounted for 491, management fees for 141, equipment rental for 131,
and others for 241, including amortization from the CIS and interest on
investment funds held on deposit. These revenues were sufficient to meet NIA's
total operating expenses in 1991 of 9680 million (including irrigation 0&K), but
after allowing for depreciation of 946 million, the net income was negative (by
931 million or 51). NIA's net income after depreciation has been negative for
several years. This is a reflection of a fast increase (2441) over 1982-91 in
operating expenses and a slower increase (114X) in revenues over the same period.
While ISF collection has increased 6001 from 057 million to 9342 million and
equipment rental from 925 million to 989 million during this period, management
fees have declined from 9104 million to 099 million and interest on investment
fund deposits from 965 million to 928 million as a result of a falling irrigation
investment program. If the investment remains at the 1992 level in the next few
years, as it might, given the financial constraints of the Government, NIA's net
income even before depreciation will be negative in 1993-96 (para. 7.5). NIA
realizes its difficult financial situation and has already begBa an internal
review to implement streamlining of its organization and staffing and reduce
operating expenses.



- 7 -
2.13      Irrigation Service Fees  (ISF) a-nd Collections.        NIA has been
authorized to charge ISF on irrigated lands within NIS at levels sufficient to
finance O&M and to recover the initial investment cost (without intere. t) within
a period of up to 25 years, provided that such charges are considered by the
Government, which approves ISF rates, to be within the capacity of the
beneficiaries to pay. Since 1975, irrigation fees have been denominated in
paddy, and farmers may pay either in kind or in cash based on the Government
paddy support price (currently P 6/kg for clean, dry paddy with 14X moisture
content). About 50X of farmers presently pay in cash. The denomination in paddy
has provided a degree of indexation against inflation, but NIA has to meet the
costs of collecting, storing, selling and other related activities which could
amount to about 101-15X of gross collections.   The current ISF rates vary
according to type of system, and by wet and dry season, as shown in Table 2.1.
Tablg 2.: ISF RATES
Wet Season (WS)    Dry Season (DS)
........ Cavans of Paddy/ha--------
Type of System                             (1 Cavan - 50 kg)
Diversion Systems                    2.0                3.0
Reservoir-backed Systems             2.5                3.5
Pump-lift Systems                    6.0 - 8.0         6.0 - 10.0
The above rates, which typically absorb 10-15 of the incremental production from
irrigation, are estimated to be within the payment capacity of most water users.
2.14      Most farmers in irrigated areas are at or below the rural poverty
threshold and thus an increase in ISF rates would bear heavily on them. About
731 of these farmers cultivate 1 ha or less, which at full development would only
provide incomes ranging from P10,600 to P21,190. Even if an additional one-third
of the household income was derived from off-farm work, these farmers would still
fall below the 1992 estimated poverty level for rural areas of P36,000 p.a. for
a family of six. Also, the average rent recovery for project beneficiaries
amounts to 341 with cost recovery at 321, both figures running quite high for
this type of project (paras. 7.2-7.4). However, there remains substantial scope
for improvement in ISF collection efficiency which should first be utilized. ISF
collection performance has improved significantly from 481 of current billings
in 1987 to 60X in 1991. In 1991, these revenues covered about 761 of the 06M
expenditures incurred at the system level (excluding overheads) or about 671 of
overall OM expenditures (including 151 to cover administrative overheads). The
actual ISF collection figures for 1992 are not yet available. The improving
trend in ISF collection performance stems, to a great extent, from the special
efforts made by NIA under OSP I (paras. 3.15 and 3.18).
Government Irrigation Subsector Strategy
2.15      An Accelerated Irrigation Development Program has recently been
legislated. The program envisages the development of about 1.5 million ha of new



irrigation facilities over the next 10 years. An assessment of surface water
resources conducted by the National Water Resources Board, which took into
account multiple water uses and power requirements to the year 2000, indicates
ample water availability in all except three regions (3,6 and 7; see IBRD Map
No.24576). However, given the financial constraints, and taking its past pace
of accomplishment into consideration, NIA believes that a 350,000 ha target over
the next 10 years is more realistic. While not ruling out a few new large-scale
irrigation and multipurpose projects, the Government's priority is on
rehabilitation, communal and small-scale irrigation schemes, and improved OM,
which will require smaller investments but yield faster returns. Inadequate O&M
allocations and unsatisfactory maintenance contributed to system deterioration
and disappointing system performance in the past, resulting in non-achievement
of full potential economic returns. Realizing this, the Government, through IOSP
I, has attempted to improve the efficiency of the irrigation infrastructure in
pursuit of its overall sectoral objectives (para. 2.18).
The Bank's Role in Irrigation Development
2.16      To date the Bank has lent US$807.70 million to the Philippines for 14
irrigation projects, one land settlement and three rural development projects
with irrigation components, and one watershed management project. Thirteen of
these projects have been completed. The two most recent loans were for IOSP I
(Ln. 2948-PH, approved in 1988) and the Second Communal Irrigation Development
Project (Ln. 3261-PH, approved in 1990). Excluding IOSP I (paras. 2.18 - 2.21),
the Bank-supported projects have so far covered about 490,000 ha (including about
200,000 ha of new development and rehabilitation/upgrading of the rest),
benefitted some 290,000 families, and helped to produce more than 2 million tons
of paddy, or about 221 of total rice production and 301 of irrigated rice
production in the country.
2.17      Implementation of completed and ongoing Bank-financed irrigation
projects in the Philippines has generally been satisfactory, although some
operations have experienced delays because of local funding constraints, design
changes, contractor problems, or peace and order difficulties. The shortage of
local funds was most severe during the crisis years of 1983-86 while contractor
problems were more evident in remote areas. Project Completion Reports and
Project Performance Audit Reports prepared for nine completed projects indicate
implementation delays mainly on account of lengthy procurement procedures, poor
performance of contractors, frequent typhoons, shortages of materials and
inadequate local funding.  In some cases, water availability was less than
anticipated due in part to inadequate hydrological assessment aggravated by past
watershed deforestation, delivery inefficiency due to inadequate 06M, and smaller
than expected command areas. However, the reports state that, despite these
problems, and lower than expected ERRs, the projects have contributed to
increases in rice production and incomes in the project areas, and NIA's
performance in fostering active beneficiary participation in irrigation
development is frequently commended.
Experience under IOSP I
2.18      IOSP I financed the first phase of NIA's nine-year irrigation O&M
improvement program and was the first Bank-financed project in the Philippines
primarily to address O&N of irrigation systems.   The main objectives of NIA's
06M improvement program were:  (i) reduction of performance deterioration on



- 9 -
national irrigation systems; (ii) improvement of water delivery and water use
efficiency to permit increased cropping intensity; and (iii) achievement of full
cost recovery of increased O&M expenditures through ISF payments by
beneficiaries. The main objectives of IOSP I were to:
(a)  strengthen the institutional capability of NIA and cooperating private
irrigators' associations (IAs) to improve and maintain the efficiency
of existing NIS infrastructure; and
(b)  improve the operating performance of the 127 existing NIS through
minor repair works and through increases in the annual funding for and
levels of O&N services.
lOSP I components included: minor restoration works, equipment procurement and
reconditioning, technical assistance and training of NIA staff in improved O&M
services, improved levels of O&H, and further development of IAs and their
expanded participation in O0M of all NIS.    The expected benefits of these
investments were higher cropping intensity and ISF collection as well as improved
financial viability of each system. The project covered the entire NIS service
area of about 600,000 ha and was expected to benefit some 430,000 rural families.
The originally approved Bank loan amount was US$45.0 million; this was later
reduced to US$23.5 million when concessional financing from USAID and OECF became
available, which had been expected but not confirmed before project approval.
2.19      Pro4ect execution began in mid-1988 and was completed at the end of
1992. The shortage of counterpart funding, the carryover effect of the 1987
drought in 1988, two major droughts in 1989-90 and 1991-92, the Mount Pinatubo
eruption in 1991, and the sharp drop in paddy prices in 1991, adversely affected
the project. However, despite these problems, the project had a positive impact
(Table 2.2). Average irrigated cropping intensity in the NIS rose from 1341 in
1987 to 140X in 1991; the benefitted area (see Table 2.2, V below) from 1271 to
1301; and the ISF collection rate from 481 to 601. Progress on various project
components has been reasonably satisfactory (Annex 4). The economic rate of
return (ERR) of the project is re-estimated at completion at about 211.



- 10,
Table 2.2:  IOSP I PERFORMANCE INDICATORS:  1987-1991
(162 NIS)
1987*   1988    1989    1990    1991
1. Average Cropping
Intensity (X)               134      127      138     139     140
2. Benefitted Area
Intensity (X) A/            127      111      120     130     130
3.  ISP Collection Rate (X)       48       52       58      58       60
*   Pre-project.
A/  Benefitted area is the crop area where paddy yields are 2 tons per ha per
crop and above. Farmers getting yields below this level are exempt from
payment of ISF.
2.20      Annual system-level 06& expenditure under the IOSP increased by about
50% in real terms from 1987 to 1992. The 1987 expenditure (P326/ha, excluding
administrative overheads) covered mainly salaries, and funds were insufficient
to carry out major maintenance and repair. Systems deteriorated, progressively
constraining water deliveries to users even where there was enough water at the
point of diversion. Under IOSP I, most incremental expenditures were dedicated
to costly desilting of canals and to minor structural and road repairs. Although
annual O&M expenditure levels can not correct damage created by deferred
maintenance, such as damage to systems headworks, wear and tear, or damage
inflicted by frequent natural calamities, it appears that these levels of
expenditure, if maintained in real terms, are adequate to sustain the operational
capacity of existing systems.
2.21      Lessons Learned.  The main lessons from IOSP T, which have been taken
into account in the formulation of IOSP II, are the following: (a) the adoption
under IOSP I of normative allocations per ha for restoration and rehabilitation
resulted in some works of lesser priority being carried out. This would have
been avoided if a selective strategy of cost-effective rehabilitation and
improvement of specific components with greater participation of water users had
been adopted; (b) increased ISF collection under IOSP I indicates that improved
services induce water users to pay ISF dues more readily; (c) system components
operated by the IAs appear to be generally in better shape than those operated
by NIA without beneficiary participation, highlighting the need to increase IA
participation in system O&M; (d) providing training and support to the IAs is
crucial in achieving a more intensive level of participatory management with
water users; (e) training in water management was very helpful and should be
continued; and (f) the system for monitoring improvements in water deliveries was
deficient and needs close attention (Annex 4).



- 11 -
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVE AND DESCRIPTION
Project Objective and Comgonents
3.1       The project aims to improve and sustain the operational efficiency of
the NIS, thereby helping   increase agricultural production (mainly rice),
expanding small farmer incomes and rural employment opportunities, and
contributing to rural poverty alleviation.
3.2       The project would finance the second phase of the program launched
under IOSP I on the national irrigation systems, through:
(a) improvement of 18 systems, urgent structural repairs in another 14
systems, construction of three sediment exclusion structures and a few
improved water control structures on a pilot basis, and erosion
prevention measures in critical areas (US$29.1 million or 48X of base
costs);
(b) continued support of the improved system-level operation and
maintenance (O&M) achieved under the IOSP I and of measures to ensure
their sustainability (US$22.2 million or 38X of base costs);
(c) institutional development through: (i) strengthening of existing IAs,
establishment of new lAs, and enhanced financial and management
training of the IAs to facilitate progressive turnover of system O&N
to them; and (ii) strengthening of NIA through support to improve ISF
collection; staff training in O&M, appropriate engineering design
techniques,  administrative  and  financial  aspects  of  systems
management, and farmer training techniques; technical assistance for
studies, IA development work and staff training; and provision of high
priority O&M equipment and materials (US$7.9 million or 13 1 of base
costs); and
(d) strengthened agricultural support services, including research and
extension, farmer training in integrated pest management, and
promotion of IA-based seed production (US$0.8 miltion or 11 of base
costs).
3.3       The project would be implemented over a five and a half year period
(mid-1993 to end-1998). It would be nationwide in scope and cover all 165 of the
existing NIS serving about 620,000 ha. An additional NIS area of about 20,000
ha, expected to be completed during the project period, will also be served.
Detailed Project Features
&Atems Improvement
3.4       Systems imRrovement.  The project would provide for the improvement
of 18 systems serving about 96,000 ha, selected by NIA in consultation with the
water users on the basis of agreed technical, institutional and economic criteria
(Annex 5). Water users of these systems have signed a Nemoranda of Understanding
pledging their cooperation and contribution. Assurances were obtained during
nesggigLo2na that NIA will apply the selection criteria mentioned above to all
the NIS to be improved under the project and that before implementation of these



- 12 -
system improvements, NIA will prepare, and forward to the Bank, an operational
plan and a corresponding report (outline is at Annex 6) for each of the selected
systems in consultation with project beneficiaries.
3.5       Improvements of five systems would be implemented during the first
project year (Annex 7, Table 1). The remaining 13 systems will be implemented
following final revieva of the hydrologic database to assess adequacy of water
supply  (para.  3.21a)  and  detailed  cost:benefit  calculatiors.    Proposed
improvement works include desilting, reshaping of canals, repair of lining,
repair of damaged canal structures (checks, siphons, etc.) and installation of
steel gates at checks and turnouts.   In view of past experience where many
installed gates had been damaged or removed, NIA would initially install turnout
gates on one sublateral of each system to be improved and delay the installation
of gates in other sublaterals for at least one year, until the effectiveness of
the gates are assessed.  Government aims to take up the improvement of the
remaining NIS as relevant, in appropriate phases, under a longer term investment
program which is being prepared and intends to seek Bank assistance for its
implementation.
3.6       Urgent legairs.  The project would provide for urgent repairs of 22
river diversion structures in 14 systems (Annex 7, Tables 2a nnd b) that had been
damaged mainly by floods.  Foundation material scoured by high-velocity flood
flows in the vicinity of diversion structures has weakened the structures and
made them vulnerable to much greater damage. Deferment of repairs entails a high
risk because a much larger damage could occur without any warning, even during
a normal flood, and require much costlier repairs, result in service
interruptions and involve even crop losses.
3.7       Detailed engineering design and drawings have been prepared for 10
structures. These were reviewed at appraisal and found satisfactory except for
some minor details which NIA is incorporating into the final designs and
drawings. Work is continuing on the completion of detailed designs and drawings
for the remaining 12 structures.
3.8       Erosion Control Works.  The project would fund erosion prevention in
about 30X of the system catcbments, particularly in critical areas in the
immediate vicinity of the systems. These measures would provide protection
against rainfall runoff erosion of vulnerable slopes, gullies and embankments,
mainly through the use of vegetative methods such as the planting of vetiver
grass and leguminous shrubs (e.g., Leucaena, Glyicidea, and on acid soils
Flamingia congesta), and other low-cost methods where appropriate (Annex 7, Table
3). NIA has done some watershed protection work along these lines in Pantabangan
catchment and is implementing similar work at present under the Second Communal
Irrigation Development Project.   Vetiver grass occurs naturally in several
localities from Northern Luzon, through the Visayas and Nindanao, to Sulu in the
extreme south. To ensure farmer access to vetiver stock, small nurseries will
be established at system level as necessary.   Broader watershed protection
measures would be supported under the Department of Environment and Natural
Resources overall national program. NIA's Watershed Management Division would
liaise with DENR for this purpose.
3.9       Silt Excluders and Improved Water Control Structures.  The project
would provide for the construction of three pilot silt excluders at suitable
locations at or near heads of three canals that are heavily silted and pilot



- 13 -
installation of a number of improved checks in a main/lateral system to be
selected and improved turnouts in a, contiguous reach of the lateral (Annex 7,
Table 4). The improved water control structures will be located in one of the
larger NIS, in an area not affected by any upstream system deficiencies and will
cover a service area of 500 ha to 1,000 ha. The former would help in testing the
cost-effectiveness of desilting devices and thus reducing silt removal costs,
which are at present substantial as NIA spends nearly 752 of its annual budget
for incremental 0&M (or about 060 million in 1992) on silt removal in irrigation
systems. The latter would improve water deliveries to turnouts. The pilot
structures would be selected by consultants to be engaged under the project
(para. 3.21b) in close collaboration with NIA's regional O&M staff and with IAs.
The operational effectiveness of these installations will be closely monitored.
Towards the end of the project, the technical and economic viability of these
installations will oe assessed (para. 5.9a).
l proved      tion and Maintenance
3.10      The project would continue support of the improved system-level O&0
services achieved under IOSP I (para 2.20) and seek to ensure their
sustainability through the following measures: the annual total O&M expenditure
of 0822/ha (including recurrent O&M and overheads of #674/ha and the average
annual incremental O& expenditure of about P148/ha achieved in the last three
years of IOSP I) would be maintained in 1992 real terms on all the NIS through
provision of the required incremental funding during IOSP II; NIA would generate
savings through increasing participation of lAs in system O&M; and NIA would
target ISF collection to increase from 60X of current billings achieved under the
IOSP I to a target 70X by the end of the project. VIA would make every endeavor
to reach beyond this target, with a view to achieving a collection efficiency of
752 (para. 3.18). In particular, NIA would do its best to achieve this higher
target of 752 in the 18 systems selected for improvement. These could then serve
as valuable demonstration models in cost recovery and user management. Though
a 25X improvement (from 482 to 602) was achieved under the IOSP I, a further
major improvement in ISF collection will be more difficult, given the large
number of very poor beneficiaries (paras. 2.14 and 7.2-7.4). In view of the
above, a target of 702, which amounts to about half of the achievement under IOSP
I, is considered realistic.   Incremental O&M activities supported under the
project would involve canal maintenance (desilting and repair of embankment),
maintenance of service roads, maintenance of control gates and structures, and
incremental personnel costs (Annex 7, Table 5).
3.11      While maintaining system-level O&M expenditures in real terms, the
project would support measures to progressively reduce the gap between OM
expenditures and NIA's revenues from ISF collections. The gap would be reduced
by turning over ditch tender sections of systems to the IAs and thus increasing
their participation in system 06M, and broadening the base for ISF billing and
improving ISF collection (see further para. 3.15).  In order to ensure the
highest beneficiary participation, realistic system operation plans would be
formulated and implemented by NIA in consultation with the lAs. About 1,082
ditch tenders would be progressively phased out over 1993-98 as the lAs assume
responsibility for the ditch tender sections (Annex 1). This will result in a
saving for NIA of about P175 million over 1993-98 in current terms. About 500 of
the ditch tenders are daily paid casual workers and can be phased out quickly.
However, the other 600 are monthly paid workers. They would need to be offered
attractive incentives if they are to voluntarily leave NIA's service. The funds



- 14 -
required for this purpose would total about 930 million during the project
period, which NIA would meet out of its own funds.  Assaxur gs-were obtai
during negotiations that NIA would make adequate provision in its operating
budget for retirement/severance benefits (as appropriate) for DTs whose
employment would cease during the following twelve months and ensure that such
benefits are made available to eligible DTs.
Institutional Development
3.12      The project will continue the institutional development efforts
initiated under IOSP I for strengthening of IAs and NIA through improvements in
the ISF collection process, staff training, technical assistance, and provision
of high priority O& equipment and materials.
3.13      IA Develo2nent.  The project would provide continued support to NIA's
ongoing IA development program which is designed to facilitate the progressive
turnover of a substantial portion of NIS infrastructure to the IAs for 06K, to
improve collection of ISF and to encourage membership expansion. Specifically,
in the 18 systems (96,000 ha) identified for physical improvements (para. 3.4),
existing IAs covering 74,500 ha will be provided with additional training to
prepare them to assume full 06M responsibility of the portions of the system
serving them. New IAs would be organized on the remaining 21,500 ha in these
18 systems, and provided with the same intensive training. The project will
also provide for the organization of IAs to cover 27,000 ha, out of a remaining
NIS area of about 103,000 ha where lAs have not yet been organized (Annex 7,
Table 6). IAs already organized over 442,500 ha outside the systems to be
improved would be sustained through financing of Institutional Development
Officers (IDOs) under the 0&K component (para. 3.10).-
3.14      The goal of the IA development program is to identify, mobilize and
motivate the membership of the IA at the turnout service area (TSA), particularly
with reference to O&M and generally for self management of a financially viable
IA. In particular, training programs and activities will target increased
participation of women in the IAs, especially in training, ISF collection,
credit, marketing and new income generating activities to be incorporated within
the IAs in the eighteen systems which will benefit from intensive training. The
project includes technical assistance to NIA for these programs (paras. 3.19,
3.21(d) and Annex 2). This effort will be expanded to the remaining NIS under
future phases (para. 3.5).
3.15      Improvements in the ISF Collection Process. The project would support
and reinforce all the measures initiated under IOSP I to improve ISF collection.
Under IOSP I, NIA has been able to get lAs to participate in ISF collection,
provided rebates to farmers for prompt ISF payments in cash, and provided
incentives to NIA staff for good collection performance.   As a result, ISF
collection has gradually increased during this period (para. 2.19).   While
supporting the above measures, the project would also provide continued support
to efforts to improve the ISF billing process by completing the ongoing detailed
parcel mapping exercise to cover about 54,000 ha of NIS lacking such maps.,
preparing accurate data on service areas and individual irrigated holdings, and
preparing and updating irrigation fee registers for all NIS (Annex 7, Table 7).
These documents would facilitate effective monitoring and verification of
seasonal ISF billings, and would enhance NIA's ability to detect and remedy
discrepancies. They would also enable NIA to prepare ISF bills well ahead of the



- 15 -
close of the crop season, based on field progress reports of land preparation,
planting and status of the crop. Further improvement of the billing process
would be accomplished through computerization, using microcomputers provided
under IOSP I.
3.16      With respect to staff incentives, NIA's current Viability Incentive
Grants (VIGs) system provides bonuses to regional and system-level staff,
totalling 10 of ISF collections above viability, i.e., amounts sufficient to
recover very narrowly defined O&M costs. NIA has reviewed the current VIG system
and issued draft guidelines for a revised system on April 30, 1992, but the
revised version has not been implemented due to its complexity. NIA is presently
reviewing the issue. Assurances were obtained at negottatJons that NIA would
furnish to the Bank, for review and comments, the proposed criteria for its
incentive scheme, taking into account the objective of improved Q&M of the NIS,
and shall take into account the Bank's comments thereon.
3.17      With respect to ISF collection efficiency, data show wide variations
in the efficiency with respect to systems, responsibility centers and regions.
There are a number of systems where collection performance is very good and
others where it is poor. NIA at present does not have an action plan to deal
with problems in systems where collection is poor. Assurances were obtained at
negQtiAtIons that by the end of 1993, NIA would furnish the Bank a report on all
NIS where the ISF collection efficiency was less than 601 in 1992, detailing
problems encountered in ISF collection and steps that will be taken to overcome
them.
3.18      As a result of the above project interventions, ISF collections are
expected to increase to at least 701 of current billings by the end of the
project (para. 3.10). Consequently, at least 951 of the total irrigation 06M
expenditures of P795 million (including overheads) in current terms in 1999 would
be met through ISF collections (compared to 671 in 1991).   With a less
conservative assumption of 751 collection efficiency, ISF would fully cover 06M
expenditures in the year 1999 (paras. 7.5 - 7.6). Although an increase in ISF
rates does not appear feasible at this stage (para. 2.14), a review of and
dialogue on ISF rates and efforts to reduce NIA overhead costs would be continued
during the project period to further improve project sustainability.
3.19      NIA Staff Training.  The project would support and further strengthen
the training program commenced under IOSP I for NIA staff in techniques of
improved OM and IA development and would expand it to increase regional
capabilities in design and construction supervision of works within their
responsibility (Annex 7, Table 8). The program would comprise several short
courses in various aspects of O&M, financial management and computerized billing,
administration,   system  performance  monitoring  and  data  compilation,
communication, IA development, and engineering design.   NIA's Institutional
Development (IDD), Design and Specification (DSD), ano Systems Management (SMD)
Departments are adequately staffed and experienced to conduct this work. In
addition, technical assistance would be provided to strengthen the IA development
capability of key NLIA staff, assist in updating and improving IA training courses
already developed, formulate additional courses which may be required and provide
enhanced training in O&M to NIA's regional and systems management staff in the
18 systems to be improved under the project (paras. 3.4, and 3.21d). This
component would also provide for training of engineers, designers and related
staff in appropriate techniques to deal with problems of unstable waterways,



- 16 -
boulder and stone bed loads, hesvy bed siltation, mine tailings, etc.. which are
frequently encountered in the Philippines. The training would be carried out
through study tours to neighboring countries where such problems have been dealt
with, on the job training in specific locations, and through specific training
programs within the Philippines conducted by individuals with experience in this
field.
3.20      Irrigation Management Information System (IMTS).  During 1987, NIA
introduced an improved data generating system (IMIS) designed to speedily provide
Irrigation System Superintendents and NIA Management with system performance
information required for monitoring and managing the NIS. Details of information
collected and evaluated under IMIS includes: (a) operations--water availability
and requirement, adequacy of releases, and status of land and crop development;
(b) maintenance--maintenance and repair activities planned and carried out, and
condition of facilities; (c) ISF--area planted and area exempted from ISF with
justification, current ISF collectibles, collections and status of back accounts;
(d) expenditures--system operation, maintenance and emergency repairs; and (e)
production--crop types, areas and yields and details of problems encountered.
With assistance provided under IOSP I, IMIS has now been partially introduced in
Regions 1 to 5 and 10 to 12, in 30 NIS covering about 170,000 ha. NIA is
currently refining this system and expects to complete this work by the end of
June 1993. NIA has also piloted the introduction of an Irrigator Association
Management Information System (IAMIS), on the lines of INIS, to be carried out
by IAs to generate performance information relevant for areas they cover. IAMIS
will also be modified to reflect the refinements to IMIS and introduced where
appropriate.   The project provides P4 million to enable NIA to initiate
preparatory training activities needed to install the modified version of IMIS
(Annex 7, Table 8).  Assurances were obtained at e&9tiations that NIA would
furnish the modified INIS by the end of October 1993 to the Bank for review,
together with details of NIA's existing monitoring system and specific
improvements which IMIS will yield in comparison to the existing monitoring
system.
3.21      Technical Assistance.  This component will provide consultancies for
the following (details are at Annex 7, Table 9):  (a) re-assessment of the
hydrological potential in NIS selected for improvement under the project (para.
3.5; 3 foreign and 12 local consultant-months); (b) studies of selected NIS to
formulate design guidelines for silt exclusion and improved water control
structures, including the design of a few such pilot structures to be constructed
under the project (para. 3.9; 3 foreign and 6 local consultant-months in respect
of each study); (c) review of NIsA'  prevailing mechanical equipment and
mechanical workshop management and equipment O0ff practices and the formulation
of recommendations to improve equipment care and utilization, as well as
assistance to NIA management to introduce such recommendations (6 foreign and 24
local consultant-months); and (d) training for NIA's systems management staff,
in systems to be improved under the project, to enhance their systems operation
and maintenance capability (8 foreign and 24 local consultant-months) and 15
local consultant-months to provide assistance to NIA in respect of its IA
developmeit work (para. 3.19).   Based on experience gained from the pilot
improved water control structures, a detailed plan will also be prepared for
installing such structures on a complete system, including all related physical
and institutional improvements required. Detailed terms of reference for the
consultancies are at Annex 8.



- 17 -
3.22      Provision of Egulpment and Materials. The project would provide for
limited, high priority O&M equipment and materials which will complement
equipment acquired under the IOSP I, including tractors/dozers, graders, dump
txucks, vibratory rollers, vehicles for light hauls, commumication systems to
facilitate improved systems operations, urgently needed office equipment and
materials, etc (Annex 7, Table 10).
Agricultural Support Services
3.23      Since the responsibility for agricultural extension is being assumed
by provincial authorities and the financing of their programs for extension
activities in general and in irrigated areas in particular is uncertain at this
time, the project would make a small provision for farmer training and requisite
technology in NIS selected for improvements. The program will include pilot
operations in 3 systems that will be improved in the first project year and the
results of these pilot operations will be reviewed before program implementation
in the other systems.  These operations will include:  (a) research-managed
verification trials; (b) extension-managed demonstration plots; (c) IA-based seed
multiplication; (d) farmer training in improved technologies and information
concerning available government support programs for agriculture; and (e) key-
farmer training in integrated pest management (IPM) technologies (Annex 7, Table
11 and Annex 9). The Bank is discussing with Government a second agricultural
support services project, which is expected to provide services to both irrigated
and non-irrigated areas.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Proiect Cgst
4.1       Total project costs, including physical contingencies and expected
price increases, are estimated at about US$69.6 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$16.5 million (24X). The cost estimate is based on 1992 prices
and includes taxes and duties of about US$1.2 million. Price continjencies
assume a foreign inflation rate of 3.75X in 1993, 1.86X in 1994, 2.67X in 1995
and 3.51 thereafter, and a domestic inflation rate of 7X throughout. Project
cost estimates are summarized in Table 4.1 and detailed in Annex 7, Tables 1 to
12.



- 18 -
Tbte 4.1: PROJECT COST SUN1RY
Locat   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign    Total    foreign
------llttion Pesos ........  --------- -- itnL ...li l.n. SS-X
Systems lmoeovement and Recaur
(a) Systems IMp.           385.7    128.5     514.2      15.2     5.0       20.2      25
(b) Urgent RepaIrs         103.9    56.0     159.9       4.1      2.2        6.3      35
(c) Erosion Control Works  21.7      2.4      24.1       0.8      0.1        0.9      10
(d) Silt Excluders and
Improved Water
Control Structures     27.8     15.0      42.8       1.1      0.6       1.?       35
Incremental O&N              508.4     56.5     564.9      20.0      2.2      22.2       10
Institutional Develooment
(a) IA Development         39.3      2.1      41.4       1.5      0.1        1.6       5
(b) Technical Assistance   11.1     13.5      24.6       0.5      0.5        1.0       SS
(c) Parcellary Nappfng
for ISF Collection      6.0      1.1      7.1        0.2      0.1       0.3       15
(d) VIA Staff Training     19.0      4.7      23.7       0.r      0.2       0.9       20
Ce) Equipment and Materials  26.4   79.2     105.6       1.0      3.1       4.1        75
Aaricultural Sucoort ServiceS  18.8     2.1      20.9       0.7      0.1       0.8       10
Total Base Cost         1.168.1    361.1    1.529.2    _L                 Au        Au0
Physical Contingencies        60.9     25.4      86.3       2.4      1.0       3.4       29
Price Contingencies          313.2    152.6     465.8       4.9      1.3       6.2       21
Totat Project Cost      1.542-2    539.1    2.081.j    I         Ll        A          i
Project Financing
4.2       The proposed Bank loan of US$51.3 million would finance 751 of total
project costs, excluding taxes. This would cover 1001 of the foreign exchange
component and 661 of local costs. This magnitude of local cost financing is
justified by the current budgetary constraints which the Government faces and the
expected positive impact of the project on rural poverty. The balance of US$18.3
million of project costs would be financed by the Government (about US$4.8
million or 71 of the project cost) and by NIA (US$13.5 million or about 191 of
project cost). In addition to US$13.5 million for incremental O&M, NIX will
provide about US$94 million equivalent from its ISF earnings and other revenues
for recurrent O&M expenditures (Annex 10, Table 1). Bank/Government funding of
the incremental O&M component is based on a conservative assumption of a 67X ISF
collection efficiency being achieved by 1998 rather than 701 (para. 3.10) and
funding under the loan will be on a declining basis (para. 4.5). Assurances e
obtained during negotiations that by June 30 of each year, NIA will furnish the
Bank for review and concurrence O&M cashflow for the national irrigation systems,
showing actuals for the preceding five years and projections for at least the
following five years. Further, to ensure the benefits of the project, assmr&=Ss
were obtained at negotiations that Government/NIA will maintain the annual level
of O&M services, provided to NISs in each fiscal year at no less than the 1992
level of the same (para. 3.10). Budget releases for the project comprising
proceeds of the Bank loan and Government counterpart funds would be channelled
through the Department of Agriculture (DA) to NIA in respect of irrigation
development and to DA in respect of agricultural development. Government intends
to explore grant cofinancing to support IA development, technical assistance and



- 19 -
NIA staff training.   If such financing is secured, the Bank loan amount would
be adjusted accordingly.
4.3       To ensure continuity of the improved 0&K, eligible incremental O0M
expenditures of up to US$3.0 million, incurred after January 1, 1993, would be
financed retroactively.
Procurement
4.4       Procurement (Table 4.2) would follow Bank guidelines.   Prior to
tendering and award, the Bank would review all bidding packages for goods over
US$200,000 equivalent, covering about 701 of the total value of goods. All
bidding packages for civil works estimated to cost over US$300,000 equivalent
would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation,
covering about 201 of the total value of works contracts. Other contracts for
goods and works wo4ld be reviewed by the Bank on a sample basis, subsequent to
their award.   All consultant selection arrangements and contracts would be
subject to the Bank's prior review. Bank staff have reviewed local procurement
procedures and confirm that they are acceptable to the Bank. Assurances will be
obtained at negotiations that the following specific procurement procedures and
limits would be followed for the various project activities:
(a) Goods. Construction, workshop, agricultural and office equipment and
vehicles, estimated at US$3.6 million, would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB).   A 151 margin of price
preference may be applied under ICB, in respect of goods manufactured
in the Philippines, when comparing domestic bids with foreign bids.
Items of workshop, agricultural or office equipment, estimated at
US$1.0 million, which may be required in small batches at different
times and locations, may be purchased through local competitive
bidding (LCB). None of the individual LCB contracts would exceed
US$100,000, and the total of goods procured under LOB would not exceed
US$1.0 million.
(b) Works. (i) Irrigation system imnroveMents ed renair works are small,
widely scattered over the country and in several instances located in
remote areas facing peace and order problems. Foreign contractors
(and in some areas, local contractors) are not likely to be
interested, as was the experience in the previous project. The works
that can be defined physically for purposes of contracting out, and
lie in areas in which local contractors are likely to be interested,
will be procured under LCB. Contracts let under LCB would not exceed
$2.5 million each, and would aggregate to about $14.4 million, or
approximately 401 of the improvement and repair works. The remaining
601 of these works will need to be carried out in areas which are
inaccessible to contractors because of civil unrest; are too small or
dispersed to be economically defined for contracting out; or are most
economically carried out through off-season work by the farmers
themselves; they would be carried out by force account under
individual tasks which would not exceed $600,000 each, to an aggregate
amount of $21.6 million. (ii) Incremental GOeration and faintenance
Mgrks, for similar reasons as those stated above, would be carried
out: by LCB, in contracts not exceeding $2.5 million each, to an
aggregate of $6.2 million; through force account, in tasks not
sceeding $600,000 each, to an aggregate of $12.3 million; and through



- 20 -
piece-work to IAs and groups of farmers, in tasks not exceeding
$200,000 each, to an aggregate of $6.2 million. Work carried out by
the farmers through piece-work would assist in achieving the
objectives of the project of developing IAs which can assume
responsibility for maintenance of laterals and turnouts within their
areas. NIA has experience and the capability to organize and manage
the piece-work and force account operations, for which proper cost
accounting would be maintained, including the logging of physical
progress, in suitable reports which will be used for disbursements on
a basis similar to that of monthly progress payments to contractors.
(c)  Consultant Services and Technical Assistance.  Consultant contracts,
estimated at US$1.1 million, would be awarded in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. IA development, traLning and
mapping including related travel, allowances, training materials,
etc., estimated at US$3.2 million would be accomplished by NIA, in
continuation of similar work begun under IOSP I.
Tabt8 4.2: PROCURENENTO/
(UMS miltion)
Expenditure Category                    IC$       LCB       Other      Total Cost
Juprovement and repair works            -        14.4        21.6g          36.0
(13.4)     (20.1)         (33.5)
Incremntal OSN works                    -         6.2        18.5S          24.7
(2.4)      (7.0)          (9.4)
Equipmnt and Vehcltes                   3.6       1.0                        4.6
(3.2)     (0.9)                     (4.1)
IA development, training,                                    CO- 4.3        4.3
mpping, and technical                                      (4.3)          (4.3)
assistance
Total                                   3.6      21.6        44.4           69.6
0342}    (16,7)      C31.4)        (51.30
r Includes physical and prce contingencies. figures in parentheses are amounts to be ffnanced by the Bank.
W Through force aecount.
USS12.3 dillion through fore account, US$6.2 million through piece-work by farmers$ groups.
IA development, traininf andmopping -- USS3.2 millton will be accoqpltshed by IA, and technieal assistane
-- US#1.1 milttln through consultant contracts.



- 21 -
4.5       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100l   against foreign
exchange expenditures for imported equipment and vehicles, 1001 of the ex-factory
cost of such items manufactured locally and 801 of expenditures for items
procured locally.   Disbursement for civil works, in respect of system
improvements and repairs, and agricultural works would be on the basis of 931 of
total expenditures. Disbursements for the O&l component would be made against
801 of incremental 06K expenditures after January 1, 1993 (cost estimated at
US$6.8 million during 1993 and 1994), 501 after January 1, 1995 (cost estimated
at US$4.0 million during 1995) and 201 after January 1, 1996 (cost estimated at
US$13.9 million during 1996 to 1998). Disbursement for IA development, technical
support, training and other institutional support to NIA would be 100l of total
costs. The proposed allocation of the loan proceeds is given in Annex 10, Table
1.
4.6       Reimbursement applications for expenditures on irrigation development
prepared by NIA and agricultural development prepared by DA would be consolidated
by NIA and forwarded to the Bank for reimbursement. Disbursements for LCB civil
works contracts would be through reimbursements to NIA on the basis of payments
to contractors and certification of completion. Statement of Expenditure (SOs)
would be used for disbursement against expenditures on civil works contracts of
less than US$300,000, civil works under force account, 06K, institutional
development, technical support, training, agricultural work, and engineering and
administration.  In addition, SOEs would be used for expenditures on minor
equipment and materials costing up to US$100,000 equivalent. All disbursement
applications for force account and piece-work through SOEs would be based on
proper cost accounting, and would refer to physical progress of the relevant
works.  The threshold for disbursements would be US$50,000 equivalent for
reimbursement against local expenditures, and US$10,000 equivalent for direct
payments to foreign suppliers. NIA has the institutional capability to maintain
required supporting documentation and this documentation would be made available
for review by visiting Bank missions.
4.7       Disbursements are expected to be concluded by the.closing date, June
30, 1999, six months after project completion, to allow adequate lag time for
releasing contractors' retentions and processing withdrawal applications. An
estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 10, Table 2, which also
includes a comparison with the Philippines' standard disbursement profile for the
agricultural sector. Although the country's agricultural sector disbursement
profile indicates about a 9-year period for full disbursements, it is expected
that the proposed loan would be disbursed in 6 years from project commencement
for the following reasons: (a) the proposed project, in contrast to those on
which the disbursement profiles have been based, would finance a time-slice of
ongoing activities in the irrigation subsector; (b) the project would cover a
number of operating irrigation schemes, the work involved is simple and does not
entail any complicated design or require any land acquisition or right-of-way
proceedings, and would be executed by NIA regional offices and special project
offices, which are already in operation; (c) work in the different NIS would be
implemented simultaneously; and (d) the status of preparation for initial work
is sufficiently advanced (para. 5.1) to permit an early start on project
implementation. The above arguments are supported by the experience under the
IOSP I (Loan 2948-PH), where the loan has been almost fully disbursed in about
four and a half years.



- 22 -
Accounts and Audit
4.8       NIA is a Government agency and, by law, its accounts are audited
annually by the Government's Commission on Audit (COA).   Separate project
accounts indicating the various sources of funds received and expended (by
project component) would be maintained by NIA and DA, ensuring that proper
accounting and auditing procedures are followed. The project accounts would be
collated by the Assistant Administrator for System Operations and Equipment
Management, who would bear overall responsibility for the project (para. 5.2).
After audit, the project's annual financial statements, together with the
auditor's report and opinion on the financial statements, and the auditor's
separate opinion on statements of expenditure and certification of expenditure
on force account works, would be sent to the Bank within nine months of the close
of each fiscal year.
V. PROJECT IMLEKENTATION
Status of Proiect Pretaration
5.1       Preparatory field work needed to facilitate a smooth start up of the
project has been completed in 18 NIS to be improved and the scope of work has
been agreed with the lAs (para. 3.4). Similar work has also been completed in
respect of the 14 systems identified for urgent repair. Before negotiations, NIA
made available to the Bank a detailed program of work and funding proposal for
the first year, supported by relevant engineering data, cost estimates,
consultant work plans, draft contract bid documents for equipment procurement,
and draft terms of reference for all consultancies. These were found to be
satisfactory. Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that similar work
programs and funding proposals in respect of each subsequent year would be
submitted for Bank review by June 30 of each preceding year.
OrgauLzation and Manage2mn
5.2       NIA will implement the irrigation development program of the project.
NIA has extensive experience in the planning, design and construction of
irrigation projects, and has pioneered the participatory approach to irrigation
development in the Philippines.   The Director of the Systems Management
Department (SMD) would function as Project Coordinator (PC) and would handle
project activities through a full-time Assistant Project Coordinator (APC). The
Assistant Administrator, Systems Operation and Equipment Management (SOEM), would
have overall responsibility. At the field level, NIA's 12 Regional Irrigation
Offices (RIOs) would be responsible for project planning and the preparation of
designs and cost estimates.  The APC would finalize and consolidate this work
with support from: the Project Development Department (PDD), for overall
preparation of work programs in accordance with the approved project proposal;
the Design and Specification Department (DSD), for engineering design; the
Equipment Management Department (END), for equipment specifications, supply and
supervision of equipment operation and maintenance; the Procurement and Physical
Resource Department, for procurement; the Institutional Development Department
(IDD), for issues relating to the IAs and NIA's Irrigation Management Information
System (IMIS); the Training and Development Division of the Personnel and Records
Management Department, for the training component; and the Controllership
Department (CD), for financial matcers. For this purpose a team of 17 staff
comprising ten from SMD, two each from CD, DSD and IDD, and one from END,



- 23 -
together with necessary support staff, will be assigned full-time to the APC and
be located within SMD. The APC would regularly monitor and evaluate project
implementation and the performance and O&M of each NIS using information supplied
by the Regional Irrigation Directors (RIDs) and initiate any follow-up action
required.  A Steering Committee comprising the Assistant Administrator SOEM
(Chairman), and Directors of SMD, CD, IDD, DSD and EMD will convene at least
quarterly, to review implementation and provide guidance on policy matters and
the resolution of problems affecting the project. The Regional Offices would
also supervise the execution of civil works and development of IAs, as well as
conduct training of NIA personnel and farmers. Overall project management and
planning will be strengthened by adopting the use of appropriate project
management software. Adequate staff is available for these activities. The
organizational structure of SMD and its relationship with the other departments
involved in project implementation are shown in Figures 1 and 2.
5.3       The APC would handle day-to-day implementation of the project through
NIA's network of RIOs, and coordinate project-related functions of other NIA
departments and other agencies, exercise overall control of project funds, and
be responsible for the preparation and submission of semi-annual progress reports
covering all project activities to NIA Management, the Department of Agriculture
(DA), and the Bank (see further paras. 5.9 - 5.10). The Farmer Assistance Unit,
within NIA's Institutional Development Department, will provide support for
coordinating activities with DA. NIA' s Watershed Management Division will assist
in the implementation of erosion prevention measures in erosion prone areas in
the immediate vicinity of the systems.    Supported by the Treasury and
Controllership Department, the APC would arrange for release of funds to the
regions, maintain records of financing transactions and exercise overall control
of project funds. The APC would also conduct inspections of project works to
ensure compliance with quality standards, examine progress of work in all regions
to ensure that civil works and institutional development are carried out on
schedule and that the work done is of the required quality.
5.4       At the field level, project work would be implemented by NIA's
regional O&M teams, supervised by regional managers. All surveys, plans and
contract documents for minor rehabilitation work would be prepared by the
respective regions. The IDD would be in overall charge of IA development. The
IDD coordinates IA development programs and provides planning and implementation
assistance to the RIOs which implement the IA development work through individual
Institutional Development Officers (IDOs) at the irrigation system level. The
IA organizing group, located at the irrigation system level, consists of the IDO,
Watermaster (WM), and farmer nominees of farmer irrigator groups (FIGs),
designated as Farmer Irrigators' Organizers (FIOs).  5he WM acts as the field
organizer/supervisor of the FIOs. The IDO provides the necessary technical
supervision and periodic input to the IM and FIOs. Initial introductory work
includes regular interactions and dialogues with farmers aimed at encouraging
active farmer participation in O&M activities, improving farmer awareness and
sense of responsibility, thus paving the way for the organization of FIGs,
followed by the consolidation of appropriate groups of FIGs into IAs.  The
organization and training of IAs is carried out in four steps extending over a
period of about one year.
5.5       The quality of all civil and O&M work would be routinely monitored at
field level by Quality Control Teams established in each Regional Office, as well
as by a centrally-located Quality Control Team (comprising SMD, DSD, EMD, and
IDD) at NIA headquarters, which will coordinate the work of the field teams and



- 24 -
also periodically monitor work in the field in conjunction with the field units.
This control unit will report to thte Project Coordinator. The findings of these
teams, actions taken in respect of any problems identified and the status of such
problems will be included in the semi-annual project progress reports (paras. 5.3
and 5.10). Assurances in this respect were obtained at negotiations.
5.6       As a safeguard against unwarranted overspending in the course of
implementation of works, any work where a substantial adverse change is observed
at the design finalization or construction stage, such as an increase in
estimated cost or decrease in benefits or a combination of these factors (of more
than 15X), would be proceeded with only after being fully re-evaluated by Project
Management and reviewed by PDD and other relevant NIA headquarter departments and
obtaining NIA senior management's approval. The Bank would be kept informed of
such cases and of the results of the re-evaluation. Work not conforming to the
above procedure would be ineligible for financing under the project. In order
to facilitate this arrangement, NIA has introduced control measures at the work
program submission and budget release stages to ensure that initially approved
expenditure levels are not exceeded in the course of implementation without the
Assistant Project Coordinator having obtained prior approval from NIA's senior
management. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that NIA would continue to
implement these measures throughout the project period.
5.7       The  Department  of Agriculture  (DA)  would  be  responsible  for
implementation of the agricultural support services component. The Agricultural
Coordinating Section in NIA's Institutional Development Department (IDD) would
coordinate with DA and its regional offices. The review of activities in the 3
pilot schemes (Para. 3.23) would be conducted following the completion of 1994
wet-season harvests. Implementation in other schemes would only proceed after
a satisfactory review or after suitable modifications have been agreed to by the
Bank. DA, through its Bureau of Agricultural Research (BAR), would be directly
responsible for the planning, implementation and processing of results of the
verification trial program. The certified seed distribution program to lAs would
be through DA's Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI) and IPM Farmer Field Schools would
be coordinated by BPI's Crop Protection Division.   The execution of these
activities requires direct provincial and municipal extension assistance. NIA's
regional offices will seek the requisite local government cooperation and
assistance. Semi-annual (crop) progress reports would be prepared by NIA's
regional offices and collated by its IDD Agricultural Coordination Section for
submission to the Bank.
Iplementation Schedule
5.8       Project implementation would be over five and a half years.   Bid
invitations for construction, workshop and agricultural equipment, vehicles, and
office equipment would be issued soon after loan effectiveness, so that the award
of supply contracts can be made during the first project year. In order to
facilitate the timely commencement of construction activities, all preparatory
work would be completed within the year preceding construction. Preparatory work
would include IA development, field investigation, preliminary design,
consultation with the beneficiaries, finalization of designs and cost estimates,
and preparation of tender and contract documents and force account work programs.
Relatively simple works, such as initial desilting of irrigation canals and
drains and minor improvements and repairs, which do not require elaborate
engineering preparation, are expected to start within the first year. Major
repairs and improvements of headworks and other larger structures requiring



- 25 -
heavier engineering inputs in detailed design and procurement are not expe-.ted
to start before the second project year. All activities related to formation of
IAs, training and other institutional support are expected to commence during the
project' s first year and continue for the duration of the project. The expanded
O&M program would start during the project's first year, and desilting would be
phased in gradually to supplement initial activities. An estimated schedule for
project implementation is given in Figure 3.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) and Reporting Requirements
5.9       The headquarters staff of SMD will conduct the M&E of the project,
with assistance from NIA's regional and systems offices.   NIA generates a
substantial amount of information relevant to overall system operation, and
financial and institutional performance of NIS. However, in order to effectively
monitor the impact of the project, the following additional systems performance
and institutional development indicators are required in respect of areas which
will benefit within systems to be improved under the project:
(a)  Systems Performance:  (i) Water required and water delivered at the
head of each lateral, sublateral or turn-out-point to an IA; (ii) wet
and dry season planned, irrigated and benefitted areas; (iii) ISF
collection performance; (iv) similar information in respect of areas
expected to benefit from the pilot improved water-control structures;
and (v) performance of the pilot silt prevention/elimination
structures to be assessed by monitoring the volume and cost of
desilting in the relevant canal sections.
(b) Institutional Development: (i) Number of farmers in each IA area,
membership and stage of IA development; (ii) the impait of IA training
at the turn-out service area (TSA). This would be assessed with a 51
sample of IAs selected from areas benefitted by systems improvements
as well as from other areas. The IAs selected will be chosen from a
stratified sample of IA areas under 200 ha, 200 - 500 ha, and over 500
ha and will be representative of head and tail end irrigation areas.
These Ihs will be monitored through the following indicators: number
of TSAs; number of farmers; IA membership; timeliness of land
preparation; and types and quality of O&M undertaken; and (iii) the
impact of interventions targeted at gender-based participation in IAs
(para.  3.14).   This will be monitored  through  the  following
indicators: number of women IA members and officials; number of women
in other IA related activities; snd number of women trained and
results of the training. Any negative factors which may tend to
inhibit women from holding official positions, sharing in decision
making or having equal access to project benefits as their male
counterparts, will be identified. Baseline data in respect of the
above will be established prior to the commencement of project
activities in these areas.   The number of women involved in the
program at NIA's level will also be monitored.
5.10      The implementation progress of each of the project components will be
monitored regularly and semi-annual project progress reports will be submitted
to the Bank by September 30 and March 31 in each year. The progress reports will
include, inter Iali, data on ISF collections, project impact on women and
findings of the Quality Control Teams (para. 5.5). Assurances in this respect
were obtained at negotiations. The Bank's Supervision Plan is shown at Annex 11.



- 26 -
Vl. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION. PRICES. AND MARKET PROSPECTS
Agricultural Production
6.1       Present Cropping Patterns and Intensity.   In the NIS, palay (paddy)
is the predominant crop, and farmers generally grow two crops if water is
available. In palay production, women have very well-defined roles, generally
participating in transplanting, weeding and harvesting. Plowing and harrowing,
agro-chemical application, and on-farm maintenance are tasks primarily attended
to by men. Only about 2X of the irrigated area is planted to other crops,
primarily due to marketing constraints. About 721 is irrigated in the wet season
and 68X in the dry season. Insufficient water delivery, particularly in the dry
season, remains a problem in many systems. The wet season crop in some locations
suffers from inadequate drainage and, as a result, yields and quality are
depressed. Without IOSP II, some of the irrigated fields could revert to rainfed
farming with adverse effects on production and farm income.
6.2       Future Cropping Patterns and Intensity.    With the project, the
cropping intensity is expected to increase to about 1501 by project completion
from 140X at present. Specifically, wet season cropping intensity would increase
to 781 from 721 and dry season intensity to 721 from 681. Without the project,
the present irrigated cropping intensity is assumed to continue, though this is
a conservative assumption.'f Details are provided in Table 6.1.
6.3       Yields and Production.  Monitoring data indicate that the present
average palay yields in NIS are 2.8 t/ha for rainfed and 4.0 t/ha in both
irrigated wet and dry seasons. These irrigated yields are lower than the yield
potential with good irrigation and drainage services, man&gement, adequate
agricultural support services and optimal input use. Average fertilizer inputs
countrywide are only 4.5 bags (50 kg) per ha (Annex 13, Table 1) compared to the
recommended usage of 6 bags per ha per season with adequate irrigation, drainage
and agricultural support services. Crop yields could gradually increase due to
normal trends in agricultural development with improved seeds, more efficient use
of inputs, and improved crop practices. While yield increases are likely to be
higher with improved irrigation under the project, no such increases have been
assumed and the project incremental benefits have been estimated conservatively
on the basis of increased cropping intensities only. Of course, the conversion
of rainfed into irrigated areas would mean higher yields for those specific
areas. With this assumption, the incremental rice production due to the project
would be about 100,000 tons p.a. (65% conversion) at full development in the year
2000.
/ In the absence of the project, there could be a decline in irrigated areas
in both seasons from the very first year due to further system deterioration.
Relatively large declines (over 31 p.a. in the wet season and 1 to 41 p.a. in the
dry season) have been reported by several recent studies of irrigation systems
in need of improvement and better O&M. However, this possible decline without
the project has not been taken into account in the calculation of project
benefits and the economic rate of return.



- 27 -
ti.4a6.I: CROP AREA YIELDS, PRODUCTION AMD CROPPING INTENSITIES
PresentiFuture UiRGE              Future With
Crop              Proeic-      Crop              Produe-
Area    Yield      tion        Ares     Yield     tion
('OOOha)   (t/ha)   ('COOton)    ('OOOha)   (tha)   (OOOton)
Crop AreM (ha)
WS Irri.           446.40    4.0      1,785.60     483.60    4.0    1.934.40
OS Irri            421.60    4.0      1.686.40     446.40    4.0    1,785.60
173.60    2.8       486.08     136.40    2.8       381.92
Total           1,041.60            3,958.08    1,066.40   -       4,101.92
ProJect'4rea
(ha) Jo          620.000                         620,000
WS C.l. (X)           100                            100
OS C.I. (2)           68                              72
Auta C.I. (X)         168                            17n
IS-Irr C.l. (2)       n                               78
DS-IRn C.I. (X)       68                              n
Afual Irr C.I.        140                            150
If Same NIS have water togged areas during wet esson. Other NtS coutd have some rainfed crops in both seasons.
W  Excludes additionat MIS coming onstream from 1993 aards.
Prices and Markets
6.4       The average farmgate price for paddy in the Philippines in 1991/92 Was
about P4.5 per kg (US$170 per ton) in line with world market pribes adjusted for
reasonable marketing margins. Incremental production of rice under the project
is small relative to incremental rice demand (para. 6.5). Consequently, the
project will not have ai impact on domestic or international prices.
6.5       The market for rice in the Philippines is estimated to grow at about
2.6X p.a. during the next ten years (para. 1.4). This is based on the latest
estimates of population growth of 2.3X p.a., income per capita growth of 3X p.a.,
and an income elasticity of 0.1. Based on rice demand in 1992 of about 6.3
million tons, the total demand in the year 2000 would be about 7.7 million tons
and imports 0.75 - 1.25 million tons. The project incremental output would be
only about 7X of the incremental rice demand in the year 2000 and would,
therefore, be easily absorbed by the market.
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Proleet Benefits
7.1       The proposed project would contribute to the government goals of
poverty alleviation, balanced regional development, and food security. The main
benefit would be improved operation and maintenance of the NIS which would in
turn increase palay production, farm  incomes and employment.   The annual
incremental rice production due to the project of about 100,000 tons will result
in foreign exchange savings of about US$23.0 million in 1992 prices and about
US$30.0 million in current prices in the year 2000.



- 28 -
7.2       The  project would  contribute  to alleviation of  rural  poverty
(estimated at over 601 in 1992) by directly benefitting about 460,000 families
or 2.8 million persons in the NIS. A survey of 18 national irrigation systems
in 1992 shows that most are smallholders: about 73X cultivate farms of less than
1 ha; 21X between 1 to 3 ha; 4X between 3 to 5 ha; and only 21 above 5 ha. About
23X of the smallholders are owner-operators, 451 lessees, and 321 share-tenants
(though tenancy was abolished by law in 1963). Of the owner-operators, some 81
are amortizing ovners under the Government's land reform program. The project
would also generare employment opportunities during implementation and thereafter
through on-farm and related off-farm activities.   The incremental direct
employment as a result of the project has been estimated at about 2 million
person-days. The project would also assist NIA financially through increased ISF
collection and provide for sustainability of the irrigation O&N program through
increased participation of the lAs in the program. Sustainable farming practices
supported under the project would have environmental benefits, which are not
quantified or included in the analysis.
Financial Analysis
7.3       Farmers' Incomes.  To determine the impact of the project on the
individual farmer, detailed financial analysis of crop and farm budgets and
typical farm models was undertaken. Seasonal crop budgets were prepared for
palay only, the dominant crop in the project area. Annex 13, Tables 1-3 present
a summary of farm budget analyses for 9 indicative farm models based on farm size
of 1 ha, 2 ha and 3 ha and type of tenure (owner-operator, lessee and share
tenant). For 1-ha farms, the future income at full development would be P21,190
for owner-operators, P13,780 for lessees, and 010,600 for share tenants. For the
whole project, both incremental production and related incremental income
averages would be 41, amounting to about P560 for 1-ha farmers, P950 for 2-ha
farmers, and P1,500 for 3-ha farmers.  The above analysis is based on the
calculation that an individual farmer will receive from systems improvement and
improved O&M an average increment of 280 kg of palay in the irrigated wet season,
and a total of 400 kg from both seasons, assuming no change in irrigated yields
with and without the project. From the results of the farm models and assuming
that two-thirds of the household income is derived from farm activities and the
rest from off-farm work, it appears that all farmers holding 1 ha would still
receive yearly incomes below the 1992 estimated poverty line for rural areas of
about P36,000 p.a. for a family of six, or about US$235 per capita.
7.4       Beneficiaries' CaDacitv to Pay. An analysis of rent and cost recovery
for the project was undertaken, taking into account payment of ISF by the
beneficiaries, land taxes (average P150/ha p.a. for irrigated and P100/ha for
rainfed land), and indirect taxes on farm inputs amounting to about P160 per ton
of paddy. Rent recovery indices were constructed for different farm sizes and
land tenure. The rent recovery for project beneficiaries ranges from a low of
241 for a 1-ha owner-operator to a high of 55X for a 2-ha share-tenant. The
average rent recovery is 341. Rent recovery is expected to increase further
since, after the passage of the Local Government Code in 1992, the municipal and
city councils are contemplating an increase in land taxes. Taking the present
value of incremental charges, project costs. and annual O0N costs, discounted at
101, the cost recovery is 321. Details are at Annex 14, Tables 1-3. The figures
show that there is little scope for further cost recovery as most of the farmers
earn incomes way below the critical consumption level of about P14,400 per capita
at full development. Both rent and cost recovery under the project would be Figh



- 29 -
in comparison to the level usually achieved in projects of this nature in other
developing countries.
7.5       NIA's Financial Situation.   As NIA does not have to repay the
investment costs of its projects (para. 2.12), the issue of NIA's financial
viability is simply that of its capacity to meet the O&M expenses of the national
irrigation systems. However, since ISF collections at present are inadequate to
meet the total O&M expenses (recurrent and incremental), NIA's other incomes such
as management fees, equipment rentals, etc., which are linked to the investment
budget (para. 2.12), are used to cover a part of OEM expenses.   Detailed
projections at Annex 15 include these other incomes. The total investment budget
for NIA was about F4 billion in 1991 and 03.8 billion in 1992 (Annex 1).
However, actual cash releases have been about 40X of the budget. The projected
investment budget in Annex 15, Table 1, therefore, assumes a conservative level
of about P1.5 billion p.a. With this assumption, projections of income, sources
and applications of funds, balance sheet and 06& cashflow have been made at Annex
15, Tables 2-7. The income projections (Table 2) show that unless significant
increases in ISF collections and management fees occur, NIA's net income over
1993-96 would be negative even before depreciation. An increase in irrigation
investment is possible, given the Government's emphasis on infrastructural
improvements (para. 2.15). This would help NIA to a certain extent through
increases in management fees. But the main solution would be an increase in ISF
collections.
7.6       Projections of O&  cashflow (Annex 15, Tables 5, 6 and 7) were
undertaken on the basis of 671, 70X and 751 ISF collection efficiency. Project
financing of incremental O&M is based on the most conservative 671 ISF collection
efficiency. The projections take into account NIA's other income and savings
through turnover of ditch tender sections to the IAs.  With a minimum 671
collection efficiency, NIA would be able to meet all the ON expenses of national
irrigation systems through ISF and other income in year 1999 and with the 701
collection efficiency targeted under the project, this would be achieved in 1998.
If, however, a 751 collection efficiency is achieved, the self-financing would
occur in 1996 and in year 1999, ISF collection alone would exceed total O&M
expenses (p795 million in current terms). The project would, therefore, place
the greatest emphasis on increases in ISF collections.
7.7       Imnact on the Budget. As the shortage of Government counterpart funds
has been a major issue in project implementation in the Philippines in recent
years, the design and scope of the project were adjusted to minimize the burden
on the Government. Project average annual cost would be only about 151 of NIA's
recent budgets under the General Appropriations Act (Annex 3) and 10 of its
total investment budget.
Economic Analysis
7.8       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is estimated at
about 171 (Annex 16). This ERR takes into account the costs and benefits of the
five systems where improvements will be initiated in the first year, costs and
benefits of all systems where urgent repairs would be undertaken, and other costs
allocated as follows:   1001 of IA development,  technical assistance and
agricultural support services; 501 of staff training; and 251 of erosion control,
silt excluders and equipment. The allocation of other costs was based on the
consideration that the project ERR currently excludes 13 systems which would be



- 30 -
initiated in the second year of the project and also excludes the improved 0K
component. The latter was excluded to avoid double counting, that is, since the
annual O&M expenditures would be maintained in 1992 real terms at the average
level aehieved under IOSP I, the ERR for this component is the same as for OSP
I (211). All costs and benefits were at constant 1992 prices. All benefits and
costs  were   adjusted   to  reflect   the  prevailing   relative   economic
scarcities/abundance of factors of production in the Philippines according to the
following assumptions: (a) the opportunity cost of unskilled labor was estimated
at 601 of the prevailing market rate; (b) project inputs that consist largely of
imported components such as equipment and spare parts were valued at their border
price, adjusted for local transport and other costs. Prices of non-traded goods
and services were adjusted to border prices using the corresponding conversion
factor; and (c) present and projected farmgate prices for traded goods, namely
rice and fertilizers, were derived from the Bank's latest commodity price
forecasts (Annex 12), adjusted for quality, freight, insurance, port handling,
local transport, and processing costs and trading margins. These projections
indicate that world prices of Thai 51 broken rice will decrease from US$294 per
ton in 1992 to US$272 in 1995 and further to US$263 in 2000 (in constant 1992
prices).
1.9       Individual component ERRs were also calculated. The ERRs of the 5 NIS
selected for system improvement in the first year of the project average about
191, ranging from 131 to 281. The five NIS account for about 801 of the total
area and 50X of the cost of the systems to be improved under the project. The
balance of the 13 NIS to be improved starting year 2 of the project will be
required to have a mlnlmum ERR of 101 as agreed with NIA. With respect to the
additional 14 NIS, whose major structures require urgent repairs, analysls of the
20 structures indicates an average weighted ERR of 281, ranging from 121 to 501.
For the improved O&M component, the reestimated ERR for IOSP I is 211 (para.7.8).
For economic analysis, the benefit assumed for the system improvement component
was the increase in the irrigated cropping intenslty. For urgent repairs, the
major benefits would be the savings in future repairs. Some systems would also
benefit from savings in O&N, prevention of loss of irrigated areas and/or
expansion in irrigated area. The key assumption is that without the project
repairs would be delayed by three years. A shorter delay would substantially
increase the ERRs.
7.10      Sensitivity tests were carried out to determine how the project ERR
would respond to increased costs and/or decreases and delays in beneflts.
Attractive economic returns would accrue even with substantial negative changes
in these variables (Annex 16, Table 2 and Project File Working Paper No. 1). A
capital cost increase of 201 would reduce the ERR to 141. A 201 decline in
incremental benefits or a two-year delay in benefits, or a combination of a
capital cost increase of 101 and a one-year delay in incremental benefits would
also lower the ERR to 141. Thus even with conservative assumptions of project
benefits, the project is economically viable.
Evirmetal Imoact
7.11      The project involves existing NIS spread across the country.  No major
earth movement, water regulation or storage, deforestation or drainage will be
involved. The project includes provision for dealing with project-related
erosion-prone micro- catchments using vegetative erosion prevention measures,
such as Vetiver grass contouring. Any anticipated adverse environmental impact



- 31 -
would be dealt with in the course of normal subproject design and construction.
The project would reduce the use of pesticides appreciably by supporting the
widespread use of integrated pest management system, which has already been
Introduced in the irrigated areas. In addition, extension advice for fertilizer
and agro-chemical application would be based on the guidelines of the Fertilizer
and Pesticide Authority and only relatively small incremental amounts of
agro-chemicals would be used under the project. The use of herbicides would be
reduced through improved water control and the potential for any adverse effects
from the use of these farm chemicals would be further diluted by the very
widespread and dispersed nature of individual irrigation systems. The project
would not finance any chemicals for weeds or pest control. With respect to the
project's impact on biodiversity, no endangered wildlife species such as the
Philippine eagle and Palawan mouse deer will be affected, since the project areas
are existing, lowland irrigations systems. By raising incomes and creating
employment in the rural lowlands, the project would contribute significantly to
stemming the increasing out-migration of poor farmers from these rural areas to
uplands and coastal areas, where such migration has caused the most serious
environmental problems - forest and other resource depletion and erosion in the
uplands, and degradation of near shore fisheries - thereby providing indirect but
important environmental benefits.
7.12      Under other Bank-supported projects, watershed management and erosion
control are being undertaken to help ameliorate siltation problems in irrigated
areas. With respect to water-borne diseases prevalent in some locations in the
Philippines, successful programs to reduce the incidence of schistosomiasis and
malaria through drainage, chemical controls, health education and curative
medicine have been financed by previous and ongoing Bank-supported projects.
Through its focus on O&M in irrigated areas, the project would improve drainage,
reduce water logging, and promote the development of some otherwise unused
portions of land, thereby contributing further to reducing such diseases. With
DENR cooperation, specific watershed management and erosion control/prevention
measures would be recommended and undertaken.
7.13      NIA's Environmental Cell is closely linked with the DENR.   Any
unforeseen environmental issues would be identified and proposed solutions
described in the progress reports to be submitted by NIA (para. 5.10). It should
be mentioned that the Government of the Philippines has adopted the goal of
sustainable development under the Medium-Term Development Plan (1993-98) and,
consistent with this goal, the Philippine Council for Sustainable Development was
recently established.
7.14      The project does not face any major risk as it involves improving
existing irrigation systems and sustaining their maintenance. The main potential
risk would be the delays in implementation due to inadequate and delayed fund
releases by the Government and inefficient procurement. To minimize these risks,
agreements were reached at negotiations on funding, programs of work and
procurement documents.



- 32 -
VIII.  AGREO S EED AND RCOMENDATION
8.1       During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained from
Government and NIA:
(a) NIA will apply agreed selection criteria for all NIS to be improved
under the project, and will prepare a detailed Improvement Plan and
Operation Plan, on which the proposed improvements will be based,
including a maintenance plan, for each of the systems in consultation
with and in full agreement with beneficiaries, and will submit a
detailed Work Program based on the foregoing, together with detailed
System Operation Plans in respect of systems to be improved during
each year, with related detailed engineering, cost estimates, and
sources of funds, for Bank review by June 30 of each preceding year
and implement such works taking into account the Bank's comments
(paras. 3.4 and 5.1);
(b) NIA will make adequate provision in its operating budget for
retirement/severance benefits for DTs and ensure that such benefits
are made available to eligible DTs (para. 3.11);
(c) NIA will furnish the Bank, for review and comments, the proposed
criteria for its incentive scheme and shall take into account the
Bank's comments thereon (para. 3.16);
(d) By the end of 1993, NIA will furnish the fank a report on all NIS
where the ISP collection efficiency was less than 60X in 1992 (para.
3.17);
(e) NIA's proposal for a modified ISIS will be submitted by end October
1993 for Bank review and comment, and NIA will incorporate the Bank's
comments in the final version (para. 3.20);
(f) By June 30 of each year, NIA will furnish the Bank for review 06&
cashflow for the NIS, showing actuals for the preceding five years and
projections for at least the following five yoars (para. 4.2);
(g) GOP/NIA will maintain the annual level of O& services provided to
NISs in each fiscal year at no less than the 1992 level of the same
(paras. 3.10 and 4.2);
(h) NIA will establish Quality Control Teams in each Regional Office and
a centrally-located team to ensure the quality of all construction and
O&M work (para. 5.5);
(i) NIA will implement measures to ensure that initially approved
expenditure levels are not exceeded by regional offices in the course
of implementation of system improvement without prior approval of
NIA's senior management (para. 5.6); and
(j) NIA will submit to the Bank bi-annual progress reports on project
implementation by September 30 and March 31 in each year and these



- 33 -
reports will Include, nteor alla, data on ISF collectlon, project
impact on women and findings of the Quality Control Teams (para.
5. 10).
8.2       Subject to the above assurances,  the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$51.3 million to the Republic of the Ph4lippines
at the standard variable rate, with a term of 20 years, including a grace period
of 5 years.



- 34 -
ANNEXES



SECOND IRRIGATION OPRATIONS SUPPORr PROJECT aOSPM
NIA's Onefart *W af SwImed Red*Wm in am
(No)
1992     1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      198       1999      2000       2001      2002
CENTRAL OPPCB
MonD4y                                           974       974       974       974       974       974       974       974       974         974      974
DaIy                                              83        83        83        83        83        83        83        83        83         83        83
SubtoWl                                         1.057     1.057     1,057     1,057     1,05?     1,057     1,057     1.057     1,057      1.057     1.0
RBGIONAL IRRIGATION OMFICES
Mony                                            1,036     1.036     1,036     1.036     1,036     1,036     1,036     1,036     1.036      1,036     1.036
DAi                                               6S        65        65        6S        65        65        65        65        65         6S        65
S9bom                                           1.101     1.101     1.101     1.101     1.101      101      1,101     1,101     1.101      1.101     1,101
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION OFFICES
Monah                                           1.024     1.024     1,024     1.024     1,024     1,024     1,024     1,024     1,024      1,024     1.024       U
Daly                                              68        68        68        68        68        68        68        68        68         68        68
SubloW                                          1.092     1,092     1,092     1.092     1,092     1,092     1,092     1,092     1,092      1.092     1.092
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEM
Mon"                                            4.356     4,356     4.356     4,193     4.123     4.053     3.981     3,989     4,002      4.011     4,014
Daif                                            1.304     1,070      895       732       662       592       520       523       527         530      531
Subtwl                                          5.60D     5,426     5.251     4,925     4,785     4,644     4502      4,512     4529       4.541     4.545
REDUCTION IN PERSONNEL
Ceutwa Office                                      0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0
RJoon Offices                                      0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0
Provluca kin    Olfioes                           0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0
Ndolnigalon SY5Ms                                  0        27        184      337       178       178       178        41        73         53        20
Sub91                                              0        27        184      337       178       178       178        41        73         S3        20
TOTAL PEtSONNEL
Mon"hy                                          7,390     7,390     7,390     7,227     7,157     7,087    7,01S     7,023     7.036       7.045     7.048
Daily                                           1,520     1,286     1.111      948       878       808       736       739       743        746       747
Toand                                           8.910     8,676     8,501     8,175     8,035     7,894    7,752     7,762     7.779       7,791     7.7
It



- 36 -
36 -                 ~~~~~Annex 2
Page 1 of 9
PHIIPPIES
SECOND IRRITATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
INTRODUCTION
1.        The  Institutional  Development  Program  (IDP)  for  the  National
Irrigation Systems (NIS) urder the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) is
based on the principle of participatory management. The formation, training, and
sustaining of functional associations comprising the beneficiaries, known as
Irrigator Associations (IAs), is the cornerstone of this approach. Pioneered in
the communal irrigation systems (CIS), this approach was introduced into the NIS
on a pilot basis in 1968 and became a component of the IDP in 1970. It was
expected that the participation of beneficiaries in the decision-making processes
of water use and system operation would lead to improved performance of
irrigation systems, resulting in increased irrigated area, agricultural
production, and farmer income. It was also expected that the consequent
beneficiary satisfaction with irrigation services provided by NIA, would
encourage an increase in beneficiary contribution to the maintenance of the
irrigation system.
NIA MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
2.        At the NIA central office, the formation and training of lAs come
under the Institutional Development Department (IDD). The IDD works in
conjunction with the Systems Management Department (SMD) and the Training
Departments (TD) of NIA. This structure is replicated at the Regional and
Irrigation System levels.
3.        Benefitting from its experiences in the CIS, IA formation in the NIS
depends upon the catalyst role of the Institutional Development Officer (IDO).
An IDO is typically a college graduate recruited and trained by NIA. At present,
there are 120 IDOs covering the NIS, and 40X of this number are women. Dependlng
upon staff availability and local requirements of regions and systems, an IDO may
have responsibility for a number of lAs.
4.        A  more  intensive  level of mobilization  on  the basis  of  one
institutional worker per IA is provided by the Farmer Irrigator Organizer (FIO),
an irrigator resident in the community who is recruited and trained by NIA to
organize an IA.
5.        In terms of staffing, FIOs and IDOs are critical to IA formation and
sustenance. A FIO is hired for a fixed term of twelve months with a stipend of
P500 per month. Beyond this point it is up to the IA to retain the FIO on its
payroll in an advisory capacity. IDOs are either contractual or casual.
Contractual IDOs are hired for IA formation and backstopping per Region. Casual
IDOs are hired as foreign funding becomes available.



- 37 -
- 37 -                 ~~Annex 2
Page 2 of 9
IA DiVE WPNKNT
6.        Organization.  The goal is to form one IA per branch canal at the
level of the division under a Water Resources Facilities Technician (WRFT). The
first task of the IDO is to identify potential IA leaders to form the Board of
Directors. This includes the president, vice president, secretary, treasurer, and
auditor. These functionaries head the standlng committees for service provision,
planning, evaluation, membership and education, and finance and credit
respectively.
7.        While IA formation is a bench mark in IA development, formation in
itself is not the foundation of IA organization. This foundation is provided by
the farmer organization at the turnout service area (TSA). Once parcellary maps
are completed and individual irrigators are identified with their landholdings,
they are brought together by the FIO in adhoc TSA committees. A typical TSA may
have 40 irrigators, each owning one ha of land, and seven to eight such TSA will
upon formalization through the election of Chair, Vice Chair, and Secretary, form
the IA. The office bearers of the TSA are also part of the standing committees
of the IA. It was anticipated that information from this IA organization would
filter down to the membership.
8.        The target is to form an IA within twelve months. The leadership of
this newly formed IA is given Irrigator Association Leadership Installation
Conference training.
9.        Registration. A newly organized IA will, with the assistance of the
IDO, prepare the paper work for registration with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. The targeted time for this is two weeks.
10.       ontacting.  An organized and registered IA may enter into contract
with NIA under the following terms:
(a) Prior to IOSP I. Contracted IAs were identified as Stage I, Stage II,
and Stage III. lAs in the first stage were given contracts for canal
maintenance with remuneration of P 610 per 3.5 km of earth or 7 km or
lined canal (one ditch tender section) per clearing, once a month, as
well as an incentive of 2.5X to 101 for assisting in Irrigation
Service Fee (ISF) collection.-Two years of satisfactorily working at
this stage entitled an IA to move into the second stage, where it was
also given a contract for ISF collection, with the incentive share
calculated after figuring 0&K cost at breakeven point. Beyond this
point, if 100l of collectible fees was obtained, the IA would receive
30X. This incentive scheme was revised in 1987 to a structured
incentive of up to 15X of the total collectible. The third type of
contract entailed the complete turnover of the system to the IA, as
in a communal system.
(b)  Under IOSP I. Contracts were identified as Type I, II, I and II, and
III. Under the first type, all O0M work was given to the IA, thereby
completely replacing the ditch tender, at the rate of P 1100 per 3.5
km of canal. The second type of contract was given to lAs for the
collection of ISF and assisting in routine operation of irrigation
system, with incentives for ISF collection ranging from a minimum of
21 to a maximum of 101. This incentive system was further revised In



- 38 -
Page 3 of 9
1990 to a maximum possible incentive of 15X. Under the third category,
IA* were given two separate contracts for O&M and ISF. A fourth type
of contract is similar to the Stage III.
11.       TraLUnDg.   A contracted IA is given at least one round of the
following types of training over the next two or three years:
(a) Basic Leadership Development Course;
(b) Systems Management Training, which includes water distribution,
implementation of cropping calendar, system maintenance, ISP
collection, and conflict management;
(c) Financial Management Training, which covers book keeping and money
n&snagement.
A secondround of training is given at the request of the IA, which bears 50% of
the cost.
12.       Shared Management of Operations.  To facilitate the operation and
control of the main and secondary system, a NIA/IA shared management strategy was
introduced by NIA, through its memorandum circular 32 S 1991. It calls for joint
planning of OM conferences by NIA staff in the regional and system offices and
the IAs, with the support of other government and nongovernment offices for
example, the Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP) and the Department of
Agriculture. Tasks to be undertaken by this conference included the planning,
amplementation, and evaluation of the cropping calendar; delivery and
distribution of water; and the acquisition of services from1 other agencies
supporting agricultural production in the irrigated area.
13.       Irrigator Assistance.  IDD mediates and facilitates linkages between
the lAs and the following agencies in order to procure loans, obtain agricultural
input, market produce, and operate as cooperatives: Department of Agriculture,
National Food Authority, Cooperative Development Authority, and Technology and
Livelihood Resource Center.
14.       The IDD also assists the lAs to monitor their activities through the
Irrigator Association Management Information System (IAMIS). IAs are trained to
record informatic a on farming activities, water delivery and distribution,
harvesting, and ISF collections and to use this information to plan cultivation
agenda. This activity will be funded under IOSP II, as part of the activity under
the Irrigation Management Information System (IMIS).
15.       Progress  of IA DevelomUent.    The  status  of IA formation  and
development as of July 30, 1992 is given in Table 1. A total of 1,742 LAs with
a membership of 409,900 farm families are organized over 516,600 ha within the
NIS (80X of the service area). An average IA covers 270 ha, and the average land
holding per farmer is 1.3 ha. Of the total number of IAs organized, 1,253
covering 387,000 ha and 261,000 farmer families, are contracted for 06M and/or
ISF collection. The target of IAs to be contracted under IOSP I was increased
from 390 io 693 consequent to increased USAID grant funding. Taking into account
the number of IAs contracted prior to IOSP I (570), the number contracted under
IOSP I is 683, or 99Z of target.



- 39 -                          Annex 2
Page 4 of 9
16.       Institutiona  Design of IOSP II.  The design and preparation of IOSP
II commenced in August, 1991. The Project Preparation Team (PPT) of NIA,
comprising NIA staff and local consultants. prepared the Feasibility Study. Bank
missions reviewed, monitored, and provided backstopping activities throughout
this period.
17.       The IDP Strategy.  IOSP II aims to build upon the current level of IA
development and further strengthen IA capacity for O0M at the secondary system.
It will cover a total of 565,500 ha of the NIS (excluding the 41,217 ha covered
under ADB funding) at three levels of intensity.
(a) An area of 442,500 ha presently under lAs will be sustained through
the financing of positions of IDOs (para. 23) to support the ongoing
program of IDD. This will include regular meetings between IDO and IA
to provide guidance and followup, and dialoging through attendance at
the monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of IAs, and O&M
conferences held three times during the two cultivation seasons. It
will also entail registration and contracting of lAs presently
organized.
(b) An additional 27,000 ha of the service area will be targeted for
organizing new 1As. Unlike the existing process of organization, which
does not include training until the signing of contract, the leaders
of IAs organized under IOSP II will be given training in leadership,
canal operation and maintenance, and financial management (para. 11).
It is anticipated that such training will mitigate the break down of
organized IAs, which in the past has resulted in the need for frequent
reorganization. lAs organized thus will be contracted within the
currently scheduled time frame of twelve months. It is anticipated
that all contracts within these two phases of the program will be a
combination of Type I and II (para. 10).
(c) Finally, a total area of 96,000 ha (21,900 ha to be newly organized
plus 74,500 ha currently organized), covering the 18 systems selected
for physical improvement, will be incorporated in an intensive program
of IA organizing and strengthening to enable the turnover of O&M
functions to the IA.
18.       The NIA/IA dialogue is the central focus of this project design. This
dialogue was implemented in two phases--the joint identification of physical
improvements to be undertaken in a given irrigation system, and IA agreement to
share in the cost of such work and assume O&1 responsibility, on a contractual
basis, for the improved portions of the system. This process was completed by
regional teams of NIA and IA representatives by April of 1992 and comprised the
following:
(a) clarification of goals and planning of strategy by the irrigation
superintendent and his staff;
(b) the preparation of technical requirements for system operation;
(c) joint ldentification and listing of items for physical Improvement;
(d) initial preparation of program of work;



- 40 -
Page 5 of 9
(e) discussion and signing of memorandum of understanding; and
(f) submission of program of work.
IA contribution to the cost of physical improvements was Jointly agreed to be at
least 25 of labor, excluding paid work undertaken by the IA through local minor
contracts at the secondary system (from head of lateral to turnout). The main
system will remain the responsibility of NIA, while the responsibility for the
tertiary system will remain with the IA, with NIA providing technical assistance,
heavy equipment, and materiais needed to undertake the agreed program of work.
19.       IA MembershiDOverall. In emphasizing broadbased participation of IA
members within the selected 18 systems, monitoring and evaluation will focus on
IA performance with reference to the capacity of its members for participation
in O&M. The number of UAs repeatedly reorganized (a total of 218 IAs organized
between 1989-91) raises the issue of IA sustainability, which is dependent upon
the capacity of IA menbership. Moreover, as larger TAs are formed in the interest
of economy and as a number of smaller IAs are federated for purposes of obtaining
agricultural inputs, marketing, and efficient water management, there is an
inherent danger that the voice of the individual member will no longer be heard.
Hence, deliberate strategies to involve the maambership becomes critical. Above
all, as the IA leadership becomes increasirgly involved in business-oriented
activities, reliance on the membership for he performance of routine O&N will
become increasingly vital. For this rease , the focus of IA strengthening and
training under IOSP II in the 18 selected systems will be on the IA membership
at the TSA.
20.       IA MemberghlerBase . Within this overall focus on menbership,
empbasis will be placed both in programming of activities and training, towards
genderfriendly strategies of identifying, targeting, and enhancing the role of
women in lAbased activities. Based on available information the number of women
irrigators in positions of IA leadership currently is only 3 to 41. At the level
of individual IAs, women members are counted on the basis of femaleheaded
households. This is explained in terms of the definition of IA membership
according to the IA bylaws. It is stated here that the tiller who is also the
head of the household is the official IA membr, and in a household that is a
conjugal unit, the man is both the tiller and the head of household. He is
thereby identified formally as an IA member. However, this must be viewed in the
larger context of everyday activities of men and women in the IA. In contrast to
the formal membership in the IA as delimited to the tiller of the soil, the more
widely prevalent practice is membership by proxy. In addition to participating
in transplanting, weeding, and harvesting activities, a married woman will use
her proxy membership to actively participate as an ISF collector within an IA.
The IA leadership transmits O&t information through women as they are more
readily available. Women are represented in greater proportion in the IA
organization as secretaries and treasurers. Women also participate more actively
and often represent the family in IA training sessions. The household of a
married couple in the Philippines is a joint decision making unit (under the
Philippine Civil Code they are joint owners of conjugal property). The use of
proxy membership is a reflection of tbis joint decision making within the family:
It is the household that is given membership in the IA. Therefore, to assess the
role of women in the TA, one must include not only the membership of women
represented by female headed households but also the extent and nature of proxy
membership. There is greater scope for genderbased participation in some areas



- 41 -                          Annex 2
Page 6 of 9
of work within the IA-for example, ISF collection. Because of her more steady
presence, a woman is clearly a candidate for 06M work within the turnout. Outside
the realm of these conventional activities of the IA, there are other areas where
the participation of women-for example, in incomegenerating projects-will clearly
enhance the welfare of the family unit and the IA. Under IOSP II, all possible
avenues for including women more thoroughly in the participatory process of
decision making within the IA will be explored.
21.       Monitoring and Evaluation of IDP.  To monitor the impact of training
programs introduced for IA members, data on canal clearing and maintenance, water
management, and ISF payment will be gathered from a 5X sample of lAs from the 18
systems where physical improvements are undertaken, and this sample will be
compared to a similar one taken from the remaining NIS under IOSP II. IAs
selected will be chosen from a stratified sample of MAs covering less than 200
ha, less than 500, and over 500 (with membership synchronized as closely as
possible to size) and representing head and tail end of systems. The following
baseline information will be completed before the start of project: number of TSA
groups in an IA; number of members; number of beneficiaries; number of meetings
organized (wet and dry season 199293); and types of O&M undertaken at this time.
To monitor and evaluate the impact of interventions targeted at genderbased
participation in lAs under IOSP II, baseline information on the number of women
members and office holders with type of office will be gathered from the 18
systems. The following training interventions targeted towards women will be
formulated by NIA, before the start of the project in the 18 systems: FIO/IA
Training; ISF Collection; Income Generating Projects; Credit; and Marketing.
Training programs targeted towards enhancing and sustaining the participation of
women within and outside the IA as described above will be formulated within the
scope of membership training, once the baseline information is collected and
needs assessment is completed.1'
22.       IA Tralning.  The target of the training programs and activities will
be to identify, mobilize, and motivate the membership of the IA at the TSA with
reference to O&M and generally for self management of a financially viable IA.
For this purpose, the following types of training programs are included under
IOSP II:
(a) The Training of Farmer Trainers Program, which will train individual
farmers so that they can in turn train other IA members.
(b) Value Clarification Training Program is intended for farmers within
a Turnout Service Area and aims at enabling IA members to develop a
clear appreciation of the value of tasks they are called upon to
undertake. For this purpose, such an area is segmented into subgroups
based first on water source and then on task distribution. This
V   There is adequate local capacity for addressing ge'ider concerns in
irrigated agriculture and implementing training programs with reference to this.
The Department of Agriculture Women in Development (DA-WID) group, Bureau of
Agricultural Research, the Philippine Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Natu-
ral Resources (PCARRD), and the Technology Livelihood Resource Center (TLRC) are,
to name a few, institutions that NIA can call upon in this context. Funding for
institutional development provided under Technical Assistance (TA) may be used
for this purpose.



- 42 -
Au=e 2
Page 7 of 9
training will cover protection of structures, water distribution, ISF
collection, conflict resolution, and adherence to rotation schedules.
(c)  Other types of training for members include Basic Leadership and
Financial Manage_ent System Training. In addition, Capacity Building
for Agricultural Support Services Training, presently completed in two
communal systems with support from the Ford Foundation, vill be
introduced for IA leaders in the 18 systems. Training programs to
enhance gender participation targeted toward IA members will be
formulated after the completion of a needs assessment. The program and
implementation   schedule   for   IA  organization,   registration,
contracting, and training is given in Table 2.
These training programs have been pilot tested by MIA, and initial impact
evaluation of the pilot study in the areas of water management, maintenance, IA
performance with reference to ISF collection and participation of members in O&M,
and impact on farm production, is encouraging.
NU STAFFING AIND STFF TRAININ
23.       The IDO will continue as the linchpin of the IDP. The current number
of 120 IDOs will be progressively increased to 180 as organization, training, and
OW6 activities accelerate during the fiveyear period of the project. Of this
total, IDOs will be deployed at the following ratio in the three types of
activities earmarked under the program:
___ _IDO_ |I   (Nos.)    Area per IDO (ha)
Organizing             43                633
Sustaining             83               5300
Strengthening          54               1800
COST ESTIMATES
24.       IA development costs are based on the latest unit costs incurred by
NIA for similar work. The total base cost of this component is estimated at Pesos
41.3 million. Details are presented in the project cost tables.



- 43 -Atx2
Page 8 of 9
Td4le _1:  STATUS OF IA DKVEWPXENT
June 1992
No. of lAs           '000 Farmers              Area
('000 ha)
Target CY 1998                 2,150               460.0                 640.0
Organized                      1,742               409.9                 516.6
Registered                     1,442               253.5                412.9
Contracted                     1,253               260.7                387.2
Stage I                           43                 9.2                   8.6
Stage II                         109                31.1                 38.0
stage III                         43                10.4                 12.7
Type I                           336                66.0                 102.5
Type 2                           350                62.7                 139.8
Types 162                        372                81.3                  85.6
Total               1,253               260.7                387.2
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 44 -                                   A
Page 9 of 9
Tables  IA OELOPENT TAIIEtS
Description              No. of IAsha .- of 
M9         1904    IMf     1996    1997     TM9
oruanizfn. Reisterini  Ed Contractins:
To be organized                    471 4.500W           -    29       *8        *
To be rgistered                  347/152,000 b/        60   209      1 s
To be contracted                 536/177900 1         60   150      150      100     76
Leadership Irafnina:
IA Leadership insttaUtion         107/64 600            -    50        r S             -
Basic leadership doelAP ant       107/B6400                   40      40       n               -
Financial umnageent               107/64,600            -    40       40       27
Capacity buildf*V for
Agricutture SLqport Servic        107/64.600                  30      30       30      17
NembershiR rrainifn
Training farmer traners           320/9000  /          20   150      150        -
Value ctarification/systems
-sa ment                         320/6,000             -    60      100      100     40
Basic leadership development      320/96,000           20    s0      100      100     20
Financial _mament                 320/96,000                 80      100      100     40
Gerder participation training     ------.-------------To be identified  rin   ptemntation ------
g/ Includes 29 lAs In 21,500 ha to be ornized uader the 18 systen ldmntfffed for l_novament and 18 lAs In
27,000 ha to be organizd wdr other systms.
k/ Includes a carry over of 300 lAs In 103, 700ha yet to be ragistered.
S/  Includes  carry over of 189 IAs In 13?00 haey t to be contrated.
gt Includes lAs mntioned In    aboe and 60 lAs, without contracts, in about 16,200 ha under the 18 systems
selected for improvwment.
I/  Includes abut 291 organized le and 29 ls yet to be orgn     n the 96,000 hacoverd b  the 18 syste
idmtif led for iqvomnt.



- 45 -
PHNLPINES
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUORT PR9IEC  (IamP m)
MIA's  vestment Budget (1992 ad 1993)
(P Million)
1992          1993
A.  Under General Anurouiationm Act (GAA1
a. National Irrigation Projects
i. Foreign-Assisted Projects
Forein Contribution                            716.2           811.2
Local Coumerpart                               637.0           945.7
ii.  Locally-Funded Projects                          13.0
Sub-total                                           1,366.2         1,756.9
b.  Communal Irrigation Projects
i. Foreign-Assisted Projects
Foreigp Contribution                           259.5           196.3
Local Couerpat                                 163.8           281.1
iH.  Locally-Funded Projects                         517.9             -
Sub-total                                            941.2           477.4
c.  Other Projects/Activities                             148.0           125.0
la -GAA                                                  2.455.4        2,352.3
B. O^t bnow b
a.  Comprehensive Agraian Reform Program
(CARP) - Irrigation compont (IC)                    446.2           400.0
b.  Highland Agricultural Developmen Project (HADP) - IC   21.3            22.7
c.  Sorsogon Integrated Area Development Project (SIAJP)-IC  24.3          17.7
d.  Aurora Inted Area Development Project (AIADP)-IC        17.0
e.  Earthquake Reconstrction Ptoject (ERP)                 84.5           109.3
f.   Rehabilitation of Affected Areas of
Mt. Pinaubo Enption (RMAAMPE)                       119.5            62.1
g.  Small Water Impounding Projects (SWIM) (DPWH)          85.4           320.7
h.  SWIM (CARP)                                            187.8            -
i.  SWIM (OECF)                                           359.1            16.1
Total Other Investment Programs                          1,345.1          948.6
Grand Total Investment Budt                                   3.800.S        3.307.9



- 46 -
Page 1 of 10
PHILIPPlIMN
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT (IOSP II)
Review of IOSP I (Loan 2948-PH) ?erformance
Backgd
1.        IOSP I was the first Bank-financed project designed to support and
improve the operation and maintenance of the NIS in the Philippines. These
systems had been deteriorating despite substantial rehabilitation efforts in the
1970s and 1980s (supported by the Bank financed National Irrigation Systems
Improvement Projects I and II (Ln. 1414-PH and Ln. 1526-PH) and the ADB-financed
Irrigation Systems Improvement Project), due to the combined effect of
deficiencies in the system design, sub-standard construction quality, inadequate
maintenance, and lack of effective cooperation with water users in the operation
and maintenance of the systems. IOSP I was formulated to address specific O&N
factors and provided for limited restoration/rehabilitation, improved recurrent
maintenance, improved institutional capability of NIA and water users, and
improved revenue base for O&M.
Profject Description
2.        I0SP I was planned as the first 3-year phase of a nine-year irrigation
O&H improvement program that would cover all existing NIS, serving over 600,000
ha. Along with physical improvements in systems, the project provided for a
wider participation of water users in decisions and activities related to the NIS
by supporting the organization, formation, and training of irrigators'
associations (IAs). The project also provided for reconditioning and limited
procurement of new O6M equipment, for technical assistance, various training
programs and for up-dating the irrigation service fee (ISF) assessment base. The
project was cofinanced by a US$25 million (equivalent) loan from OECF and by a
US$1.7 million grant from USAID. The OECF loan was in parallel to IBRD Loan
2948-PH and was expended for minor restoration/rehabilitation work. USAID's
grant was dedicated to training of IAs. The project was started in mid-1988 and
completed in December 1992; the loan Wvi'  close in June 1993.
Performanc  Indicatrs
3.        Due to unavailable instrumentation (at the time) to measure water
flow, it was impossible to establish a pre-project base-line and to monitor
changes in water deliveries in reaches of systems that had been improved under
the project./ Consequently two proxy performance indicators of the effects
systems improvements were expected to achieve were used: increases in dry-season
irrigated areas and the ISF collection rate. In interpreting these indicators
the substantial negative impacts caused by a series of natural calamities which
occurred during this period, as well as the adverse economic conditions which
prevailed should be taken into account. As may be seen from Table 1, the average
cropping intensity increased from 134X in 1987 to 140X in 1991 (5X short of
1/  See also World Bank, Philippines:   Irrigated Ariculture Sector Review,
Volume 2, Report No. 9848-PH, April 1992.



47 -                ~~~~~Atmex 4
Page 2 of 10
appraisal estimate) and the percent of benefitted areas, in which crop yields
exceeded 2 t/ha, increased from 127X-to 130.!' During this same period the ISF
collection rate increased 481 to 601 nearly linearly proportional to cropping
intensities (1988-91), and appears to reflect an appreciation of water users to
service and system improvements provided under IOSP I. The 601 achievement in
ISF collection falls short of the appraisal target of 75X. However, it should
be noted that this achievement is quite significant, considering that during this
period farmers' capacity to pay was severely affected by a series of negative
events-.severe droughts in 1987 and 1990, the 1990 earthquake, the Mt. Pinatubo
volcanic eruption in 1991, several typhoons, and a sharp drop in real paddy
prices in 1991.
Table 1: Irrigated Cropping Intensity and ISF Collection - 1987-1991
All Systems
1987W   1988      1989     1990     1991
Average Cropping Intensity (X)    134       127      138      139       140
Benefitted Area (X)               127       111      120      130      130
ISF Collection (X)                 48        52       58       58       60
AV Before IOSP I
Phvsical Targets and Achievements
4.        Implementation of IOSP I was marked by numerous delays in procurement
and in start-up of restoration works. Procurement was delayed mainly due to slow
processing, time-consuming control measures and dispute of awards by bidders.
Start-up and implementation of civil works were delayed because budgets were
often released very late in the six-month dry construction season. As a result,
the Loan Closing Date was extended initially by a year and again by six months
to June 30, 1993. The second extension was primarily to facilitate payment for
items procured and awaiting delivery.   In terms of accomplishments, 961 of
targeted minor restoration work and repairs have been completed: over 4,000 km
of irrigation canals desilted, over 3,500 km of service roads resurfaced, and
over 2,500 (mostly small) canal structures repaired. Also 55 (generally small)
diversion works, and about 500 steel gates have been repaired. Effectively minor
restoration work covering about 457,000 ha of an original target of 476,000 ha
has been completed. Due to their poor condition, reconditioning of designated
O&M equipment could not take place and, within the scope of the loan, equipment
was therefore replaced.
2V Only benefitted areas are i,ssessed for ISP. Irrigators claiming exemption
from ISP must prove that their yields were below 2 t/ha.



- 48 -                           Ann    4
Page 3 of 10
5.        Field work for parcellary surveys and mapping activities have been
completed and updating of maps and Irrigation Fee Registers is underway; some 840
IAs were organized on 280,000 ha, of which 670 lAs covering 206,000 ha entered
into contracts with NIA on maintenance, ISF collection, or both. Training was
provided to a total of over 9,000 water users in either basic leadership,
financial management or systems management, and over 22,000 people participated
in various training workshops.  For this purpose NIA recruited nearly 100
Institutional Development Officers, 44 Farmer-Irrigator Organizer (FIO)
supervisors and 97 FIOs.
6.        Total system level O&M expenditures during 1989-92 amounted to about
P1,520 million (Table 2). About eighty percent of this sum, or P1,195 million
constituted the current operating budget (COB) expenditures (salaries of NIA
personnel, IA remunerations, labor for vegetation and minor canal clearing, and
other system operating expenditures) while P325 million constituted the program
of works (POW) expenditures (mainly mechanical desilting and some other,
contracted, works), which were considered *incremental" to routine OK
expenditures and were provided under IOSP I.
T able 2:  System Level O0M Expenditures - 1989-1992
(All Systems)
1989        1990        1991        1992
Total Expenditures (P million)       255.9       401.1       419.0       444.0
Average Unit Costs (9/ha)           414          646         657          715
7.        Irrijated Areas and Croxping Intensity.  During three years prior to
the inception of IOSP I, statistics of service and irrigated areas in all the NIS
were as follows:
Table 3: Irrigated Area 1986 - 1988
('000 ha)
1986        1987        1988      Average
Service Area                     595.9        600.5       617.9       605
Irrigated Area:  Wet Season      435.8       436.4        444.3       439
Irrigated Area:  Dry Season      378.3        370.1       342.7       370
Cropping Intensity (X)            137         134         127         133



-49 -                         Armex 4
Page 4 of 10
After project inception the respective areas were as follows:
Zgble, : Irrigated Area 1989 - 1991
('000 ha)
1989        1990        1991      Average
Service Area                     617          621         637         625
Irrigated Area:  Wet Season      462.1       478.5        459.1       467
Irrigated Area:  Dry Season      388.2        382.8       432.4       401
Cropping Intensity (X)           138          139         140         139
8.        Indicators suck as ISP collection rate and interviews of beneficiaries
indicate that the farming community in portions of systems which actually
benefitted from specific improvements perceived the benefits from these
improvements and consequently are more inclined to pay ISF dues. Also they are
generally supportive of continuing these efforts where necessary, and (as will
be seen later) willing to contribute to their implementation, generally through
in-kind contributions within their means.
System Deterioration and ADraisal ERR
9.        At least three studies have confirmed a linkage between a progressive
deterioration of the NIS and a subsequent decline in cropping intensity over
time:
(a) IOSP I, Working Paper of 1985 presents an analysis of NIS without
rehabilitation or major intervention prior to 1985.   Based on
available, long-term data, 13 systems were selected from a total of
36 systems for analyses of wet-season cropping and 8 systems for
analyses of dry-season cropping. Results showed that the cropped area
declined by 3.6X during the wet season and 3.81 during the dry season.
(b)  An IRRI Study of 92 NIS in Luzon3' found that for both wet and dry
seasons, there had been a net decline in irrigated area between 1966-
89, except for Region II. The latter benefitted, in 1983-85, from an
expansion of irrigated areas of the Nagat system. During 1979-89, wet
irrigated areas in Regions I, III and IV reportedly declined by 19X,
5X and 16X, respectively during wet seasons while during the dry
seasons of 1979-89 irrigated areas dropped by 21.5X.
3/   Masicat,  DeVera,  and Pingali.   Philiggine Irrigation Infrastructure:
Degradation Trends for Luzon. 1966-89. International Rice Research Institute,
Philippines, July 1990.



- 50 -
Page 5 of tO
(c) An analysis by NIA's Systems Management Department of irrigated areas
of 18 systems which were not rehabilitated during seven years (1978-
84) were found to decrease on the average by 3.1X p.a. in the wet
season, and by 1.8X p.a. in the dry season.
10.       Supported by these data,  it was conservatively  assumed durlng
appraisal of IOSP I that irrigated areas would decrease on the average 1.5 p.a.
"without" project while wvith project" the decline would be reduced to 0.75X
p.a.. It was further assumed that systems would have to be rehabilitated every
10 years. On this basis, at appraisal the project ERR (over a life of 30 years)
was estimated to be 342.
Economic Reevaluation
11.       Assumptions. Economic analysis of IOSP I was carried out by relating
the benefits with investment and incremental O&M costs.  The evaluation of the
project was based on the following sources of information:
(a) NIA System Management Department for overall irrigation service areas,
crop areas, investment costs and 06M costs;
(b) NIA Project Development Department for physical inputs, unit prices,
crop areas, and yield from 11 sample NIS. This information helped
derive overall project crop and farm budgets.   Further data were
supplied from a survey of 23 NIS under the proposed IOSP II. The data
for the latter turned out to be far more comprehonsive than those of
the former;
(c) World Bank for actual and projected prices of world prices of rice and
fertilizers;
(d) Government agencies such as the National Statistical Coordination
Board, Fertilizer and Pesticides Authority, National Statistics
Office, the Bureau of Agriculture Statistics, and Philippine Ports
Authority for relevant information; and
(e) Center for Research and Communication, Agribusiness Unit for other
related data.
12.       Crop yields were assumed to be similar with and without the project.
All benefits and costs were adjusted to reflect prevailing economic scarcities
of factors of production in the Philippines according to the following
assumptions:
(a) the opportunity cost of unskilled labor was estimated at 60X of the
market wage;
(b) past, present and projected farmgate prices for traded goods namely
rice and fertilizers were derived from the World Bank Commodity Price
Forecasts of August 1992, adjusted for quality, freight, insurance,
handling, local transport, marketing margin and processing costs;
(c) imported components were valued at the foreign exchange rate of 026
to US$1;



-51 -                         A        4
Page 6 of 10
(d) the standard conversion factor (0.83) was used to adjust local costs;
and
(e) the project evaluation period is 30 years.
13.       All benefits and costs are valued at constant 1992 prices.  For
converting actual data of 1988 to 1991, the general approach taken was:
(a) for foreign components, the peso values were deflated by the
corresponding annual exchange rates, then deflated by the N4U index
'base year 1992-100), and finally multiplied by the 1992 exchange
rate;
(b) for local components, peso values were deflated by the Implicit Price
Index of the Gross National Product with 1992 as the base year
(1992-100); and
(c) the following project costs were excluded in the calculations: IA
development program; technical assistance; and NIA staff training.
14.       Incremental  Production.    The  incremental  production  at  full
development for Base Case is about 168,000 tons palay (109,000 tons rice) valued
at *727 million (US$28 million at 1992 prices).  For Cases 1 and 2, the
incremental production at full development was found to be 226,000 tons in 1997
and 279,000 tons in 2002.
table 5: Incremental Palay Production
(000 ton)
Case                           1992        1997        2002
Base Case:
With Project                      3,544       3,544       3,544
Without Project                   3,376       3,376       3,376
Incremental                         168         168         168
Cases 1 and 2:
With Project                      3,544       3,470       3,400
Without Project                   3,376       3,244       3,121
Incremental                         168         226         279
15.       Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return (ERR) analysis
has the following cases:
(a) Bage Case. The main assumptions include:
Crop areas. With the project, the actual crop areas in 1988 and 1991
were used; the 1992 figures were NIA estimate, and these were used for



- 52 -                         Armex 4
Page 7 of 10
1993 and onwards. Without the project, the actual 1988 and 1989 areas
were retained while those for 1990-1992 were estimated. The 1992 crop
areas were assumed to remain constant from 1993 onwards. In effect,
no area declined were assumed under the with and without project
conditions. The following are the assumed cropping intensities:
Table 6: Actual and Assumed Cropping Intensities (X)
(Actual unless otherwise indicated)
With Project               Without Project
Year                  Wet           Dry           Wet             Dry
Season        Season        Season         Season
1987                  72.66          61.63        72.66           61.63
1988                  71.89          55.45        71.89           55.45
1989                  74.91          62.92        72.66**         61.63**
1990                  77.07          61.63        72.66**         60.37**
1991                  72.03          67.84        67.91**         61.63**
1992                  74.00*         68.00*       69.77**         61.63**
* NIA estimates
** Assumptions
Notes:   (a) The 1988 values were assumed to be similar under the with and
without project situation as the project began only in mid-1988.
(b) 1989 was generally a good year. Thus, a minor increase in cropping
intensity was assumed without the project.
(c) 1990 suffered dry spells in part of the country. For conservatism,
the cropping intensity in VS without the project was assumed to be the
same as 1989; in the DS, a slight decline was assumed following slight
decline with the project situation.
(d) 1991 also suffered a dry spell as the "El Nifiol began in late 1991.
A sharp drop was assumed in the VS. A slight increase in the DS
following the trends under the with project situation.
(e) For 1992, recovery in VS were provided for while in the DS it was
assumed to be similar to 1991 for conservatism.
Yields. The assumed yields are 3.4 ton per ha for irrigated and 2.4
ton per ha for rainfed for both with and without project situations.
These yields were obtained from the IOSP I SAR. These are hLgher than
the national average of 3.14 tons per ha for irrigated and 1.94 ton per
ha for rainfed in 1987, according to the Bureau of Agricultural
Statistics (BAS).



- 53 -                         Armex 4
Page 8 of 10
Rehabilitation. No rehabilitation is provided in the with and without
project  situations.    It  could  also  be  interpreted  that  the
rehabilitation is undertaken in similar periods with and without the
project with identical costs.
The ERR was found to be M1g.
(b)  Case 1.  The main assumptions are:
Crop Areas. The crop areas with and without the project during 1988-
1992 were similar to the Base Case. From 1993 onwards, the crop areas
with the project was assumed to decline at 0.75 p.a. prior to
rehabilitation; without the project, the crop areas were assumed to
decline by 1.51 p.a. prior to rehabilitation.   (The rates of area
decline were similar to those of the IOSP I SAR).
Yields. Same as Base Case.
Rehabilitation. The rehabilitation period (every 12 years) and costs
under the with and without the project situation were assumed to be
identical. Thus, their incremental costs would be zero.
The ERR was found to be Mil. The additional 5 percentage points from Base
Case could be attributed to the different rates of decline in areas in the with
project case (0.75X p.a.) and with out project case (1.51 p.a.).
(c)  Gase 2. The assumptions are:
Crop Areas. Similar to Case 1.
Yields. Same as Base Case.
Rehabilitation. The rehabilitation period in the with project case
assumed to be every 12 years and without the project, every 8 years.
The rehabilitation period of three years would be done in four batches
due to the large areas involved. The rehabilitation cost is assumed
at 910,000 per ha in financial terms.
The ERR was found to be l. The 10 percentage points increase in the ERR
from Base Case were due to two factors: (a) different rates of decline of areas
under the with and without project situation (5X-points); and (b) early timing
of rehabilitation under the without project situation (every 8 years) as compared
to with the project situation (every 12 years).
Table 7:  Economic Rate of Return
ase Case          Case I            Case 2
211             261               31X



- 54 -
Annex 4
Page 9 of 10
16.       Farm Budgets.  Farm Income analysis were conducted for 1-ha and 3-ha
farms under the two most common tenurial types: owner-operator and lessee. For
1-ha farm, the net farm income for owner-operator under the present (P), future
without (FWO), and future with (FW) situations are:  P15,603, P14,341, and
P15,831 respectively, or an incremental income of P1,490 at full development.
For 1-ha lessee, the farm incomes under similar situations are: 09,771, P8,971,
and 09,910, respectively, or an incremental income of 0939. For 3-ha farms, the
net income of owner-operator under the P, FWO and FW situation are estimated at:
P40,109, 037,423 and P40,243 respectively, or an incremental estimated at
022,612, P21,313, and P22,481, respectively, or an incremental income of P1,168.
The whole analysis assumed similar yields with and without the project. Farm
incomes would be higher under higher yield assumptions.
17.       Conclusion.  The project was found to be viable at ERR ranging from
a low of 211 to a high of 311 under varying assumptions.
18.       The project has contributed to poverty alleviation by increasing
farmer incomes.  In real terms, the farm income of 1-ha owner-operators and
lessees each increased by about 10.51 under the with and without project
situations. With respect to the 3-ha farms, the income of owner-operators rose
7.51 and for lessee by 5.51. The increase in income for 3-ha farms are slightly
lower as compared to 1-ha farms due to the cost of hired labor.
Lessons Learned From IOSP I
19.       Even though the time elapsed since the inception of the first IOSP is
short and the project is in its closing phase, several lessons may already be
learned from it and these have been incorporated in the formulation and design
of the proposed second IOSP II.
(a) Increased ISF collection indicates that beneficiaries of the project,
are prepared to pay if they are able to perceive benefits from
executed works.
(b)  System components operated by IAs appeared to be generally in better
shape than those operated by NIA without participating TAs.  IAs
should be encouraged therefore to assume 06M responsibilities of
system components.
(c)  Expanding institutional development, providing training and support
to IAs appears to be fundamental to achieving a more intensive level
of participatory management with water users. Continuing this thrust
and possibly assisting IAs, wishing to expand in scope to do so, will
undoubtedly enhance the sustainability of lAs and possibilities to
transfer O&M responsibilities of components of systems to lAs. Also,
these systems would have to be in satisfactory operating condition
before transfers could be effected.
(d)  Benefits from normative allocations for restoration or rehabilitation,
as effected in the first IOSP I, are difficult to quantify. Also, use
of normative allocation tends to generate works of lesser priority
than that intended in the project formulation. Future projects should
be more discriminating in this regard and specify justification
criteria of potential improvements.



- 55 -
Annex 4
Page 10 of 10
(e) Due to lack of instrumentation (current metors), motivation and lack
of detailed records, there was no clear evidence that improvements
under the project actually improved water deliveries.  There were
doubts concerning the reliability of information collected, which
shows planned and executed water deliveries.   Quantification of
benefits requires a judicious selection of rehabilitation components,
clearly established base line data and reliable monitoring.
(f) Training of NIA staff in water management (assisted under an USAID
grant) was very helpful.   Similar training should be continued.
Training in records management, accounting, billing and collection
improved the performance of NIA staff and contributed to higher ISF
collection.
(g) The priorities of the field staff did not always coincide with the
priorities of water users. Though intended to be prepared jointly,
O&M plans of systems were usually prepared by systems staff without
meaningful consultations with IA officers and water users.
(h) Denudation of watersheds, soil erosion and concomitant siltation have
accelerated as a result of recent natural calamities.   This has
significantly increased O&M costs.
(i) The project management was not given requisite management authority.
This made it difficult to enforce technical specifications and
reporting deadlines.
(j) There is a need to strengthen planning, design and construction
capabilities of regional offices.  During the initial implementation
phase of IOSP I, work programs of some regions were frequently
revised.
(k) There is need to refocus IA development and pay more attention to its
members rather than only to its officers.



- 56 -5
Page 1 of 2
llIIlmNBi
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT (IOSP II}
Criteria for Selection of Systems for Iminovement
Bagkgrgmd
1.        Based on the experience of IOSP I, which provided small, normative
allotments for urgent repalrs to all NIS, which were required at the time but
whose benefits were difficult to quantify, the strategy of IOSP II is to improve
systems in which (a) water resources are adequate to justify improvements;
(b) the need for improvements (or repairs) is technically and economically
justified; (c) water users want these improvements and are willing to contribute;
and (d) there is a reasonable chance that the improved, or repaired, system will
be sustained because of the involvement of water users from the start, their
commitment to maintain the system, and expressed readiness!, to assume OWH
responsibilities of *their" subsystem.y
2.        Accordingly, all NIS were screened and ranked based on technical,
sociological and economical criteria as follows:
Technical Caiteria:
(a)  Adequacy of water resources at 801 exceedance to irrigate a larger
area than that presently irrigated.  Clearly, if irrigated areas,
particularly during dry seasons, already use all available water
resources effectively,!1 or if the entire service area was already
irrigated, there would have been little justification for improving
the system.
(b)  Completeness of hydrologic data: the analysis indicted above required
continuous and reliable hydrologic data of at least 8 years.
Consequently, systems with shorter hydrologic data were dropped during
initial screening.
Institutional Crite: ia:
(c)  Beneficiaries would have to be organized for the effective operation
of the UAs. This criterion reflects the experience in NIS showing a
close relationship between IA management, degree of cooperation
/ In the form of a signed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with NIA in which
the Irrigators" Association formally agrees to assume full operational and
maintenance responsibility.
2 The subsystem, either a lateral or a sublateral canal, that conveys water to
the area in which the IA is functioning.
!/ That is, the overall water-use efficiency during critical periods was in the
order of 45X or more, which is considered normal for open, unlined, irrigation
systems.



- 57 -
Page 2 of 2
amongst IA members, experience in O&M, financial status of an IA and
the functioning of the irrigation system.
(4) Beneficiary IAs would have to commit themselves to contribute to
repairs/improvements   and   to   properly   maintain   them   after
completion.4/
(e) Beneficiary lAs would have to commit themselves to assume full O&M
responsibility of the subsystem directly serving them following
completion of repairs/improvements. Such a commitment is consistent
with the strategy of the project to turn over the responsibility of
operating and maintaining components of the systems to capable and
willing IAs.
Economic Criteria:
(f) The economic selection criterion is that each system selected for
improvement would have an economic rate of return of not less than
10%.
The Selection Process
3.        All 165 NIS were initially screened based on supply and demand of
water considering available water resources (rainfall, river) and existlng
cropping patterns. Systems in which water resources were already completely
utilized or those with unavailable or deficient records were dropped and 61
systems remained on the long list.   This list was screened and ranked in
accordance with the following point system:
Adequacy of water supply  . . . . . . . . . . . . 25X
Effectiveness of IA   . . . . . . ..1
Commitment of IAs (and members) for 0&K   .  . . 40X
Economic qualification  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 251
4.        The number of systems that would be improved under the project is
based on the above point system. Though the systems have already been identified
on the basis of NIA's and NIACONSULT's field investigations during the past year,
the evaluation process has not been completed and it is possible that ratings of
some systems will drop and the next-in-line system will be included. Also,
because of NIA's continuous efforts in TA organization and training, and,
possible future crop diversification (into non-rice crops that consume less
water) or changes in other circumstances, systems that have not qualified for
improvements at this time may qualify in the future, under another project.
U There have been too many instances in the past where improvements were not
appreciated, not protected by water users, and not maintained. The active
involvement of water users in the identification, construction and maintenance
of improvements will hopefully change this experience.



-58-                            Atmx 6
Page 1 of 5
PHILIlPINES
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT (IQ$S II)
System Improyement. Operation and Maintenance Roort (tPro-formal
Name of System:
Region:
Table of Contents
I     Rxecutive Suimary
The system, why and how selected, main issues requiring addressing.
Justification of proposed rehabilitation, repairs, improvements.
7     Background
2.1  Brief  description  of  the  service  area:  type  (run-of-river,
reservoir, pump lift) and statistics of the water resource; the
existing (and future) irrigation system, present (and future)
agriculture, socio-economics (including land tenure), institutional
features, impact of buman habitat on water quantity and quality,
roadway and telephone communication systems.
2.2   Irrigated,  benefitted  areas.   Statistics,   and  analysis  of
growth/recession of irrigated and benefitted areas, changes in
respective percentages. Identification of constraints.
2.31/ Agriculture.   Cropping patterns, calendars, yields, production.
Statistics and factors affecting growth/recession (e.g. water
constraints, changes in yields, crop diseases).
2.4   Brief summary of issues or problems constraining agricultural
production.
2.5   Plans for future agricultural development.
2.6   Irrigators Associations. TSAs, UAs and Federated IAs. Statistics of
past and present. Reasons for historical growth/ recessions,
leadership, degree of internal and external cooperation from TSA
through Fed. IAs. Contracts. Future outlook: increased scope of
1/ Paras 2.3 - 2.5 will be based on pre-1992 data from NIA's regional
offices. DA statistics on cropping and yields are inapplicable because they did
not distinguish in the past between NISs and other irrigated areas. From 1992
and on DA is expected to collect system-specific data.



- 59 A-e
Page 2 of 5
activities,  irrigation  and non  irrlgatlon-related  activities.
Potential for taklng over OUM responsibllities. Needs for training,
support, guidance, incentives, etc.
2.7   ISF Collection. Statlstics of past and present. Back accounts.
Collection efficiency. Future prospects. Type inputs required to
increase collection.
2.8  NIA  Bureaucracy.    Self  evaluation  of  NIA's  past  role  and
performance, problems encountered, future outlook and role. Proposed
improvements in NIA's system organization, role, relation with water
users, the region, the central HQ and with other institutions.
Part A
3     System Operation (Water Delivery)
3.1   Statistics of gross volumes of seasonal water supplied and aggregate
consumptive use demands of current and projected cropping plans at
headwork intakes and at measured control/delivery points during
normal (501 exceedence at 951 confidence) and dry years (801
exceedence at 951 confidence).IY
3.2   Short description of past and current water delivery practices in
normal and dry years (e.g.continuous or rotational deliveries,
points of rotation, rotation intervals); operation of system during
rains.
3.3  Schematic  description  of  distribution    of  water  deliveries
(discharges) through the system and demands (under efficiencies
stated above) during normal and dry years in 10-day intervals (or
other practiced time Interval).
3.4   Short description of how deliveries were (and are being) monitored.
3.5  Short description of past and current participation of water users
(IA leaders and members) in operational policy decisions, in
practices and in monitoring.
3.6   Short  description  of  past  and  current  practices  of  water
distribution within TSAs and within IA 'command' units (secondaries,
divisions), and (if applicable) amongst IAs.
1 Note: Assume an overall water-use efficiency of 451 in the wet season and
of 501 in the dry season for run-of-river diversion systems, 501 and 551
respectively  for  reservoir  supplied  systems.   This   is  clearly  an
oversimplification of a much more complex issue and is not intended to signal
target efficiencies. However greater specificity in distinguishing between
different efficiencies during different parts of seasons is considered
impractical. It should also be noted that on a hydrologic system-wide basis,
water-use efficiencies particularly during dry seasons, as measured by residual
outflows, are most likely higher than figures given above.



- 60 -
Amnex 6
Page 3 of 5
3.7   Short description of main operational problems/issues facing NIA and
conflicts with or amongst water users. If resolved, where, when and
by whom.
3.8   Propose practical improvements in operational procedures of this
system with a particular focus on increasing water-use efficiencies
and thus increase actually irrigated (and benefitted) areas.
3.9   Statistics  of  system  operational  costs.  In  this  list  only
expenditures related directly to system operation.
3.10 Potential savings in operational costs. List any improvements in
operational procedures which might reduce operational costs.
Part B
4    Rehabilitation, Major Repair and Improvement
4.1   Main rehabilitation and/or repair needs.
4.2   Main improvement needs.
4.3  Role of irrigators (lAs) in the decision.
4.4  Irrigators' commitment for proper O&K of repaired/rehabbed/improved
system, and their readiness to contribute to repairs.
4.5  Alternative plans considered and proposed rehab/improvement plan
(Sci;ematic Layout).
4.6   Plans/profiles    of    canals    and    structures    to    be
rehabilitated/improved.
4.7   Slope protection (vegetative or other).
4.8  Plans of desilting devices.
4.9  Quantity and cost estimates.
4.10 Investment Plan.
5    Bienefits of proposed Rehab, Major Repairs, Improvement
5.1 Technical justification of proposed works: improvement in system
performance as expressed in improved water distribution (in quantity
and in timeliness of supply).
5.2   Economic  justification  of  proposed  works  from  increases  in
production and/or savings in operational or replacement costs.



- 61 -
Arme 6
Page 4 of 5
Part C
6     Future System Operation Plan
6.1   Future seasonal water demand/supply plan at headwork Intake and
'delivery points' to lAs (heads of secondaries, divisions, etc.) for
normal and dry years (viewing projected, future, cropping plans at
currently assumed water-use efficiencies). Sensitivity analysis of
a 5 and 1OX increase in water use efficiency.
6.2   Plan of future 10-day discharges at main intake and at delivery
points as above. Sensitivity analysis of 5 and 101 inrease in
water-use efficiencX.
Part D
7     System Naintenance and Routine Repair
7.1  Short description  of how  and by whom  system  is   currently
maintained: headwork, mains, secondaries, tertiaries, and type of
maintenance works carried out (e.g. weeding, desilting, structural
maintenance, canal embankments, roads, side hills [erosioni.
7.2  Short description of sRecLal requirements and costs of repairs of
damages caused by frequently recurring natural calamities.
7.3  Short description of type and costs of contracted routine ropairs
and/or maintenance works and special repairs. State how cost and
funded (POW or other categories).
7.4   Equipment use. Short description of available equipment, condition
and statistics of usage for O& and for other uses. If applicable,
rental of equipment for O&M from external sources.
7.5   Identification of maintenance/repair problems that have not been
addressed till now and which require attention.
7.6   Needs for improvements in routine and preventive maintenance (if
any).
7.7   Statlstics of annual maintenance and repair costs and estimated
future annual maintenance and repair costs.
7.8   Proposed potential cost-raving improvements in system maintenance.
Part K
8     Performance MonitorLig
8.1   DaLLy  monitoring  of  water  deliveries  at  headwork  (indicate
improvements in proposed monitoring vs. current monitoring).



- 62 -
Page 5 of 5
8.2 Daily monitoring of water deliveries of delivery points (heads of
secondaries, laterals, divisions) during wet and dry seasons,
indicate improvements as under 8.1.
8.3   Seasonal monitoring of irrigated and benefitted areas
8.4 Seasonal monitoring of ISF collection in Improved areas, (cash and
in kind).
Part F
9     Institutional Impact
9.1   Short description of current institutional arrangements (regional,
system, municipal) and participation of leaders and of water users.
9.2   Shortcomings  of  existing  arrangements       and  proposals  for
improvements viewing an increased role of water users and the turn-
over of 06K of system components to IAs.



-63 -
Page 1 of 14
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT (IOSP II)
Annex 7: project Cost Tables
List of Tables
Table  1:  Costs of System Improvement Component
Table 2a: Description of Urgent Repair Component
Table 2b: Costs of Urgent Repairs Component
Table  3:  Costs of Erosion Control Works
Table  4:  Costs of Pilot Silt Exclusion and
Improved Water Control Structures
Table  5: Costs of Incremental OEM
Table  6:  Costs of IA Development
Table  7:  Parcellary Mapping and Irrigation Fee
Register Component
Table  8: Costs of NIA Staff Training
Table  9: Costs of Technical Assistance
Table 10: Costs of Equipment
Table 11: Costs of Agricultural Support
Services Component
Table 12: ProJect Cost Summary



- 64 -
.PHR5PDW
920331M                        Rounram
Name Of  Sstem (Regio)            Am             Am      t       19           14             19            1               9?        Tota
(1a)          (ba)
L  M        Dblt (               24x4           20,232         14,W0        256             ,9           1,9            9.467       94,7
2. MMll DW3a (2                  24,793         18,19           8,15        13,58         A3M            13,584         SAM3        54,33
.  &MS DistA (                   24AS7           1M             7X3         11,725        11,725         11,2           460         4,0
4. Aps RIS (4)                    1,119           1119          1,0          Zia            Zia           2,1             861        8,6
S.  uanng RIS (12)                4,500          4,500          99a         16,3          16,437         16,628         6,655       66,550
6. Cm R3S (1)                      431             431            -          1,180         3,S41            -             -          4,721
7. HanF _o   RIS (4)                264            264            -           494           1,D                                      I _  7
& Cang  RIS (4)                     310            31             -            m77          130                           -          2,7
9. Sap Pump No.1 (1)                298            298            -          1,172                          so ss6                   sAM
10. Bog PUMP No2 (1)                674            674             -         203            364           34             I0          1415
IL Bo0p Pump N.3 (1)                202             146            -           909          15             15             454         44
12 IAR   (2                        2.6            1                -         lops         17A           17,66A6        S0            047
1. BaPo RIS (2)                    24V19          2,419            -         1,776         225.          239             68          638
14. St. Marla.M      (4)           3,172          25               -         1_34           804          lug             5$1?        51,7
1. Matogdoa R1S (5)         S       30            S30             -          1,765         3,9           38              883         826
I Bark R(S)                        2,260          2,260            -         2,841          4,9M          4,973          1,421       14,207
17.PoapolUS(a)                      865            865             -          18            3,237         3,2.            go5         9,9
1& Maasa R1S (12)                  3660           3,6              -         21             5,21          32              4          14,8
Total Area (ba)                95,9U          78,6
Bs Cs/                                                      40A6         116,1         15 8           049,0          50,S19      514,12
Afddt        (i Phyrd
Contingency (t0%)                               4,067        11,684        15,645        14,9            5,S2        51,418
him 
Canmlageacyb/                                   3,906       21,785         464?          66             26          159,9
Total Cost                                                     4863         150.310          ,20         22S,342        82,S2D      ?3
j/ Incldes 7* fat evongi  ftig sapaswlam and adWgdminsal    Foreign ehangs  bm a   s25*
asumed at &75* for I993I.66 forlf 1942.67  for 1995 ad 3.5  for 199 aOd  PnWds    tbss4 fth  ie oaniqedu fnow adjent
for eapserd dua"e in eudmp rates.



PHlI4MNES
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECtI (OSP 1[)
Deosorintion of Ur!aat Repair C _monn
Name of system      Region    Snte               Rqeair Work Needed                                    Benefits Expeed
1. Mausip RIS          1    Tlnnel              Pxtin                                                 Savigp in O&M
2. Pageban RIS         4    Pagbaban Weu         River bank, training sucte                            Pmven Costie stutnal damag
3. Cagumy RIS          4    Inaggan Cbeck   Restore tight abtme  and add bay                           Prevent frtber damage and increa  sevice a
4. Balanac RIS         4    Diveion Wet         RPir silng baion; 1dop proteion                        Pevent aosli suctu  dump
S. Pul*-Bansud RIS      4    Divnion Wei        Repak dis protection                                   Prevet costir dsucta damge
6. Dac-Taligay.
Matonion RIS         S    Slawihan Dam        Lower siing bsin (due to quarrying)                   Prvent loss of stifling basi
7. baaba".Naid-
OgeontHibiba RIS     S    Nasasi Dam          Repair dil  an                                         Prvet costr Arcturl damaep
5    Hia   Dam          Repair of ioele, slice gate                            Pv        _     of m        d
5    Oga8  Dam          Rqeir sluice gt and proteio dike                       Prevet costlieruca dama
S    Mab    Dam  l    ReP  sduic gate and pretc dike                           Prevet co        sructal damae
5    Mababa Dam #2    Rp  slice gate and prtecton dike                         Pfevt costli   uctual dam
S    Maaa Dom 13    Repa suice gate. die apro an d/e Ptoection                 Pvet lss of apron, Srve hineu tin   op is
8. Agan-ta.Dazba
RIS                  6    A4a  Dam            Repa d/s pmteto, sluc gtes, rver tining               Prvet costr stuctua d8ae
6    Sta.8afbra Dun    RPa  left u/s rtaihng wat.l provide rver tanig          Prat coslrw st rl  damage
9. J_aIuSua  RIS       6    Jaaw Dam            Repai of ds apr,  st gates and lifting omeb.           Prvent  slier repr of inkand u/Sa indaon
6    S e Daom           Repa d/s apmrn. luiceway, gates. dis prtction          prevent cos  repa    d ls of a
10. Andna RIS          10    Andan Dam           Povide     exckadiog ched a/s of tbeway               Saving in OM
11. Cabadam RIS        10    Cabadbar  Dam    Repair wearig race on web, flood prt. dike, son          Prevent costlie        dag, ervice neuption
aNd romp bl
12. Lassog RIS         It    Lasang Dam          Repa of die apo, ptction, u/s training iwL1,         Petb os of apron, service inuption, crop los
elk cxcludet
13. Alab RIS           11    Sallh Dm            Repa lftig mech. barag gat, eoded  .ction dis         Preven u/a flooding, fclte dis rlas
11    Sto. Nino Dam      Minor Rqei  fing  mecbarre ga, eroded secto dls  Pevt uhs fbodig, faclt dhe r a e
14. Mang RIS           12    MIMg Dam            RPai bank protecto, st ecd   aise Bume wall           Prevent codsi dructl  4dm        rie i up
acoM ploseI 



- 66 -
320
SECOND MIRGATlON OPERATIN  SUPPOT POE&QHM  am| 11)
Cosb of Ursnt Repan Cs
(P 000)
Name of System
(Reon) li                 Sbuctur                1993      1994       199S      1996       1997      Tot
1.  anan RIB (10)         Andanan Dam              259        -         -          -         -         25
2. MahbaNasisi-           Maba Danm  l             268        -         -          -         -         213
OgsongS-llbig           Mabaha Dam 12             91        -         -          _         _          91
RIS (5)                 Mahaba Dom 13            161        -         -          -         -         161
Ogsong Dam               159      476        -          -          -
Nssii Dam                 -      1,340     2,344     2,344        670     6,6C
Hibiga Dam                -      6161      1,079      1,079       308     3,02
3. lakur.Sua              Jalaur Dam               433    1,300         -          -         -       1,733
RIS (6)                 Suage Dam                 -      2,826     4,943      4,943      1,412    14,124
4. Alah                   Sto.Nino Dam             134       401        -          -         -         535
RIS (11)                Surah Dam                 -      1,776     3,108      3,109       m        8,881
S. Msalip RIS (1)         Tunnel                    -      2,415      4,227     4,227      1,208    12,07
6. Pagbaban RIS (4)       Diverion Weir             -      2,568      4,494     4,494      1,234     12"
7. Cguy RIS (4)            naigghan check           -      1,070      1,872     1,873       53S      5,3=0
S. BahIc RIB (4)          Divesion Weir             -        856      1,498     1,498       428      4,2M
9. Pula-Bansud RIS (4)    Diversion Wear            -        920      1,610     1,611       460      4,01
10. Daet-TIpy-
Maogdn RIS (5)            awihan Dam              -      3,424     5,992      S,992      1,712    17,121
11. Cabadbarn RIS (10)     CabadbaranDam             -      2,782     4,868      4,869     1,391    13,910
12. Mlang RIS (12)         Mlang Dam                 -      2,097     3,670      3,60      1,049    10,486
13. Apans-S.               Str. Bubsa Dam           504      840        840       840        336      3.310
Baubara RIS (6)         Agnn Dam               9.472    4,119      4,119      4,120      1,648    16M4
14. Lasang RIS (11)        Desion Wea             3.435    5,724    5.724        5.725     2.W      .2z
Bse Cost J                                      7,916   35,550    5.0,388    50,394    15,619   159,67
Add:    (i) Physal Continey (10%)                792    3,555      5,039      5,039      1,562    15,9
() Price Contingency /                 __0    703         15.947    21.702   8.82 .L9  J
Toal Cost                                       9,528   46,118    71,374    77,135    26,079   230,234
/ VAle the preei  Table 2(a) shows  "di stems for Regions 1-12 in that order, thi Table flsb te syftm a o   te
borlememstion priory.
/ Includ  7% for engieing, supervision andamisrain. Forgn xchange component is 35%.
g1 For assumtions watg to pric contingenc canuatios, se footnot   of precedig Tabb 1.



auwm
MM=ON  IlUUAnTONOPERATllNS  UPPOKIt PROJECT llOS 14
Codeg of hg  Conro Wod
Cost (Pewo 0)
Qai    Unit Cost
(Pesos)       1993      1994       1995       1996      1997       1998      Total
Piqatoy  Work (Sydow)              SO       38,400         240       720        960        -          -         -        1,920
Nurey Esabfisdhe &
Maine  (Sites)                    so       98,900        445      1,335      2,472       693         -         -       4,945
Hodgerow Estabishment (Kim)      1920         1,921         77       230        692      1,383      1,306        -       3,688
Other Eroion Control Wolks               Lump Sum          37S      lS00      150S0      I,500     1,125         -       6,000
Mabitenanc of Hedgrows (Kin)     1920         1300          -        122        395       944       1,035        -       2,496
Fied C;oordinaion & Monkoitng            Lump Sum          140       413        553       553        S00        341      2,500
En8 inn, Siirvision *nd
Adinrnstmtion (12%)                                      153        S18       789        609        476        41      2,586
Bow Cost A4lQ                                                   48         LzL       S.8        44*2        382    24.1
Add: (i) Physiol Contingency (10%)                         143       484        736       S68        444         38      2,413
(ni) Price Coningency                                121        824      1,967     2,087      2,128       229      7,356
Tota Cost                                             1.64      6.146     li4        AM         214         fi2      3329
if Forcign exchange coonent is 10%.
I..!
* 



-68-
ANNEX 7
Table 4
0~   -     l
|~~~~~~  I i.i a^ 1 
imill
ii~~~~i i



-69                  ANNEX 7
Table 5
S~~# ii                  p .s; 
11
I~~~~~~~~~~
3~' I            gXss0R         t  
! 5 st ^ 0~~~~1  1 *e itX 
g 8 a a "Z~~~-   qfwSt e b
l    I  I  X               | *1  III
0 O] >         ]XX{gV
4d



SECOND  GRRIGAION O       APERATONS SUPPOtrT PRtOJECT asS M
Cot  f   _a"  soimoa)  Ddopt
Dasrt%ion                                             1993       1994      1995       1996       1997       1998      TotW
A. For Sydows to be hImeed h                                 6                 0                     2.76.97
Unit Cost                             Cost (Peso '000)
Traiing                                    291.70         80S      8,796     8,796      8,796        80S        -      27,998
Aowarnces                                   43.80         121      1,321     1,321      1,321       121         -       4,205
Progp=u Admin. & Pc Dcssoe.                  5.20          14       157        157        157         14        -         499
Suhit:oW (A)                                           92Q      10.274    IOX74      ZL0.7i       940         -20
B. For Other Systems Qha)                                 2.9S        W1       S22I                   2.I         -       2ZL12=
Unit Cost                             Cost (PaSo '000)
Trainig                                    145.90        431       1,333     1,333        431       431         -       3,959
AUlowances                                 167.80        495       1,533     1,533        495       495         -       4,5I
Program Adma. and Process Doc.               S.20          IS        48         48         1S         IS        -         141
SubkTotd (B)
Base Cost (A&B) a/                                     1.8      13.18      12L11       U122      1.111 _12
Add: (t) Phy"skaContlngegcy(S%)                             94        659        659        561        94         -       2,067
(i4) Rice Conindgncy                                  145      2,07S      3,240      3,796       828         -      10,084
Total Cost                                            2LM22     1I222. 178               72                    -
Incblds superision and adcois       stion st of 2.5%. Forcign oxhaqge compon t is 5%.



SECOND  URGATION OP TIONS SUPPORT PROJECT aOSP M
ParoeDar MagwEe and kIrriSon    RPoot Com_ixv
A. NIS Svice Arma with aMd w ut Maostin
Reon                  Service Ara          Area wit Mapping      Ait witht Maping
(ha)                   (ha)                   OA)
t                     4S,36                  44,666                    720
2                    15S,662                148,162                   7,S00
3                    172,064                170,7S1                   1.313
10                    23,332                  17,073                  6,2S9
11                    50,876                  25,653                 2S,223
12                    39,110                  26,610                 12.500
mm1                   46.40                  432.915                 5331
B. Cosos of Macn and Undaind    imo Fee Reisom
Quanity   Unit Cost                                        Cost (PoO '000)
(ha)      (Peso)         1993      1994       1995       1996      1997       1998       Total
Mapping                          S3,515         115        m75      2.300      3,279         -         -          -       6,1S4
Iprmlon Fee Regisers             S3,1IS          1S         75        300        428         -         -          -         803
Hugis g, Supetvioo, AdmAmishaion (7.5%)                      16        6S         93         -         -          -         174
SWCostAl                                                666      2          La                                         7.13
Add: (i) PhyioalCoatingenyy(S%)                             33        133        190         -         -          -         356
(n) Price Coningnq                                     S6        447       1000        -          -          -       1,503
TOtal Cost                      :S                               324S       4.9,                   _L
A( Foreip excha  gcompoceais 5%.4



- 72 -                  ~~~~~~~ANNEX ^ 7
Table 8
:a,,,a                              e     iittetR S;^3 t2l
gi~~- ,   i ,            us     I| |R  
4      4                     III                                       *1glfl  ll8    
0                         _                  
!|l   I g I S11 10R   1"'  1ga"!i1'
2 ~~J i1 |tt0SRtRSS, 1          bRS  R3   , 
} ~11.                                                 iiiiit  ai 0 X10ll



SECOND RRGATnON OPTIONS SU                   PROJECT dOSP m
.Costs Of Tecicl isita
No of Consultant Months                            Cost (Peso '000)
Locia       Foein         1993       1994       1995      1996       1997       199       Total
Silt Ex_lue                         6           3            -       2,525        -          -          -          -       2,525
uprowd Water Control Stncues        6           3            -       2,525        -          -          -          -       2,525
Hydrological Rassessmeft           12           3            -       2,524       765         -          -          -       3,289
Mechanical Workshop mad Equomen
Management Study                 24           6            -       2,703      3,876        -          -          -       6579
O&M Tainlng Aistanoc               24           8            -       3,111      4,641        -          -          -       7.752
Ta D aeopmt Assi;tanoe             1S           -            -         510       382        383        383        2SS      1,913
Total                          87          23
Base Cost                                                -      13664                   383         345832S
Ad: (O  PhysclContingency(5%)                               -        69S        483         19         19         13      1,229
(ui) Price Conngenmy                                   -        3024       3166        12S       162        134      6,611
TOaWl Cost                                               -                 13           S          564         32 423
An - inclusive cost per coouat - month: Porei  = US $23,000 = Peso S86,500
Local = US $5,000 = Ptuos 127,500
The freig exchange conmponen is SS%. No supervision and        n costs are assmewd.
D* 



SECODCQ    UtRIGATIO  2E& S  StPPOlRT MPR aa=  i
Costs of_
cost (Pao '000
Description                        No.   Unit Cost
(Peos)        1993      1994        1995      1996       1997      1998       Tota
Henv B_hw
Tacdor (Dor). 90 HP                    S       1,457          -      7,285         -         -          -         -        7,28S
Motorgder, 1t5-120 HP                  6       1,685          -      10,110        -         -          -         -       10,110
Dump Truck, 4.506. cu.m.              28         640          -      17,920        -         -          -         -       17,920
Vibnty Rollr, 2.5 tons                 8         478          -      3,824         -         -          -         -        3,824
Lig  EQi_en
Pick-upT T k, 314 - I ton            100         267          -     26,700         -         -          -         -       26,700
C      urolStake Trlck, 3-5 tons       S         581          -      2,905         -         -          -         -        2,905
Pick-up, DoubleCob                    16         526          -      8,416         -         -          -         -        8,416
Concrete Mbi, 0.16 cu.m.              80          45          -         -       3.600        -          -         -        3,6Q0
Weding Machine                        54         182          -         -       9,828        -          -         -        9,828
Office &             Ement
Pottabe Communication System          97          41          -      3,977         -         -          -         -        3,977
Xerox Copier                          97          72          -      6,984         -         -          -         -        6,984
Solar Cabulatorwith Printet           I.           4          -        460         -         -          -         -         460
Mio Comutr coompt witb Prnter         17          59          -      1,003         -         -          -         -        1,003
Eno ri&, Supeion & Adminstn (2.5%)                            -      2,240        336     - _-                    -        2,376
BaseCostd/                                                  _      9t        13.76        5z          -         -      l9S8
Add: (i) Physical Con  ncy (S%)                                -       4,591       688        -          -         -        5,9
(i) Pfice Contingency                                     -     21,086      5,193        -          -         -       26,279
Total Cost                                                  _    117501      19.645                                    137.14
W Poreig nchangeompon tis 75%.
O0^



- 75 -
ANNIZ 
Table 11
PHLIPPIES
SECOD WGAnON OPRAONS SUP-ORT PROJP-C aOSP ID
Cost of Amicultural Supooox Ser Comoonent
(P '000)
1993      1994     199S      1996     1997     1998     Totl
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Verification Tria                         225        900     1350     1485       810      360    5,130
Demonstration Plots                          -        300      900    1,200      900       300    3,600
Seed Poduction                             200        400      400      200        -        -      1,200
Trinig IA Manbem s                         250      1,000    1,750    1,750    1,000       250    6,00(
iPM-Farne Fed Scbo                           -      12       1,20      1M0        90        -      4
Bas Cost pi                                675      3.8ao    5        5.835       1
Add: (i) Supervision an
^dmInistiation(2.5%)               17         95      140      146        qO       23      511
(i) Physial Contingcncy (10%)         69       390       574      598      370        93    2,094
(iii) Price Contingency                59       663    1,534    2,196    1,773       558      6783
TotLal "                                f               4.94    L7.4        Lt            4   2UMZ
It Foreign excag component i 10%.



PHXJPP-ES
9E9M)p EitlSjUGAIO PERATVIONgrSh  SUPPORT PROJECTr a(SPM
Project Cad umman Al
(P'000)
1993     1994      1995      1996      199       1998      Totd
(a) Sysdems Imp.                            40,670   116,841   156,448   149,700    SO,S19       -    S14,178
(h) Urgent Repais                            7,916    35,SS0    50,388    50,394    IS,619       -     IS9,867
(c) Erosion control Works                    1,430     4,838     7,361     S,682     4,442       382    24,13S
(d) Silt Exciudo sand mproved Water
Contlm Structures                         -       5,612    37,233       -         -         -     42,845
19SS3neoliL5Yi gm80,61S    85,435    93,336   101,612   108A466    9S,431   564,89S
(a) IA Daidepm ws1,881    13,188    13,188    11,21S                                 1,181       -      41,353
(b) TechnkWl AkEidbnce                         -      13,898     9,664       383       383       2SS    24,S83
(c) Paroellasy Mapping for ISF Colection       666     2,66S     3,800       -         -         -       7,131
(d) NIA Staff Tnriing                        3,593    10,116     8,100     1,670       200       -      23,679
(e) Equipentm nd Manials                       -      91,824    13,764       -         -         -     IOS,S88
AszicmIus &u Inz &Vsu                           692     3,89S     S,740     5,981     3,700      933    20,941
Dsa cost                                    137L463   3 8.      399,022   326.637   185I210   971Q 21 9,192
Physicl Cotingencis                           5,378    23,2S8    28,142    21,839     7,5S1       144    86,312
Price Contingieas h                          11,624   7f,992   IIS,146   12S,127    88,079    S2,849   465,817
Total Project Cast I                          445   480,112   42310  473.603   20             1424 2. ,081.324
I/  Detais of individa componns are in t precedng Tables.                                                                             I
gl  The loal and foreig inflation rates used for calcuating price contingecies are daid m footnt kI of Table 1. Wbile bas costs and physical contingecies 
are basod on the appial (1992) xhange rs of P25.S = US $1, price contingencies take into account the expected changes in the exchange rae.
g   Total projet costs molude an eimated PS.8 milion   taxes and duties. These have been estimated at sbout 2% of the total cost (inchlding contingncies)    _
of system inpovemt and repir componet and the incremental O&M component and  pese tm    ad dutes on consruction matrials used. No mt 
and duties fbr fte oquipment sbmponent we iclud  since NIA is exempt from these      and duties.



- 77 -
Anne 8
Page 1 of 7
SECON  IRR1GATON OPERATION  SUPPORT POROCT (!OSP Ifl
Technical Assistance
Terms of Reference for Consultants
All reports prepared for each assignment under the following T.O.R. shall
be submitted to the Bank for comment.   International consultants/experts
specified under these T.O.R. shall have at least 15 years of exporience In
similar work.   National consultants/experts  shall have collaborated with
international consultants/experts on similar work, or shall have at least 5 years
experience in similar work.
I.   BXDG1
A. Ob_octive. The objective of technical ass: itance under this assignment
is to assist NIA in improving its database on river discharges, and in particular
on data of low-flows, at diversions to NIS thereby improving the ability to plan
reliable irrigation deliveries and irrigable areas.
B.  SCOD.  Work under these Terms of Reference includes reviewing
available hydrological and hydrometric data on the eighteen NIS selected for
improvement, establishing and calibrating an appropriate mathematical simulation
model which would improve data on reliable (low flow) river discharges at the
point of diversion and training NLIA staff in employing the model. The work
would also include assisting NIA establish and calibrate river discharge
measurements at the eighteen diversion weirs. Specifically, the work shall:
1.   Analyze available data on river discharges,  transposed to the
diversion site(s);
2.    Analyze rainfall data in the basin (or, if warranted, transposed to
the basin from a neighboring watershed), homogeneity test of
records;
3.    Establish an appropriate rainfall-runoff simulation model;
4.    Calibrate the model;
5.    Establish a 'dry* year. defined as a year whose rainfall is exceeded
80X of the time;
6.    Establish average monthly and average half-monthly river discharges
at point of diversion;
7.    Assist NIA in siting stage recorders (or staff gauges) at the
diversion weirs (of the eighteen diversions to NIS) and ln
calibrating them; and
8.    Assist NIA in establishing appropriate measuring intervals.



- 78 -
Page 2 of 7
C.    UDleoetatUM. The assignment  ill be implemted during 18 months
by OA intOrational and national consultant(s). Three consultant-months (CH) of
an International xpwert and 12 CH of national eperts have been budgSted for this
assignament.
D. RImgrtlJ Within one month after starting, a ahort inception report
shall be submitted by the consultant sumzmrizing preliinary finditgs concerning
available hydrologlc and hydrometric dats nad their characteristics. The report
shall also nclude a detailed workplan for the remainder of the assignment.
Within thre months after starting a brief progress report shall be
*ublitted by the consultant umariszing a review of available end transposed dat-
at, or to, the various diversion points, describing problems deficiencies, If
any, and proposed mprovements. The report shall also lclude a description of
the simulation model and Its calibration.
One month before termination, the consultant shall submit a draft
final report including a sumary of basic, transposed data and data on dry' year
flows derived from siulation studios and analyses. The report shall also
describe traluirg provided by the consultant(t) and nme the boeeficlaries.
inally, the report shall present the methodology that could be employed In other
MIS with similar problem.
II.  MIRDORiI WAhTU LQ QLSXIUR1IIS
A. Objctive. The objective of technical assistace in improved water
control is to asist NIA in designing appropriately improved water control
structure  which would facilitate equitable and timly water deliveries to all
users In national Irrigation systems.
B Scone. Work under these Tarms of Reference Includes assistance In
designing a pilot set of contiguous, consistent, Improved water control
structures In one lateral In a system chosen for improvement, which, if found
successful, may be replicated In other NIS. Specifically work shall include:
1.   An analysis of the current operation of the lateral during the wet
and dry seasons, Identification of deficiencies and diagnosis of
alternative structural and institutional improvementsl
2.   Comparative study of potential alternative structural improvements
(which may include also the headwork structure of the lateral) and
preparation of cost estimates;
3.    Planning, jointly with NIL, concomitant lintitutional improvements
to enhance the cooperation of vater users; and
4.   Selection of the most cost-effective devices ( checks, turnouts,
etc.) and preparation of detalled engineering designs of the
structures.
S.   Bsted on eaperience gained In the pilot exercise, a detailed plan
will also be prepared for installing such improved control
structures on a complete system, including all related physical and
Institutional improvements required.



- 79                            AnEHL. 8
Page 3 of 7
C. Imlementatio. The assignment will be implemented within six months,
or less by an international and national consultant(s).   Three CM of an
international expert and 12 CK of national experts have been budgeted for this
assignment.
D.  Rorting. Within one month after starting, a short inception report
shall be submitted by the consultant which shall state the selected lateral, the
planned method of investigation and type of potential, structures.
Within three months after starting a brief progress report shall be
submitted by the consultant describing deficiencies encountered in the lateral,
a diagnosis of their causes and an outline of proposed improved structural and
non-structural interventions.
One month before termination, the consultant shall submit a draft final
report including findings on deficiencies and how these were treated under this
assignment. It shall include results of comparative studies of alternative
structural improvements, justify the selection of designed structures and include
appropriately supported engineering designs, costs and benefits.
III.  SEDIMENT EXCLUDM
A. Objective. The objective of technical assistance for this assignment
is to assist NIA in designing a prototype of an appropriate, cost effective,
sediment excluder, which should be suitable for replication to other NIS to
reduce the recurrent high cost of sediment removal.
B. Scgge. Work under these Terms of Reference includes assistance in
designing a prototype of a sediment excluder as described above, that will be
built at one or select sites within systems chosen to be improved under the
Project.  The design shall be of proven sediment excluder(s) and not of an
experimental type, that will be effective in removing at least all material down
to fine sand (0.08 mm grain size) from river water diverted into the system, and
dispose of the sediment hydraulically back into the river. Specifically work
shall include:
1.   Analysis of sediment contained in river water and in diverted water
and, as may be appropriate, recommendations on headgate and
sluicegate operation that would reduce sediment intake into the
system;
2.    Selection of an appropriate sediment excluder (or excluders) for two
selected sites and preparation of outline plans and cost estimates
for the structures;
3.    Assessment of the financial viability of proposed structures
considering financial costs and savings (benefits) to be derived;
and
4.    Preparation of detailed engineering designs and plans for the
selected sediment excluder(s).



- 80 -
Annex 8
Page 4 of 7
C. IM21gmMnLLM. The assignment will be implemented within six months,
or less by an international and national consultant(s).   Three CM of an
international expert and six CM of national experts have been budgeted for this
assignment.
D. gportiQng. Within one month after starting, a short inception report
shall be submitted by the consultant which shall present an analytical review of
available data and state the type of potential structures and their cost.
Within three months after starting a brief progress report shall be
submitted by the consultant describing the type of selected structure(s), their
costs and operation.
One month before termination, the consultant shall submit a draft final
report including a review of sedimentation in the concerned rivers, and on
amounts expected to be trapped. The report shall include design criteria of the
sediment excluders, plans, cost estimates, and benefit/cost data.
IV.   IMPROVE) OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF MECHANICAL EOU1PMENT
A. Objective. The objective of technical assistance under this assignment
is to assist NIA in improving the operation and maintenance of mechanical
equipment in NIS.
B.  Sc2pe.  Work under these Terms of Reference includes guidance in
improving the operation of mechanical equipment construction and OSM equipment
at NIA's responsibility centers/regional headquarters and guidance of NIA's
machine shop managers and staff at two (or more) regional mechanical workshops
in improving equipment maintenance. Specifically work shall include:
1.    Review of NIA's current operational and maintenance, servicing,
repair, and replacement procedures;
2.    Review of the mechanical equipment inventory and deployment at
responsibility centers and/or regional headquarters;
3.    Review of the implementation of equipment O&K,  servicing and
replacement procedures;
4.    Review of technical capability of operators and mechanics at
responsibility centers/regional headquarters; and
5.    Issue of procedures that would improve the operation and the
maintenance of equipment and training of operators and mechanics in
equipment operation, servicing, repair and replacement of parts.
C. ImRlementation. The assignment will be implemented within 24 months
by  international  and national consultant(s).    Six  CM  of  international
consultant(s) and 24 CM of national consultant(s) have been budgeted for this
assignment.
D. Reporting. Within one month after starting, a short inception report
shall be submitted by the consultant which shall describe (preliminary) findings



- 81 -
Page 5 of 7
on equipment inventories, on the condition of equipment and present a detailed
work program proposed by the consultant.
Concise semi-annual progress reports shall be submitted by the
consultant(s), starting six months after inception, describing progress on
training and on introduced equipment Q&H procedures.
One month before termination, the consultant shall submit a draft final
report including equipment inventories and conditions at inception and any
improvements achieved during the assignment under these TOR. The report shall
detail prescribed O&N procedures and training of operators, mechanics and
workshop managers.
V.    IMPROVED SYSTEM OPERATION
A. Objective. The objective of technical assistance in Improved system
operation is to assist NIA and water users' lAs to achieve timely and equitable
distribution of water by adopting appropriate methods of scheduling, implementing
and controlling water deliveries from headwork to tertiary service area turnouts
(TSAs).
B. Scone. Work under these Terms of Reference includes assistance to NIA
and training of its O&M staff in improving operation and control of water
conveyed from headwork in main canals and main laterals in systems chosen for
improvement and assistance to, and training of lAs in improving operation and
distribution of water from lateral/sublateral headgate to TSAs which will be
their responsibility. Specifically work shall include:
1.   An analysis of NIA's current operational procedures in scheduling
diversions and in conveying water to lateral headgate in systems
chosen for improvement;
2.    Assistance to NIA's system 06M staff in calibrating system and
lateral headgate and checks (with due consideration of prevalent
backwater effects) and in setting gates;
3.   Assistance to NIA's staff in preparing daily delivery schedules
(using computers where available);
4.   Assistance to NIA's staff in improving conveyance control from
headwork to lateral headgate;
5.   Assistance to NIA's staff in planning water deliveries during
rainfalls (determination when, where to cut off supplies and for how
long);
6.   Assistance to IA and TSA managers and operating staff in arriving at
an appropriate scheduling modality (continuous supply, rotational
supply) and in planning and implementing daily (or hourly, as may be
warranted) water delivery schedules within laterals/sublaterals to
TSAs for (a) land preparation and soaking; (b) crop maintenance for
both seasons; and
[Notes: 1. Any proposed structural modification of turnout gates,
lateral/sublateral checks, etc., required to implement a scheduling



- 82 -
Page 6 of 7
modality  would  have  to  be:    fully  justified  in  terms  of
benefits/costs; agreed with TSA members; and in line with proposed
improvements for the system.
2. Cropping plans may have to be adjusted if water demands
exceed available supplies and/or system capacities.J
7.    Assistance to IAs in planning water deliveries during rainfalls.
C. Imlementation. The assignment will be implemented within 16 months
by international and national consultant(s). Eight CM of an international expert
and 24 CM of national experts have been budgeted for this assignment.
D. Regorting. Within one month after starting, a short inception report
shall be submitted by the consultant which shall describe in detail the plan of
work and the methodology to be employed in working with NIh staff and in working
with water users (IA and TSA managers).
Concise semi-annual progress reports shall be submitted by the
consultant(s), starting six months after inception, analyzing the operation of
the system and diagnosing causes for deficiencies; calibration of measuring and
control facilities, gate operations (frequency of setting gates), frequency and
accuracy of control of diversions and of deliveries to lateral headgate. Reports
shall also describe the scheduling modality within IA operated sub-systems.
structural modification (if any) and their cost, problems encountered and how
resolved.
Within three months after starting a brief progress report shall be
submitted by the consultant describing deficiencies encountered in the lateral.
a diagnosis of their causes and an outline of proposed improved structural and
non-structural interventions.
One month before termination, the consultant shall submit a draft final
report including a summary of operational features before and after the
intervention under these TOR: diversions, deliveries to laterals/ sublaterals and
deliveries to TSAs for 10-day periods throughout the dry and the wet season. The
report shall also summarize all structural modifications, their cost, and the
experience of employing them.   The report shall assess the condition of
replicability of employed procedures to other NIS.
VI. IA DMVELOPNENT ASSISTANCE
A. Objective. The objecti.e of the technical assistance provided here is
to assist NIA to strengthen its IA development work through updating its current
programs to meet evolving needs.
B. Scope. This work will include reviewing of ongoing IA developmeat
work, identifying areas of the ongoing programs which may need modification or
strengthening and identifying and formulating new interventions that may be
required particularly in the area of enhancing gender participation in IA
activities. Specifically the consultant will provide assistance to the
Institutional Development Department (IDD), Systems Management Department (Se).
and Training Department (TD) of NIA to implement the following aspects of the
training program with reference to IA Development:



- 83 -
Annex 8
Page 7 of 7
1.    On the basis of training adopted in the pilot tested membership
training implemented in Region 5, prepare and disseminate in
conjunction with IDD, SMD, and TD of NIA, in a timely manner,
training packages for the new program of membership training to be
implemented in the 18 NIS selected for physical improvement. The
following types of training are identified for this purpose:
Training of Farmer Trainers (TFT), Modlfied Basic Leadership Course
(MBUWC), Value Clarification Training/System Management Training
(VCT/SMT), and Modified Financial Management System Training (MFST);
2.    Upon the completion of needs assessment and identification of
interventions by IDD, prepare and assist In the implementation of
training modules targeted towards enhancing gender participation in
mainstream and ancillary activities of the lAs in the 18 systems
selected for physical improvement;
3.    At the end of one calendar year of implementation of each membership
and gender participation training program in the selected 18
systems, in conjunction with IDD and SMD, evaluate and recommend any
necessary changes and improvements in the program for the subsequent
year;
4.    In  conjunction  with  the  IDD,  prepare  and  assist  in  the
implementation of training modules for IA leaders for Capacity
Building for Agricultural Support Services (CBASS); and
5.   One month before the end of the assignment, evaluate and report on
the impact of the overall training component for IA development in
the 96,000ha under the 18 systems selected for improvement, the
additional 27,000 ha in which IA organization is planned and the
"42,500 ha in which sustenance of organized IAs is provided.
C. 101snaMi   . The assignment for which fifteen CM have been budgeted
will cover the entire project period.
D. flOoorting. Within one month after starting, a short inception report
shall be submitted by the consultant describing in detail the plan of work and
methodology which will be followed in working with NIA staff and lAs.
Concise semi-annual progress reports shall be submitted by the consultant,
commencing six months from inception, outlining accomplishments and providing
relevant recommendations.
One month before termination, the consultant shall submit a final report
summarizing accomplishments and providing a detailed evaluation of the program
as indicated at item 5 above.



- 84-                           AMU 9
Page 1 of 7
PHILIPPIE
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROECT (IOSP II)
AGRICULIURAL SUPPORT SERVICES Ap PRODUCTION
Introduction
1.        Agricultural support services in the provinces are in a state of
transition with the 1993 implementation of the Local Government Code (LGC). The
primacy of the Department of Agriculture's (DA) services is being changed from
direct contact with the farming community, to the provision of technical
assistance to the local government units (LWU). From January 1, 1993 onwards,
DA's 78 Provincial Agricultural Officers (PAO), 1,5 8 Municipal Agricultural
Officers (MAO), and 12,679 Agricultural Technicians (AT) have been removed from
DA's payroll, and it is expected that at least 70 X of this personnel is being
absorbed by provincial governments. DA is to retain its regional offices and all
its national and regional research facilities. (Source: DA-Proposed Implementing
Rules and Regulations for the Local Government Code: Issues and Concerns-- Oct.
1991). Under the old system, one AT was to provide multidisciplinary assistance
to 100- 150 farm families, on an area of about 250 ha, usually in 2-3 barangays.
In many provinces with large areas of irrigated land the AT to farmer ratio is
presently, however, in the range of 1 AT to 200-300 farmers. About 61X of DA's
regular services' budget was in 1991 allocated to the 13 regional units (total
P1.2 billion), while another P114.4 million of development funds were also
directed to the regions. The Farm Inputs Assistance Program for 1991 had a budget
for P104.5 million (subsidies for fertilizers and certified seed).
2.        The operational methodology and staffing patterns may from now on vary
substantially between provinces, due to the substantial autonomy granted to
provinces and municipalities. The devolution to WU 's is to include the transfer
of records, equipment, and other assets, as well as personnel of national
agencies and offices of national agencies. Personnel is to be absorbed by WOU's
to the extent that these are administratively viable as determined by an
Oversight Committee, and provided that the rights of civil servants under the
governing civil service laws, rules and regulations are not impaired. The
Department of Budget and Management (DBE) is to provide funding priority to early
retirees (national officials and employees). Most provincial agricultural
services had in 1992 only 10-30 X of extension budgets available for operatior.
and maintenance activities, while some 70-90 X was needed for personnel services
(staff salaries and emoluments). The need for chnmge-- allotting more funds for
operational activities to fewer, more effective full-time staff-- under teih new
decentralized organization may now be realized, at least in some of the more
progressive provinces, where there is an acute awareness of present deficiencies
in extension services. Since there are so many uncertainties regarding the future
effectiveness of provincial services, the project only supports essential
interventions and farmer/ extension staff training, which would provide farm
families under the System Improvement Program of the Project with the best
available technologies to maximize yields and incomes.



- 85 -                                9
Page 2 of 7
3.        Where possible, all support to System Improvement Schemes would be
channeled through the already functioning Irrigator Associations (IA). In the
selected schemes there were in 1992 some 290 IA's, covering about 56,500 farm
families with some 95,800 ha of land (1.7 ha per farm family). On average each
LA has 195 members, farming an irrigated area of 332 ha (Table 1). IA's without
a sub-comittee for Agricultural Production, would establish one to allow close
interaction with the assigned MAO and AT(s). Production problems would be
discussed and improvenents sought prior to ea - cropping season. The Water Master
(WU) would attend these meetings to resolve water management issues. Input
requirements (fertilizers, seed, agro-chemicals, tractor-hire services, credit,
insurance and irrigation schedules) would be reviewed, and best sources of inputs
suggested. It would be highly desirable to give IA's or IA Federations
representation on Municipal and Provincial Agricultural and Fisheries Councils
(MAPC and PAFC) for more effective coordination with LGU's and other agencies.
4.        During the first year of project implementation this agricultural
support services component would only be implemented in 3 pilot schemes (Magat
RIIS-District 1 in Region 2, Agos in Region 5, and Malasila in Region 12). Scheme
improvement activities are to be carried out at the same time. Following
satisfactory joint Bank and Government review of operations in the first project
year (after one dry and wet season harvest in 1994), activities would be
expanded, where necessary with modifications, to the other schemes. The proposed
phasing of activities, with half-yearly estimated costs of the research- managed
verification  trials,  the  extension-managed  demonstration  plots,   seed
multiplication at IAIs, IA- member training, and integrated pest management (IPM)
field schools for selected IA members, is presented in Table 2.
Project Descriotion
S.        Brief descriptions of the specific sub-project components are:
(a) Verification Trials. These are to be conducted for 3 wet and dry
seasons within or near selected schemes. These trials are to be
conducted by the Bureau of Agricultural Research (BAR) researchers in
conjunction with regional Crop Specialists to determine location,
treatments, varieties, fertilizer rates/ combinations, method of
establishment, pest and weed manager.,nt, number of replications of
treatments, etc. Municipal AT's working in the trial locality would
be intimately involved in the daily management of the trials. Results
of all trials would be statistically analysed and reported by BAR.
Recomnendations emanating from these trials are to become technologies
for Desonstration Plots ln areas with similar soil, water management
am: crop production technologies.
(b) Demonstration Plots. If no new technologies have emerged from the
verlfication trials, Provincial Agriculturists with technical support
from regional staff, would prepare a package of best local
technologies (variety, fertilizer combination, rate and time of
application, weed and pest management, method of establishment under
prevailing drainage conditions, time of harvest and post harvest
operations) which can be demonstrated so as to provide a comparison
with prevailing farmer practices. This would show farmers what can be
done under good water management and with sound crop production
practLies. Demonstration plots would be established in farmer fields



-86 -
Annex9
Page 3 of 7
by the responsible AT, with technologies (treatments) established
following review by regional research staff, regional crop and crop
protection specialists, and provincial and municipal agriculturists.
From multi-season results of demonstration plots, the general
extension recommendations for IA farmers would be formulated with
regular updating when new information becomes available.
(c)  Seed NutLglication. The majority of irrigation farmers continue to
retain their own seed for planting/ seeding in the next season. This
has resulted in variety contamination and a lower grain quality and
mill return due to uneven maturity at harvest and genetic
deterioration. New high yielding varieties with considerable pest and
disease resistance or tolerance, even to new pest biotypes, are
annually approved for commercial production by the Philippine Seed
Board when proven suitable in trial and demonstration plot programs.
However, the recommended varieties are only available in very limited
quantities. The proposed program would provide each IA in project
schemes with a total of 400 kg of certified seed of one or more of the
best adapted new varieties, sufficient to be multiplied on up to 10
ha of land (transplanted in lines at low plant densities to allow
maximization of production and for ease of weeding and rogueing).
This seed would be grown on well managed farms with good water
anagement. After drying and cleaning the seed would be distributed
to other IA members. DA's Bureau of Plant Industry agreed to give
preference to selected IA's under this program for procuring project-
financed certified seed.
(d) Trdaindg. IA- members would be trained in soil and water management
as well as agricultural production practices found most suitable for
their IA area. Training would be conducted for 4 seasons (preferably
pre-season) by provincial and municipal agricultural staff, supported
by specialist staff from other agencies. During these one-day training
sessions farmers and their wives would also be made aware of available
facilities where best input and produce prices can be obtained, and
also which subsidy programs are available to either individuals or
groups of farmers. Training must be topical, made interesting with
audio-visuals where possible, and subjects must be highly relevant to
IA farmers and their families.
(e) IPN-Farmer Field Schools. The Secretary of DA recently approved
financing of FAO- assisted training courses for IPM trainers of 3
months duration in 1993 under the National IPN program. These trainers
would become available to train farmer leaders, selected farmers, and
AT's at Farmer Field Schools. The schools are to be conducted
throughout one full cropping season, once a week for 3-4 hours on a
farm within walking distance for the majority of participants. Small
groups of farmers are allocated 1,000 square meter of land, half of
it with the usual farmer practices (including pest control), and the
other half with improved crop production technologies and appropriate
pest management where required. The trainer/ facilitator attends every
weekly meeting and guides trainees in the field surveys, and
discussion groups. Some 40 IA's per season would be given the
opportunity to have these most useful schools. DA's Crop Protection
Division ir the Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI) would coordinate these



- 87 -Ane
Page 4 of 7
schools, together with Regional Crop Protection Center personnel and
provincial and municipal agricultural staff.
6.        The  Agricultural  Coordinating  Section  in  NIA's  Institutional
Development Department (IDD) would coordinate with DA and its regional offices
for the implementation of the Agricultural Support Services component.The review
of activities in the 3 pilot schemes (pars 4) would be conducted following the
completion of 1994 wet-season harvests. Implementation in other schemes would
only proceed after a satisfactory review, or after suitable modifications have
been agreed to. DA, through its Bureau of Agricultural Research (BAR) is only
directly responsible for the planning, implementation and processing of results
of the verification trial program. The certified seed distribution program to
IA's would be through DA's Bureau of Plant Industry's Seed Program, and IPM -
Farmer Field Schools would be coordinated by BPI's Crop Protection Division. The
execution of these activities require direct provincial and municipal extension
assistance. Semi-annual (crop) progress reports would be prepared by NIA's
regional offices and collated by its IDD Agricultural Coordination Section for
submission to the Bank.
Agricultural Production
7.        Present Crooning Patterns and Intensity.   All System Improvement
Schemes have palay (paddy ) as the predominant crop, and farmers grow two crops
per year if water is available. There is little crop diversification mostly due
to isolation and marketing constraints. Palay is the only crop grown during the
wet season, and this would continue under the project. Presently, only 72.0 X of
the firmed-up service area is irrigated in the wet season. The remainder is used
for a rainfed rice crop, where drainage allows this. Many schemes have
substantial areas with poor drainage and farmers cannot practice direct seeding
u;aless substantial improvements are made to main and secondary drainage creeks
and canals. During the dry season some 68.0 X of the service area is being
cropped with palay. There are, however, no statistics on alternative crops. In
the large MRIIS districts, only special proJect records were available for one
irrigated maize crop in 1992. After a severe maize shortage due to drought, DA
launched a pilot hybrid maize production program early that year. About half the
target area of 5,000 ha was planted and yielded a satisfactory 4.4 t/ha. This
crop proved highly profitable since crop maturity was at a time of severe
shortages and more then double normal prices were thus achieved. This off-season
cropping does not fit everywhere in the irrigation schedules, and drainage
standards are usually not adequate. It is therefore anticipated that these off-
season cash crops will remain limited, although many farmers may attempt to grow
some mung or soy beans and some melons after their rice crops on residual
moisture.
8.        Land preparation is usually of a satisfactory standard. In the smaller
and more isolated schemes, much land preparation remains with animal traction,
but in MRIIS districts almost all is mechanized, mostly using two-wheel tractors
fitted with special cage wheels, or a rotary hoe. Adequate attention is given to
land leveling, in particular where drainage conditions allow direct seeding. This
latter method of crop establishment is labor saving and some P400-500 /ha cheaper
than transplanting. However, added attention needs to be given to in-field
drainage and snail and weed control. Also, seed requirements for direct seeding
are double that for transplanting. With timely and adequate water supplies crop
management provides few problems. All farmers use high yielding varieties, but



- 88 -
Annex 9
Page 5 of 7
the majority of crops mature very unevenly, indicating impurities and low grain
quality with generally low mill returns. Harvesting is by sickle, but threshing
is by motorized threshers, mostly on contract. Grain drying is problematic during
wet weather if harvestlng takes place in the following wet season for previous
dry season crops, or when wet season crops mature before the end of the wet
period. Mechanical drying is too expensive for most farmers, and sun-drying on
any dry surface, such as roads, playing fields, etc. is preferred. Post harvcst
losses are generally high, and farmers are often forced to sell their palay at
low prices to traders during peak supply periods.
9.        Farmers  are  aware  of  fertilizer  requirements,  but  are  often
constrained in their use due to lack of cash, or their inability to raise
adequate credit. From 4-6 bags/ha (50 kg) of fertilizer are mostly used in split
applications with either ammophos or 14-14-14 together with some urea as a soil-
incorporated basic application, followed by topdressing urea at the panicle
initiation stage of crop development. Where minor element deficiencies have been
identified, farmers are encouraged to use appropriate fertilizers. From 1-3 1/ha
agro-chemicals are used to control or prevent pest damage. With greater awareness
of the benefits of Integrated Pest Management (IPM) technologies the use of these
chemicals can be reduced in the future.
10.       The discussion of future cropping patterns and intensity, yields and
production is in the main text (paras. 6.2-6.3).



l,skIlt  Agricultural Support Component
Schem           Servic  Area            IA          Farm Famlies      Average        Verifi-        Demos-
(ha)                  (no)             (no)          Fanm Slxe       cation         trtstor
(ha)       trtalo (no        Plots
site$lcrop)
_________  _  _______                           _____         _  _____            (no)
1) Bongs (3)               1,174              3              1,401             0.84            1              3
2) Ctra                      431              4                570             0.76            1              4
3) Baggao                  2,419              2              1,708              1.42           1              4
4) IguL. AAP2              2,306              3              1,708              1.35           1              3
5)  El.Is -               24,054             94             14,718              1.63           2             94
Disetr. 1
6) MRIIS -                24,793             83              9,200             2.69           2              83
Distr. 3                                                                                                  67
7) HRIIS -                24,087             67             12,281              1.96          2               3
Distr. 4
8) Cantlagas                 310              3                252              1.18           1              1                         oo
9) aaagdon8                  264              1                11S             2.30            1              7
10) Agos                    1,119              7              2,749             0.41            1              3
11) Sta. Maria              3,172              3                802             3.96            1              1
- Mayer
12) MatogdDn                  530              1                175             3.03           1               3
13) Barit                   2,260              3             3,271              0.69           1              5
14) Pongso                    750              S                942             0.80            1              4
15) Iblasila                3,652              4             2,711              1.35            1              6
16) Marandlng               4,500              6              3,652             1.17            1
Totallwerav a     [   95,821             289            56,455              1.70          19             291
'0
O 0
ah



abim 2i Agricultural Support Campomut - Costs and Phasing
W-1  -rl |          ----    -       - -              'Tii:                     _      _      _      _      _.__                      _
iit
W1  oawt   19M           14                  195                 16                 1997               199          T!oL
__ __ __.___ _  (.0 1                                                                                                              _   .___1___
2        1         2         1         2         1         2         1       2         1       2      ^000  )
Yevte.t.                                                                                    -                              -                 
baVLe (C )                          5        10        10        15        15        19        14         9        9       4        4         114
Coat (0001 )           4s       225       450       450       675       675       655       630      405       405    1I0       180       S,130
Pl?ota(ao                            .                100       100       200       200       200       200      100     1oo                1 1,200
Co.t ('000 P)          3         .         .       300       300       600       600       600      600       300     300                3.400
-~_ -  -               -         -          -        -         -                                 
Seed Psodoatios (5
WU) (40)                           s0        so        so        50        so        so       .         .        .        _         .         300
cost ('000 P)          4       200       200       200       200       200       200        ,        _        .        .                 1,200
msat. (noIA tso                              so5      150       150       200       200       150       iso       so        o               1,200
Cost ('000 1)          5       250       250       7s0       7s0    1,000    1,000         7so       750      250     250         -      6,00
s_bote                              -        40        40        40        40        40        40        40       20      _                   300
cost ('o00   )
15                600       600       600       600       600       600       600      300                        4 4,500
lau  T"t           rsY
Coat. ('000 1)                 675      1,500     2,300    2,525    3,075      3,255    2,580    2,355       I 21.25   is ISO    so      20,430
- =  =   -  -   =     -   -   =     -   =         =         =       =         =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
10



- 91 -                         Anex 10
Page 1 of 3
PImLIPPINES
S8COND IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT (IOSP II}
Arne IQ: FinancinLg Plan. Loan Allocation and Disbursements
Llst, of Tables
Table 1: Financing Plan and IBRD Loan Allocation
Table 2: Schedule of Loan Disbursements



- 92 -
Page 2 of 3
T:1   P -
ido-il Fk~~~~wWo Pk   pM    .. Atoot
COST ITEM                       TTAL COST         %      AMOUN            GOVERNMENr               NA
Impr_fo wet RMO                                  esr end
Arctua Works                        360          03         83.              2.5 
Inmemnt 0 & M                       24.7          i           .4              1.8                  1s.t
Equpmntand VehWles                   4.6          -          4.1              0.5
IA deopment TA. Mappn.               4.3         10          4.3              - 
and MiA Stat Trainin
TOW Proet Codt                       9A                     51.3              4.8                  15
Ms% of th prec  o n  aoto" t     ddudls.   12 mmno.
M   80% of hetotal coat afer Janucy I. INS (U      mUle lth emd cot in 100 and 1004), 80% aftrq t,um  1,100
(U   4.0 m_n b te oemaedost In 19#5. and 20% _A _ry Jn        1.99 M S  139 mion b the e*tmatd Coot In 1664.
g1  in addSo  MLA ul prode aout US$ 04 mllion (Pemc2 bo            r 1~ 9 9 10 coerh th   gn  r      o4 OU
51  Wdehe on  eae bnk _d sbmemwould be 10%  fy dor WS  aeoscpon dotmc impouted equipmnt                  .
100%6 d the e*faoy coat od ouh _Itmeauatrd Ic* and 80% od epedbs lot  msprocured loaly.



- 93 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
Tlb  2 hodubs of Loan 0
oxnwlv                              Phippne Stmkdd
NMRD Ph..                                                                    Obbuwm Dbuisrrubfr
Yewr     sem"_                              USUsAaW h irA uiaIQ
1294          1                             3.0        a                                   2
2                             .0        12                                  4
lsog          1                             10.0      1i                                   8
2                            1S.0       29                                 19
sew           1                             20.0       39                                 19
2                            2O.0       51                                 27
19w           1                             au0        62                                 97
2                            M0        74                                 44
lose          1                             43.0       84                                 62
2                            47.0       s2                                 60
iOU           1                             a"         07                                 as
2                            51.3       100                                78
mm            1                             -          -                                  U
a0            1                                                                           s o 2
2                            _          _                                  100
#   64mW Loan COo DdI Jnm 30. 19



94 -                          hIArmex 11
Page 1 of 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND IRRIGaTION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT (IOSP 1I
Supervision Plan--Bank Supervision Nission Schedule
Mission   Tlming       Specialty snd Duration (Weeks)             T,ota
No.    (Mo./Yr)     Engr.  Agr.   Econ.   Soc.   M&E   Staff  Staff Weeks
1*      6/93         2       2      ^        2    -        3         6
2      12/93         2       -      -        2    2        3         6
3       6/94         2       2      2        -    -        3         6
4      12/94         2       -      -        2    2        3         6
5       6/95         2       1      -        1    -        3         4
6**    12/95         2       2      1        2    1        5         8
7       6/96         2       2      -        1    1        4         6
8      12/96         2       2      -        1    1        4         6
9       6/97         2       2      2        -    -        3         6
10      12/97         2       2      -        2    -        3         6
11       6/98         2       2      1        -    1        4         6
12***   12/98         2       1      1        1    1        5         6
Zotals                       if 2g           14    1       - i_
Notes.
EnWr. - Engineer                     Soc. - Sociologist
Agr.  - Agriculturist                N&E  - N&E Specialist
Bcon. - Economist
*     - Startup implementation mission
**      Mid-term review mission
- Final review mission and initiation of project completion report
process



-95 -                            Aex 12
Page 1 of 3
PHILIPplES
SECOND IRRIGATION OPEIRUATOS SP PPORT  PROJECT (IOSP II)
fAnn 12: Rice and Fertilzer Price Structures
List of Tables
Table 1: Rice Price Structure
Table 2: Fertilizer Price Structure



- 96 -
Ann= 12
Table 1
PHIMUmPNS
SECOND IRRIGATION OPPEtATION SUPPOgT pgOJCr
(IOSP 11)
Rice Price Structu
1992              1995        2000           2005
In USSAOa:
RIce, 5% broken, FOB Bangkok                             294               m            263           246
- Quality Discount                                          59                54           53            49
+  Ocean Freight  Insuance                                  20                20           20            20
-  CIF, PhiL Port                                          255               238          230           217
In Pesoston:
CF, PhiL Port                                          6,508              6,059        5,875         5v28
+ Port Handidng & Other Chaqps (a)                         125                125         125            125
  Imports Mgin (b)                                        488                454         441            415
- Ez-warehouse Pdce                                       7.121             6,638        6,441         6,068
+ fransporttoiTadeCenter(a)                                215                215         215           21S
-  fading Marins (c)                                       147                137         133            126
- Wholesale Price                                         7,483             6,990        6,789         6,409
Transport TC to Mil (d)                                 613               613          613           613
-H-mill Price                                         6,870              6,377       6,176          5,796
Milling Cost (a)                                        382               382          382           382
+  By-products Value (a)                                   216                216         216           216
-  Pro-mill Value                                         6,704             6,211        6,010         5,630
Palay Equivalent (Q0.65)                              4,358             4,037        3,907         3,660
-  Transport (Farm to Mill) (a)                            124                124         124            124
-  Farmgate Price (Economic)                              4,234             3,913        3,783         3,536
Farmglte Pfice (Finni)                                5,000 (e)         5,000        5,00          5,000
(a) Financa value x Q83.
(b) 7.5% of CIF prioe.
() 2% of Ex-warehouse price + tra l,nort.
(d) Including shrkage, k'sses, sac. Padi J unloading.
(e) Aeagep pefor 1992.



- 97 -
AS0Sl;12
Table 2
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPOR    PROJEC    (IOSP II)
Fertilizer Price Structure
(Economic Values in 1992 Prices)
1992            199              2000             200
In USS!ton:
sagged, FOB Indnesia                        150              161             In               16?
+     Ocen freight & furaww                        20               20               20               20
*     CIF, Phil. Port                              170             181              197              18r
In Pesos/ton:
CIF, Phil. Port                           4,335            4,616            5.024           4,.M9
-     Marketing Cost                            1.442            1.442            1.42             1442
=     Retait Price                              s,m              6,058            6,466            6,211
*     Transort Cost to Farm                        124             124              124              124
Farm ate Price (Econavic)                5901             6,182           6.590            6,335
Pesos/kg. nutrient                 12.83            13.44            14.33            13.7?
Famsate Price (Financalt)                 6,222            6,503           6.911            6,656
Pesos/kg, ntrient                    13.S3            14.14            15.02            14.47
7sP
In USS/ton:
gagged, FOB Gulf                            125              141              138             135
ocean fre1ght & Insurance                         20               20               20               20
*     CIF. Phil. Port                              145             161              158              155
in Pesos/ton:
CIF, Phil. Port                           3.698            4,106           4.029            3.953
-     Narketing Cost                             1,462           1,442            1,442            1,442
*     Retail Price                              5,140            5.56            5.4!1            5,395
*     Transport Cost to Farm                      124              124              124              124
Farmaute Price (Econoidc)                 5,264            5.672           S.S9S            5,519
Pesos/kg, nutrient                 11.44            12.33            12.16           12.00
Farosat Priee (Financial)                 5,585            5,993           5,916            5,840
Pesos/kg, nutrient                   12.14            13.03            12.S6            12.70
In USS/ton:
Baoged, FOS Vancouver                       112              113              109              109
*     Ocean frefght & insurance                     10              10               10               10
*     CIF, Phil. Port                             122              123              119              119
In Pesos/ton:
CIF, Phil. Port                           3,111            3,137           3.035            3,035
*     Marketing Cost W                          1,684            1,6K4            1,64             1,684
a     Retail Price                              4,715            4,21            4,719            4,19
*     Transport Cost to FarmW                     124              124              124              124
*     Farngate Prfee (Economic)                 4,919            4,945            4.643            4.643
Pesos/kg, rnttrient                 8.20             8.24            8.07             8.07
Farmgate Price (financial)                5,289            5,315           5.213            5,213
Pesos/kg, nutrfent                    8.80             8.86             8.67             8.67
F financial data from Fertiltier nd Pesticide Authority X 0.83.
Financial Value x 0.83.



- 98 -1
Page I of 4
SEKO=D IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PRRCIT (!OSP II)
Aumex 13:  Crop and FPAm BM&"te
List of Tai
Table 1: Physical Inputs and Unit Prices--Overall Project
Table 2: Financial Crop Budgets--Overall Project
Table 3: Farm Budgets--Overall Project



- 99 -
An13
Table 1
SECOND IRRmTON OPRTIONS SUPPRT PROJECT
(JOSPEI) 
PHYCAL 2NPUI & UNIT RIS
OVERALL?&QIE
PresenAt, Future Widiout, and Future VWth Pject
Financial Values In 1992 Pros
Iniated      Irrgated                               Unit Prios
WS           DS          Rainfed           Present             Future
Cultivation
-Mcanical (%)                    65           65            60           P 1,360/a         P l,360/ha
-Anim(%)                         35           35            40           P 900ha            P 900/ha
Seeds
- Transplant (/a)               t00           100          100            P 6.40kg          P 6AO.kg
Fertiizer (a)
-N                               64           64            48            P 1353/kg         P 14.47kg
-P205                            19           19            12            P1214/kg          P12170/kg
-1X20                            14           14             7            P 880/kg          P 8.67/kg
Agro-cdemicals (Pesowha)       12801,                     1L130           LumpSum           LumpSum
Thr.dbdng(% ofyild)               7             7             7           _
Labor (Total MD)                 82            82            70           PS0MMD             P 50D
(a) Una (bagh)                   2.0          2.0           15
16-20-0 (bsgha)                05           0.5           0.5
14-14-14 (bagh)                2.0          2.0           O.S
Ibag-50kg



0~~~* El [l         RR)t[[j 
I 'gij g 
a   g      C EO M  E i  fi  W   1 8    I   i  '4
a l,8  itlilli   l ~I          a W.'    2 
|                           1                                1',  
g EW! iSigEsi   lit  g - g~~~~~~~4
5' .  lSlillfi   Wig   W I                        WE~'



is~~~ U! N5 n59fifg                          Sa: 
4~ ~~s i ffi "!s   pa   !SB
3     zid 4      aa"  as"        3l}g5 
I~  P    IS PB            81111
|   ;E   iE   iE  iE    l   l    i    li11111



- 1C2 -                         Annex 14
Page I of 4
PHILIPPDES
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATIOiS SJUPPBRT PROJECT tIOSP I})
wzJ.1:  Renta ad Cost Recoveg y Indices
Lial g  ab1le
Table 1: Rent and Cost Recovery Indices- -Owner-Operator
Table 2: Rent and Cost Recovery Indices--Lessee
Table  3:  Rent and Cost Recovery Indices--Share Tenant



- 103 -                                              &14
Table 1
SECOND IRRIMGAON OPERATIOtlS SUPPORT ROJEc
RENT AD COST RECOVERY INDICES (a)
OWNEDt-OPERAM
1-Ha        2-Ha         3-Ha           Total
Farm        Farm         Farm         Proect
______-------- 7        ----(MI?)
. Gross value of paly podution (b)                                   11,806      23,612       35,418
2. Cas production oosts (b)                                           3,256       8.846       12358
3. Noet cash iom  (1-2)                      8_S0                                14.776       23
4. Deprcation (c)                                                      428          738        1.S3
S. Imputed value of famy labor (d)                                    1.416        L820        2,123
6. Imputed value of magement somices (e)                               855         L477        2,306
7. Imputed retu  on capital (f)                                        163          442          618
& Allowce for risMncsrtainty (g)                                      1.771       3,4          5313
9. Subtotal (4+5+6+7+8)                                               40632       8,019       11,513
10 Rentmurplus (3-9)                                                  3X8A         6.747       11547         1.75.0
IL Water charges ()                                                     613        1,226        1,839         3n3
12I LandTax ()                                                           31          62           93           189
13 Indirectcharps()                                                     378         756         1,134         229.5
A Total  ages (11+12+13)                                                022        24                         62Q.7
15. Rent recovy index [14(10+13)J                                      24%          27%         24%            34%
16. Publb sectW oudtag (capital & 0M) (t)                                                                    192Z 6
17. Cost ecovey index(14(16)                                                                                   32%
Farmers noom  per capita at PiA d opment (P)                          3,32         605          9,283
19. Esematd CCLat DU deveopment                                                                              14,435
20. Esdmated GNP/cap at ful development Year 10 (P)                                                          28,870
(a) Items 1-14 are inrmnt  dboted values at 10% atcomtant 1992 prices.
(b) From Fam Budgets Annex 13 Table 3; incluig ld er' sham
(c) 5% of net casb inome fiom producton.
(d) Famiy 1abo at PSO per day.
(e) 10% of net cas inome from doe production.
(f) Assumes 50% of poducto costs ar met from farmers own mtames and allows 10% retum on capital
(g) 15% of grss value of play producdon.
(b)2 cavailha for WS and 3 cavat for DS,
(iQ)PLha for irigated; PlOOiha for anfd.
(Dldwect taxes on farm inputs of P160/to of inmenta producin  (See Project File).
(k) Tota pret oost and in bm tl O&M ow 30 yam discounted at 10%.



-104-                                                Ann  IA
Table2
PHlIUPPINBi
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERA1ONS SUPPORTPROJEL
(IOSP i1)
RBNT AND COST RECOVEtRY INDICES 4
LESSEB
1-Ha        2-Ha         3-Ha            TotWl
Farm        Farm          Farm         Project
-    (p)                         (MU P)
1. Gross value of palay production (b)                                11.806       23.612       35.418
2. Cash production costs (b)                                           5,202       10.792        14,304
3. Net cash income (1-2)                                               UKQ 12Z SI2I4
4. Depreciation (c)                                                      330          641         1,056
S. Imputed value of family labor (d)                                   1,416        1.820        2,123
6. Imputed value of management services (a)                              520        1.079        2,111
7. Imputed retumn on capital (f)                                         163          442          618
8. Allowance for riskluncertainty(g)                                    L771        3,542        5,313
9. Subtotal (4+5+6+7+8)                                                4200         7,524        11221
10. Rent/surplus (3-9)                                                 2I1           5621                      1,575P0
11. Water charges (h)                                                    613         1,226        1.839         372.3
12. Land Tax Q)                                                           31           62           93           18.9
13. Indiect charges 0                                                    378          756         1,134         229.5
14. Totl charges (11+12+13)                                             Llam 2.04                               620.7
15. Rent recovezy index [14f(10+13)J                                    37%          34%          28%6           34%
16. Publicsector outlays (capital & O&M) (k)                                                                   1922.6
17. Cost recovey index (14116)                                                                                   32%
18. Fame's inome per capita at full developoent (P)                     2296         4,034        5,576
19. Estimated CCL at ful development (P)                                                                       14,435
20. Estimated GNP/cap at full development Yeatr 10 (P)                                                         28,870
(a) Items 1-14 are inemetal, diseounted values at 10% at constant 1992 ptices.
(b) From Fam Budges Anex 13 Table 3 includes lease payment.
(c) 5% of net cash income from production.
(d) Pamily labor at P50 per day.
(e) 10% of net cash income from rice prodwction.
(t) Assumes 50% of production costs are met fronm frme's own reources and allows 10%6 return on capital.
(8) 15% of rost value of paly production.
(b) 2 cavans for WS and 3 cavansdha for DS.
(i) P150/a for Irrigated; P10!iba for taided.
() Indirect taxes on bfam inputs of P160/ion of incremental production (See Project File).
(k) Total project cot and Incremental O&M over 30 yeas dcounted at 10%.



- 105 -
PH1UPPINE
SECOND IRRIGA1ION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROWEAT
(IOSP 11)
RENT AND COST RECOVERY INDICES ta
SHARE-TENANT
1-Ha        2-Ha         3-Ha          Toutl
Farm        Fam          Fam         ProeA t
_______(P) ----------------- on P
1. Gross value ot palay production (b)                              11,806       23.612       35,418
2. Cash production costs (b)                                         6.130       13,853       20,3g3
3. Net cash income (1-2)                                             MRU 97                   I=
4. Depreciation (c)                                                    284         488          751
S. Imputed value ot family labor (d)                                  1,416       1,820        2,123
6. Imputed value of managemcnt services (e)                            568         976         1,502
7. Imputed return on capita (f)
8 Almance for riskiuncertainty (g)                                    1.771       3,542        5,313
9. Subtotal (4+5+6+7+8)                                              4.039        6,826        9,689
10. Rent/surplus (3-9)                                                1.63?                                 1?5.0
11 Waterchaqes(h)                                                      613        1,226        1,839         372.3
12. Land Tax (i)                                                        31           62           93          18.9
13. ndirect chargesG)                                                  378          756        134           229.5
14. Total charges (11+12+13)                                                                   Ig 2044  I36  620.7
15. Rent recovey indx [14/(10+13)]                                    516          55%          47*           34%
16. Public sector outlays (capital & O&M) (k)                                                               10=
17. Cost recovery Index (14116)                                                                               32%
18. Farmer's income par capita at full development                    L766        3.253        4,642
19. Estimated CCL at full devebpment                                                                        14,435
20. Estimated GNP/cup at ful dvelopment Year 10 (P)                                                         28870
(a) items 1- 14 are inement, discounted values at 10% at cotant 1992 priCeS
(b) From Farm Budgets Annex 13 Table 3; including landowner's share.
(e) 5% of net cash incme from production.
(d) Family labor at P50 per day.
(e) 10% of net casb income from tice production.
(f) Production coss are met from landowner's resources.
(S) 15% of gross value of palay production.
(h)2 cavasifia for WSand 3 cavasha for DS.
(i) P150ha for Irigated; P100/ha for rainted.
(j) Indirect taxes on farm inputs of P16Uton of iacemetal prod -ion (See Project File).
(k) Total procj  cost and incramental OAM over 30 yean dicounted at 10S.



- 106 -                         Annex 15
Page 1 of 11
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT (IOSP 11)
A=x IS:  NIA's Projected Financial Data
List of Tables
Table  1:  NIA's Projected Investment Budget (1992-2002)
--Low Case
Table  2:  NIA's Projected Income Statement (1992-2002)
Table  3:  NIA's Projected Sources and
Applications of Funds (1992-2002)
Table  4:  NIA's Projected Balance Sheet (1992-2002)
Table  5:  Operating Expenses and Income of All NISs
(1985-2002) - 671 ISF Collection Efficiency
Table  6:  Operating Expenses and Income of All NISs
(1985-2002) - 701 ISF Collection Efficiency
Table  7:  Operating Expenses and Income of All NISs
(1985-2002)   751 ISF Collection Efficiency



- 107 -
fl   tRg     o  @1000      .4 
g    EEg |   o |   o.o        4 
!    SlF  o   o   o.o         4 
g~~~~~               0   l         gol 
01 g i ]*     !    ag  o    g   gg0O    l  |~~~~~~.
I-b i           {!O OE l0  
|   i     !l O O E lg00Ire
i ili  | | llEs lt S~.
~~:                           .4.4a | |S if 
|   }  } u      ^    110



SaOON mRG-oN opEgAoNs SPOTXc
(Kwn
(19M-20M)
1992     1993      t994      1995     1996      1997      1998     1999      2006     2001      2002
OPERATIM REVENUES
TbtadWtI sOm im*o          *ctd           452.50    40154 88             4       63284    7920    7904         5621    9178    991L76   106147
P   pA4 Mu o                                 2.2 2     2        i22 2     2.15      2.12     29        265       262      1*9       1.96      19
Eqdpma Rlad                                 77A8      2816     34.23     3612      4046     45.16     47.0      47S      49.74     45.70     mm1
TOTALOPERAlINGREVE           t              532.43    49Q43    522W9      92.31    67S42    76647    6019    9M06         991   1942   119.41
NON-OPERAtN REVENUES
latemIBud                            1060      1OD0      106A0    UIO       1060      1060     10W0      t100      1060     1060      1060
MaaqatPsFe                                  99.20      3A8      7035     7399      90A4    105.17    114*5    11399    112         3137      53*
-_murni Matttudurn                     31A1    1.26   98              2.8      3.70      4.72      i8       694       7.74  8            902
IAEqqaiyGa.wl                                4.66      5.13     7.51      7A7       833     102       10*       13.21     731       82        060
Olbs                                        606i5     18.6      6369     6433      84.33    830       81.2      8o60      7939     72        77n
TOALNON-OPERATNOREVENUES                    22592    151.73    172m3    17829    190    213U1    22355    2474    2M               Iw.71    149S5
TOTJALREVENUES                              71835    636    69MM2    7700    87222    90610 M174   11W0   1192B7   1171    169W
OPERAThPOEXPENSES                                                                                                                                                           o
P    e   wE                                537M88    551MM2    56824    56407    574A2    54U91    61056    615.43    634    6129   6"030                                  co
21WII38psi-U                                 6A9       723       796      8A5       921      10D4     12        129       13'      14J81     16,37
8i~,IIuad Matei"                            176       19602    20*5      225       24.24    2642      29.50     31a2   '.          37        439
VMW    dt $ad                               1023      1L55      1W6      139       15.14     1634     1866      1932      -^' .    2321      2543
CNd6OlaldVebldmsMaktem_G                    29A.      3327      3734     40o3      4332     4768      52.10     55J6     t6        66S90     73.2
PMN(WP=p                              20.74     20.74     2231      25.a     2936      32.97    37A1      42A6       4       5520      5.51
17?0     1760      17.5      1737     17A9      16        188      18m       11        2026     205
1- 3S6    16.67    1932      21.77    24.7t     2664     30*1      33.72    3M53      4062      43,3
6.16     6.28     6"41       654       37      6460       69t      766       7.22      736      7.5
C ------   -i   9 b"  BCN2235                        23.10     23.7      2404      24.52    25.01     2552     262       24 64     277      2731
0600     0.00      0.0       060      060       0600      060      060      o06        060      0
R_Be e fib               al200    2060      2890      36.45    2750      2730      2730     206       206O0     200      206
lUles aldt_s                                 s360      3D0      3S0       3sl0      3600     36        360       36       36        360       360
06w Eapus3m1 2943                                      .       36        324      33.5      36.13     39.14    40.52     43.4      47.52    50
10%Diuotto. ISP                             11A0      150       12.14    1Mm5      15J2     17?8      19.76     21.41    2295      24.79     2654
tA Statg Paty                              56.24     3942      2330      27.57    33.33     4t31     473?8     S2.43    5a76      58.41     5924
TOTAL OPERAIMN aEXPENSES                    801U4    807.61    834M4     S5UM      66       921M0    97799    999S2   105145   11053   11
NEIINCOME BEFOREDEPRECIATION               -4279   -165.45   -139A       -47.42    -10.6     58.48     65.75    1308    14tA2       7030    *13.11
ma    DqIredada                              4621      88.62    9752    107.30    117*6    12W7    142.78    15666    16933    183.10    197A1
NETINCONEAPFIMDEIRECIATION                  -8900  -2427   -23636   -94.72   -12U82    -139    -5703   -2538    -2.21  -110    -440



- 109 -
I  UI *'lh!t  lgfs ii'   I i i      l
X    !  E X  0sflZR  lS }t g   20 : | a
i1~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~x                   -   X80   0          #|8  
i    ~i   gaXgi#EZ g#l|a   f
I~ ~ ~ 0f12s0Xl 0'XS



hm,
S13COND  O N  anOlIS SUPPORTAn= I
_ ~~~~~~~~1992                              193       1994ss95            199       1997      199S      199    a00          200       2002m
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sb
A_i Dqsui                                     96185 1OS          114.1    1255*    13r4    150e30   164609   1821    1727    2158    23524
NKFIPXU)AS18WI                              1193  136.4  144133  15819173.3  1217*   2197    9931  269.8   2179*   2932
WORKINPROGRUS                               1U4648    15097   17S234  187108  20907.16  22040   23993   2593    217.75  3018039*
-.                               ~~~~~~~~207B89  48.78   -69*8   -15732   -16.6    -1102      -244      1062      24.6    29.18    407
SIhmT.  huawl                                  27313     20.7       0.00      00        0*0       0.00      QD0       0)0       0.00     24.76    293
T48aMcat 3.mIvaM(Nt)                         5126.76   S3D5    56303    89033   61434U   639306   6627   6963   7290.11   7649*85  8031
mAtRcd,b4e1~6                             2668.37   291921   3199   339425   3633.94   3869.59   412*    440622   4726.710   5074.9   5U4545
Ma.uaRuedabSa t   aamO mt    156691   1566.91   1691   1566.91   156691   1566.91   1566.91   1566.91   156691   16.1 163
Olie  Ma.tlt dvl                           97133    99096   101ta78   1031*0   tO5162   107265   109410   109420   113830   1162.07   1184.2
L.ADiane IsD4 MAC~E1                        810*      87.58     94.6      101*3    10902    116.09    123.78   1U2.18    14UO        152.22    163361
Inatde                                        155*2    158S0    16387    1664    171.11    175.89    179.78    t.8427    188.3    193.60    198.44~
TOTALaJ1tENr ASSEIS                          5516.8    561737   5731*2   589k95   6146.40   645871   681tSW    724731   77663   8161.39   866275                               o
LO?     O-TBMfIVBRUWIIS                        1136      1136      11.36     11.36     11.36     1'.s36    1W36      1136      1136      1136      1136
CON'F1NCENISSHIS                               1443      1515      1531      16.70     17.54     18.4      1V34      200        132      2239      35
OIlIE    SES                                  17.7      18 2.35    t8S99    189.71    1915      1973*    232         0535    204         1n5     279
TOTALASES                                   2541639  270816*9  28814.55  3070*   32819.41  3514351  3767141  40415*0  4X3691h  46467.13  498D
Aets P                                         14.73      6.28      737       7.78      80        969      10        1026      1         10.15     1
Debited Qredha                               2874.54   3125.18   3361 t6   360042   384011   4071.76   433221   46129   493287   528026   35262t
flat liatE                                   29351C    29367   293567   2367    2935,67   235.67   293567   293567   2367   2367    237
D     qpdm  Laialde                            2048      206i8    20*S9      21.t0     2L.31     2t.52     2t.74     21.96     2218S    22.4      22.62
TOTALaJRREI4TLIBLTE                          5814S2  6088*    6325*9   6564.97   680S79   7016            299*8S 7580.1    790Lff   82448   862X222
Cadit UsUee                                     4.98      5.23      549       5.76      6D5       6.36      667       7.0      736        7.73     8.11
LAIng-Tata Uuile                             663t.34   6631t34   6631.34   663t.34   6631.34   663W.3    6631.3    66323    6632.3    6632.34   663134
TOTALLIABILiTIE                             12481.74  1272.58  12*9612  1320107  t13401    1368034  13937.89  14218.53  14540.5  14.5   15667
SURPWS
Paid-k Cdtd                                  5559.19   55591    5559.19   5559.9    5559.19   55919   5531         55599    555919   5559.9    555.1
hIn'u Sdd12 -   d         st                 598276   747504   921880  112198 1           2171    1825924  2071S36  292L.09  2s57*3  2882962
Reed Ea p(Opeado          Sl qk)             140524   1239.79   110034   1012.91   10006   1059.98   11473    276.43   147a5   148.6   16025
NET  Aets1&w        o    s                     6846      8749   -9531   -26831   -5214   -89D0  -1228.64  -1422.50  -141.6  -132559 -137309
TOTALSNROURS ANDCATAL                       1301465  1436t.51   t2    17506.   1937623  2146622     6  23M72  26196.48  288.47  315759  34616S7
cuTALb JRPlJS ANDUABLlES                    254639   2706*9  2881454  30704  32819.41  35142.50  37673.41  4041501  433WAS2  4667.1   498764
ObnQat a,110                                   094        0.92      091      0.90      090       0.92       093      0.96      0.98      099       1.00
TWa MDe REtReN.                                575%    46.17%    4163U     37O88X    3422%    30930%    27646    2531%    2W98          21100    19.169
DAoaeWR         ea  a(Nt                       3524      4011      3942      3430      3329      3044      2895      2803      2752      2686      2619
Aoc~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R.dW  -                                                                                                     .dGAnW td" IK  MlLMH M1 M  MK tX M1M  9



Tabs
S -nm          - _umm ad                                                                                                         I dd tIffs
(Ada) bm  898to M92 I9*ad hm I99to.   1
-Ame 61%  W8 OC4338  86dmg ui  OR
1W      _                                         96       89S       996      3     S  8199      8r90      1991     198#      146      194       1985     1995      19SI691  893       1499      mX      32        19
1. Mv  AMA (O)                                     58                  =a   S63   M1    CA    01)3  on38 60W7  6MM9  M6M   1no  6MM   60    61OM _                                                    O   MM   MM
2. 50A1TD ARMA
A. Wag #MM 04                                      0          5       0         442       401    45    O94   4539               48480    411251   4O5                  MN6    59    5 4   5OW               MM        MM
a.1    F_ 464.8. Am( (I)                           758                "AI2 .     s       1.        71?      T2.       12       14.16    75.4        16    W16        19.6      8          40  "6IID U        *       SO
b. bDW &M                                          3296   328          M MN21   208       28319    283       4m296    06        01       44445    45G    41741183    6364                446      40_ 4      430     48O
b.1 _bmmp at  nk  Ao$)                             4*                61J3 8A   97        55.45    62.82     61*4 6 4 9         9*4        4       7*4 7.1      4     1234      7*            7DO      7as      no    s
e. Tod   )                                         1MM01484            MM4    12    8JII   8126    MAP9  1111311   82                    946    8'9'2  95S                     t _13 1   M215M011            M 
.8 b84l94    (k) IS)                              137       I1         42      W234    132    83L          1933    1418*    144*    law          I         INA      Ono       Ina5    IRA        loin  U48          M0
3. S64     TAD A
. Wet 4 . 64                                       2m917    485    4137    304    S1               442       41466    47    029          6M9M    421119   4a    47    41347    5169M                  M5 552128  5MM2
&. Fasamp od     Am(S)                             92       98.87     94       81        SI.X      9        WM        9        gm       98.27     98*7     9237 03 I )7                 91        91          7     937
u.   am= 1..                                       33189      3??       4767    3284    3MN         M        4130     41925         4     2389 109  9       45139    49278    46         4S99     4181611    549 4
88          at $I    AF(S)                         94.74    "is       92.9      9.25     9A        9        95.74      *       96.2      9.79     97        9.1f9    96*       8         8.9      98.79    0 IL  O.19 W  W        I8  
.Tad4                                              7382t    Ul42   1A885    g61883    7421299   98           S2         21       4348       4      8182   9MM1 0        120      43    9gm52   ml04"    1      S _108ow
.8          atolpWAml(S)                           92A         7      91.4    V8J        87.l7     "3A      295       96WA     90        9*       94.      9"A   9S .2         on       959       g6m      9.m         * WA
4. O688ATlW  IRVI   W
S. owns 38 3D    USAU                                   4    24.S"     325S     S"36    32          48       5.        M36M   732.n7 157              .132    685J     MM    87.    31474   84*A    3529   1 37.
b2.T      T6a   CdbwAm4F8Dk4M42.2    119.90    17)1    183.7t   213.0    218.2                                431    4503    O.?    4n1.           S.74        8      64L7f9    17311   467*5   M27          AS2    9S"
0. Tad 38 CbWud  a            41c
w_3Ms(%S)                                          4879   SL21   471.5   SL5  S51.   572.6    8    0*                           *    5*   OM*  665                   A 67m7*   87*   0*    67*   0*m   CAD
4. Amb 38 Cdbodm
0Iw9         a                                   0A*      S2        8*        0.8       1.44     0.21     19.45    39*7      25.5               168        2       2X7      23*       230       1.27     14.      as
4.2 ft    . a Praq
M  M                                             0.49     6SS       615       4.72     11.59    86.23      9.74     84       88       81.79    13.25       4       1KM       7.71     19.8     3         220      5*8
43Tod l   am 9     o                                04       8IJ2     85.          12?3            16749    2519      SW47     37.5      23*7     29.6       4.      399       41.55    42A 9     42       29*       us
N.o l38 Cab . &                                     142* 149.19    IS81          174.    2=DA      203       371.12    4.5      48992    4417.56    4M       5824    SA79       M5    725S    7             85.75    SUM
5.Nei W   WCdooRAO  ax4                            251.5     2292    2.         2.        325W5    42        47       452.9    6331    73*         792.00    8.2      958   1 9    1184.49   19L6.8   127.    137
S. 018 O1020t388
a, i&4 _   FM    860A8   7i4                                                                                                              2*        2ls      2.8       *5
2. mfrpmIC_     muS(91t00    1DJ                                                                                                  1.22     9*       21       25.       46L2     57.5      a.22    &9A        75*      7937
a. GOMM URn r98Mo    g                               2d        SAL     1042      14.76     I8.79    494    38.9    32.S          12.0     ISA4      325      1.        233      21.51    21.0      228       2857     2
4. 11M Tod adw 0 bom  (P01M                           2s4   S 40        80.43        6     18.19    494         .96    29.31  3LS  21.49  47.78      MS       7.75     8.       719.17    SI7D               915      0457
a. NW& 05. Iam       0 .)            3J                       14.15     1736     23.5      3.6        m9    641.6       MS.75    324      76409      .97    121.8?    8      123        4I"         2A      1M       ISU



S
F12d2
ax3 I?,101 hl"" UO  ;    p 
(Aa.mkt  75JUPW bi8ll W,   W
84W. tuu~~~~~            mols    am.       1987     am       sins     ais~~~~~~~~~"o  u.  lmo     se       urn     Omo       se       an,      Om       iw       mm        20m      3=
, as1. ITTAL 3DMe
a. Ann  0101a,e                                  1401    '"A77      8,12    dP3*    219*    33.2    35.80  4445    40.4             405.27    573   437*        MS3      MO68     =A    MIS   es*            m
. 8nk CMMAWk Am        2)SS   297    288*                                     1.3      53M      43      mi?       W" 19W    3?      39*    OBLISM  t 9MAO  8.    13*    23.) 133$.                    1459*  11
.   mw                                                              I,_3     8038     53A    2X*    234           2731    311.10    34.8t   337.0   354.5    375         A9*S  40.        434.4    4n7      4am
Citbdt " =15 01"                                                   MM   2Ki 0n                 MM   MS   4&7   07AS  $6    WAS  MIS  111A OI  U0 1"M 1Z   WAS
Cm Va 11 4 Sm? AOtKll                                             258.30   ?4       273.   M3537       396      40.4U49           5840     534      35.8     31*       1.7     4.        04*      m         746
b.                      O _. Opsfk  3 u  P m                         4U.2    490    4533        4.       9.       Om        no       Ma      Is4    1J4A    ID*          MA 1 HIM    I1"6?   1l*2    I
Cu? lbN dEeM  APIs)                                                645i     7         3.47    no 147.30   14.2           14       .57.2    S"       NO       1927    31.2      3.        233    23.        23.2
e. hmmminl 0 a& U (     0                                            0A        8       4141    J3I       72.?    WAD    1NM2                 1 36     2"       1SL78   147.36    WAS.  874         1M*        3.
CmPeH Oh l   it   I Au000                                                   1434    W4S    2m          184*2    I"*    83.L       833      4g1t 2131         2.O          *    246    3*    2.67   3l21
d. C.o Adt h s3m
(8SSd ofm a 4+ ) (VM9UlF                                           2.36    34A       32.80    4        S3.9       4A    0M47       63.41    634      37       74.13    am3       .*8      8*        .9    9
Cmh e. lPi d   IS .1.                                              4L9      55.12     n2o     45.3    1538      87.4o    9442    108.113   I4*       11      I2    283            .S    833.2    1392    145
TabT$ CM R111t 4'QM                               M02 arn J13       m2*    271        37.72    44S    4393    483          3*        48      W&3    613.4        3 ?*    74736   79.3      MA    ois*   uS
Cut?. iedut.  AuIll(se)                         2313    3M3M    37U4I4    4362    482    73.    738.92   4L87    0736              A2   99639 1    *    183487   1618.56                         13Ul  .3   14 .56
L NO 2r71  (V1mtNPW 488,                         06.28)    a2t    O.97)   0.7)          Lx.13     9)  (114.8U)   54S6)  (19.S   41)   (ff.4           49       0.5       (."      13.75    3.26     a?       237
A. SelCfbm    Mb                                 08.3*    (141.)    3L2a)   8LM    (13         )       (32)   O* )  (7.7)T  O471)  (04.3)   (33)    1                    to."     21.13     all    47*       35s
b.As w'm 192gI=  (p101.181                                                                                      04*)   03.79)   08*1I  (4849    MAN81    am3            OM)       53      89.36    23*       MISS
a. ll CueAt a'.   3M  P" 0J88)                                                                                   07*3    064.23)  (274        M?.1 4   (1A.4    07A)    (0.2P)    83.      2.47    94        8
d. so&"b bum. 8.13 a
lDW1h 1     4 hA m      . ll4.ddid                                                                                       OA       OA4       0m       0.3      0O*      0.
9.336040(  8CIUO*4TAL. 0*8  43814                 _ (1
. NIA                                                                                                                               A.3        1       .3    3L122.34   14412
b .Laky                                                                                                                   4.6    73         3.0      27.11   33.14      8.4
L.OOP f                                                                                                                 17.6    8          3.      18        23
V    Lumum.~?.p         1111111?011PAgugmseal pdmbAn dia.fp8.   M.8m.  8wi.fae
Mf30 48.mm an pu~   ml
V   S5 M ownms M .04M  mN*qmtbp
SI                                                                #Ae un u  CAM iqe., me Am 54W. pUe
b    WIkF u 11     8 902 aeelM



SEOtND IRRIOA7110NOPERA7IONS SUPPORT PROlBCT
(Iosr 11)
Opaft 8x_m NW lFolil dAll NM
(A1m Pres Iff to t9*a PmWpt PFoz Mm& 2012)
(Aambg% ISFC*Rdi R^edm)
NW$ PARTIX           t      9      5tt 1"6  7         g       too      189e9 10  t9   t"2   i99 t 994    to"               t916     tm9  "go          9       2m1l 2 1 S2o
L SELVICARE*)                       WMY   5995 D              6t7   61tM         MM      MM    62tD6   OM          626S97   620      MM4   63&00   61          gOSI          6S aXS    lXS
6 tBt_*)                ~~~~~ ~~4311    4t  MMli   44427   46219    47tSS    4SW4   45M@I   4X650  47tt   MMSt    OM                        52SIF   fSS4m    S2    M13    MM
sAt        0_ dta*mS)            7S      3. 7112  6         7U9    74.91  J77A         2S      7        74.16    7S.6    Xt6    77.16  19.16  72               N     a          A      *
b, on_m(lb                        35       SM       M        467S   MM    W            4W       OM      43706   "4*5       M4      461M    40496 4           4U       46               49M
*    1t l_tpin1a  9> AM(%6 6t                              f3 am4         62.42A Lg  6tXiS    67J4    *AD    6914    74        7U34    72A 4         nU   3W      70       7%7
a T1mok                           7*62   S"tM    2043   1$W          *612    8612S6   8          et9150$W SI   S16      4 W        OI    9M         4972S    t6    "OM    MM   Ing*
4.1 W40btot()                    137At 1M         I"       1273t   " 1xtU37A  SI              14tff  1t44X   1"          IW4      MS      Lt# tS            WA       LS9X  16tA    161
Wa somb)                          39M   41467S   41307   334   3t7"    4=             41460    4tM   421t79   43"S    4393   4S14S2   47W    49tt   SM03t    S3m4t   am    $a
"hcttlVdlbdsWdAn4(               9^82 4      17    94J84  8X48  81.76 9"S1  9D3  "As    OMS 137  Sl 87                                     NM3  93t 37               92   933t  t3OM
Ca$-0b)                          331490   368M    370    32134    963        364    4139M   4Z3S    92t   42M            4391"   45130   4St   466W         4z3      47Wl    WM    4NtS
us     d         dmatewAto       9L74    9735    9S         93.t5    "Al    OM        ff.74    "Al    9629    909    9t:9    97.0    4St9    4.9    9St79    9S19    98.t9    9$t9
Tow(lb^)                         73UW    78t4  7SI1t    68 t412P    3X                 MM    AS=        $42M     6       SI        MM 431N4                 o          M     13M    itss 
at hrotoot l_#       > ABm(%)44                             V7."     $7.17    fAS    9zo5    NM0        "Jo    96.00    944f    ffS0    919t   4"2    OS"9                             MM6
4. UIRRIONWM"XSFEE
L OtPt_SM                          MMbe 345J 365 3 SS 36S                     S 464.2   56L42   723A6   712.77  72S2 eott Utl3S              M      OVA t0S7.47 MM4S.7    t33467.47
~Imc          (rww                145   U1" .90   17&97   t61.79   213A0  27SL  3 4231   456AI   4S517   471.43   S36.1    SS932  66CtS   743                $029     V"3731   957D
do"F(%) ~~~~~~~46.70    S2.tt    474               S2.S  St t5    57.4S576 6e22  63AO          "A       "        64J0    6th0    *    6"            70  6  7&         78A     70
Ajt4bbMdVV"00)                    v"        m        W       "        1.44     &21             3"       2bS   12A                 26"9  2 .45  t201                   22=  t 7.7tO
a2 astCp          1     _ _ oo)   OA.      6.        w       6.7      I-  8        6   5 .n7  iS4  tIA   6        nXllA  0  1 1 .79    13. 4 2    1 4  IV   n"A $i  2 S  2 1   2 3. 44    2 S n
4U T    _0_QUM                     ".6     710J    tSI       733     13S3    16.49    219    S7         372S    2VJ7    3"1       #SAS    4&t       4341     44A     44.10    4S    MA
ftsI belftoCw             1       42.67 t6 4 t9    5A 174.46 2001             26223  317.12  4OLS6 4U.91    4475          SS       SO45J7   627S 6"          M    757           &S2  MA6# 2J
L mivcbbmYno)                     2St S    28"2    26S    2M          3S       422>    497 S    6DSLO    6S4X    7n3A    05A        MA*      MAOj    MM    11434   IUStSI t31           MM
S. _     F -                                                                                                 4    23Dt    26U       23tS    1425
k   _mb ZDAmtdro                                                                                           1.22    4          2S41    #39.    4LU     SIAS    S=2      amS   7S          7937
c6 B"" PAf_  4   _A                 2j4      $A4     tQ2    14.76   1U79    4Q494    WS4         38.98    120 63    SAOj   1625    U2t    2Wfi3    2t51        21A3    22SS     2U
a                                                                                                                                                                                        N IutT ad o bo  _ "_o7o)e 4S 4 3MA21  4 .  6 U779   4404 4338   4 8  S .4 822t . 4474  1    67  7 S7 6 75 8  7 7  . "  3 .7 D 4 96  S .M 5It
0. "M6mahilmSAO>   J 14.1S  t736    2&N                                W4   3"6S.3 6Lt6           Ws    3433               17"   tO.4 t2.7  MA        WM      MA7  WAD  ISUta
a.AOWNA                             47    I"A       ta4n    m^2  A2"           sag   2 30at7 #4s    449           49U  IS2 S74291  6" 2 378          77S9A43 42it4 9        t M        la
b, Amaom m)                       2ASSt 29A0  UStA    306S    W&9    4 -   SSA74 7fI"                    7A    7$g4    "IN1 MIXS lltMS  MM,  MO   t3A, t4a29 I



hap2*92
SECOND mIGUAItONOlMAIMONSSUYPOT PMOIMCT
(106?U)
Opda3uauaO tS    at mo dA  Nil.1
ARNWUAR                        lSS        t96  t     i         m        lSow      "         191  t9S2           am    I     M       t19       3996      19        1                   20        21
1.   _                                                                                                                                                . . US
~~~~~~~~~~15.11   ss 182.   u4.                                             2.        25244    m*D   331.10    324.5    m33.            3sl5      3132      aw         82        34        523      4
Cog?. IbdSu~Im Mao (3*6)                                  259.20    294.00    273.10    355.21    396*    441.74    4978 1SM  UL          537M1"   553.LO     541.0    604.t  2 O3          6MO0M       0.      #M
I  00ab_ewww(M80                                             402       44.99     453         *A      93s       89.00     920         "t    105    It4.6         #          MA        143.3    10         M0       82
.        F dm                                             "AS )  6   726       72        WA0.0    147.3      4S       1460      153       1829  t 0           DM        206.16    21        2e        252f.     2V70
6I __o*a0                                                               8.8      41UJU    13         72687     8M        8.2       96       1t         3S4    t171    147           1.t45    114S  t115 MA        2*U
CP1  36 dl   mArA(9b)                                      0so0      1434      61.4    21*        1l4*       2A       13t.71      7J3      84u      213.3    243*       229*      2458      22.       2o5       302
29.36     346       3t2.0     404       5.9"     540       40.47      3.4t      6.       7W        14.13      826      8        MA2       9*  9 925
Ca. 9. U. dSml. Af.(1*h)                                   48.89     55.12     52*       65.28     82.52     87.90     f4.81     01.23 1t Lt    0SUS         t8U16.2     MlAS       A.S   1U4         UPS       u465
a. rmO*Y_.me      P       9             NM9        8m       225.      270*$    28.7       442.6    470S       496.         0      S10.7    626S3   479          M2          7.36    795.tt    SS4       OIIM      MM1
CW?l.bd$uftoAM(1)                    283.        0       37M 4     436M2    46652    71.a         732       UL7       591M 6  t22L         96      1M        IM         1t.       MM       1 8        3M       1in
0. 26103        WIm)Q'Uttl               (16.21)    (29f    (5551)   (80.747   (68.13)  (23048)  (1483)   (548)   (18A99)   (893)    (52.3)   (13))    (153))MO s3 4f.2t                          am      Om        an
3



TsW. 7
JBCONDI InQA'IONC ON tI1O0SSPIORT 1OBCT
(10613)
(Acd   Pto  t19lo too  fe          d k8 a993 t2002)
ARTCIAR                         1tS      t16         196?      196       l9         t99      9t9        1992        9       199       1995       1996      t9        1         o691      23m          1      20
3. 8MV3A3         )                       5674      50          49  61796          6149    620          6333      62106    625        69        44        43 760    641          30      65        637       476       67435
a. W.Am0la)                9                  t430  437      4 0    444257    462191    47654    459074    45             41        47151    4          4                   52796    54M         5          M93    6
*Jlp      I O.a sp *eAu(1)             75S3        32       7.4       71A9      7491       77.07     7         72.       74.14     75.16      76.16     77.36     79.16     80        84.0       60                 90.60
bI  uy.mm(I)                            350303    3763      33036    342S       3219       34232    43265    430990    43726    44416         453443    463M7      6         469    47492    45            493
3.1 r_mct.pdsa%m A      )              6s1.76    63.4       6a1.3     S.4       62.9.    6".         67.4      69*m      694                 714        72t4      128       73.0        40      nas       73.0      13A6
& TI&3(Ib)                              760412    614041    606        78662    65MI6  86t656    691439    60                201    946    9302    91tS                9 t 9e         1021s36   tOSSS    1 M    t13160
cbelos*o bb(>t.s3 t)                  1376        364      13        127.3     137*3      138.70    139*1     141*0    144.       1460        4    S M0M         I2S        MM       150  t5*            161       1t3am
3. MHWEt130A2E
a. WSmsm(fla)                           399176    419075    413667    36644    377900    442720    414646    4267    421199    4395    439fl3    4SI462    471873            9617    510336    5329        553126    S67
a.jhuI,~l ct  eM WAM(*)                9282      9617       94.64     62S4      83.76      92.5I     9032      94.0      9"?       9.37      9137                 937        337       931      9337        4       9
. _lmS (3)                              33109    366        347670    32120      M36       36364    413392      42S5S    426        429636    439389    45Sl      43           69      40W2      4MM       4t         MM
bJ FWftWdtkl6dk.A(*)                   94.74     97.3S       3.4       X37      9u.6       9w        95.74     99                      9      97.29     97.79     967       ss79      96.s      9.                   g
rdw 2W<)                              73317    7574S2    76tS7    68763    74 9    #0634    826$76    8528122    64263t   86043    862                9112C    93t2J4    9M          929553    0O366   686          MM        '
&l 1..     d l Irzt 4Au(.*)            93.6      963        94.43     6739      61.17      933       9          6.6      93.4      9440      94.50      95S.I     9m7       9m2       95s       956       9an                 V
4. MIUIIAIlON6RVI(3UFM
S. OAInW398P0S0.6663                    306         4.       36        346.56    366.99     46421    566,0    7236           .       227       601.U       15    9.         IM7.47   114574 t7Alt9S        1 M       136U 7
b .   tlF C   d    e    6                143t  . MU3   1t79.9  173.97    181. 7  21S.A3    276.72    342.31    45603   463.D    46S.93    560.79    6439    72               79.1$    t59.31    937.4        0"      1U0
dCmumUI9q(P)                           4S.70      52.11     47.55     52.$5     57.95      5756    6422        63*0      65*0      67*0       70.00     no*       75ae      7541      750       W5        75D0 D
L_NRFC*bcf
)3.b.dd.odbalm(fl6069                  6*0       3S3        S.42 "Q             344       021       19.45     39.07     225       32.45     17.65      28U        2.9      26.6      20*9      2381      1M9S       tl25
d3s atow polFS1 IU (T6MU _ /  061                  6.        6J8  6JS           31.59      16.26      5.74    J11.40      356   t2J5 4.02                 06      3        t6 3968    21,4      23        25.1U    25
3 1uealam.PwG      )                    "66      1t.71     1527       733      13.03      16.49     25.19     S04?      37A3      24M0       33.7      3627      4no       46.5       7.57     472S      4"OD       MM8
. NUiIcakdo(Fo"                          142.6     106.19    15670    174.6    20           2623    317.U       405.       42.46    4613    52U          4n        62        746       8L76        03       960W.     9671
t NW.e3ft%~AtMOZ )                      253.5      2.        264.      26        325        42230    49.5    6M2U          679.77    73S.3     62        ".        060        13    1246   1t341           3421       M4
a. bPmsths(3OOMS)                                                                                                           7.64     251A       26.1S     23.1      14.2S
b.                                                                                                                          1.22      930       2SAI  #.39          4t12      57        6C2          M6    7ISM        13?
c.qa~aeam4aI0~60MeI9              _       24         643      t1042     14.#6      1679      40.4      36.       3S.9t      1243      IS. 0        S      tt2 16.   26        21.       24        22.3       27        2
4. UWa?.Ieaf        *(nt04)               2.04       SA3        42      14.76     1679       409       36S       36.96     2L49      47.71      67S5        75    S66.1       7.7        3L70     9L46       9n       1
a. 106%aebubwmh.(ih)                      3.40      14.1$     1736      23*6      30646      6593      61.16     62.75     34.33     76 N9 1O797    12.1?    1264A1    323.            12         WM        142.0      MM
A. Am. F_(P0608)                        144.171    177A2   1691U       189       2193        0.7    356.O    44456    4"4W          $06        5969      661.67 7631    65.6    6.               96t      1oss"   t19
8 lbS Cu.146 Mia(Ub)                    255.1M     296       26144    360        35.        4.        5M676    713         74.t1    83.7    949.         075      119S4    U A    1374           14791     153       314



r t~ t w*o
-~~ 
i g( U
. _
I iii  ii1
X Bl  ll-I- 
__ __ _ lE    SfiM
ar    U!pBWg 
| iEtlEea kk 
|~ ~~i ll@:2fii|  
g l@X  Xtl2   &    X ' S 
'll   g:E0    I
i xg ! W:gaSI. a
~~~~~~~~~~S I
*EltElliit |t 
_ 9fl -



- 117 -
Page 1 of 8
ZliILIPPINES
SECOMD IGATIO  OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT (IOSP IIl
Apmex 16: Egonomic Analsis
List of Tables
Table  1:  Project Economic Benefits and Costs
Table  2:  Sensitivity Analysis
Table  3:  Systems Improvement Component
--Economic Benefits and Costs
Table  4:  Systems Improvement Component
--Sensitivity Analysis
Table  5:  Systems Improvement Component
---Switching Values
Table  6:  Systems Improvement Component
--Summary of ERRs of 5 Systems
Table  7: Urgent Repairs Component
- -Summary of ERRs of Individual Structures



- 118 -
Annex 16
Tabe 1
PHIUPPINES
SECOND IRRIGAllON OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
(IOSP 1)
Project Economic Beneft and Costs
Combined Systems Improvemert and Urgent Repairs Components
Bnefits    Benefits                           Inc.        Net
With      Wiott  Inremntl   Capia            O&M      Incremenal
Year      Projec     Proje      Benefts    Costs (a)    Costs     Beneflbs
(PMO)
1992     1,810,674   1,310,674     0          0           0          0
1993     1,107,117   1,107,117     0        47,600      (271)     (47,29
1994     1,094,397   1,092,520   1877       139,166     (960)    (1V6,39)
1995     1,124,825   1,120,209   4,616      145,159     (964)    (19,579)
1996     1,121,784   1,92,371    29,413    'I7.89        21       (78,437)
1997     1,115,557   1,071,578    43,979    (14,414)    1,507      56,886
1998     1,129,287   1,078,604    50,683    (7,546)     3,245     12484
1999     1,129,942   1,064,144    65,798    (75,9)      4,804     136,253
2000     1,124,874   1,047,948    76S6      22,600      5,651      48,675
2001     1,110,838   1,025,342    85,491      0         6,447      79,044
2002     1,077,05    994,381     82,824       0         6,447      76,377
2S00     1,052766    971,868     80,898       0         6,447      74,451
2004     1,019,139    940,907    7822         0         6,447      71,785
2005 -
2022      994,69     918,94      76.305       0         6,447      69M8
Economic Rdte d Return (ERR): 16.7%
(a) Incudhng: 25% enobn control and u excudeus, sa trining and equipment and 100% of
1A dwlopenwtd techni  assbtance and agribtural sUpport sevies. Mmhe 5 NiSs comnprbe
82% of the toWt area of sysemfs iknprovment these costs are pro-rated. Negatv values
(1997-2000) refle the efbect of sangs from future rpais unKde th urgen repar components.



- 119 -                              Annex 16
Table 2
PHIUPPINES
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERA1IONS SUPPORT PROJECr
(IOSP II)
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
COMBINED SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT AND URGENT REPAIRS COMPONENTS
Economic
Rate of Return
(%)
Base Case                                            16.7
Capital Cost:
Up 10%                                            l15.
Up 15%                                             15.0
Up 20%                                             14.4
Incremental Project Benefits:
Down 10%                                           15.3
Down 15%                                           14.5
Down 20%                                           13.8
Delayed one year                                   14.9
Delayed two years                                  13.5
Delayed three years                                12.3
Combination of:
Capital costs up 10% and Incremental Project
Benefits delayed by one year                       13.9



- 120 -
ANNEX 16
TABLE 3
PHLIPPINES
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATION SUPPORTPROJECr
(IOSPII)
SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT
Project Economic Benefits and Costs
Benefits       Benefits                                                        Net
With        Without    Incremental          Capital        O&M       Incremental
Year        Project        Project        Benefits         Costs         Costs        Benefits
(P'000)
1992       988,860        988,860              0               0             0              0
1993       825,221        825,221              0          37,848           (87)        (37,760)
1994       813,245        813,245              0          63,080          (132)        (62,949)
1995       835,479        835,365            113          63,080          (136)        (62,831)
1996       832,479        821,021          11,458         63,080           641         (52,264)
1997       829,002        806,383          22,619         25,231         1,446          (4,059)
1998       842,955        797,815          45,140              0         3,123          42,017
1999       847,289        783,177          64,112              0         4,708          59,405
2000       845,852         768,833         77,019              0         5,592          71,427
2001       836,439         750,949         85,490              0         6,447          79,043
2002       809,137         726,312         82,825              0         6,447          76,377
2003       789,325         708,428         80,897              0         6,447          74,450
2004       762,023         683,791         78,232              0         6,447          71,785
2005       742,212         665,907         76,305              0         6,447          69,857
2022
Economic Rate of Return (ERR): 19.2%
Note: Overall for 5 NISs under systems improvement.



- 121 -
Annex 16
Tablo 4
PHLPPINES
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATION SUPPORT PROJECT
(IOSPIX
SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT
SENSITIVTlY ANALYSIS
Economic
Rate of Retumn
(%)
Base Case                                                                    19.2
Capital Cost
Up 10%                                                                  17.8
up 15%                                                                  172
Up 20%                                                                  16.6
Incremental Project Benefits:
Down 10%                                                                17.5
Down 15%                                                                16.6
Down 20%                                                                15.7
Delayed one year                                                        16.8
Dlelayed two years                                                      15.1
Delayed three years                                                     13.6
Combination oL
Capital costs up 10% and
Incremental Project Benefits
delayed by one year                                                     1S.7
Capital costs up 10%
Benefits with Project
delayed by one year                                                     12.
Note: Overall for S NISs under systems improvement.



- 122 -
Annex 16
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECr
(IOSP II)
SWiTCHING VALUES
(At Import Parity)
Base             At ERR of
ITEM                                                Case          15%          10%
Absolute Values
Irrigated Cropping Intensity (%)                           168               158         143
Yield (ton/ha)
-Irrigated                                      4               3.6          3.2
-Rainfed                                      3.1               2.7          2.5
World Price (USS/ton CIF)                                  217               194         174
Benefit with Ptoject Delay (Yrs.)               0                 1          2.5
Incremental Benefits Delay (Yrs.)               0                 2            5
Per Cent % Changes from Base Cas
Irrigated Area                                              -                -6          -15
Yield (ton/ha)
-Irrigated                                      -                -9         -20
-Rainfed                                        -               -13         -19
World Price                                                 -               -11          -20
Benefits with Project                           -                -6         -15
Incremental Project Benefits                    -               -24         -47
Production Cost Before Labor                    -               +20         +45
Labor Cost                                      -               +70        +155
Capital Cost                                    -               +33         +91
Note: Overall for 5 NISs under systems improvement.



- 123 -                                        Annex 16
Table 6
PHILTPPUES
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
(IOSP II)
SYSEMS IMPOVEMENT COMPONENT
SummarvofERRs
NIS                                     ServiceArea                    ERR
(Regiow)                                     (ha)                         (%M
MRIIS I (R2)                                          24,054                      13.9
MRIUS m (R2)                                          24,793                      282
MRiSIV(R2)                                            24,087                      26.7
Agos RIS (R4)                                          1,119                      12.9
MandingRI S(R12)                                      4,500                       14.2
Total above (5 NISs)                                  78,S53
Total area (13 NISs) (a)                              17,268
Grand Total area                                     95,821
(18 NISs)
(a) Four in Region 1
TWo in Region 2
lbree in Regio 4
Two in Region S
One mi Region 8
One in Region 12



- 124 -
Annex 16
Tabb 7
PHIUPPINES
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
(IOSP 11)
URGENT REPAIRS COMPONENT
Summary of ERRs
Structure/System/Region                          ERR (%)
1.    Masalip Tunnel                                     17.1
Masalip RIS Rl
2.    Pagbahan Diversion Weir                            34.5
Pagbahan RIS R4
3.    Inanggihan Check                                   16.6
Caguray RIS R4
4.    Balanac Diversion Weir                             31.0
Balanac RIS R4
5.    Puta Diersion Weir                                 23.0
Pula-Bansud RIS R4
6.    Alawihan Dam                                       46.2
Daet-Talisay-Matogdon RIS R5
7.    Nasisi Dam                                         16.9
Mahaba-Nasis-Ogsong Hibiga RIS R5
8.    Hibiga Dam                                         20.2
Mahaba-Nashs-Ogsong Hibiga RIS R5
9.    Ogsong Dam                                        >50.0
Mahaba-Nasis-Ogsong Hibiga RIS R5
10.    Mahaba Dams 1, 2and 3                             27.3
Mahaba-Nasis-Ogsong Hibiga RIS R5
111.   Aganan Dam                                        25.8
Aganan-Sta Barbara RIS R6
12.    StU Barbara Dafr                                  28.9
Aganan-Sta Barbara RIS R6
13.   Jalaur Dam                                         13.5
Jalaur-Suage RIS R6
14.    Suage Dam                                         15.9
Jalaur-Suage RIS R6
15.   Andanan Dam                                        >50.0
Andanan RIS RIO
16.    Cabadbaran Dam                                    32.1
Cabadbaran RIS RIO
17.    Lasang Diversion Weir                             28.1
Lasang RIS Rl1
1&    Sumnilah Dam                                       31.0
AUash IRIS R1
19.    Sto Nino Dam                                      11.9
Alah I RIS R11
20.    M'kang Dam                                        29.3
M'Iang RIS R12
Weighted Avera"e                                  28.0
Source: Annex: Project Fie



- 125 -
Aninex
Page I of I
PMILIPPINE
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in the Pro1ect l.
A. Proiect Preoaration Revorts and Related Documents
1. Project Feasibility Study (in two volumes), prepared by NIA, 1992
2.  Economic Re-evaluation of IOSP I, by Rolando Dy (Consultant), November
28, 1992.
4.  NIl's Draft Memorandum Circular "Revised Viability Incentive Grant
Guidelines and Criteria", April 30, 1992.
B. grkint Palers
1   Tables related to economic analysis of systems Improvement and urgent
repairs of subcomponents, crop and faru budgets, and economic price
calculations.
2.   Detailed projections of NIAL'  balance sheet, sources and application
of funds, and income statements.
3.  Consultant's Working Paper on Agricultural Support Services.



- 126 -
CHARTS



PHIUPPINES
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
NIA Organization Chart
NA BODOF DECORS
CENTRAL OFFICE               '     -                             '
iMa_ltrient  Speton & h*besi
for Pmod et bni                         for bt                                                                                (Of qFa  sb
s kq_mtton                           &                  EFe coKna9mez &                                               d^_s         Servce
Pmec_               Condn               h    d _nal          SYSem            C                    T,eay          PemonAWl & Reoood     Pmsu_mm  s PhlysI
DoMpw DqA                  _eokn   _V                        Afngage Dept.                            Deprx            Ma _a_wb_ Dq2          v_ ept,    _    esom  OSP
statect Cor         Fes                Operation &          Geneta           Cash DMsion         Ta%g   a            Proc e OSon
PI*  sb                PUannhV &          Asdsisance       Mabtenanc DM"sb        Acooun**                               D
sdwiedut Dlebbn        Ofisn                                                     Fevenu       Jab                        Pmpl Dhdskb
Land UesourcoUs                                                  Repair &          F^p sns Lom6         eneratin
h Eoononis Dhb on         oonn              10                    OW6 bonvm         A                SeNives Divison    Pedsne DlWsion         SIm    Fa      st
Plan Fomufton            iDMslDMon                                                                                        Recods
DMiobn                                                      Research   a        detmw                                                      OhSner _aSmv4s      I
FIELD OF.                                                                                -DhCD
Wat Resoure          & "vluai1vslon                             DOivion
Mulionzvison, 
___     =FF{---------         Dept IW 
ChWwods       EoAnetPbnrr I                                "o Si                               }pfio Divsbio I
Dedl1nDhCsn        a  bSplgMlosIhn$|CnOib 
6p e d i baf on s   { {   {     | Ma  r       {~ ~~~~~~~~~~CWtrctsomio
DSlon 0 "        64ume UUI zaon                          Au Dib 
ArdA I*  &    &             IeLgfd
Ar & I I  Oin  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
FULD OFFIE  
L 2 Z , l  , omos                       tntd  L _ 



PHIUPPINES
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Organization Chart for Project Implementation
Admfinistato
~~~~~~II
AssiSnt Administrator              Assisbant Admintrator              Asasi    Adm tratsa  Adwnistrat
for Proect DeeWopment    __.   for Systemrs Operation &                        for                                for
& h. omnao                      Eqiipmet Managemt                  RFinance  Mangmnt                   Adsra w services
Xah                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eq*ftw
Devebpment                                                                        Man_amt
D-t                                                                               Depadmt
St.edng Commflee
Assint Adminitat SOEM-Chalr
& Manages SMD, IDD, DSD, EMD & CD
Director
Sysoems Mament Depadment
(Prose Coordinator)
Asssnt Poect Coorxdator
& Assined Staff
RegionalIrdgation    A 
o .
galloon Sysems     _
l, _f_f]



PHILIPPINES
SECOND IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
(Cumulative %)
PROJECT ACTIVITIES                       1993      1994      1995       1996      1997      1998
Systems Improvement                                                         58        89
Urgent Repairs                                     _                        55  8     89         1
57   81       ~~98__100
Erosion Control                                                     31                     - 9
Silt Excluders & Improved Water Control Structures      I                                        I
Incremental 0 & M (all NISs annually)
5     ~~37       69        95        100
IA Development                                                    i      i-91
I                           97 5  5    .9100
Technical Assistance                                    I          i        T
Parcellary Mapping & Irrigation Fee Registers      -                                   l T i
15   58        92        99100
Staff Training                                                    I         I 5   58   9299100
Equipment Procurement                                  1                   1i           l1
Agricultural Support Services                                               47        76        95  100
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _1                          1  



IBRD 24576
|~~~~~~~ON IN                                                                      PHILIPPINES                      2-I
5    ",w"                                ~~~SECOND IRRIGATION9 OPERATIONS
, wv , ~~~~~SUPPORT PROJECT
s E  , v                           ~~~REGIONAL LC)CATION OF NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTE*MS
20  vI  p it                                                                                                                     20
II S, Vi                                                   BAAF
16            1.   =      8 Zs                                       a           A    NATIONAL IRRIGATION4 SYSEAS
19^b4   X Q.^.                                  5 )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
*A A  * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
eaA*Wf4AW   4WW-T4
eS=~~      ~~~ S&W-3 h.v                                                           REGION 13OUN1DARIES
3              9                                  Laoa,;   INTERNATIONAL BOLINDARIES
Itotw0         2      .l                                 t        I's         rEDTRS O            100      200      300
la  ~      ~~ 4                          FA8nde                                       0      sfo44162/hv5O 5  100    ISO    2001
t S^ M-VP- I^                                                      7.*t  pgg;
It-Wt  9  S > /z>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                                           16'
2o #M4.^ I      14                                 7*6.   
2 s                  t~                                  .1         LU ZON
KW    J                                                     4vt3 ljNlMI                      PHILIPPINE SEA
sio            I            ~       O t                                                      T      E
IS~ ~ ~~~ U-i                    S"_                     - _      D       }~t  673Op
RK" 50       b?3                                                                            b R\27) )7  | >\
trlls4mA n                                      CM          w1- 0\_<RVt                                                        g
1 le            51k                                  IV                    1       VSZD            2
E-ro"            2 dwFbe /V   So|,14 
lS aft f-Wt \4 
}t > ~~~4 Al-'  *J>=J 
S*Z  &P        it                                                                 seUUaE  /        <         4
QBoo1 1                                                ,2i 
10 S. NOS 146 >"
It 8148 'p &suL                                                                                            X
.,     ,    4''  (  
.   kmd \.  I                                                             I,-              Sb4c         /       r        r 1
@ g<  /   <1   -L                  -              .1f,*                                 -                              tS



