Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 19456
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2824-ME)
June 28, 1999
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION CO:MPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
LOAN 2824-ME
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =Mexican Peso
US$1 = 1.612 average of 1986
US$1 = 1.378 average of 1987
US$1 = 2.273 average of 1988
US$1 = 2.461 average of 1989
US$1 = 2.813 average of 1990
US$1 = 3.018 average of 1991
US$1 = 3.095 average of 1992
US$1 = 3.116 average of 1993
US$1 = 3.375 average of 1994
US$1 = 6.419 average of 1995
US$1 = 7.609 average of 1996
US$1 = 7.820 average of 1997
US$1 = 9.500 average of 1998
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 liter (1) = 0.26 gallons (gal)
1 hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (Mton) = 2205 pounds (lbs)
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Management Director: Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Management Director: Danny Leipziger
Task Manager: Guillermo Ruan



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AADT           Average Annual Daily Traffic
ACF            Average Cost of Funds (Federal Government Borrowings)
(Costo Porcentual Promedio, CPP)
BANOBRAS    National Bank of Public Works and Services
(Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Puiblicos, S.N.C.)
COMETRAVI  Transport and Roads Metropolitan Commission
(Comisi6n Metropolitana de Transporte y Vialidad)
COTREM         State of Mexico Transport Commission
(Comisi6n del Transporte del Estado de Mexico)
CUD            Comprehensive Development Agreement (State/Federal)
(Convenio Unico de Desarrollo)
DDF            Department of the Federal District
(Departamento del Distrito Federal)
FRR            Financial Rate of Return
GEM            Government of the State of Mexico
(Gobierno del Estado de Mexico)
GIRA           General Interest Rate Agreement
GOM            Government of Mexico (Federal)
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
JC             Junta Caminos (Road Maintenance Division, State of Mexico)
LCB            Local Competitive Bidding
LRT            Light Rail Transit
LVC            La Venta - Chamapa Toll Road
MAESTRA        Urban Transport Enterprise Support Model
(Modelo de Apoyo a las Empresas de Transporte Urbano de Pasajeros)
MSCP           Medium Sized Cities Urban Transport Project
NPV            Net Present Value
PEMEX          Mexican Petroleum Company
(Petroleos Mexicanos)
PPTU           First Urban Transport Project
(Primer Proyecto de Transporte Urbano)
RAMA           Air Monitors Automatic System
(Red Automatica de Monitores del Aire)
SCTEM          Communications and Transport Secretariat of the State of Mexico
(Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes del Estado de Mexico)
SDUOP          Secretariat of Urban Development and Public Works
(Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Obras Publicas)
SECODAM        Controller's and Administrative Development Secretariat
(Secretaria de la Contraloria y Desarrollo Administrativo)
SEDESOL        Secretariat of Social Development (fonnerly SEDUE)
(Secretaria de Desarrollo Social)
SEDUE          Secretariat of Development and Ecology
(Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



SHCP           Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito Publico)
SIAM           Maintenance Management Integral System
(Sistema Integral de Administracion del Mantenimiento)
SOPT           Secretariat of Public Works and Transport (State of Nuevo Leon)
(Secretaria de Obras Puiblicas y Transporte)
SofNL          State of Nuevo Leon
SofM           State of Mexico
SPP            Secretariat of Programming and Budget
(Secretaria de Programaci6n y Presupuesto)
SCT            Secretariat of Communicat:ions and Transport
(Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes)
STT            State-owned Bus Companies (State of Mexico)
(Sistema de Transporte Troncal)
TA             T echnical Assistance
TSM            Traffic Systems Management
VCT            Valle Cuatitlan-Texcoco (State of Mexico)
ZMCM           City of Mexico
(Zona Metropolitana del V alle de Mexico)



TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE   ............................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................                                                   i
Introduction ......................................................                                               ii
Project Objectives .......................................................ii
Implementation  Experience and Results ...................................................... ii
Summary of Findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned ............v
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................................1
A. Project Objectives ......................................................lI
B.  Scope of Project and Project Development ..............................................I
C. Achievement of Objectives .......................................................4
D.  Major Factors Affecting the Project .......................................................8
E. Project Sustainability .......................................................9
F. Bank Performance ......................................................                                        10
G. Borrower Performance ......................................................1  I
H. Assessment of Outcome ......................................................                                   11
1.  Future Operation ......................................................                                       12
J.  Key  Lessons Learned ......................................................                                   12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .....................................................                                             15
Table  1.   Summary of Assessment .....................................................                             15
Table 2:  Related  Bank  Loans/Credits .....................................................                          16
Table 3:  Project Timetable .....................................................                                  17
Table 4:   Loan  Disbursements .....................................................                               18
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Operation ............................................. 18
Table 6:   Studies for the Project .....................................................                           19
Table 7:   Key Indicators for Financial Position ............................................ 19
Table 8A: Project Costs .....................................................                                     20
Table 8B: Project Financing .....................................................                                 22
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits ..................................................... 22
Table 9B: Financial Results .....................................................                                 23
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants .....................................................                          24
Table  11: Project Implementation  Program  ................................................... 27
Table  12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs .....................................................  29
Table  13: Bank Resources:  Missions .....................................................                          30
APPENDICES ......................................................                                                             32
A. Mission's Aide Memoire ......................................................                                  33
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR ......................................................    35
C. Maps: IBRD  No. 20367R  and 20368R ..................................................... 46



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
LOAN 2824-ME
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the First Urban
Transport Project in Mexico, for which Loan 2824-ME in the amount of US$125 million
equivalent was approved on May 28, 1987 and made effective on February 11, 1988. In
1992, US$34 million of the loan were cancelled when the Nuevo Le6n Component was
dropped from the project. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1998. Final disbursement
took place on October 30, 1998 at which time a balance of US$0.5 million was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by John Cracknell (Consultant), Mahendra Lal
(Consultant), and Francisco Wulff (Consultant) under the supervision of the Task
Manager Guillermo Ruan of the Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department of
the Latin America and the Caribbean Region (LCSFP) and reviewed by Maria Victoria
Lister, Quality Assurance Officer (LCSFP); Richard Clifford, Sector Leader (LCSFP);
and Jeffrey Gutman, Lead Specialist (LCSFP). The borrower and cofinanciers provided
comments that are included as appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was initiated during the Bank's supervision/completion
mission, in May 1998. It is based on data supplied by the Borrower and on project
reports and material in the project files. The Borrower also contributed to preparation of
the ICR by providing views reflected in the report, and by commenting on the draft ICR.
A summary of the Borrower's contribution is included in Appendix B to this ICR.



ii
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loan 2824-ME
MEXICO
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction.
1.    The Project was the first urban transport project to be supported by the Bank in
Mexico. The Project was identified in 1985, appraised in 1986, approved by the Bank in
1987, and became effective in February 1988 (Table 3). The cost of the Project was
estimated at US$294.9 million with a Bank loan of US$125 million equivalent. The
Project took eleven years to implement and the final costs were US$144.66 million with
US$90.46 million disbursed from the Bank loan'.
Project Objectives.
2.    The rationale of the Project was to assist the development of traffic and transport
operations, management and planning in selected major urban areas in Mexico. The
Loan Agreement stated the Project objectives as (i) to improve the quality, accessibility,
and effectiveness of transport; (ii) to rationalize tariff policies, improve the financial and
economic viability and sustainability of transport investments and encourage private
sector participation, (iii) to preserve and maintain (transport) infrastructure investments,
and (iv) to strengthen the capabilities of institutions engaged in urban transport.
3.    The Project objectives were to be achieved through the implementation of five
components: (i) Corridor improvements, (ii) Public Transport, (iii) Road Maintenance,
(iv) Traffic Systems Management (TSM), and (v) Institutional Development. The latter
component aimed to assist project management and supervision, strengthening agencies
in the sector systematic transport planning and preparation of investment programs in
urban areas in Mexico. Corridor, Public Transport, Maintenance and TSM components
were included for (i) Zona Metropolitana del Valle de Mexico (ZMCM)   under  the
jurisdiction of the State of Mexico (SofM), and (ii) Monterrey, State of Nuevo Leon
(SofNL). The Institutional Development component was directed at the Banco Nacional
de Obras (BANOBRAS); Technical Assistance (TA) to local agencies was combined
with the sectoral components.
Implementation Experience and Results.
4.    Project implementation was delayed and took 10-11 years instead of the 7-8 years
foreseen at Appraisal. The progress and content of the Project was greatly influenced by
unforeseen events (such as the consequences of Hurricane Gilbert and the air pollution
crisis in ZMCM), the economic downturn in Mexico and policy decisions by borrower
i During the period 1987-1998 the Mexican peso devalued from 1.4 to a dollar to 9.5 to a dollar.



iii
agencies (such as a decision to pursue the metro in Monterrey). It is a complex
background extending over 11 years against which the Project must be judged. There
were considerable changes in project scope, priorities and costs of individual Project
components and changes in institutions, the major amongst which were:
a) re-scheduling of Project resources (US$ 11.6m Loan) to finance repairs to
transport infrastructure in Monterrey brought about by Hurricane Gilbert;
b) cancellation of outstanding SofNL components (US$ 34.Om Loan) in 1992
attributed by SofNL to the lack of counterpart funds; this lack of resources
resulted from a change of transport priorities in the city by the decision to
pursue a high cost Light Rail Transit (LRT/metro);
c) cancellation of the lines of credit for buses (US$28.8m total) due to failure to
implement related bus route rationalization and tariff reform programs, the
SofNI, withdrawal and existence of alternative bus financing sources;
d) reallocation of Project resources (US$38m) in 1990 to the Department of the
Federal District (DDF) to implement measures to alleviate the crisis levels of
transport related air pollution;
e) liquidation of the SofM bus company (STT) and thus the abandonment of the
related bus maintenance prograrn;
f) changes in scope, types of wvorks and priorities on Corridors and for
Maintenance arising as a consecquence of the long implementation period;
g) decentralization of traffic responsibilities to local governments which affected
the imrplementation of TSM components;
h) changes in political administration which resulted in institutional changes
such as elimination of State of Mexico Transport Commission (COTREM)
(Traffic division) and STT in SofM, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in
SofNI. and Ruta 100 in DDF.
5.    Additionally, the Project was implemented in a time of economic crisis in Mexico
with two effects: (i) shortage of counterpart funds at many stages in the Project but
notably in the early years of the Project when implementation was very slow and few
disbursements were made and (ii) a drop in the value of the Project as the Peso devalued.
The original Project cost of US$ 294 m (US$ 125m Loan) was reduced by the withdrawal
of Monterrey (a cancellation of US$34 mn of the Loan) to an estimated US$214m;
however, during Project implementation the Mexican Peso devalued from 1.38 P to I
US$ in 1987 to about 9.5 P to 1 US$ 1998 contributing to an effective drop in the total
Project cost to US$144.66 million.
6.    As a result of the lengthy time scale and the events described in para 4, there were
changes in Project scope, not all components were implemented and not all objectives
were achieved, notably those related to the TSM and Public Transport components.
Nevertheless, the Project was the first urbEm transport project in Mexico and significant
benefits accrued to users of the transport system in SofM, from the Corridors and the
Maintenance components, and in Monterrey from the initial Ring Road investments and
the Hurricane Gilbert remedial works. The DDF components, added in 1990, were
successfully implemented with beneficial results from reductions of bus emissions and an



iv
air quality monitoring system was established. Furthermore, from a very low level of
initial experience, the TA and training under the Project assisted BANOBRAS to increase
its expertise and capabilities in urban transport. While further improvement is still
necessary, the gain is demonstrated in the successful co-operation between the Bank and
BANOBRAS in developing integrated transport projects in Medium Sized Cities and
now, supervision of the on-going Bank project.
7.    Financial impact of the Project is assessed as mixed. Although quantitative data
are not available, the Maintenance program is considered to have had an overall positive
impact on SofM's transport expenditure since if road rehabilitation had been further
deferred, then full scale road reconstruction would have been necessary; furthermore, the
establishment of improved maintenance planning also assists the SofM to make most
effective use of resources. Only one component, the La Venta Chamapa (LVC) Toll
Road, involves direct cost-recovery from users. The LVC does not result in a satisfactory
Financial Rate of Return (FRR) due to lower than estimated traffic demand and
construction cost over-runs2.
8.    There is also little data from which to assess the economic impact of investments.
However, on the basis of experience of other projects and some un-validated data from
the SofM, it is assessed that the Maintenance and Corridor components resulted in
improved vehicle speeds which, together with improved road surfaces, reduced vehicle
operating costs and gave economic benefits. Due to low traffic demand, it appears that
the LVC has not realized its estimated economic benefits. The impacts of the DDF
components (Ruta 100 engines and equipment for the Air Monitors Automatic System --
RAMA) are judged to be positive.
9.    The Bank showed flexibility and responsiveness in dealing with changing
circumstances throughout the Project, in particular in meeting the requests from the
Government of Mexico (GOM) to use Project funds to alleviate the effects of two
emergencies: (i) damaged transport infrastructure in Monterrey following Hurricane
Gilbert, and (ii) alleviation of the transport related air pollution crisis in ZMCM. During
later years of the Project, implementation of physical measures was emphasized and
supervision efforts were directed to speeding up previous slow disbursement performance
but more may have been possible to stimulate greater action in the traffic management
and public transport reform programs. Considerable effort was also devoted to the
development of a Medium Sized Cities Urban Transport Project (MSCP);  this   was
successfully accomplished and the framework for the development of urban transport
systems and institutions in urban areas in Mexico has been improved. Overall Bank
performance is rated as satisfactory.
10.   Borrower performance was uneven.  BANOBRAS performed administrative
aspects well (procurement supervision, disbursements, preparation of quarterly reports
etc.) but at the outset of the Project, the agency lacked technical expertise to deal with
2 It appears possible that the financial return could be improved through (i) levying a more realistic toll to balance and
optimize demand and revenue and (ii) improvement of the vehicular access to/from LVC's catchment area within
SofM.



v
policy and technical issues to maintain the proposed pace of implementation. During the
Project, BANOBBAS benefited from exposure to the sector through Bank Supervision
missions and, to some extent, from TA and technical performance has improved. In
SofM, the Traffic Division (COTREM) was hampered by the economic downturn in
Mexico leading to paucity of counterpart ftnds, frequent changes in administration and
lack of expertise in traffic matters and, in the end, although studies and designs were
completed, little implementation was achieved in the TSM or Public Transport
components. The Maintenance Division of SofM, after a slow start, performed well and
benefited from the TA under the Project to strengthen their expertise and establish a
planning system. Overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned.
11.   The outcome of the Project was mixed. Cancellation of some components
(notably bus lines of credit) meant that public transport objectives were not achieved, and
not all remaining original components were implemented in the form envisaged at
Appraisal. There was a notable lack of traffic management actions although some
interventions were subsumed into Corridor components. Implementation was slower
than forecast. Nevertheless, the Corridor and Maintenance-Rehabilitation works had
positive impacts ina economic terms, in financial terms (through improved planning of
resource allocation to maintenance) and in raising awareness of cost-effective measures,
The LVC appears not to have achieved either its economic or financial returns but this is
attributed to unrealistic tolls and poor local road connections rather than a poor scheme
concept. While some components were cancelled by Borrower agencies, others were
substituted and these, at the time of their inclusion, had positive impacts. The Project had
a positive impact on urban transport planning and project development (i) generally in
Mexico through the approach to urban transport, now demonstrated by the on-going
MSCP Project, and (ii) through promotion of the case for integrated transport in ZMCM
through support to the Transport and Roads Metropolitan Commission (COMETRAVI --
Comisi6n Metropolitana de Transporte y Vialidad) and its successors. Thus, although the
Project did not achieve all objectives, it was an initial project in the sector and must be
viewed against th,e background of a long time-scale and changing political events,
economic conditions and institutional changes and its outcome is regarded as generally
positive. Thus, a satisfactory rating has been given. The lessons to be learned for future
projects are given in the following paragraphs.
12.   Political Commitment and Changing Priorities - it is essential for implementation
of traffic and transport schemes and policies to secure political commitment to minimize
risks of cancellation of components. There is no easy way for which to plan for changing
political priorities, particularly in a Project with a life of over 11 years. However, the
lessons learned are (i) projects should be "shorter" in planned duration even if this means
a project of reduced scale; shorter periods would safeguard, to some extent, against
changing priorities and (ii) there is a need to improve consultation procedures with
decision makers and key stakeholders. For further work in the sector, the agency
responsible for the project should have the capacity to play an effective leadership role in
the pursuit of policy reforms.



vi
13.  Institutional Arrangements for Implementation - the fundamental requirement for
the successful implementation of an urban traffic and transport program is the existence
(or creation) of a strong, professional Traffic Management Unit (TMU) or equivalent.
Planning and implementation of traffic schemes and policies involves many public and
private agencies in the sector. Unless a strong TMU exists (or is created) with adequate
powers and financing, successful implementation of TSM components will be at risk. In
SofM, the Project foresaw this issue and provided TA to COTREM; however, the agency
proved to have insufficient experience in the area and had no budgetary powers to force
through implementation. The lessons learned are that Bank urban transport lending in
Mexico should be even more strongly focussed on institutional strengthening and that the
agency selected for planning should have a clear mandate to secure implementation.
14.   Project Design - the design of the Project was not unduly complex and yet
significant elements were not implemented, notably the TSM and Public Transport
Components; although preparation studies were completed for both components but
implementation did not follow. The lessons learned are:
a) Public Transport - Lines of Credit. The component was not implemented as
(i) it was linked to bus route rationalization and reform of public transport
organization (such as tariff levels) which, although studied, were not
implemented and (ii) the arrangements to actualize the lines of credit outlined
at Appraisal were reasonable proposals but did not prove acceptable in
practice (even though operators had been consulted). The viability of bus
lines of credit requires extensive research into the structure of the local bus
service supply industry, its sources of alternative finance and integration, on a
staged basis, new buses with the existing bus fleet. The lesson learned is that
it is necessary to take the development of a line of credit to a "final scheme"
stage at Appraisal;
b) TSM - a strong, professional TMU is essential for the realization of a traffic
management program; the lesson to be learned has been described in para I3.
and is further endorsed.
15.   Approach to Detailed Design at Appraisal It is standard practice at Appraisal for
detailed design to be completed for a significant proportion of any urban transport
project. This procedure was followed and a significant proportion-by-cost of the Project
was available at detailed design level. However, the designs were for straightforward
road components. The components which, although of lower cost, require intensive
design effort (such as the TSM schemes) were not designed. These were planned and
designed during the early years of the Project but not implemented following changes of
traffic responsibility from State to municipalities and as the focus of attention (by
BANOBRAS, SofM and the Bank) in later years of the Project concentrated on the
implementation of physical investments. Thus, the TSM objectives were largely lost.
The lessons learned are (i) that detailed design of urban transport project at Appraisal
should not be assessed only on a cost basis but should include a representative sample of



vii
all type of measures proposed for the Project and (ii) even if there is a change in system
responsibilities, the co-ordination agency should seek consensus with the new authorities.
16.   Supervision by BANOBRAS and the Bank - during later years of the Project,
there was an emphasis on implementation of physical measures and great efforts were
made to speed up previous slow disbursernent performance. As a consequence, the
policy aspects of the Project (such as possible Public Transport reform in terms of routes,
tariffs, etc) and procedural aspects (such as data for monitoring and ex-post evaluations)
tended to be overlooked. The lessons learned are that (i) for projects with very long
implementation peiiods, at least one comprehensive review of the Project in relation to its
objectives is required after, say, 4 years and a detailed action plan is necessary to recover
any overlooked components or policies and (ii) dialogue between the Bank and the co-
ordination agency must be continued within the framework of the Appraisal agreements
and activities should not concentrate on physical implementation alone.
17.   LVC - the largest single investment does not appear to result in positive financial
or economic returns. The increase in constiuction cost was unavoidable but the danger
signs relating to low demand were recognized in mid Project. Bank Supervision missions
recommended testing alternative tolls to arrive at the optimum balance between toll and
demand. It does not appear that this advice was taken. The lesson learned is that in cases
where a component has been completed bult its benefits are in doubt, the Bank should
exercise all possible influence on the borrower to seek remedial actions - particularly in
the present case where such actions appear viable.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loan 2824-ME
Part I: Implementation Assessment
A. Project Objectives
1.       The rationale of the Project was to assist the development of traffic and
transport operations, management and planning in selected major urban areas in Mexico.
The specific Project objectives (Loan Agreement Schedule 2) were to:
(a) improve the quality, accessibility, and effectiveness of transport;
(b) rationalize tariff policies, improve the financial and economic viability and
sustainability of transport investments, and encourage private sector
participation;
(c) preserve and maintain (transport) infrastructure investments;
(d) at local and national levels, to strengthen the capabilities of institutions engaged
in urban transport.
B. Scope of the Project and Project Development
2.       The Project was identified in 1985, appraised in 1986, approved by the Bank
in 1987, and became effective in February 1988 (Table 3). The cost of the Project was
estimated at US$294.9 million at Appraisal with a Bank loan of US$125 million
equivalent. The Project took eleven years to implement and the final costs were
US$144.66 million with US$90.46 million disbursed from the Bank loan.
3.       The Project objectives were to be realized by the implementation of five
components:
(a) Corridor Improvements -road construction (including one toll expressway),
road widening, busways, intersection improvements, "missing links" and
similar (36% of costs);
(b) Public Transport Improvements - studies and TA for bus system management,
tariffs, public transport plans and bus maintenance facilities (including
equipment); a line of credit for private sector to procure buses was included
(37% costs);
(c) Road Maintenance -deferred maintenance investments and TA for development
maintenance management programs (21% costs);



:2
(d) Traffic System Management (TSM) -TA for TSM studies and implementation
of resultant traffic management measures to optimize use of existing traffic
facilities (5% costs);
(e) Institutional Development Prograr - TA to (i) assist Project management and
supervision, (ii) strengthen local agencies in the sector and (ii) commence
systematic urban transport planning and preparation of investment programs in
cities in Mexico (1% of costs).
4.        The Corridor, Public Transport, Maintenance and TSM components (paras
3(a)-(d)) were included in the Project for (i) the part of the ZMCM under the jurisdiction
of the State of Mexico (SofM) and (ii) Monterrey, State of Nuevo Leon (SofNL). The
Institutional Development component was directed at BANOBRAS; TA to local agencies
was combined with the sub-sector components.
5.        The Project period was extendecl from an estimated 7 to 8 years at Appraisal
to 11 years (the original closing date of June 1995 was extended to June 1998) (Table 3).
During this period, the content and progress of the Project was greatly influenced by
unforeseen events (such as the consequences of Hurricane Gilbert and the air pollution
crisis in ZMCM), the economic downturn in Mexico and decisions by borrower agencies.
It is a complex background extending over 11 years against which the Project must be
judged. There were considerable changes in project scope, priorities and costs of
individual Project components and changes in institutions, the major amongst which
were:
(a) in late 1988, road infrastructure in. Monterrey was severely damaged by the
effects of F-lurricane Gilbert. The Bank agreed to a major re-scheduling of Project
resources (US$ 11.6m Loan) to finance repairs to transport infrastructure and to
bring vital road links back into full operation in the shortest practicable time:
(b) in November 1992, the SofNL requested the cancellation of the project in
Monterrey (US$ 34.Om Loan); this was agreed by the Bank. The reasons for the
cancellation were attributed by the SofNL to the lack of counterpart funds.
Although precise data are not available, this shortage of resources appears to have
resulted from the commitment of SofNL to the construction of the Monterrey
LRT/metro (now in operation but operating at a considerable deficit);
(c) the lines of credit for buses were not pursued (US$28.8m Project cost). This
arose from a combination of reasons: (i) the lines of credit were tied to realization
of bus route rationalization and tariff reform programs; while the studies were
completed in SofM, the State lacked the conviction to implement the proposals;
(ii) in SofNL, after protracted debate over the scope of the bus route studies and
its integration with the then proposed. metro (para (b)), the studies were overtaken
by the SofNL cancellation, (iii) bus operators were able to finance buses with
supplier credits at more favourable lerms than was likely from a Project line of
credit, and (iv) bus operators were unwilling to embrace, without increased tariffs,
the higher standards (and costs) of buses likely to be required by a line of credit
under the Project (e.g. insistence on imnproved emission standards);



3
(d) in 1989, transport related air pollution had reached crisis point in the DDF. In
February 1990, at the request of GOM, the Bank agreed to reschedule US$ 38m
(made possible by reallocation of some funds from the Monterrey Project and
from the non-established bus lines of credit funds in both states) to assist in
meeting that crisis. The Project financed (i) the procurement of 1,200 "clean"
engines for Ruta 100 buses, (ii) TA and equipment for RAMA (automatic air
quality monitoring program) in DDF, and (iii) studies on vehicle emissions and
lead-free gasoline production. While the RAMA equipment continues to function
very efficiently, is audited each semester by the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) of the USA and is well managed, Ruta 100 - the beneficiary of the engines
- no longer exists as the company has since been liquidated;
(e) following the completion of the bus maintenance study and the definition of a bus
maintenance equipment program in the SofM, the State bus company (STT) was
liquidated and thus the components were abandoned;
(f) the long Project implementation period gave rise, in SofM, to a need to re-
appraise priorities for various reasons.  Typical changes included (i) road
conditions had continued to deteriorate and Corridor and Maintenance works were
modified to meet the new priorities, (ii) some Appraisal proposals proved
unrealistic following detailed analysis; in particular, the Rl Busway (US$22.4m
project cost) was cancelled as it relied on new road construction for continuity
and for which costs were not included in the Project, bus re-routing which was not
pursued and for a complete scheme, extension out of SofM jurisdiction into the
DDF area; road rehabilitation was substituted, (iii) Av Central had deteriorated
physically since Appraisal and the works were redefined to deal with the new
conditions and further to deal with the effects of the construction by DDF of
Metro Line 10 (along the line of Av Central); Project costs are given in Tables
8A-1 and 8A-2;
(g) during the early 1990's, decentralization of local government responsibilities took
place from states to municipalities. In the SofM, this meant that municipalities
became responsible for traffic schemes; the Project proposals for TSM for local
centres such as Naucalpan, Ecatepec and Texcoco prepared under the Project by
COTREM (SofM) were not implemented although subsequently, some (notably
Texcoco) have been taken over by municipalities with their own resources;
(h) during Project implementation, there have been changes in political
administration e.g. three different administrations in Monterrey. These changes
affected the Project in terms of: (i) policy - for example, the decision to proceed
with the metro/LRT in Monterrey in preference to "cost-effective", Project
investments and (ii) institutions - for example, various institutions/agencies
supported by the Project have been eliminated (although sometimes absorbed into
other agencies) and these included COTREM and STT in SofM, the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in SofNL and Ruta 100 in DDF;
(i) the Project was implemented in a time of economic crisis in Mexico. Two effects
are noted (i) shortage of counterpart funds at many stages in the Project but
notably in 1990/91 when implementation was very slow and few disbursements
were made (Table 4) and (ii) a drop in the value of the Project as the Peso
devalued. The original Project cost of US$ 294 m (US$ 125m Loan) was reduced



4
by the withdrawal of Monterrey (a cancellation of US$34 m Loan) to an estimated
US$214m; however, during Project implementation the Mexican Peso devalued
from 1.378 P to 1 US$ in 1987 to about 9.5 P to 1 US$ 1998 contributing to an
effective drop in the total Project cost to US$144.66 million.
C. Achievement of Objectives
6.        The SAR defined indicators against which to measure improvements in
traffic performance, economic impacts ancd financial returns (where appropriate) for
Corridors, Public Transport Maintenance ancd TSM components. However, the extensive
changes over the life of the Project in termns of location and type of schemes and the
elimination of some components (para 5), rmeans that the SAR indicators are, in many
cases, no longer valid. Although monitoring surveys were planned in 1991, they were
not executed nor followed up and changes of administration and consequent changes in
technical personnel in SofNL and SofM has meant that there has been no consistent,
systematic data collection to enable quantified, ex-post evaluations to be made. Thus, the
assessment of the achievement of objectives is based largely on qualitative assessments.
7.        Corridors and TSM - the objective was to improve the quality of transport by
improving the efficiency of existing facilities and supplementing traffic capacity in key
locations. Investments comprised new road construction, extensions and widening of
existing roads, somne traffic system improvements and road paving in a poor area on the
periphery of the cit:y.
8.        The works undoubtedly had beneficial effects on traffic performance in terms
of (i) improved travel speeds', (ii) increased accessibility to developing areas by the
construction of new roads, (iii) improving bus and other access to the poor area of Chalco
and (iv) reduced vehicle operating costs (see also Maintenance below). However, the
TSM program was not fully realized; the component originally comprised two parts: (i)
TSM studies to clevelop cost-effective programs and (ii) implementation of those
programs. While a number of TSM studies and plans were completed, no specific TSM
components were implemented under the Project since (i) some TSM work (such as road
markings and sign:ing) was absorbed into the Corridors and (ii) traffic responsibilities
were decentralized from states to municipalities and implementation did not take place.
However, although not implemented under the Project, it appears that at least some of the
schemes are now being taken up by the municipalities (the Texcoco one way system
which was delayed under the Project by the construction of the parallel Metro Line A by
the DDF).
9.        The major single Corridor investment in SofM was the La Venta Chamapa
Toll Expressway (IVC) (Appraisal estimate of US$17.9m plus US$ 5 m sunk costs plus
contingencies). Thie aim of the scheme was to relieve the congested local roads in the
west of the ZMCM within the jurisdiction of the SofM. The scheme has not fulfilled the
' Although systematic clata are not available, the SofM authorities report "before" and "after" average
speeds to be increased by 30% or more. However, the data are not "corrected" for such factors as variation
in traffic flows.



5
Appraisal estimates in that the traffic demand is some 40% of that predicted (Table 9B)
and consequently this, coupled with increased cost of the final scheme (total US$ 36.9m)
has resulted in a lower than expected financial return; a negative Net Present Value
(NPV) estimated (Table 9B). The increase in cost was due to (i) changes in design which
included a new bridge-access, (ii) construction problems in difficult terrain which
required significant design amendments and (iii) contract claims and other problems.
The Bank did not disburse against the total cost but against Appraisal estimates. Lower
than expected demand is attributed to (i) the high toll which was imposed at the outset
(and is now US$ 3 for cars and US$ 9 for trucks for 1 lkms), (ii) the existence of other
routes that provided service, and (iii) the poor quality of, and traffic congestion on, the
local road access to/from the most likely catchment area for traffic within the SofM2.
The situation is not atypical of toll roads in Mexico and it is understood that most SCT3
toll roads are also largely under-utilized. Given the low traffic flows on LVC, it seems
likely that the traffic relief to other roads, and thus the economic objectives, have not
been achieved to date.
10.       In Monterrey, prior to the withdrawal from the Project, Corridor works were
completed on the Inner Ring Road. No data are available to assess the traffic impact of
the components. The Ring Road is now substantially complete although some schemes
proposed as grade separated intersections under the Project are still not completed in their
final form.
11.       Maintenance - the objective of the investments was to conserve road
infrastructure. The component was applied only in the SofM as a result of the Monterrey
cancellation. The SofM successfully implemented a program of deferred maintenance-
rehabilitation. All works were carried out under locally bid contracts. The improvement
of the road surface has assisted in the conservation of the SofM road infrastructure and
should have achieved reductions in vehicle operation costs on major road arteries. The
program included a Maintenance Study and SofM report that the Maintenance
Management Integral System (SIAM -- Sistema Integral de Administraci6n del
Mantenimiento), developed by the study, is in use and is applied to establish maintenance
priorities on the main road network in the state. In principle, the component must be
regarded as successful in "preserving transport infrastructure investments and reduce
vehicle operating costs".
12.       In SofM, at Appraisal, Corridor and Maintenance works were scheduled on
about 130 kms of road at an average cost of about US$ 0.5m/km4. The Project
implemented Corridor and Maintenance works on about 105 kms5 at an average cost of
US$0.77 m/km. Thus, about 80% of the Corridor and Maintenance physical target was
achieved but at a greater than expected unit cost. The reduction in target and increase in
cost is attributed to a number of factors - delays in implementation resulted in continued
2 This was clearly recognized by the Bank team at Appraisal and the road, the Carr Naucalpan-Toluca, was
included for improvement under the Project; this was not implemented.
3 The LVC is owned and managed by the SofM.
4 Including contingencies divided pro-rate between components.
Both totals are estimated and exclude the La Venta Chamapa Toll Road Expressway.



6
deterioration of road surface and thus works were more extensive than envisaged at
Appraisal and some higher cost components were substituted for lower cost components
(e.g. much needed new roads in Chalco were substituted for lower cost management
schemes in Texcoco).
13.         Public Transport - the objective was to improve the supply and quality of
transport. The Public Transport components did not achieve the stated objectives of
rationalizing tariff policies, improving the financial and economic viability, sustaining
(public) transport investments and encouraging private sector participation. This failing
arose from (i) the cancellation of the bus lines of credit, (ii) the liquidation of the STT in
SoiM (for which a Bus Maintenance Study had been successfully completed but which
did not lead to investment) and (iii) the lack of implementation of any route restructuring
or system re-organization proposals in SofM  and (iv) the construction of Metro Line 10
(which eliminated the case for the RI busway).
14.         Additional Components - additional components were included in the Project
namely: (i) engines for Ruta 100 buses in DDF, (ii) equipment/TA for the RAMA in the
DDF and (iii) repairs to roads in Monterrey as a result of Hurricane Gilbert damage. All
the components were successfully implemented and met their objectives, namely (i)
reduced harmful emissions from buses and a contribution to clean air for the R100
component, (ii) a high standard automatic air quality monitoring system within DDF and
(iii) the reinstatement of the road network in. Monterrey.
15.         Studies - the Project contained various studies (Table 6) and the manner in
which the study objectives were met is summarized below:
ILliStudy and TA                        Summary of Results
STATE OF MEXICO
I   Bus Administration,     Incorporated into study 2 below
Route and Tariff Study
2   Medium and Long Term   Objectives achieved to some extent. The study outputs
Public Transport Study    were not taken up by the SofM due to changes in State
(the study was expanded   administration and lack of resources for transport; the
to consider all modes)  SofM lacked the institutional capability to implement the
bus route-tariff study results. However, the study (i)
highlighted the need for SofM-DDF transport integration
and assisted in the formation of COMETRAVI and its
successors as a ZMCM-wide transport planning agency
and (ii) some of the planning proposals are now being
taken further, including the proposed suburban rail
program
3   Maintenance Study for    Successfully completed but results rendered redundant as
Buses                   STT (the SofM Bus Company) was liquidated soon after
study completion
4   Maintenance Study for    Objectives achieved - formed the basis of the
Highways                maintenance program financed by the Project;
established the SIAM system, which while not a full
pavement management system, is used in the Junta
Caminos of SofM to schedule maintenance activities.
5   TSM Studies             Objectives partly achieved - a series of studies were



7
completed but TSM projects were not implemented;
some measures are currently under review and forming
the basis of new projects
BANOBRAS
6   TA to assist         Objectives significantly achieved - some TA was not
implementation       fully successful in BANOBRAS but the exposure of
BANOBRAS to advice in systematic transport planning
has increased awareness and expertise in the agency in
the transport sector; various operational manuals have
been produced to guide cities and transport programs;
7   Medium Sized Cities   Objectives achieved - the studies established the criteria
Project Preparation  for the now on-going MSCP; various city programs for
______________________  implementation were prepared.
16.       To summarize, the Project was implemented over a long period and against a
complex background of political, technical and economic changes.  As a result,
investment needs changed (e.g. roads were further deteriorated compared to conditions at
Appraisal), investment priorities changed (e.g. the decision by Monterrey to pursue a
metro outside the Project), political changes affected the organization of the sector (e.g.
the elimination of STT) and there was a lack of political will and institutional capacity to
follow through some of the complex policy components (the TSM and Public Transport
components). Thus, not all objectives were achieved. Nevertheless, the Project was the
first urban transport project in Mexico and significant benefits accrued to the users of the
transport system in SofM from the Corridors and the Maintenance components and in
Monterrey from the Hurricane Gilbert remedial works. The DDF components, added in
1990, were successfully implemented with beneficial results from reductions of bus
emissions; an air quality monitoring was established. Furthermore, from a low level of
initial experience, BANOBRAS increased its expertise and capabilities in urban transport
as has been demonstrated by successful cooperation with the Bank in developing
integrated transport projects in Medium Sized Cities and now, supervision of the on-
going Bank project.
17.       Financial Performance. The Project was adversely affected by the general
downturn in the Mexican economy during most of the 1990's, which significantly
reduced the availability of counterpart funds for Project activities and was a major
contributory factor to the implementation delays.
18.       At the component level, although quantitative data are not available, the
Maintenance program should have had an overall positive impact on SofM's transport -
expenditure since if road rehabilitation had been further deferred, then full scale
reconstruction would have been necessary; furthermore, the establishment of
maintenance planning also assist the SofM in making most effective use of resources.
19.       Only one component, the LVC  Toll Expressway, involves direct cost-
recovery from users. The LVC does not result in an acceptable Financial Rate of Return
(FRR) due to lower than estimated traffic demand and construction cost over-runs. It
appears possible that the financial return could be improved through (i) levying a more



8
realistic toll to balance and optimize demand and revenue and (ii) improvement of the
vehicular access to/from LVC's catchment iarea within SofM.
20.       Economic Performance. Generally, data are not available for economic
analysis of investments under the Project. Within SofNL, no data exist from which to
assess the performance of the Inner Ring Road. This lack of data is attributable to the
closure of the PIU at the time Monterrey %vithdrew from the Project and the subsequent
changes of political administration and technical personnel in SofNL agencies. A Project
Completion Report memorandum was prepared when Monterrey withdrew from the
Project but was concerned primarily with procedural issues and not with quantitative
evaluation. The very nature of the other major investments in Monterrey - transport
infrastructure repair works following Huiricane Gilbert - precluded the assembly of
"before" data. Subjectively, it is considered (i) probable that the Inner Ring Road
components were economically viable - the works were concentrated at heavily used
junctions and traffic queues were commoniplace "before" and the investments ensured
consistent traffic capacity throughout the relevant sections of the route and (ii) that the
Hurricane Gilbert works were economically, viable - the works restored important major
roads within the road network.
21.       Within SofM, there is also little data from which to assess the economic
impact of investmients. The SofM Junta Caminos has assessed "after" travel speeds on
rehabilitated roads and report that speeds are up to 30% higher than "before" speeds but
these data are localized measurements and not adjusted for traffic flow variations.
Nevertheless, they support the subjective view that the Corridor and Maintenance
investments have had a significantly positive impact on travel speed and vehicle
operating costs (particularly due to the reduction in road roughness) on Project roads.
With respect to the LVC Toll Road, it appears likely that the low demand (of some 40%
of Appraisal estimate) means that the estimated economic benefits have not been
realized.
22.       The irnpacts of the DDF components (Ruta 100 engines and equipment for
RAMA) have not been assessed quantitatively since (i) it is not possible to attach
economic value to reductions in emission and furthermore, Ruta 100 has now been
liquidated and (ii) the RAMA equipment cannot be assessed in quantitative terms.
However, both components are assessed as positive in their impacts.
23.       The F3ANOBRAS components consisted of TA and study activities; no
quantitative economic evaluations are possi'ble but it is considered that the activities have
contributed significantly to the human capital and institutional development of the sector.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
24.       This vwas the first urban transport project in Mexico financed by the Bank. It
encountered some of the problems that affect initial interventions in a sector. The factors
which affected the Project have been outlined in para 5. Three key aspects are noted (i)



9
institutional weakness in the sector, (ii) deterioration of the economic situation in Mexico
during the life of the Project and (iii) the influence of political changes.
25.       At the Federal level, previous Bank Projects had been adversely affected by
institutional weaknesses within BANOBRAS and this was recognized as a risk during the
preparation of the Project. To meet this risk, technical assistance was provided to
BANOBRAS. However, while there are indications that the TA helped alleviate the
problem, it takes time for an agency to develop its expertise in a complex sector. At the
State level, the Project provided studies and TA to the traffic and maintenance agencies
but (i) in SofNL, this was not aimed at a permanent institution and (ii) in SofM, although
the intervention was successful for road maintenance, the traffic management institutions
have since been disbanded.
26.       The deterioration in the macroeconomic situation during the Project period
(1987-1998) substantially affected Project execution. Financial stringency imposed by
the economic downturn restricted the availability of counterpart funds, slowed the rhythm
of investments. In addition, tariff increases forecast at appraisal or recommended by
studies could not be implemented because the GOM and local agencies considered them
inflationary.
27.       The political changes had significant impacts on Project scope including
cancellation of the Monterrey components due to the decision to pursue the metro,
liquidation of State bus companies which were beneficiaries under the Project (STT in
SofM and Ruta 100 in DDF), decisions by DDF to proceed with Metro Line 10 (which
required re-orientation of major Project components in SofM, changes in institutional set-
up (such as elimination of COTREM) and so on. Over an 11-year period, such changes are
not unexpected but it requires a well-established and professional institutional structure to
meet the challenges brought about by the changes.
E. Project Sustainability
28.       At the policy level, the Project has had a sustainable effect on transport
investment planning. The direction of policy currently being pursued by GOM (with
BANOBRAS as its agent) and local agencies in the follow-up MSCP owes much to the
concept of the original Project in that conditions of participation include (i) systematic
urban transport planning forms the basis for investments, (ii) the need for allocation of
adequate financing of maintenance of transport infrastructure and (iii) the need to establish
traffic-transport institutional capabilities.
29.       The record of institutional sustainability of the Project is mixed. At the
Federal level, BANOBRAS approach to urban transport investment planning and resource
allocation is now more technically sound than at the outset of the Project. Within SofM,
recent events have placed institutional sustainability of traffic planning in doubt. The
Traffic Division of COTREM, which had managed Project work and received the TA, was
disbanded in 1998 although the staff have been absorbed into the DGV. However,
sustainability of road maintenance appears to be on a firmer foundation; the Project



10
provided TA to the Junta Caminos and contributed to the SIAM system; this is still in
operation. There has been no specific institutional sustainability within SofM as the PIU
was disbanded when Monterrey withdrew.
30.       The sustainability of components in the DDF is also mixed. The Ruta 100
engine componernt was set up to include conditions on engine maintenance and tariffs
reviews to increase cost recovery. However, these aspects were not realized as Ruta 100
was disbanded. The RAMA equipment has proved fully sustainable and is well maintained
and subject to continuous quality checks.
F. Bank Performance
31.       Bank Performance during Project Appraisal was satisfactory. In particular,
the preparation exercise was instrumental in requiring the Borrower agencies to take a
new, progressive view of important urban t;ransport sector issues.
32.       The Bank effort on supervision (Tables 12 and 13) comprised over 175 staff
weeks, included 204 days in the field, and involved 54 staff members. This was
considerably greater than estimated at Appraisal and was due to (i) the staff inputs needed
by the Bank to respond to requests by GOM for changes in Project scope, notably the air
pollution emergency in DDF and the effects of Hurricane Gilbert in SofNL, (ii) the
longer than planned implementation period, (iii) the lack of urban transport expertise in
the local agencies which involved the Bank in greater than planned inputs to maintain
progress of the Project and (iv) intensive preparation work on the follow-on MSCP (see
below). Nevertheless, despite this effort, Project implementation fell somewhat short of
expectations and parts of the Project were not fully implemented. While the major
reasons for the elimination of components have been described in foregoing sections,
more may have been possible during Supervision to stimulate greater action in the traffic
management and public transport reform piograms.
33.       The Bank showed flexibility and responsiveness in meeting the requests from
GOM to use Project funds to alleviate the effects of two emergencies: (i) repair of
damaged transport infrastructure in Monterrey following Hurricane Gilbert and (ii)
measures to assist in alleviating the transport related air pollution crisis in ZMCM.
34.       During the later stages of the Project, considerable effort was devoted to the
development of a MSCP. The Supervision missions, BANOBRAS and Secretariat of
Social Development (SEDESOL) established the framework for MSCP and assisted in
directing a series of specific city studies. MSCP was subsequently financed with Bank
Loan 3559-ME for US$200 million to improve air quality, the efficiency of urban
transport systems and institutions in qualifying cities throughout Mexico.
35.       Although there were, from time to time, changes in Bank staff, a substantial
degree of continuity in the essential Bank staff involved made for good cooperation and a
constructive dialogue between the Borrower and the Bank. Overall Bank performance is
rated as satisfactory.



11
G. Borrower Performance
36.       Borrower Performance during Project Preparation and Appraisal was
satisfactory. Stimulated by the Bank over a preparation period of more than two years
(and several Project briefs) the Borrower produced a credible analysis of, and
justification for, the investments.
37.       During Project Implementation, Borrower performance was somewhat less
satisfactory. At Federal level, BANOBRAS performed administrative aspects well
(procurement supervision, disbursements, preparation quarterly reports etc). However, at
the outset of the Project, the agency lacked technical expertise to deal with policy and
technical issues to maintain the proposed pace of implementation. During the Project,
BANOBRAS benefited from exposure to the sector through Bank Supervision missions
and, to some extent, from TA. Thus BANOBRAS has been able to take a more pro-
active role in subsequent transport projects (MSCP Loan 3559-ME and Transport Air
Quality Project (Loan 3543-ME). It is concluded that overall the performance was
satisfactory.
38.       At the SofM level, the Traffic Division (COTREM) was hampered by the
economic downturn in Mexico leading to paucity of counterpart funds, frequent changes
in administration and lack of expertise in traffic matters and, in the end, although studies
and designs were completed, little implementation was achieved in the TSM or Public
Transport components. The Maintenance Division (Junta Caminos) of SofM, after a slow
start, performed well and benefited from the TA under the Project to strengthen their
expertise.
39.       Borrower Compliance with Loan Covenants was generally satisfactory. The
status of implementation of major legal covenants is given in Table 10. By and large, the
major covenants in the Loan Agreement were complied with (some compliance
requirements were amended due to curtailment of parts of the Project) although some
were complied with significant delays. A further agreement was reached with DDF
relating to the procurement of engines for Ruta 100 (over tariff policy) but liquidation of
the company voided the agreement. Overall Borrower performance is rated as
satisfactory.
H. Assessment of Outcome
40.       The outcome of the Project was mixed. Cancellation of some components
(notably bus lines of credit) meant that public transport objectives were not achieved and
not all remaining, original components were implemented in the form envisaged at
Appraisal. There was a notable lack of traffic management actions although some
interventions were subsumed into Corridor components. Implementation was slower
than forecast. Nevertheless, the Corridor and Maintenance-Rehabilitation works had
positive impacts in economic terms, in financial terms (through improved planning of
resource allocation to maintenance) and in raising awareness of cost-effective measures.



12
The LVC appears not to have achieved either its economic or financial returns but this is
attributed to unrealistic tolls and poor local road connections rather than a poor scheme
concept. While some components were cancelled by Borrower agencies, others were
substituted and these, at the time of their inclusion, had positive impacts. The Project had
a positive impact on urban transport planning and project development (i) generally in
Mexico through the approach to urban transport, now demonstrated by the on-going
MSCP Project, and (ii) through promoticin of the case for integrated transport in ZMCM
through support to COMETRAVI and its successors. Thus, although the Project did not
achieve all objectives, it was an initial project in the sector and must be viewed against
the background of a long time-scale and changing political events, economic conditions
and institutional changes and its outcome is regarded as generally positive. Thus, a
satisfactory rating has been given.
I. Future Operation
41.       Responsibility  for the operation and maintenance  of infrastructure
investments rests with the SofM and, in so far as they were implemented, with SofNL.
The components involved conventional technology and continued operation rests with the
application of successful maintenance. Since this is the area, in the SofM, where most
institutional gain was made, continued operation should be adequate but budget provision
for maintenance is understood to be uncertain. In the SofNL, no data are available. The
residual component in DDF, the RAMA equipment, continues to operate well. The
implementation of the follow-up Projects., Medium Sized Cities Project (Loan 3559-ME)
and Transport Air Quality Project (Loan 3543-ME), are expected to enable the Bank to
monitor the ins-titutional strengthening of BANOBRAS and other involved agencies.
J. Key Lessons Learned
42.       Although there were shortfialls in the implementation of the Project, the
overall experience was positive. Physical improvements were made to the road network
and the continuaous dialogue with the Bank, particularly in the first few years of the
Project, steered BANOBRAS and the local agencies towards institutional strengthening
and a growing vision of the Urban Transport Sector - culminating in the development of
the MSCP. In particular, the Project emphasized the importance of conservation of
transport infrastructure - through both investments in works and in system planning.
Nevertheless, there are lessons to be learned.
43.       Political Commitment and Changing Priorities - it is essential for
implementation of traffic and transport schemes and policies to secure political
commitment. In Monterrey, while there was political acceptance at the outset, the
commitmeiit to the Project was not strong enough to retain scarce counterpart funds when
faced with competition from a proposed metro. There is no easy way for which to plan
for changing political priorities, particularly in a Project with a life of over 11 years.
However, the lessons learned are (i) projects should be "shorter" in planned duration (the
original Project was scheduled at 8 years) even if this means a project of reduced scale;
shorter implemientation periods would safeguard, to some extent, against changing



13
priorities (an Adaptable Program Loan, APL, could be very appropriate) and (ii) there is a
need to  seek improved  consultation  procedures with decision makers and key
stakeholders. For further work in the sector, the agency responsible for the project should
have the capacity to play an effective leadership role in the pursuit of policy reforms.
44.        Institutional Arrangements for Implementation - the fundamental requirement
for the successful implementation of an urban traffic and transport program is the
existence (or creation) of a strong, professional Traffic Management Unit (TMU) or
equivalent. Planning and implementation of traffic schemes and policies involves many
agencies including state or national "public works" agencies, municipality agencies, land
use and development control planning agencies, bus operators and regulators, private
transport operators (trucks, taxis, para-transit, etc) as well as the TMU itself. Unless a
strong TMU exists (or is created) with adequate powers and financing, successful
implementation of TSM components will be at risk. In SofM, the Project foresaw this
issue and provided TA to COTREM; however, the agency proved to have insufficient
experience in the area and had no budgetary powers. The lesson learned is that Bank
urban transport lending in Mexico should be even more strongly focussed on institutional
strengthening and that the agency selected for planning should have a clear mandate to
secure implementation.
45.        Project Design - the design of the Project was not unduly complex and yet
significant elements of components were not implemented, notably the TSM and Public
Transport Components. Preparation studies were completed for both components but
implementation did not follow. The lessons learned are:
(a) Public Transport - Lines of Credit. The component was not implemented for at
least two basic reasons. First, it was linked to bus route rationalization and
reform of public transport organization (such as tariff levels) wvhich, although
studied, were not implemented. Second, the arrangements to actualize the lines
of credit outlined at Appraisal were reasonable proposals but did not prove
acceptable (even though operators had been consulted; issues not fully resolved
included the ability and/or willingness of operators to participate in the credit
line, the availability of alternative financing sources (such as supplier credits
for buses) and the integration of buses to be financed under the line of credit
with existing buses6. The viability of bus lines of credit requires extensive
research into the structure of the local bus service supply industry, its sources of
alternative finance and how to integrate, on a staged basis, new buses with the
existing bus fleet (particularly as new tariffs may be needed to support
financing of the new buses). The lesson learned is that it is necessary to take
the development of a line of credit to a "final scheme" stage by Appraisal;
6 The forner (new buses) would be of higher quality and have lower emissions than the latter (existing, or
existing type, buses) but would cost considerably more. As there are many thousands of buses in SofM, a
low percentage of the fleet would be replaced if the line of credit came into operation. The issues include
how to set differential fares to enable the new, high quality buses to recover costs, the willingness of
(some) users to pay premium fares etc.



14
(b) TSM - a strong, professional TMIU is essential for the realization of a traffic
management program; the lesson to be learned has been described in para 44
and is endorsed.
46.       Approach to Detailed Design at Appraisal  To ensure a rapid start to
implementation, it is now standard practice at Appraisal for detailed design to be
completed for a significant proportion of any urban transport project. Although the
current Project was appraised in 1987, this procedure was followed. A significant
proportion-by-cost of the Project was available at detailed design level. However, the
designs were for straightforward road components (the LVC and Ring Road junctions in
Monterrey). The components which, although of lower cost, require intensive design
effort (such as the TSM schemes) were not designed. These were planned and designed
during the early years of the Project. However, the schemes were not subsequently
implemented following changes of traffic responsibility from State to municipalities and
as the focus of attention (by BANOBRAS, SofM and the Bank) in later years of the
Project concentrated on the implementation of physical investments. Thus, the TSM
objectives were largely lost. The lessons learned are (i) that detailed design of urban
transport project at Appraisal should not be assessed only on a cost basis but should
include a representative sample of all type of measures proposed for the Project and (ii)
even if there is a change in system responsibilities, the co-ordination agency should seek
consensus with the new authorities.
47.       Supervision by BANOBRAS ard the Bank -- during later years of the Project,
there was an em,phasis on implementation of physical measures and great efforts were
made to speed Up previous slow disbursement performance. As a consequence, the
policy aspects of the Project (such as possible Public Transport reform in terms of routes,
tariffs, etc) and procedural aspects (such as data for monitoring and ex-post evaluations)
tended to be overlooked. The lessons learned are that (i) for projects with very long
implementation periods, it is essential to carry out at least one comprehensive review of
the Project in relation to its objectives after, say, 4 years and a detailed action plan is
necessary to recover any overlooked components or policies and (ii) dialogue between
the Bank and the co-ordination agency must be continued within the framework of the
Appraisal agreements and activities should not concentrate on physical implementation
alone.
48.       LVC - the largest single investment does not appear to result in positive
financial or economic returns. The increase in construction cost was unavoidable but the
danger signs relating to low demand were recognized in mid Project. Bank Supervision
missions recomrnmended testing alternative tolls to arrive at the optimum balance between
toll and demand. It does not appear that this advice was taken. The lesson learned is that
in cases where a component has been conmpleted but its benefits are in doubt, the Bank
should exercise all possible influence on the borrower to seek remedial actions -
particularly in the present case where such actions appear viable.



15
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of           Substantial      Partial       Negligible       Not
Objectives                                                              Applicable
Macro Policies
Sector Policies                                 V
Financial Objectives                                           V
Institutional Development                       /
Physical Objectives                             /
Poverty Reduction                                                            /
Gender Issues                                                                /
Other Social Objectives                                                      V
Environmental Objectives                        V
Public Sector Management                                                     V/
Private Sector Development                                                   /
B. Project Sustainability       Likely            Unlikely            Uncertain
.~~~~~~~
C. Bank Performance             Highly           Satisfactory         Deficient
X                 _ _ ~~~~~~Satisfactory                  
Identification
Preparation Assistance 
Appraisal 
Supervision                                          1
D. Borrower Performance         Highly           Satisfactory         Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation_                          _
Implementation 
Covenant Compliance                                  V,
E. Assessment of Outcome     Highly    Satis factor   Unsatisfactcory    Highly
Satisfactor                               Unsatisfactory
V
,                    .           .          _.        ..    .~~



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title       Amount           Year of approval          Status
1.Loan#1990                 164.0                1981               Disbursed
Urban & Regional
Development
2.Loan #3543                220.0                 1992              In Progress
Transport Air Quality
3 Loan #3559                200.0                 1993              In Progress
Medium Sized Cities
Urban Developrnent
Source: World Bank Statement of Loans



17
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned         Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                    March 10-24,1985
Preparation                                                 March 31 -April 6, 1986
Preparation II                                                 May 12-24, 1986
Appraisal                                                   July 23-August 9, 1986
Negotiations                                                Feb 24-March 3, 1987 &
l______________        April  10, 1987
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)                        N/A'
Board Presentation                                              May 28, 1987
Signing                                                         July 31, 1987
Effectiveness                                                 February 11, 1988
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                               N/A
Midtern review (if applicable)                                      N/A
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if                              N/A
applicable)
Project Completion                          June 30, 1995       June 30, 1998
Loan Closing                               December 31,         June 30, 1998
1995
Source: Project Files
1 Not Applicable



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY1988  FY1989  FY1990  FYi991  FY1992  FY1993  FY1994  FYI995  FY1996  FY1997  FY1998
Appraisal Estimate'            19.5     32.8     59.6      86.4     96.4    104.1    110.3    119.8       125
Actual                         13.8     29.9     34.1      49.4     55.6     58.9    66.46      76.9     81.5      83.2     90.5
Actual as % of Estimate2     70.70%   91.50%   56.90%   57.14%   57.60%   54.70%   73.00%   84.50%   89.50%   91.40%   99.50%
Date of Final Disbursement:
October 30, 1998
Source: World Bank Loan Records                                                                                                       co
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(Not available)
'An amount of US$34,016,769.70 was cancelled with effect from November 6, 1992, and the closing date of the project was extended to June 30, 1998. The last
disbursement was made on October 30, 1998 when the remaining balance of $526,840.57 was cancelled.
2 The percentages from FYI 993 awards reflect the reduced amount of the Loan.



Table 6: Studies for the Project
STUDIES'                                    IMPLEMENTATION
Date started      Date completed   Date of result revision    Plan of Action  Date started
STUDIES AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal  Actual
MEXICO
I. Administrative study of bus routes and tariffs  Mar-87   Mar-88    Feb-88   Apr-92    Feb-88      var.   Mar-88    --        Apr-88    --
2. Study of public transport, medium and long range  Mar-87   Mar-88    Jan-89   Apr-92    Jan-89     var.   Feb-89    --       Mar-89    --
3. Maintenance program for busses                Mar-87   Mar-88   Mar-89   Apr-90   Mar-89          var.   Apr-89    --         Jan-90
4. Maintenance program for highways              Mar-87   Feb-89   Apr-88   Mar-90   Apr-88           var.   Jan-89   Apr-88    Feb-89   May-88
5. Traffic administration study                  Mar-87   May-94    Jan-88   Apr-96    Jan-88         var.   Apr-88    Jan-88    Jan-89    Feb-88
BANOBRAS
1. Technical assistance in implementation of project  Mar-87   Feb-87   n/a   Jun-93        n/a      var.       n/a      var.       n/a   Mar-94
2. Study for medium sized cities                 Mar-87   Mar-97   Mar-88   Mar-93    Apr-88          var.   Jan-89   Mar-93    Jan-89   Feb-9
Source: Borrower's Report
Summary of results of studies detailed in para 15 of the main report.
Table 7: Key Indicators for Financial Position
(Not available)



Table 8A-1: Project Costs
_           Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                     Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local         Foreign         Total           Local          Foreign           Total
Itern         Costs          Costs                          Costs            Costs
1. Corridor        51.2           27.6           78.8           31.30            35.82           67.12
Improvements
2. Public          47.7           31.8           79.5                            3.36             3.36
Transport
3. Road            28.7           16.1           44.8           15.82            17.78           33.60
Maintenance
4. Traffic         6.2            4.8             ii.u                           6.94             6.94
Management                                                                                                               CD
5. Technical       1.4            1.3             2.7            0.28            5.32             5.60
Assistance
6. Contingen-      49.1           28.5           77.6
cies
7. PPF             0.1            0.4             0.5                            0.35             0.35
8. Equipment!                                                    6.80            20.89           27.69
Motors
TOTAL            184.4          110.5           294.9          54.20            90.46           144.66
Source: Bank and Borrower 's records



Table 8A-2: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                     Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local         Foreign          Total          Local           Foreign           Total
Item          Costs           Costs                          Costs           Costs
1. Nuevo          75.30           45.00          120.30          10.65            11.66           23.31
Le6n
2. State of       107.50          63.20          170.70          35.47            51.74            87.21
Mexico
3. Federal         1.97           1.94            3.91            7.08            27.06            34.14
TOTAL            184.77         110;14          294.91          54.20            90.46           144.66
Source: Bank and Borrower's records



Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)           1
Local        Foreign       Total          Local        Foreign          Total
Source                Costs          C.osts                      C.osts       C.osts
IBRD/IDA                  14.50        110.50        125.00                        90.46          90.46
State of Mexico          94.50                       94.50          35.47                         35.47
State of Nuevo Le6n      62.40                       62.40          10.65                         10.65
Federal Government        13.0                        13.0          7.08                           7.08
TOTAL                   184.40        110.50        294.90         54.20          90.46          144.66
Source: Bank and Borrower's records
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Not available)



Table 9B: Financial Anaysis of La Venta-Chamapa Toll Road
Project Year            1     2     3     4      5     6     7      8     9    10    11    12    13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20
Calendar Year  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
Cars                    Million/year         1.80  1.90  2.00  2.05  2.11  2.32  2.60  2.70  3.00  3.50  3.70  3.80  4.00 4.40 4.70 5.00  5.40  5.80  6.20  6.70
Other vehicles          Million/year         2.50  1.63  1.05  0.72  0.63  0.55  0.55  0.50  0.50  0.50  0.50  0.50  0.50 0.50 0.50 0.50  0.50  0.50  0.50  0.50
Cuota cars              NP 1987 prices       0.54  0.54  0.65  0.70  0.73  0.70  0.73  0.83  0.58  0.52  0.55  0.58  0.61 0.64 0.67 0.70  0.74  0.77  0.81  0.85
Cuota other vehicles    NP 1987 prices       2.50  3.00  4.00  4.69  5.55  5.31  5.58  5.77  4.98  6.01  7.67  8.05  8.46 8.88 9.32 9.79 10.28 10.79 11.33 11.90
Total Income from tolls  Million NP          7.22  5.92  5.50  4.81  5.04  4.54  4.97  5.13  4.23  4.83  5.87  6.22  6.65 7.24 7.80 8.40  9.12  9.88 10.70 11.67
Operation Costs         Million NP           0.05  0.05  0.05  0.05  0.05  0.05  0.05  0.05  0.05  0.05  0.05  0.05  0.05 0.05 0.05 0.05  0.05  0.05  0.05  0.05
Net Operating Income    Million NP           6.99  5.68  5.27  4.58  4.62  4.31  4.73  4.89  4.00  4.41   5.64  5.99  6.42 7.01  7.38 8.17  8.88  9.65 10.47 10.69
ROE (1987)              US$:N.Pesos   1.378
Construction Costs (1)  US$m          36.90
Maintenance costs       US$m                 0.18  0.18  0.18  0.18  0.37  0.18  0.18  0.18  0.18  0.37  0.18  0.18  0.18 0.18 0.37 0.18  0.18  0.18  0.18  0.92
Net Operating Income    US$m                 5.07  4.12  3.82  3.32  3.35  3.13  3.43  3.55  2.90  3.20  4.09  4.34  4.66 5.08 5.36 5.93  6.45  7.00  7.60  7.76    X
Outstanding capital sum  US$m              -31.83 -30.25 -28.85 -27.84 -26.71 -25.72 -24.35 -22.75 -21.67 -20.20 -17.73 -14.80 -11.33 -7.15 -2.36 3.38  0.00  7.00  7.60  7.76
Cost of Borrowing (8%) (2) US$m             -2.55  -2.42  -2.31  -2.23  -2.14  -2.06  -1.95  -1.82  -1.73  -1.62  -1.42  -1.18  -0.91 -0.57 -0.19 0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00
Total Outstanding Debt  US$m               -34.38 -32.67 -31.16 -30.07 -28.85 -27.78 -26.29 -24.56 -23.40 -21.82 -19.15 -15.99 -12.23 -7.72 -2.55 0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00
Payments(-)/Income(+) (3)  US$m             -2.55  -2.42  -2.31  -2.23  -2.14  -2.06  -1.95  -1.82  -1.73  -1.62  -1.42  -1.18  -0.91 -0.57 -0.19 2.55  6.45  7.00  7.60  7.76
NPV (US$m)                      -9.40
(1) Construction costs are based on a Bank memo of June 22, 1988 that shows original bid price of $12.70 million plus sunk costs of $5.97 million plus cost increases of $18.23 million for a total of $36.90
million. They were significantly higher than original SAR estimate of $17.90 million.
(2) This is the interest on the construction costs and it is estimated to be around 8%. This cost item does not represent a cash-out item for the invetment as the financial costs are assumed by the
Government and are not imputed to the investment. Although this item was not included in the original SAR cost estimate, it must be taken into account for the evaluation of the financial performance of the
investment.
(3) It is assumed for the purpuse of this evaluation that all revenues from the toll go to pay off the capital investment in the year they are being collected. Eventually (year 16) the investment is paid up and
the road generates a positive net income.



24
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Mexico
First Urban Transport Project (Ln. 2824-ME)
Agreement  Section  Covenant Present  Original    Revised           Description of            Comments
type     status  fulfillment  fulfillment      covenant              (compliance)
date       date
LA        3.02       3        C                            BANOBRAS shall enter               C
into contractual
arrangement satisfactory to
the Bank, with S.H.C.P.,
providing for the transfer
of the Loan funds
LA        3.03       3        C                            BANOBRAS shall make a              C
subsidiary loan to each
eligible state for purposes
of relending such proceeds
of the loan as shall be
required by such eligible
state to carry out Parts A
and B of the Project
LA        3.04       3       NC                            BANOBRAS undertakes  GOM's bus fleet was
that all subloans to eligible privatized and no subloan
beneficiaries for bus   for purchasing buses was
investments shall be made  necessary
pursuant to the terms and
conditions for subloans set
forth in Schedule 8 of the
Loan Agreement
LA        3.05,      5        CP                            No latter than 30 days  Complied but poor
3.06                                             before the end of each  availability of funds
fiscal year, the Borrower  adversely effected project
(BANOBRAS) shall       implementation, including
furnish to the Bank a   cancellation of part A of
proposed Annual        the Project and
Investment Plan, including $34millions of Bank loans
annual budget allocations,
and the proposed annual
road maintenance program
and the budget made and
proposed to be made by
each eligible state
LA        3.07       9        CD                            BANOBRAS shall            Complied with defects
provide quarterly project
progress reports
LA        3.08       10       CD                            In accordance with a plan  Studies under part A were
set forth in schedule 6 of   not fully carried out
the Loan Agreement, the   because this part of the
borrower shall carry out,  project was cancelled.
or cause to be carried out,  Studies under Parts B, C,
each of the studies     and D were carried out
described in Schedule 2 of albeit with some delays.
the Loan Agreement,
discuss their results with
the Bank, and implement
their agreed action plans in
accordance with their
timetables
LA        3.0'3      5        C                             Procurement of goods,              C
works and consulting



25
services financed out of
the proceeds of the loan
shall be governed by the
provision of Schedule 4 of
the Loan Agreement
LA        3.10       1         C                            The Borrower assumes, as           C
primary obligor, the
obligation of the Guarantor
contained in the Project
Preparation Advanced
LA       4.01(a)     I         C                            The Borrower shall                 C
maintain, and cause each
of the eligible states to
maintain separate records
and accounts adequate to
reflect the operation s,
resources and expenditures
of the Project and each
subproject
LA       4.01(b)     1        CD                            The Borrower shall have             C
the accounts mentioned in
4.01(a) audited by
independent and shall
fumish this records to the
Bank no latter than six
months after the end of the
fiscal year. Each month the
Borrower, shall fumish to
the Bank certified
statements of the Special
Accounts
LA       4.01(c)     I         C                            For all expenditure                 C
charged to the Loan
Account on the basis of
statement of expenditure,
the Borrower shall a)
maintain adequate records
and accounts, b) retain
records for at least one
year after last Audit
Report is received by the
Bank, c) let Bank staff
examine records, d) have
extemal auditors prepare a
separate opinion
Source. Project Files



26
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                       8.  = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from          9.  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                       10.  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds                 II.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other rcsource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                          allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing        12.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                      regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmentall covenants                              13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:                                           Source: Project Files
C = covenant complied with
CD =  complied with after delay
CP =  complied with partially
NC =  not complied with



27
Table 11: Project Implementation Program
1. State Of Mexico
Components    86  87  88  89  90  91  92  93  94  95  96  97  98
1. Corridors
Appraisal
Actual
2. Public
Transport
Appraisal                       --------
Actual
3. Highway
Maintenance
Appraisal
Actual
4. Traffic
Systems
Appraisal
Actual
2. State Of Nuevo Le6n
Components    86   87  88  89  90  91  92  93  94  95  96  97  98
1. Corridors
Appraisal
Actual
2. Public
Transport     I                                                              I
Appraisal
Actual     Not            m   p   I   e   m   e   n   t   e   d



2.8
3. Highway
Maintenance
Appraisal   _
Actual
4. Traffic
Systems
Appraisal    _      _ a a           _     a   
Actual      Not      I    m    p    I-e        m    e    n    t    e    d
Source: Borrower's Report



29
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                   Planned'          Revised          Actual
Project Cycle             Weeks   US$2   Weeks  US$   Weeks   US$
Preparation to Appraisal              N.A.'   N.A.                      50.40    102.10
Appraisal-Board                       N.A.    N.A.                      57.20    93.80
Negotiations through Board Approval  N.A.    N.A.                       22.70    54.30
Supervision                           38.30    91.80                    175.40  422.10
Completion                            9.00     20.00                    10.00    25.00
TOTAL                               47.30    111.80                    315.70   697.20
Source: FACT Bank Records
1 US$ are in thousands
2 Planned figures are available only for the last 3 years of the project file
3 Not Available



:30
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                     Specialized      Implemen-       Develop-
Stage of         Month/        of         Days in       StaffSkills       tation           ment         Types of
Project Cycle       Year       Persons       Field        Represented'       Status        Objectives     Problems
Through Appraisal                I
Identification         March 85       1            14             TP
Preparation            March 86       1            6              TP
Preparation             May 86        5            12         TP, Eng. C(3)
Appraisal               July 86       5            16         TP (2), E (2),
FNA
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Supervision             Sept 87       2            3             TP, E
Supervision             Feb 88        3            11           TP, E, C
Supervision             July 88       2            12             E, C
Supervision             Oct 88         1           7               C                2               I          Hurricane
Supervision             Nov 88        2            12             E, C              2               1              F
Supervision            March 89       2            II             E, C              2               1              F
Supervision             July 89       4            17        E, Eng., FNA, C        2               I              F
Supervision            March 90       3            14           E, Eng., C          2               1            Also
preparation
2nd Urban
Project
Supervision             Aug 90        3            12          E, Eng., C           2               1            F, PM
Supervision             Nov 90        2            6             E, TP                                           F, PM
Supervision            March 91       2            7             TP, C              2               1         Cancellation
Part A
Supervision             June 91       3            13           E, TP, C            2
Supervision             Nov 91        2            2             Eng., C            2               1           Limited
Supervision
Supervision             Feb 92        2            5             Eng., C            2               I
Supervision             Feb 93        4            24          E, C (2), TP         2
Supervision             April 93      2            10            E, Eng.            2
Supervision             Aug93         1            4             E, Eng.            2
Supervision             Nov 93        I            5              Eng.              2              2           Change in
GOM
Supervision             May 94                          _ 3       Eng.              2              S
Supervision             Sept 94       i            4              Eng.              2              S             New
Administra-
tion
Supervision             Feb95          i           4              Eng.              2              S             SOM



31
interested in
new project
Supervision             MayI95                     4              Eng.              2              S
Supervision             Dec 95        I            4              Eng.              2              S
Supervision             May 96         I           9              Eng.              2              S           Financial
conditions of
GOM
deteriorates
Supervision             Oct 96         i           3              Eng.              2              S
Supervision             June 97       2            3             Sng. (2)                           S
Supervision             Dec 97        2            3            TM, Eng.                            S
Supervision             May 98        2            2             Eng. (2)                           S
Completion
ICR                                   2            4             Eng. (2)           3               S
Source: Project Files
iDefinition of skills:
Eng = Engineer
E = Economist
TM = Task Manager
C = Consultant
TP = Transport Specialist



Appendices



33
APPENDIX A: MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
MEXICO - FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 2824-ME)
SUPERVISION MISSION MAY 11-14,1998
1.    A mission of the World Bank visited Mexico to follow up the execution of the
works financed partially by Loan 2824-ME, and to initiate action for the preparation of
the completion Report for the project. The mission included Messrs. Guillermo Ruan,
Gustavo Unda and Mahendra Lal.
2.    The mission acknowledges the cooperation received from the Secretariat of
Communications and Transport (SCT), the Secretariat of Finance and Planning of the
State of Mexico as well as the National Bank of Public Works and Services
(BANOBRAS). Attached (Annex 1) is a list of the officials who participated in the
discussions with the mission.
Subjects Dealt with by the Mission
3.    The following main subjects were discussed:
(a) Physical progress of the works,
(b) Complementary works,
(c) Implementation Completion Report.
Physical Progress of the Works
4.    The mission, along with the officials of the Government of Mexico and
BANOBRAS, visited all the works in progress and met with the Contractor and the
supervising firm for each of these works. The works show significant progress since the
December 1997 mission. The highway works have been finished (paving and bridge)
except for some pending works that are described in the following paragraphs. These are
expected to be completed by June 30, 1998, the date of closing of the loan, according to
the work program attached.
(a) Avenida Control Phase III
- cabling of illumination posts
- assembling of 4 bridges (for pedestrians)
- automatic barriers for railway (Ferroviales responsibility)
- arranging the joints for covering the canal.
(b) Lecheria - Cuantitlan
- arrangement of open graded joints approx. 3.5km of highway
- horizontal signaling
- stoplight signals
- installation of public lighting
- pedestrian bridges
- urban passage.
(c) Adolfo Lopez Mateos
- correction of the sinking of the part under the responsibility of Constuctora
Ochoa S.A. and ICA Construction Urbana S.A. de CV
(d) Side streets of Av. Toluca



34
- this work was completed.
Complementary Works
5.    With respect to the project of Av. Central, Junta de Caminos sought the mission
for no objection for the execution of some complementary small works from funds
available from the loan with the existing; contracts. These works, whose value is
approximately $6 rnillion, are as follows:
(a) 1 00 meters additional of Canal de Sales,
(b) open graded treatment of some branches of Av. Central,
(c) painting, signaling and re-leveling,
(d) cleaning of ridges and highways.
6.    The mission has no objection to the requests made provided:
(a) all the works are executed before the closing of the loan according to the work
program,
(b) the works are done through existing contracts and not through new contracts,
(c) counterpart funds are made availalble.
The official request will be given to the Bank as soon as possible.
Implementation C'ompletion Report
7.    The mission met with COTREM, the General Highways Directorate, Autopistas y
Servicios Conexos, the Junta de Caminos and BANOBRAS to discuss the guidelines for
preparation of the ICR which must be presented to the Bank's Directorate within 6
months of the closing of the loan. In this meeting the following was reviewed:
(a) The coordination for preparation of the Borrower's Contribution, which will
be the responsibility of BANOBRAS (specifically, Mr. Gustavo Rodriguez
Toledo);
(b) The initial information required by the Bank for the draft of the ICR, which is
listed in Annex 3 and should be sent to the Bank no later than June 30, 1998;
(c) The draft ICR will be sent to the Borrower for comments no later than
September 30, 1998;
(d) Once the Borrower's comments are incorporated, the publication and
distribution of the final ICR to the Bank's Directorate will take place.
8.    The basic information will be sent b:y the Borrower to the Bank before June 30,
1998. Economic evaluations that may require additional time must be sent by July
18, 1998.
Mexico, D.F., May 14,1998.
(signed)                                    (signed)
Lic. Ismael Diaz Aguilera                   Ing. Francisco J. Enriquez Arias
Manager of International Financing          Manager of Roads and Transport
(signed)                                    (signed)
Lic. Isidoro Mostkoff Linares               Sr. Gustavo Unda
State of Mexico Transport Commission        World Bank



35
APPENDIX B:
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
(SUMMARY)'
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.     General Objectives
i).-  Improve public transportation accessibility, quality of service, operational efficiency
and costs.
ii).-  Preserve and maintain investments in transport infrastructure and reduce vehicle
operation costs.
iii).- Rationalize tariff policies, improve economic and financial viability and the
sustainability of transport investments, and encourage private sector participation.
11.   Reinforce involved institutions' planning capability of development and regulation of
urban transport at the local and national levels.
Initially, the project included the implementation of three components entrusted to different
entities as follows:
COMPONENT "A"    State of Nuevo Le6n
COMPONENT "B"    State of Mexico
COMPONENT "C"    Federal, managed by BANOBRAS
Subsequently, a new component was added to the above components:
COMPONENT "D"    Activities to monitor and control
environmental pollution in the metropolitan
area of Mexico City.
Components "A" and "B" included implementation activities for:
* Improvement of Roads
* Public Transport
' Bus System and Maintenance Management Study
'> Routes and Tariffs Rationalization
* Public Transport Programs
* Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
* Traffic Management
The project included specific studies in support of public transport, traffic and roads maintenance
management, as well as construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of road infrastructures.
'Due to space constraints, the Bank prepared this summary from the information and data received from
the Borrower.



36
Component "C" initially included implementation activities to:
*  Perform comprehensive urban transport studies in medium size cities (this resulted in the
preparation of the Medium Size Cities Urban Transport Project), which were conducted by
this institution and SEDESOL.
*  Provide technical assistance for project monitoring and evaluation.
*  Purchase equiprnent to support follow-up tasks.
*  Provide credit to eligible borrowers for the acquisition of buses in the states ilcluded in the
project.
The following activities were later added:
*  Provide complementary support for the completion of the study on Integral Strategy for
Transport and Air Quality for Valle de M'xico's metropolitan area (ZMVM), which was
financed with funds from the Japanese Donation No. 029369.  This study would serve as
basis for the Second Urban Transport and Air Quality Project. The execution of these
activities were  entrusted  to  the  Transport and  Roads Metropolitan  Commission
(COMETRAVI).
*  Implement the Urban Transport Enterprise Support Model as part of the Urban Transport
Financing Program carried out by BANOBR'AS.
COMPLETION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
With regards to objective I (i, ii, iii):
Through activities included in Components "A" and "B", important road infrastructure works
were completed which allowed increased operational efficiency and access to the urban transport
system through the construction of new roads, access to populous neighborhoods, elimination of
traffic bottlenecks and improving conflicting road intersections. In addition to activities above
mentioned, complementary traffic management and road rehabilitation program activities were
conducted.
Rehabilitation work. was basically completed on roads classified as primary by the project. The
construction and improvement of road infrastructures allowed the increase of speed limits and
decrease in traveling time, which resulted in lower operating costs. The internal rate of return of
the project's economic evaluation was greater than 12%, which indicates the value of the project
(See Annex 8, Table 1).
In addition to the works, a series of support studies were completed to define specific issues
related to urban transport system planning, public transport operation and maintenance.
The impact of works accomplished is significant because of the orientation given to investments,
since they handled problems associated with issues developed in the metropolitan areas of
Monterrey, Nuevo Le6n and the city of Mexico, D.F. and because of the amounts allocated in
relation to the size and existing problems in these cities.
Monterrey, for example, has a population of 3 million inhabitants and an area of 1,663 Km2 ; the
cornubation of Valle CuautitlAn Texcoco with the metropolitan area of the city of Mexico
(ZMCM) has a population of 9 million inhabitants and an area of 3,500 Km2.



37
COMPONENT "A", STATE OF NUEVO LEON
Project funds were used in important activities completed in the metropolitan area of the city of
Monterrey, such as the consolidation of the inner city beltway with access to neighborhoods and,
in a very prominent way, the assistance to the damages caused by HurricaneGilberto in the banks
of the river Santa Catarina that runs through the city. These are shown in the following brief
summary:
COMPONENT "A" NUEVO LEON
PROJECT             SCOPE OF WORK        STATUS               DISBURSEMENTS
BANOBRAS            IBRD
TOTAL (millions)                                                            US$11.6
Monterrey Inner     Construction of      Complete
City Beltway        6 Bridges
Consolidation
Improvements and    Complete
Roads Construction
Neighborhood        Construction of      Complete
Access              several kilometers
Hurricane Gilberto's
Reconstruction and
Protection Works
COMPONENT "B", STATE OF MEXICO
Activities that were completed in Valle Cuautitlan-Texcoco, formed by the cornubation of the
State of Mexico and the Federal District, represent a very important contribution to meet the
needs of primary roads in the northern area of the city of Mexico. These were the rehabilitation
and partial construction of the main access roads to this area and the consolidation of connection
of this area with Toluca, capital of the State of Mexico.
The following construction works stand out:
* Naucalpan-La Venta Freeway and road rehabilitation programs which include access roads to
the northern zone of the metropolitan area.
* Mexico-Queretaro Freeway, with a traffic of about 200,000 vehicles per day in the section
between Cuatro Caminos and Kilometer 11.3, which constitute the link with the main roads
system that connect the city of M6xico with the central-north region.
* Rehabilitation of Avenida Ceylan and its widening to 8 lanes in the section connecting
Mexico-Qeretaro Freeway and Avenida Mario Colin, which handles most freight and outside
bus traffic.
* Rehabilitation and construction of Avenida Central which was extended from Bulevar de los
Aztecas to Ecatepec and, aside from being the traffic structuring element of an area inhabited
by nearly 2 million people, is the only north-east access to the city of Mexico.
*  Construction of the most strategic axes in Zona Valle de Chalco, which involved the
connection of this zone with the mass transport service terminals at los Reyes-La Paz, State
of Mexico.



38
* Reliabilitation of 9 of the most important: primary roads in Zona Valle de Chalco.
Following is a list of completed works:
DESCRIPTION                                 STATUS
A. Project Works
- La Venta-Chamapa Toll Paying Road                          Complete
- Mexico-Queretaro Freeway Rehabilitation                     Complete
- Ave. Central I' Phase Rehabilitation                        Complete
- Indios Verdes-San Juan y Via Morelos Ftehabilitation        Complete
- Mexico-Queretaro Freeway Signalling                         Complete
- Ave. Central Signalling                                    Complete
- Ave. Cuauhtemoc Construction                                Complete
- Ave. Uno and Jose G. Posada Construction                   Complete
- Ave. Isidro Fabela Construction                            Complete
- Via Gustavo Baz Rehabilitation                              Complete
- Ave. Ceylan Drainage and Reconstruction                     Cancelled
- Ave. Toluca Laterals Construction                           Complete
- Ave. Toluca Bridges Construction                            Complete
- Via Adolfo L6pez Mateos (R- 1) Construction                 Complete
- Via Adolfo L6pez Mateos (R- 1) Bridges Construction         Complete
- Via Adolfo l,6pez Mateos Pemex Pipes Relocation             Complete
- Ave. Central 2nd Phase Rehabilitation                       Complete
- Ave. Central 3d Phase Construction                          Complete
- Bridge "El Arbolito" Construction                           Complete
- Bridge "La Papelera" Construction                           Complete
- Bridge "Lec]heria-Texcoco" Construction                     Complete
- Ave. Central 3rd Phase Bridge Construction                  Complete
- V. Los Reyes-Acozac-Zumpango Rehabilitation                 Complete
- Aves. Isidro Fabela and G. Posadas Construction             Complete
- Ave. Primero de Mayo Rehabilitation                         Complete
- Via Lecheria-Cuautitlan Widening                            Complete
- Lecheria-Cuautitlan Pemex Pipes Relocation                  Complete
B. Technical Assistance and Supervision
- Transport Planning Study                                    Complete
- Bus Maintenance Study                                       Complete
- Roads Maintenance Study                                     Complete
- Ave. Central 1st Phase Supervision                          Complete
- Valle de Chalco Executed Projects                           Complete
- Toluca's Integral Study                                     Complete
- Av. Central, R- I and Tecamachalco Study and Projects       Complete
- Ave. Texcoco Transit System Management                      Complete
- Transit System Management                                   Complete
- Transport Planning                                          Complete
- Ave. Centrall Bridges Supervision                           Complete
- Ave. Central Induced Works Supervision                      Complete
- Geotechnical and Paving Designs Consulting                  Complete
- Ave. R-l Works Supervision                                  Complete
- Drainage Consulting                                         Complete
- Paving Management                                           Complete



39
- Toluca's Integral Study I Updating                           Complete
- Toluca's Integral Study 11 Updating                          Complete
- Via Lecheria-Cuautitlan Supervision                          Cancelled
- Ave. Ceylan Reconstruction Supervision                       Complete
- Ave. Toluca Works Supervision                                Complete
The Project visualized the implementation of studies supporting policy definitions on issues
arising from situations related to the management of the urban transport system. Accordingly, the
authorities of the Government of the State of Mexico conducted, during the indicated years, the
following studies:
STUDY                           DATE
Planning (1)                                  1988 - 1990
Main Transport System Maintenance (11)        1988 - 1989
Road Maintenance (111)                        1988 - 1989
The purposes of the Planning study (I) were to:
* Define the short, medium and long term needs for infrastructure and transport equipment.
 Define, evaluate and propose the short term measures to reorganize the collective transport
system, taking into consideration physical, tariff and management aspects.
* Define on a general level a low cost short term action plan for traffic operation and its
application to two zones and five public roads as a pilot project in the area of ValleCuautitlan
Taxcoco.
The Main Transport System Maintenance (11) study proposed:
The design and management of the maintenance program for buses previously owned and
operated by the State Government Administration, improving utilization procedures and
equipment maintenance.
The Road Maintenance (111) study proposed to:
- Establish maintenance service directives to be implemented through a Maintenance
Management Integral System (SIAM) to assist in monitoring the conditions of paved roads,
the evaluation and selection of projects and in providing routine services through a
maintenance and rehabilitation program.
*  tdentify a group of maintenance projects in the roads system for the provision of services in
the medium term and make recommendations for paving design based on field observations.
The studies produced the following results:
* State government areas in charge of planning, roads maintenance and traffic management
were strengthened through technical assistance financed by the project.
* Policies attending the needs of the metropolitan area were established by government
authorities of the of the State of Mexico and the Federal District and within



40
intergovernrnental coordinating agencies, suchi as the Metropolitan Area Transport
Commission (COTAM).2
*  Agreements were reached for the creation of metropolitan routes for public transportation
service.
*  Important steps were taken to strengtiheni mass transport to the State of Mexico, which was
lagging behind the Federal District (D.F.) and during 1995 a competitive bidding was
solicited for a lighit train whiich would be operated by the private sector, in contrast to the
government run operations in the D.F.
*   Steps were taken to officially approve the passenger transport service fares for the State and
the D.F. metropolitan area.
*   Procedures were established for the adjustment of fares according to transport costs and users
purchiasing ability.
*  The Paving Maintenance Management Integral System (SIAM)was created within the Roads
Council of the State of Mexico (Rehabilitation projects tilat were completed under the
activities  and  works  program,  1994-1998,  took  into  consideration  tlle  design
recommendations of the roads serviceability maintenance studies).
*  A technical nucleus was created within the Roads Council which has made use of SIAM for
the everyday tasks of the Council. The government of the State of Mexico (GEM) has
become the first local government with improvements in the modern management of roads
maintenance.
With regards to objective II:
The following activities were implemented withlin the scope of institutional capacity development
for entities connected with urban transport:
Component "C"
The section of the bank in charge of credits for the Urban Transport System was strengthened.
This allowed, with support from Technical Assistance to BANOBRAS as provided for in
Component "C", the completion of the following tasks:
*  Conduct di agnostic  studies in the country's medium  size  cities (San Luis Potosi,
Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan-Merida, conurbation of Torre6n-G6mez Palacio-Lerdo, Tampico-
Ciudad Madero-Altamira) and comprehensive studies in the cities of Chihuahua and Ciudad
JuArez, which included BANOBRAS participation and additional support from 15 studies
previously completed by SEDUE (now SEDESOL).
*  Outline a national policy on the urbari transport system.  Set the program  parameters to
service the urban transport system of Mexico's medium size cities for negotiations with
IBRD. Likewise, with the assistance of specialized consultants and local authorities and
under BANOBRAS coordination, all projects with works identified in the comprehensive
studies for the cities of Le6n, Ciudad Juarez and Toluca for IBRD funding were prepared as
part of the negotiated conditions of the UJrban Transport for the Medium Size Cities Project
2 In spite of existing metropolitan area action coordinating agencies, the experience of undertaking isolated planning
efforts by individual governments made more evident the need to create a metropolitan service strategy. This led to the
implementation in 1996 of the first metropolitan focused planning work and the ZMVM Transport and Air Quality
Integral Strategy that was conducted by the Roads anci Transport Metropolitan Commission (COMETRAVI) which
replaced COTAM. This study, partially funded by
CR-2824-ME and the Japanese Trust Fund 029369, established a decision making model that allows, through
determined policies for public transport development, the finding of transport resource combinations that satisfy
passenger and freight demand and keeps air contamination produced by traffic within health safety parameters.



41
*  Provide technical assistance to eligible borrowers on the different programs and respective
activities implementation, as well as follow-up and control of credit procedures, payments
and corresponding record keeping
*  Provide support, during the years 1996 and 1997, for the preparation of the Second Urban
Transport and Air Quality Project with a metropolitan vision. This resulted in the
identification of a transport and air quality integral strategy supported by nine sub-sectorial
studies (See Annex 2.5)
*  Complete the Urban Transport Enterprise Support Model. This will be part of BANOBRAS
assistance to borrowers (transport concessionaires) from the Urban Transport Financing
Program
Creation of areas at the federal level with greater participation in the urban transport sector, which
constitutionally is under the responsibility of local authorities.  These functions are currently
perforned by SEDESOL through the General Administration for Urban Infrastructure and
Equipment (Direcci6n General de lnfraestrmctura y Equipamiento). With the participation of this
Agency, it was possible to disseminate important documents related to the design of road
projects, projects evaluation and road maintenanice projects at the national level. In addition,
training workshops were conducted at the national level for municipal authorities, and were
included in educational programs of different institutions of higher education.
Components "A" and "B"
Institutional strengthening activities were conducted only in component "B" where progress was
made in the strengthening of the State of Mexico's Road Council through the implementation of
SIAM (Sistema Integral de Administraci6n del Mantenimiento). Technical assistance in areas of
traffic management and transport system planning was undertaken by the General Administration
for Road Services (Direcci6n General de Vialidad) of the respective government.
Component "D"
Important progress was achieved with the incorporation of the environmental component in
projects implementation and evaluation. In this sense:
Project components were modified to include Component "D", which had the fundamental
purpose of strengthening monitoring of environmental contamination and control capacities under
SEDUE and the Federal District Department and also the development capacity of the Mexican
Institute of Petroleum and PEMEX through which the following is taking place:
* Research for the improvement and production of less polluting gasoline and the study of
vehicular emissions with the purpose of establishing applicable standards to the region;
* Purchase of equipment to monitor air pollution in the metropolitan zone of Mexico City; and
* Replacement and installation of 1,200 pollution free engines in public transport service buses
(amendment to loan and guarantee agreements dated 22 February 1989 and I July 1990).
With regard to Mexico's urban transport system, this has been operated, in its majority, by the
private sector. Only in the last two decades, has the public sector had a greater participation in
the creation of a municipal transport enterprise (Route 100) to serve Mexico City. This venture is
already defunct and the services went again to the private sector.



42
The State of Mexico used to operate a Main Transport. System (SST), managed by the State
Government, which provided services to 10%/o of the transport market demand and basically
covered marginal areas.  Due to high subsidies required, the State Government decided to
privatize the services.
The operation of the Urban Transport System is, without a doubt, a big challenge for authorities
witlh planning and regulation responsibilities, particularly in a city the size of the ZMCM. The
system  improvement requires changes that can only happen gradually and through the
institutional strengthening of the diverse participating agents. In this sense, the First Urban
Transport Project was initially focused oni strengthening the local and federal authority levels.
IMPORTANT FACTORS THAT AFFECTED THE PROJECT
The project disbursed important amounts of funds allocated to components A, B, C and D.
Nevertheless, it has been difficult for local governments to have financinig capacity since they
saw their investment possibilities reduced in a period of strong economic imbalance, mainly
inflation and recession, which distorted public finances. In Component "A", the government of
the State of Nuevo Le6n decided to cancel their allocations so they could focus their attention to
other needs; and in Component "B", the State Government had to finance BANOBRAS' local
contribution, thus becoming a co-lender of the project.
Local governments had little experience in the management and requirements of credits from the
world's banking sector. Because of this and also due to shifts in government authorities,
particularly within the Government of the State of Mexico (GEM), the project was barely active
during the first four or five years. Consequently, a strong promotional campaign by BANOBRAS
was necessary to gain GEM's greater participation in the project, with results beginning in 1994.
In Component "B" the government obtained a strong financial commitment for the transport
studies that in our opinion were not conducted in adequate measure nor did they respond to the
most immediate needs of GEM, and this limited the preparation of the final engineering project.
An example of the mismatched actions is the studies for the maintenance of autobuses managed
by GEM which were PRIVATISED simultaneously with the culmination of the study, thus
reducing the utility of the study..
In our opinion, pro jects and works identified eas the most important by previous studies should
had been completed. At the same time, an in-depth study on the development strategy of the
urban transport system should have been conducted. The study could have identified the
system's strengths and weaknesses and also, suggested a policy for sector improvement while at
the sa.ne time establishing the participation and responsibilities of institutions involved in
transport system management. The study could have put emphasis on investment recovery
policies which have been neglected by integral studies. Integral studies mainly focus on the
economic evaluation of projects and ignore recovery and financial evaluation methods.
There is the idea that the process management and requirements and formalities at the World
Bank are complicated. This starts with the time it takes for preliminary considerations and
negotiations to include the request in the credits program of the federal government and is
followed by IBRD exploratory missions, preparation of the project, its evaluation, its presentation
to the Board of Directors, the authorization, the signing and the fulfillment of the effectiveness
conditions that, among others, normally are part of the final steps in the process.



43
The loan was for a pilot program  designed to be applied specifically to two important
conurbations, Valle CuautitlAn Texcoco and the metropolitan area of the city of Monterrey.
Initially neither IBRD nor BANOBRAS had the experience in financing this kind of project. The
implementation's rigidity, applicable to only two cities, did not allow requests from other mid-
size cities that could have been assisted while the specific credit provided for in Component C
was being prepared.
During the first five years, government officials in charge of the project were often changed due
to political changes in government at the state level, particularly in the State of Mexico. Only the
most recent administration became fully committed to the project working with nearly 70% of the
remaining balance of external resources allocated to the component.
Units in charge of the technical management of the project initially had importanit technical
training support. Later, due to restrictive policies on government expenditures, personnel was
reduced and technical employees already trained were lost. This resulted in a diminishied
capacity to conduct the program. On the other hand, lack of incentives did not permit the
retention of trained employees.
The final engineering projects, in spite of careful preparation, were not fully satisfactory with
regards to technical aspects of integral solutions for "ancillary works" in critical urban zones due
to the unexpected finding of many installations, which complicated the process for the rights of
way. This was an important factor to delay the execution of works since they related to the
protection of installations like PEMEX gas pipes, telephone lines, railroad crossings, high voltage
electrical lines and water and sewer installations. This occurs because of the short period of time
that government administrations had to develop infrastructure development policies, which
reduced the time for offers made to consultants to complete the projects in addition to the
processes to be completed with different government or private agencies to identify the site and
locate the services of the ancillary work projects.
Another aspect considered important for project execution was the payment system for work
estimates and price ranges due to the centralization of IBRD requirements and formalities to
obtain the "no objections" for contract procedures, expansions, modifications, etc.
It is important to mention the tariffs applied to toll roads, particularly the section LaVenta-
Chamapa, where the high price scared away the users which resulted in very little or almost no
rentability from its operation (see Annex 7, Table 2). The solution is in making a realistic
analysis of the operation and maintenance costs of the toll road, and also a socio-economic
analysis of users payment affordability in order to establish attractive tariffs for its use. On the
other hand, support from federal or state governments should be considered the for the absorption
of investment costs for the construction of the freeway.
THE BANK'S (IBRD) PERFORMANCE
The Bank's performance with regards to conceptualization, identification and assistance to
prepare the project was satisfactory. It allowed the formulation of credits with enough elements
for the analysis and attention to urban transport problems, which by themselves are very
complicated. Supervision has been highly satisfactory and mission visits contributed to resolve
many problems. Special mention is to be made of IBRD's participation in financing the
reconstruction of the road infrastructure of the city of Monterrey, which was destroyed in 1988 by
hurricane "Gilbert".



44
The project permitted to see with clarity the value of its conception but also the difficulty of its
implementation, some of which were mentioned in "Important Factors that Affected the Project"
suclh as the resistance to change shown by sector participants, which was motivated by special
interests or lack of know-how for their implementationi.
We always counted withi IBRD's support to facilitate the procedures related to "no objections",
invitations to bid, contract amendments, etc. In spite of this, the approvals take too long. We
think that in order to expedite the procedures some functions could be transferred to financial
agents, specially now that said procedures are already regulated by the Controller's and
Administrative Development Secretariat (SECODAM).
THE BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
The Communications and Transport Secretariat of the Government of the State of Mexico
(SCTEM) as well as the Transport Commission of the State of Mexico (COTREM) and other
participating authorities provided their unconiditionial support to execute all activities conducive to
the implementation and control of the project. To achieve this, follow-up procedures were
established through "progress review meetings" presided by COTREM executives, the Roads
Council, Roads Adrninistration, Credit and Public Investment Administration, and the finance
agencies of the government.
The borrower participated with its best effort and enthusiasm in the execution of activities and in
capacity development programs through technical assistance received for maintenance of roads,
urban transport system planning and traffic management. However, personnel reduction policies,
as a consequence of the country's economic deterioration, resulted in more work for a personnel
already reduced and less efficiency in processes linked to the implementation of the project.
Under such conditions the participation of these entities were satisfactory.
IMPORTANT LESSONS LEARNED
The project has highlighted the importance of the urban transport integral studies which permit to
see and focus on the activities necessary for the development, control and management of the
urban transport system, to establish priorities arnong the projects and link the different activities
in order to improve the operation of the systern. The terms of reference used to conduct the
studies on urban transport system planning vvere prepared by IBRD and this is a valuable
contribution of the international financing institution to the transport industry.
The integral study also constitute an element linking policies to be implemented, since it allows
the continuity of activities by local authorities vvhose service lasts three years for municipalities
and six years for state authorities.
In the same manner that federal taxes were levied for the construction and maintenance of the
country's inter-urban transport system, it is important to create specific funds, through taxes, to
support construction and operation of road system infrastructures in urban transport.
BANOBRAS, and governments involved in the metropolitan area, considered that it is important
to count on IBRD financing to attend the area's Urban Transport System covering the whole
metropolitan area. Irnportant studies on Transport and Air Quality Strategy have been conducted
which have allowed the identification of guidelines for the formulation of policies to provide
services to one of the most populous areas in the world. Also, funds from CR2824-ME,



45
component "C" , have been diverted to support studies and as a supplement to resources that
IBRD diverted for these purposes from the Japanese trust Fund No. 029369.
It should be mentioned the wealth of experience gained as a result of the exchange of ideas,
bidding processes for public work contracts and goods acquisition, as well as bid invitations for
the provision and contract of consulting services.



MAP SECTION
J



IBRD 20367R
7 c O,h                                                                                                                                                                                     MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
T, T-h-                                VALLE CUAUTITLAN - TEXCOCO
n-
C-id., I.p.--h (5AR Pp..d)
W.& hp.-W
B. Wy
%                                                           B04                 Fdifi.
T.11 R-d
b%ml,F
Mi R..d
Bilt-p A,-
Stt. B-d.,i.
Y
N',
14
gl
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Vi
4
I 61, I
7
7:                                    "s,
%                        7:
t                                          Go  of Mexico
Z
N                                                                                                   :77
MEXICO CITY
Z-7                                             Q-05A
V
i'GUATEMALA
p
A'                                                                                   M E X I C 0
2    3
11  J,
KILOMETERS
N                                                                                                       Al
, 0-
%
p 9OH96wqy,
JUNE 1999



IBRD 20368R
MEXICO  ~~~~~~~~~~~4O~~~~~                                                   /     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                   UNITED STATES a AMERICA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UITD TTE O AERC
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT 
MONTERREY METROPOLITAN AREA                                                                                        ,/
0.  At-Grode Iner-tion Irpronmn-                             ,I                                                                                        L   A
A.- R-d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
SAE Proposal                                                       kt2oIft7ip9
donill Intermdio                                                                                  0                                                                   GUATE9tS
El Existing Ineorne                  #_4(o                                       o  + '                                          1rs                          c
Ecllt-op AreasM,7C    0,                                                                          Qr k                                  .-                     9
MRi-ia Roneis' iA0t                                                                                           5                                 
F                                                 W
A   -) jscy
,-~~~~~~~~4~~~~~~t <jr: -~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                              ~IR
<-9-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0<                                                                  f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
9    1     2    3     4                                                                                                                                 -           -
UJLOMETEES
JUNE 1999



