Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
;tv 2 82 V- <-f
Report No.6487-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOP.T
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
April 29, 1987
Urban Projects Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
July, 1986
Curreitzy Unit: Peso (Mex$)
US$1      =  Mex$ 643
Mex$ 1    =  US$0.016
GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (Km) - 0.62 miles (mi)
I liter (1) = 0.26 gallons (gal)
1 hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (Mton) = 2205 pounds (lbs)
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AADT      Average Annual Daily Traffic
ACF       Average Cost of Funds (Federal Government Borrowings)
(Costo Porcentual Promedio (CPP))
BANOBRAS  National Bank of Public Works and Services
(Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.)
COTREM    State of Mexico Transport Commission
(Comision del Transporte del Estado de Mexico)
CUD       Comprehensive Development Agreements (State/Federal)
(Convenio Unico de Desarrollo)
DDF       Department of the Federal District
(Departamento del Distrito Fedcral)
GIRA      General Interest Rate Agreement
GOM       Government of Mexico (Federal)
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
SDUOP     Secretariat of Urban Development and Public Works (State of
Mexico)
(Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Obras Publicas)
SEDUE     Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology
(Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia)
SHCP      Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico)
SOPT      Secretariat of Public Works and Transport (State of Nuevo Leon)
(Secretaria de Obras Publicas y Transporte)
SPP       Secretariat of Programming and Budget
(Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto)
SCT       Secretariat of Communications and Transport
(Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transporte)
STT       State-owned Bus Companies (State of Mexico)
(Sistema de Transporte Troncal)
TSM       Traffic Systems Management
VCT       Valle Cuatitlan-Texcoco (State of Mexico)



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No,
1.    LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .......................   ,,,.,        i
II.   THE SECTOR............                                           1
Urban Sector Background................. ,  , ,     ,.    ....  1
BANOBRAS0*04                                                    I
Urban Transport Subsectorb s e ct.......... or...........       2
Cost Recovery and Pricing ,    ,,,                              3
Nuevo Lo ......,,3
State of Mexico.  ............                                  5
Urban Transport   I       s      s     u      e     s           6
Government Strategy and Bank's Roee                             6
III,  THE PROJECT
Project Origin 8.....8
Project Rationale and Objectives .....................          8
Project Description ...............................,            8
Organization and Managemdnt ..........................          9
Implementation Schedule    ...........................         10
Status of Project Preparation ........................         10
Monitoring and Reporting Requirements                          10
Project ..............     ... ..                              11
Financing                           Rln.........,12
on-lending to States          .................  ,.,.12
On-lending for Bus Purchases ........................          12
Financial Impact *............  13
Procurement,................. ...................... .         13
Disbursements                       ....................       14
Accounts and Audits..u...                                      15
Economic Justification ...................... ,.....           15
Project Benefits          ..........                           15
Air Quality Impct.                                             16
Impact on Emo      to y m e n t                                16
Project Risks                 .........                        16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Mexico in July 1986. The mission comprised Messrs. John Flora,
(Mission Leader), William Thornhill (Transport Engineer), LCPUR and Steve
Pereira, Martin Hyde and Donald Stout (Consultants). Ms. Martha Behar
assisted in the production of the report.
[his document has a restricted distribution and may be usd by recipients only in the perfonmanc
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



Table of Content (Cont'd)                                          Page No.
IV.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........................ 17
Text Tables
111.1.  Project Cost Summary .......     .....................   11
I11.2.  Procurement Arrangements ......     ..................  14
ANNEXES
1.  Project Organization.................. **....................      19
2.  Detailed Description of the Project .......................        29
3.  Summary of Costs........................................           32
4.  Procurement Arrangements ...         ..................**......    35
5s, Disbursement Schedule         ......................      .        37
6.  Monitoring and Evaluation ........  .......... .....   ..........  38
7.  Financial Analysis .....*         ................................  46
8.  Economic and Social Analysis...............................        54
9.  Cost Recovery and Pricing      ..........................  .       62
10. Selected Documents and Data Available
in Project File       ...........................................  64
MAPS
1* Metropolitan Monterrey           ....................... .
2.  Valle Cuatitlan-Texcoco (VCT)-State of Mexico..............



- i -
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
PART 1. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower           Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.,
(BANOBRAS).
Guarantor     :   United Mexican States.
Beneficiaries :   The States of Mexico and Nuevo Leon, private bus operators,
and BANOBRAS.
Amount        :   US$125.0 million equivalent.
Terms         :   Fifteen years, including three years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:   The Peso equivalent of US$53.5 million and US$39.8 million
would be made available to the States of Mexico and Nuevo
Leon, respectively, on the same terms as the Bank loan and
at an interest rate of 80% of average cost of funds (ACF)1/.
The Peso equivalent of US$28.8 million would be made
available to private bus operators In the project areas,
under subloans which would cover at most 80% of the cost
(net of taxes) of equipment for a term of three years and
with no grace period. Subloans would be made at an interest
rate of ACF through June 30, 1989 and ACF + 2 thereafter.
Project            The objectives of the proposed project would be to: (a)
Objectives:        improve the accessibility, quality of services, operational
efficiency, and costs of public transport; (b) rationalize
tariff policies, improve the financial and economic
viability and sustainability of transport investments, and
encourage private sector participation; (c) preserve
transport infrastructure investments and reduce vehicle
operating costs through implementation of adequate,
cost-effective maintenance programs; and (d) strengthen
institutional capability, at the local as well as national
level, to provide effective policy development, planning,
resource allocation, traffic system implementation and
operation, and project replicability.
Project            The proposed project would consist of improvements to
Description:       initiate and support a system  management approach to urban
transport in the States of Mexico and Nuevo Leon. These
11 Average Cost of Funds to the Baiking System



- ii -
improvements would include four integrated components: (a)
corridor improvements; (b) public transport; (c) road
maintenance; and (d) traffic systems management. The
project would also p':ovide technical assistance to the
Transport Technical Directorate in BANOBRAS to assist with
project coordination and supervision and to analyze
transport problems in secondary cities in Mexico.
Project Risks:     The major project risk is institutional.  Previous BanK pro-
jects have been adversely affected by institutional weak-
nesses within BANOBRAS, the Borrower and the Federal entity
responsible for overall project coordination and manage-
ment. However, BANOBRAS has recently been reorganized, and
a new Director-General has been appointed, to strengthen and
expand its role as a Development Bank providing efficient
lending support to local Governments. In addition, the pro-
posed project would provide technical assistance to the pro-
ject coordina.ing unit in BANOBRAS' Transport Technical
Directorate to assist with project management. Finally, an
interministerial committee, composed of representatives of
SHCP, SPP, SEDUE, SEGOB, and BANOBRAS would provide regular
monitoring of the project and of agency effectiveness.
These factors, combined with intensified supervision during
the early stages of the project, are expected to mitigate
the risks of unnecessary delays in project execution,
approvals and disbursement.
Project Costs:
Local     Foreign    Total
----- (U$ Millions)---
Corridor Improvements                      51.2        27.6      78.8
Public Transport                           47.7        31.8      79.5
Road Maintenance                           28.7        16.1      44.8
Traffic Management                          6.2         4.8      11.0
Technical Assistance, Studies,              1.4         1.3       2.7
Equipment (Fed. subproject)
TOTAL BASE COSTS                            135.2        81.6     216.8
Physical Contingencies                     13.8         8.2      22.0
Price Contingencies                        35.3        20.3      55.6
PPF                                           0.1         0.4       0.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS1/                     184.4       110.5     294.9
1/ Total project costs include US$44.2 million in taxes and duties.



- ili -
Financirsg Plan:
Local     Foreign    Total
---…-(US$ Millions)- -
Federal Government                                0.5      -            0.5
State of Mexico                                  94.5       -          94.5
State of Nuevo Leon                              62.4      -           62.4
Private Bus Operators                            12.5       -           12.5
Bank                                             14.5    110.5        125.0
TOTAL                                           184.4    110.5        294.9
Estimated Disbursements:
FY  1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
(US$ million)
Annual          19.5   13.3   26.8   26.8   10.0    7.7    6.2    9.5    5.2
Cumulative      19.5   32.8   59.6   86.4   96.4  104.1  110.3  119.8  125.0
Economic Rate
of Return:                39X



PART II. THE SECTOR
Urban Sector Background
2.01      Approximately 68% of the coqntry's 75 million people live in
urban areas with over 26% of the total population concentrated in the
metropolitan areas of Mexico City, Monterrey and Guadalajara. While
average overall population growth has declined from 3.2% to 2.6% in the
last decade, major urban areas such as Monterrey in Nuevo Leon, and Valle
Cuatitlan-Texcoco in the State of Mexico have grown at rates far exceeding
this average due to immigration as well as natural increases. Successive
federal administrations have attempted to address the high concentration of
people and economic activity in Mexico City (and to a lesser extent in
Guadalajara and Monterrey) through major decentralization programs, and
President Miguel de la Madrid's administration has again assigned high
priority to this effort. Unlike previous approaches, however, the present
strategy emphasizes the devolution of responsibilities from the lederal
government to state and municipal governments.
2.02      The federal government has begun selectively delegating power to
the 31 states and 2,379 municipalities. Thus some municipalidies and states
are beginning to assume responsibility for the planning and delivery of
various urban services such as water supply and sewerage, solid waste
management, transportation, and infrastructure maintenance. Where the
services can best be provided through interjurisdictional cooperation,
state agencies or regional authorities are managing the planning and
delivery through agreements with municipalities. This includes water
supply and sewage treatment, solid waste disposal, and the provision of
urban transport services including planning and coordination of public
transport, regional transportation planning, and construction and
maintenance of major arterials which impact on the regional system.
2.03      In the past, urban investments, including both capital
and maintenance costs, were largely funded through federal revenue
sharing. Given the current and projected constraint on domestic resources,
however, it is unlikely that local governments will continue to receive
the same levels of federal government support. Modification of Article 115
of the Constitution provides for the local retention of a greater
proportion of property taxes, and user charges for services such as water
supply and solid waste. This increase in "own-source revenues", however,
will be insufficient to meet the immediate demands of the growing urban
areas; they must, within the bounds of prudent financial management, have
access to funds which can be borrowed under reasonable terms consistent
with national goals andJ policies.
BANOBRAS
2.04      BAMOBRAS is responsible for financing infrastructure (urban
development, water supply, highway, etc.) investments. The GOM, through
the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit, (SHCP), controls BANOBRAS's
policies and directs its borrowings and lending activities. BANOBRAS
onlends funds to states and municipalities through various "windows" on
varying terms and conditions. However, in view of past internal
organizational problems reflected in cumbersome procedures for loan



- 2 -
processing and lack of promotion, BANOBRAS has not been a major source of
funding to local governments. The decree of July 1985, modified the status
of BANOBRAS to that of a National Credit Institition and Development Bank.
In its expanded capacity and in accordance with the guidelines established
in its Organic Law published in January 1986, BANOBRAS is adapting its
organizational structure to provide more effective technical and financial
support. Annex 1 provides details on this structural modification and on
selection, appraisal, promotion, funding, and provision of technical
assistance for programs and projects to improve urban transport systems.
Urban Transport Subsector
2.05      General:  Mexico's urban transport system includes many modes for
transporting people and goods within urban areas; subway, bus (publicly and
privately operated), trolleybus, light rail transit (LRT), taxi, private
car, and truck. GOM agencies, however, have often viewed urban transport
in terms of publicly operated mass transit and little coordination has been
provided among the various elements which comprise the total urban
transport system. Planning and execution of projects has occurred on a
single mode basis and little attention has been given to traffic system
management concepts or to the evaluation of low-cost alternatives for
meeting transport demand.
2.06      The dimensions of the urban transport problem in Mexico are being
expanded by several external factors: the increasingly urban character of
the country, high urban population growth rates, and an unbalanced pattern
of regional development which concentrates the nation's population and
investment resources. The burden on transport infrastructure has been
aggravated even more by rapid motorization. One estimate by a Government
of Mexico source shows the share of all urban travel in secondary cities
increasing 4% by 1988, from 40% to 44%, while the Mexico City region
declines from 60% to 56%.
2.07      The rapid growth of secondary cities and consequent increasing
travel demands, have led to increased use of private automobiles,
congestion and excess fuel consumption, poor quality of public transport
service, deterioration of the infrastructure system, high levels of
pollution, higher operating costs for all modes of transport, and increased
demand for federal subsidies. In addition, the principal traffic safety
problem in Mexico is located in these secondary cities which are
responsible for 70% of all fatal accidents nationwide, compared to only 5%
and 20% for the Federal District and for rural areas, respectively.
2.08      Generally, public transport systems throughout the country do not
operate profitably or efficiently. State-owned companies in the State of
Mexico require large annual subsidies to cover operating costs as well as
fleet replacement costs. Private companies such as those in Nuevo Leon,
cover operating costs but do not adequately recover the cost of
depreciation and replacement of vehicles. Simply raising the fares in
these States to cover all costs, however, would place an excessive burden
on the clientele and especially on the poorer segments of the population.



- 3 -
These passengers presently spend over 15% of their income on transportation
in systems characterized by inefficient route structures, poor maintenance
practices, ineffective management, and antiquated, and consequer.tly costly,
equipment.
2.09      Public investment in urban transport now totals over US$0.9
billion annually. However, this has been devoted almost exclusively to the
Federal District. Public and political pressure is being brought to
improve urban transport conditions throughout the country, and
jurisdictions with large urbanized areas such as the States of Nuevo Leon
and Mexico are, typically, considering the construction of fixed-rail
systems which are not only highly capital intensive to construct but
generally require large operatirg subsidies. This project is designed to
demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of more efficient alternatives which
should prove replicable in other areas of the country. BANOBRAS and the
participating States will submit to the Bank for review their Annual Urban
Transport Investment Plan, including road rehabilitation and maintenance
works, to evaluate its potential impact on the project strategy. Execution
of any major investment over US$10.0 million equivalent which would
adversely affect the project, any subproject, or the economic or financial
viability of any Annual Investment Plan, would constitute grounds for
suspension of disbursement of the loan (para. 4.01(a)). Annual supervision
missions would review the proposed plans during budget preparation each
year.
Cost Recovery and Pricing
2.10      Previous studies have shown that road user taxes and fees cover
all costs of providing road infrastructure. Fuel tax revenues, however,
represented the major contribution in these analysis and since fuel prices
were below international levels (their opportunity costs) at that time, it
is most likely the results should have been negative. Transport fuel
prices in Mexico are now above international levels and a sector study
being developed under the Second Highway Sector Project (Lu. 2428-ME) is
examining in detail the allocation of road user costs and revenues and will
be supplemented by a detailed analysis of costs and revenues in the urban
areas as a part of this project. While bus fares are generally below full
cost recovery levels in Mexico, the States participating in the project
have agreed that a policy of full cost recovery is to be pursued and the
proposed project has been designed to ensure progress towards this
objective. Annex 9 provides further details on pricing.
Nuevo Leon
2.11      The Monterrey Metropolitan Area (MMA), comprising eight
municipalities in the State of Nuevo Leon, is the second most important
industrial center in Mexico. During the 1970s, the MMA sustained annual
population growth rates of 5%, reached two million inhabitants by 1980, and
is projected to grow to three million by 1990. Vehicle registrations
increased at least 4% annually during the past decade, and traffic is
estimated t3 grow at a slightly higher rate. Although the seven
municipalities are physically unified, the administrative structures are
not, which has led to a great disparity in the quality and quantity of
infrastructure and services.



2.)2      The road system is generally well planned but its development has
not Lept pace with the area's rapid growth.   The public transport system
consists entirely of privately operated buses receiving no direct
subsidies. Fares and routes are regulated by the State government, and
approximately 2000 vehicles operate on 80 routes. The financial condition
of all bus operators has deteriorated In recent years leading to
decapitalization and declining service standards. The major factors are
inefficient route structure, inadequate and inequitable fares, low quality
of road maintenance, and the difficulty for owner-operators in obtaining
adequate vehicle maintenance sei,4ces. Each of these issues is being
addressed in the project including the construction of a bus maintenance
facility which would be leased to a consortium representing private bus
owners. At the present time adequate bus maintenanL.e facilities are not
available to small owner/operators with only a few buses. Turnaround times
for maintenance provided by individual mechanics are high due to lack of
instock availability of spaee parts. The resultant cost of maintenance to
owner/operators is increased as a result of the high cost of individual
spare part purchases and increased down-time of buses. The proposed
component would provide for the development of a maintenance facility to be
operated and funded by a cooperative representing private owner/operators
thus making adequate maintenance available at reasonable cost. Funds would
not be disbursed for this maintenance facility until a feasibility study is
completed and agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, have been executed
which would insure that all costs of operation and debt service are borne
by the private operators (para. 4.03(a)).
2.13      Road maintenance in the past has been carried out by the Federal
Government, which maintained federal and state roads, and the
municipalities which maintained the roads in their jurisdictions. While
quality of maintenance and procedures used by the Federal agency are
acceptable, budgets have been inadequate and priorities arbitrarily
established. Maintenance carried out at the municipal level varies greatly
with each locality. The State has now created an urban road maintenance
authority which will take over the primary maintenance responsibilities in
the urban area from the federal government and the municipalities. All
legal documents creating this unit have been developed and agreements
reached among the municipalities, state and federal governmeait. Signed
agreements between the state and municipalites and effective operation of
this unit would be a condition of disbursement for the state of Nuevo Leon
subproject (para. 4.03(b)).
2.14      Prior to 1984, responsibility for urban transport was scattered
among the municipalities, several state agencies, and the federal
government. With the creation of the Secretariat of Public Works and
Transport (SOPT), important functions for road planning and construction
were consolidated into a single line agency. This was followed by the
incorporation of the Directorate General of Transport to extend SOPT's
jurisdiction to management of public transport, and the creatior, of the
State Urban Road Maintenance Authority which will take over responsibility
for maintenance of all urban primary roads. As a part of project
preparation a traffic engineering unit was established. The organizational
requirements have thus been initiated to develop a systems management
approach to urban transport.



-5-
State of Mexico
2.15      The Valle Cuatitlan-Texcoco (VCT) is that part of the Mexico City
conurbation located outside of the Federal District in the State of
Mexico. With a population of over six million out of a total regional
population of 18 million, and with annual growth rates in many areas
exceeding 10 per cent, the VCT is the fastest growing area in the Mexico
City metropolitan region.
2.16      The roadway system in the VCT is poorly developed and there is
little effective system planning, leading to poorly designed and redundant
facilities. Traffic volumes on several corridors are extremely high (over
100,000 AADT), 80% of trips in the VCT are by public transport, and a
similar 80% of work trips are oriented to the Federal District. Public
transport in the VCT is exclusively by bus of which 97% are privately
operated (approximately 70 licensed companies) with partial government
regulation of routes and fares. The remaining 3% are operated by six joint
state/municipal bus companies (STTs) managed by the Comision de Transportes
del Estado de Mexico (COTREM), a state agency.
1.17      COTREM is a semi-autonomous agency within the Secretariat of
Urban Development and Public Works (SDUOP) charged with responsibility for
urban transport in the State of Mexico. In public transport, COTREM is
responsible for conducting system-wide planning, assisting SDUOP in
assigning franchises to private bus operators, and managing the public bus
companies (STTs).  In highway transport, COTREM is to conduct statewide
planning pro4rams, assign priorities for projects and coordinate design
activities carried out by the road design division of SDUOP. COTREM's
traffic management responsibilities include providing funds to
municipalities for purchase of equipment such as traffic signals and
recommending programs on major corridors. The actual implementation of
these duties, however, falls f&. short of expectations.
2.18      Of the 2000 OOTREM employees, approximately 1800 are directly
involved in the operation of the STT bus fleet. Because of this
preoccupation with the STT operations, several other important tasks have
not received sufficient resources including both short and long range
planning, bus system planning and regulation, and traffic management
assistance to the municipalities. The STT's have also experienced major
problems in running efficient operations. Due to the poor quality of
maintenance, less than half of the total fleet is available for service on
any one day, even though the average age of vehicles is less than two
years. Like many public companies, the operating costs are significantly
higher than the private sector. As a result, total fares are only slightly
more than half of operating and maintenance costs, not including
depreciation of equipment. The government, recognizing the need to
develop, as a minimum, equilibrium between costs (operating, maintenance,
depreciation) and revenues, raised fares substantially in August 1986, and
as part of this project, would attempt, through increases in management and
operating efficiency, as well as tariff increases, to reach this
equilibrium within two years of the effective date of the loan agreement.
The State of Mexico would agree, under the subsidiary loan agreement, to
cause COTREM to make substantial progress toward improving the financial
condition of its bus operations within two years of the effective date of



- 6 -
the loan agreement by decreasing the ratio of total working expenses to
total operating revenues so as to achieve a ratio not higher than 100%
(pars. 4.01(b)).
2.19      State intervention in the private sector until now has been
limited to setting fares and routes. Although fares are nominally supposed
to cover full operating costs, they are only approximately 70% of that
needed to amortize an efficiently run operation.
2.20      As in Nuevo Leon, road maintenance procedures are adequate and
personnel well-trained, however, a large back-log of "deferred maintenance"
has developed due to inadequate budgets and the lack of a cost-effective
management program. The project will assist the states to develop
maintenance management systems and provide funding to begin elimination of
this back-log. It was agreed at negotiations that both Nuevo Leon and
Mexico would adequately maintain the roads in the project area and would
maintain adequate budgets for road maintenance in addition to the proposed
annual allocation of Bank funding for this component throughout the project
period. The annual road maintenance program for each project area would be
submitted each year to the Bank for review and comment (para. 4.01(c)).
Urban Transport Issues
2.21      The problems cited in the paragraphs above are symptoms of major
policy deficiencies characteristic of the urban transport subsector
throughout Mexico. Basically, these issues involve:
(a)   lack of an inter-modal regional approach to the delivery of urban
transport services;
(b)   lack of rigorous economic and financial evaluations as well as
local accountability in the development of investment programs;
(c)   inadequate pricing policies and inefficient operations which
would enable cost recovery, and provide sustainability, in the
provision of public transport services;
(d)   investment programs which emphasize new construction at the
expense of maintaining existing infrastructure and maximizing
existing road network capacity;
(e)   dependence on federal revenue-sharing as a source of capital
budget funding rather than development of access to lending
sources; and
(f)   sole-source procurement procedures which have precluded access by
transport agencies to competitively-priced buses designed to meet
specific urban transport route requirements.
Government Strategy and Bank's Role
2.22      The GOM proposes to improve the availability, quality, and
cost-effectiveness of public transport through an integrated transport



- 7 -
system management approach at the State level. In support of this
strategy, GOM has begun to transfer control of road maintenance activities
from the federal government to the States and is instituting changes in
BANOBRAS to facilitate project lending. It has removed the restrictions
against international competitive bidding for buses and has encouraged the
development of prototype programs in Nuevo Leon and the State of Mexico
which would initiate policy reforms, demonstrate the effectiveness of these
reforms, and shift the burden of funding from the federal government to the
State.
2.23      The Bank's role in the urban transport sector would be to support
the GOM's strategy through assistance in development and funding of
programs designed to audress the issues listed in para. 2.21. The proposed
project will:
(a)   complete preparation of inter-modal regional transport plans for
both participating states, and provide technical assistance to
facilitate up-dating of these plans;
(b)   require economic and financial analysis as part of public
investment expenditure decisions. This will be required on all
urban transport projects funded by BANOBRAS;
(c)   require implementation of improved bus system management and
route structure, bus maintenance procedures, and increased tariff
levels in an effort to reduce costs and improve income so as to
enable efficient and sustainable public transport operations and
encourage the provision of service by the private sector;
(d)   introduce the concept of "maintenance management' to each
participating state, help remove the back-log of deferred
maintenance, and promote adequate levels of annual preventive
maintenance of the infrastructure system. Traffic System
Management Programs will be introduced as an alternative to
costly new investments;
(e)   improve the capacity and efficiency of BANOBRAS to act as a
lending source for municipal and state transport programs. The
proposed loan would provide funds to be on-lent to the
participating states, which would provide counterpart funding;
(f)   provide funds to be on-lent to private operators for the purchase
of buses through international competitive bidding and
non-prescriptive specifications.
2.24      While the Bank has financed several urban projects in Mexico, it
is presently only indirectly involved in the urban transport sector. A
US$9.2 million engineering loan (2194-ME) approved in August 1982 is
supporting the preparation of studies including urban transport, necessary
for deconcentration projects for Mexico City.



- 8 -
III. THE PROJECT
Protect Origin
3.01      The proposed project was identified in March, 1985 to address
urban transport issues in the secondary cities of Mexico. Because of their
rapid urban transport growth and institutional capacity to prepare and
implement an urban transport program, the metropolitan areas of Monterrey
and the State of Mexico were selected for this first project. The project
was appraised during the period July 23 to August 9, 1986. Negotiations
began in Washington, D.C. on February 29, 1987, and were subsequently
completed following discussions regarding the General Interest Rate
Agreement on April 28, 1987. The Government delegation was led by Mr. Jose
Pliego Alvarez.
Project Rationale and Objectives
3.02      Because of the rapid growth in urban population and motorization,
many of Mexico's urban areas are facing substandard infrastructure and
urban congestion, all of which impair the ability of the urban areas, which
are the major generators of GNP and exports, to efficiently produce goods
and services. This trend is developing at a time when the GOM is
proceeding with decentralization and trying to strengthen the
institutional, financial, and technical capacities of local governments to
plan, finance, implement, operate and maintain basic public cervices.
Furthermore, to accommodate the growing urban transport demand, iany
jurisdictions are considering the implementation of fixed rail systems,
which have high capital costs and operating deficits, as the only solution
to their problems. The proposed project would demonstrate the
cost-effectiveness of an integrated transport management approach to the
growing problems in the Monterrey Metropolitan Region and the urbanized
area in the State of Mexico. The proposed approach involves planning and
coordinating public transport, implementing realistic fare policies,
maximizing the use of existing infrastructure, and implementing adequate
maintenance programs. The proposed project also takes the initial steps
towards strengthening the institutional frameworks at both the federal and
local levels to plan and implement the approach so as to facilitate the
transfer of responsibilities between government levels. The approach
should prove replicable and provisions have been made in the project for
preparation of similar projects in other urban areas of the country.
3.03      The objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) improve the
accessibility, quality of service, operational efficiency, and costs of
public transport; (b) rationalize tariff policies, improve the financial
and economic viability and sustaLnability of transport investments, and
encourage private sector participation; (c) preserve transport
infrastructure investments and reduce vehicle operating costs through
implementation of adequate, cost-effective maintenance programs; and (d)
strengthen institutional capability, at the local as well as national
level, to provide effective policy development, planning resource
allocation, traffic system implementation and operation, and project
replicability.



-9-
Project Description
3.04     The proposed project would consist of improvements to initiate and
support a systems management approach to urban transport in the States of
Mexico and Nuevo Leon. These improvements would comprise four integrated
components: (a) corridor improvements; (b) public transport; (c) road
maintenance; and (d) traffic systems management. The project would also
provide technical assistance to the Transport Technical Directorate in
BANOBRAS to assist with project coordination and supervision and to analyze
transport problems in secondary cities in Mexico.
Corridor Improvements.  (36% of costs) This project component
would finance civil works and equipment to carry out improvements which
would improve traffic flow and reduce accidents and air pollution in major
transport corridors. Specific improvements would include road widening,
constructing exclusive bus ways, addition of turn lanes, intersection
improvqvents, gutters and sidewalks, paving, construction of missing links,
pedestrian overpasses, and medians.
Public Transport.  (37% of costs) The project would finance civil
works, equipment, studies, and technical assistance for subcomponents
designed to increase the quality and efficiency of public transport. These
would comprise: (a) bus system management, route rationalization and tariff
studies; (b) construction of bus maintenance facilities, including the
purchase of maintenance equipment, and developing a program to optimize bus
maintenance procedures; (d) developing integrated medium and long-range
public transport plans; and (e) establishing a line of credit for financing
the purchase of buses by private operators.
Road Maintenance.  (21% of costs) The project would finance
technic.1 assistance to develop an urban road maintenance management
program in both states. Civil works and equipment required for the
implementation of the studies' recommendations would also be financed under
the project.
*       Traffic Systems Management.  (5% of costs) In order to complement
the civil works and public transport improvements, the project wiould
finance (technical assistance for) the carrying out of traffic systems
management studies to develop a program of low-cost physical and
administrative measures to improve traffic flow and safety, and reduce air
pollution. The civil works, equipment, and training required for signing,
marking, signaling, minor geometric improvements, and administrative
measures (i.e. parking and turning regulations, one-way systems, exclusive
bus lanes, location of bus stops, training in accident investigation,
etc.), as well as technical assistance to train state agencies in the use
of these traffic management tools, would be financed under the project.
*       Federal Subproject.  (1% of costs) The project would finance
technical assistance and minor equipment for: (a) assisting the recently
created Transport Directorate with project supervision including review of
procurement documents, component designs, monitoring and evaluation; and
(b) carrying out a sector analysis of urban transport in secondary cities
in Mexico and developing urban transport programs in about five of those
cities.



- 10 -
Project Execution
3.05      Project Organization and Management.  BAN0BRAS, under the general
policy guidatice of an interministerial working group composed of
representatives of SHCP, SEDUE, SPP, SEGOB, and BANOBRAS, would be
responsible for overall project supervision, coordination, evaluation, and
monitoring, as described in Annex 1. The States of Mexico and Nuevo Leon,
through the Coordinating Unit for Planning and Budgeting within the SDUOP
and the Administrative Unit within the SOPT respectively, would be
coordinating/implementing agencies for their respective subprojects;
BANOBRAS would be the implementing agency for the Federal subproject. The
project management unit in BANOBRAS, as well as the implementing agencies
in the States, would be supported by consultants as required, under terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank. COTREM, in the State of Mexico, and
the Comision de Transportes, a division of SOPT, in Nuevo Leon, would
coordinate bus purchases for private operators in their respective states
and would be responsible for development of specifications, coordination of
bidding, and certification that the operation of the private operators
meets the public transport objectives of the State. Implementation of
specific project components would be integrated into existing state
agencies so as to establish the basis for continuity. Technical
assistance, with required counterpart staff, would be provided in those
agencies which need strengthening and to assist with studies. All studies
have been designed to be initiated and completed within the first 18 months
in order that pertinent findings may be included during the project
implementation period (para. 4.01(d)). Technical Assistance requirements
and interrelationships of project components and their relevant studies are
shown in Annex 1. Key dates for beginning, completing, and implementing
the studies are also shown in Annex 1.
3.06      Implementation Schedule.  The proposed project would be
Implemented and the loan disbursed over an eight and one-half year period
in accordance with experience under urban projects in the region. Subloans
for purchase of buses would only be made after completion and
implementation of route rationalization and tariff studies. The project
would be completed by 6/30/95 and the closing date would be 12/31/95.
Detailed implementation schedules are provided in Annex 1.
3.07      Status of Project Preparation.  All project implementing agencies
are established and, with the exception of COTREM in the State of Mexico
and the Transport Directorate in BANOBRAS, are fully staffed. Adequate
staffing of BANOBRAS' Transport Technical Directorate, and strengthening of
COTREM staff and reorganization as per proposals approved by the Bank were
agreed upon at negotiations. Both units have been reorganized and key
staff are in place (para. 4.01(c)). Engineering designs for all civil
works to be implemented during the first year are complete. Terms of
reference for all studies and technical assistance are complete.
3.08      Monitoring and Reporting Requirements.  The coordinating agencies
in each of the States would provide quarterly monitoring and evaluation
reports to BANOBRAS, for consolidation with BANOBRAS' report for the
Federal subproject. BANOBRAS would prepare consolidated monitoring reports
focusing on physical, financial and institutional aspects in accordance
with agreed indicators, which would be forwarded to the Bank and the



- 11 -
Interministerial working group within 30 days of the end of each quarter
(para. 4.01(f)). Key onitoring and evaluation indicators are described in
Annex 6 along with the outline for the quarterly report.
Project Costs
3.09      Total project costs are estimated to be US$294.9 million,
including taxes and duties of approximately US$44.2 million. Foreign
exchange costs represent 37% of the total or US$110.5 million. The
proposed loan of US$125.0 million would cover 50% of total costs, excluding
taxes and duties. The project cost summary is shown in Table III.1 and
detailed cost tables for each subproject are provided in Annex 3. The
total project cost includes the entire amount of the PPF advance, US$0.5
million.
3.10      Costs are based on actual January and April, 1986 prices, updated
to December, 1986. Costs for civil works construction are bi ed on
contractor's unit prices for similar works in the particular area;
equipment prices are based on manufacturer's quotations and recent
purchases. Fees for technical assistance and other professional services
are based on the Bank's experience with similar locally and internationally
recruited experts in the region. Physical contingencies were included
depending upon the extent of preparation of the component: 5% of costs were
applied to those projects for which bids had been received; 10% was applied
for simple civil works for which detailed design, specifications and
quantities were available, 15% for civil works for which preliminary design
was prepared, and 20% for components for which there was only conceptual
design available. Price contingencies were calculated with anticipated
international inflation rates of 7.2% in 1986, 6.8% in 1987 and 1988, 7.0%
in 1989, 7.1% in 1990, and 4.0% thereafter.
Table I.L1 SUM   OF PET 06T5
(US$ MUion)
£         % Of
2IEhlS                          Lcal   Fareign   Total   Foreign     Base Cost
Corrido Iuprovets                51.2    27.6    78.8       35%         36%
Public Trport                    47.7    31.8    79.5       40%         37%
Road MaHntenace                  28.7    16.1    44.8       36%         21%
Traffic akm=Wwnt                  6.2     4.8    11.0       44%          5%
Tedi. Assistance, (Fed.Subproj.)  1.4     1.3      2.7      48%          1%
Total Base Costs                U3      81.6   216.8      38%         100%
Physical CQlti1spncies         13.8      8.2    22.0      37%          10%
Price CkxtiSndas               35.3    20.3    55.6       36%         26%
Total Ck cmaiendes             49.1    28.5    77.6       37%         36%
PPF                               0.1     0.4      0.5      80%
MM!AL PJECr MSTS 1/          184.4   110.5   294.9       37%         136%
7Total project costs include US$44.2 Mo lia in tases and ¢tIes.



- 12 -
Financing Plan
3.11      The Bank Loan of US$125.0 million would finance 50? of total
project costs net of taxes and duties, including 100X of foreign costs and
8? of local costs. Limited funding of local costs is justified in view of
the beneficial social impact of the project and hudgetary constraints being
experienced In Mexico. The Bank loan would be made to BANOBRAS and
guaranteed by the ITnited Mexican States. BANOBRAS would, as a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan, enter into contractual arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank for the transfer of loan funds between RANORRAS
and the Government of Mexico to facilitate project implementation and
repayment of the loan (para. 4.02(a)). Cotnterpart funding for the project
would be provided by the states and private investors (bus purchasers) with
the exception of the Federal Subproject which would be funded by the
Federal Government. BANOBRAS will review state budget requests and actual
allocations each year and provide written documentation to the Bank of the
levels of funding for all programs (para. 4.01(g)).
3.12      Onlending to States.  The peso equivalent of US$53.5 million and
US$ 39.8 mlllion would be made available to the States of Mexico and Nuevo
Leon, respectively. Funds would be onlent to the States at RO% of ACF, the
interest rate presently being applied for urban investments under other
Bank financed projects, over a 15-year repayment period, including three
years of grace. Draft on-lending agreements were agreed upon at
negotiations (para. 4.01(h)). The satisfactory execution of subsidiary
agreements between BANOBRAS and at least one of the States of Mexico or
Nuevo Leon would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(para. 4.02(b)). Fxecution of the remaining subsidiary agreement would be
a condition of disbursement against the relevant subproject (para.
4.03(c)).
3.13      Onlending for Bus Purchases.  The peso equivalent of ITS82R.8
million would be made available to private hus operators in the States of
Mexico and Nuevo Leon under subloans which would cover 80 of the cost (net
of taxes) of buses to be procured. Subloans would be made at an initial
interest rate of 100? of ACF rising to 100? + 2 on July 1, 1989.  RANOBRAS
would, as a condition of disbursement, provide evidence that interest rates
applicable to subsidiary loans (para. 3.12) and subloans are in compliance
with the rates specified above (para. 4.03(d)). An understanding was
reached at negotiations to include this loan within the provisions of a
proposed subsidy control and budgeting agreement presently being discussed
between Mexico and the Bank when such agreement is reached. Any subsequent
changes of rates as a result of this agreement would be handled through
amendment subject to approval by the Rank.  Repayments to BANOBRAS would he
used to continue onlending for buses and for eventual repayment of the Bank
loan. Standard procedures and conditions for onlending by BANORRAS to
private operators for the purchase of buses, including arrangements
Presently being established by BANORRAS in each State with commercial
banks, were reviewed and approved by the Rank during negotiations (para.
4,01(i)). Prior to disbursement against a particular subloan, BANOBRAS
would forward a standard financial analysis of the prospective sub-borrower



- 13 -
(private operator) and the bus operation, carried out in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank, which indicates full cost recovery and
an acceptable financial rate of return. Eligibility of subloans for the
purchase of buses in a given State would be conditioned upon implementation
of the recommendations of route reorganization studies and of tariff
studies in the respective State - all on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank (para. 4.C3(e)).
Financial Impact
3.14 Project components constituting 81% of project costs would be
implemented by the participating State Governments. Although taxes, fees
and other charges are levied on road users, these revenues are forwarded to
the Federal government and redistributed under various formulas which
differ from year-to-year. The financial analysis has therefore focussed on
the capacity of the two participating states to service the Bank loan from
general revenues. The state financing system in Mexico is dominated by
"participations" in federal tax revenues which have consistently
represented about 70% of current State revenues in the past. In view of
serious macro financial constraints, conservative assumptions have been
used to assess the financial prospects of the participating states during
project implementation, including, in particular, a no "real" growth
assumption for "participations" in federal taxes4 On this basis,
projections indicate that the participating states would be able to absorb
project components and continue to sustain additional investments at levels
comparable to recent years while maintaining an adequate level of working
capital without resorting to heavy additional borrowing, even though
considerable scope exists for greater leverage in investment financing in
both states. Annex 7 provides details on the financial analysis.
Procurement
3.15      Table III. 2 summarizes the procurement arrangements and Annex 4
provides details. International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be used
for all civil works contracts in excess of US$1,500,000 and the purchase of
all goods costing over US$200,000; this will include approximately 33%
(US$67.4 million) of the total amount of civil works contracts and 77%
(US$43.6 million) of the amount of equipment purchases. All bus
procurement will be through ICB and will be coordinated by COTREM in the
State of Mexico, and the Transport Commission, a division of SOPT, in Nuevo
Leon. Local shopping, with at least three quotations, may be used when
purchasing goods or civil works costing less than US$50,000 but not
exceeding an aggregate of US$1,000,000. Force account will be used for the
implementation of small civil works for corridor,and traffic management
improvements (to an aggregate of US$2,000,000) and for approximately 30%
(approximately US$14.7 million equivalent) of the road maintenance
components. Maintenance studies developed during the first year of the
project wil; identify the optimal split between force account and contract
.'abor for maintenance activities in the two participating States. Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) would be used for all other contracts for goods
and civil works but not exceeding an aggregate of US$123 million for civil
works and US$12.0 million for equipment. LCB procedures were reviewed and



- 14 -
with the modifications agreed to (see Annex 4, para. 1(d)) are satisfactory
to the Bank. Prior Bank review and approval will be required for all
procurement documents and contracts for civil works over US$500,000 and
equipment purchases over US$50,000* All other procurement will be reviewed
ex-post on a sample basis. All procurement for studies, technical
assistance, and training will require prior Bank approval and will be
carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines for the selection of
consultants (para.4.01(j)).
3.16      At the Government's request, manufacturers of equipment and
materials in Mexico would receive a margin of preference in bid evaluation
of 15% of the CIF bid price or the amount of customs taxes and duties
applicable, whichever is lower.
TABLE II..2 Procurement Arrangements
(US$ mlllion)
PROCUREMENT METHOD
PROCUREMENT CATEGORY      ICB      LCB        OTHER     N.A.      TOTAL
Civil Works             67.4      120.4      16.71/     0         204.5
(28.6)     (44.7)    (7.11      (-)       (80.4)
Equipment               43.6       12.0       1.0 /     0          56.6
(29.0)      (4.7)   (    3)               (34.0)
Se:vices                 0          0        22.5  /    0          22.5
(-)     (-)     (10. 1T   ~           (10. 1)
Land                     0          0        10.8       0          10.8
(~~)   (~~)    (O)()                 (O)
PPF Refinancing          0          0         0         0.5        0.5
(-)        (-)      (-)        (0.5)      (0.5)
TOTALS              111.0      132.4     51.0        0.5
(57.6)     (49.4)   (17.5)      (0.5)    (125.0)
Note: Amounts in parentheses financed from Loan.
1/ Force Account and local shopping.
2/ Local shopping.
/ Techaical assistance financed in accordance with Bank guidelines for
the selection of consultants.
Disbursements
3.17      Based on a nine-year Bank disbursement profile, loan funds would
be disbursed as follows: (a) 50% of total expenditures for civil works; (b)
39% of total expenditures in the Nuevo Leon and Mexico subprojects and 80%
in the Federal subproject for equipment, spare parts and materials; and (c)
100% of foreign expenditures for consultants' services, technical
assistance and studies in the Nuevo Leon and Mexico subprojects and 100% of
total expenditures in the Federal subproject. Disbursement for eligible
expenditures under contracts valued at under US$100,000 would be made
against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documentation would



- 15 -
be retained by BANOBRAS and made available for review during supervision
missions. Retroactive financing of civil works, technical assistance and
studies, and purchases of equipment not exceeding US$11.75 million, US$0.5
million, and US$0.25 million, respectively, would be provided for
expenditures in..-urred after July 23, 1986 (para. 4.01 k)). Amounts
disbursed under the US$500,000 Project Preparation Facility, as well as
accrued interest and charges, would be refinanced under the proposed loan
upon effectiveness. The disbursement schedule by semester is shown in
Annex 5.
Accounts and Audits
3.18      To accelerate disbursements, a special account of US$9.0 million
equivalent would be established by BANOBRAS in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.01(1)). Separate project accounts would
be established in each subproject and separate component-related accounts
would be established in each implementing agency within the State
governments and BANOBRAS to monitor expenditures. In addition, separate
budgetary and accounting systems for infrastructure maintenance will be
maintained within the relevant state agencies for the project area as well
as other urban areas for monitoring of continued maintenance activity and
to improve procedures for program development. Within six months of the
end of each fiscal year, BANOBRAS will provide to the Bank annual audit
reports at the State government level for: (a) project accounts; (b)
component-related accounts; and (c) the maintenance accounts, and within
BANOBRAS, they would provide audits for: (a) special account, (b) project
account, and (c) bus-purchase loan accounts. The audit reports would
include opinions on the adequacy of the accounting systems and internal
controls, the reliability of statement of expenditures as a basis for loan
disbursements, and on compliance with loan covenants. All audits would be
performed by independent, external auditors approved, and under terms of
reference agreed to, by the Bank (para. 4.01(m)).
Economic Justification
3.19      Economic costs and benefits were quantified for all project
components except technical assistance and the bus purchase components.
The net present value (NPV), benefit-cost ratio (B/C ratio), and the
economic rate of return (ERR) were calculated for each component. The
results are summarized in Annex 8, Table 1. The overall ERR for the
project, weighted by investment costs, and excluding benefits due to time
savings, is 39.0% and the B/C ratio is 2.3. The cost of technical
assistance is included, and where possible imputed to the cost of the
project component for which the technical assistance is to be used; but no
attempt is made to quantify the benefits of technical assistance. The
project as a whole, as well as each component, is economically viable. The
sensitivity of the results to a 20% increase in costs and to a 20% decrease
in benefits does not change this conclusion. The methodology used in the
evaluation is described in Annex 8.



- 16 -
Project Benefits
3.20      The central theme of the proposed project is to improve public
transportation. A major portion of the project benefits will accrue to bus
riders and especially those living in poorer areas who are dependent on
public transportation. Annex 8 describes the methodology, assumptions and
data sources which are used to quantify the extent to which the urban poor
benefit from the project. The results of the analysis indicate that for
the project as a whole, some 428,000 urban poor households (about 2.5
million people) should receive direct benefits equivalent to about a 5.62
increase in household incomes. 77X of the total project investment costs,
including technical assistance, generate benefits directly for the urban
poor.
Air Quality Impact
3.21      Traffic management improvements affect the environment through
their impact on air quality. Generally, as traffic flow is improved, e.g.,
by reducing the number of stops and speed changes, vehicles will emit
lesser amounts of pollutants. As an example, calculations Indicate that
the improvements in the component "Circunvalacion Poniente' in the State of
Mexico subproject will result in reduced emission of 165 tons of carbon
monoxide, 11 tons of hydrocarbons, and 715 tons of nitrogen oxide per
year. This represents a reduction of approximately 252 from current
levels. The other corridor improvement components will have corresponding
reductions with a consequent positive impact on air quality. In addition,
bus procurement documents will specify the use of diesel engines and other
antipollutant equipment as appropriate to further reduce the adverse impact
of transport on the environment.
Impact on Employment
3.22      Approximately 15,700 man-years of direct employment will be
generated during the life of the project plus approximately 2,250 man-years
of indirect employment. This will particularly benefit the low-income
c'roups*
Project Risks
3.23      The major project risk is institutional.  Previous Bank projects
have been adversely affected by institutional weaknesses within BANOBRAS.
However, BANOBRAS has recently been reorganized (para. 2.04) to provide
efficient financial and advisory support to local governments. In
addition, the proposed project would provide technical assistance to the
project coordinating unit in BANOBRAS' Transport Technical Directorate to
assist with project management. Finally, an intermilnisterial committee,
composed of representatives of SHCP, SPP, SEDUE, SEGOB, and BANOBRAS would
provide regular monitoring of the project and of agency effectiveness.
These factors, combined with intensified supervision during the early
stages of the project, are expected to mitigate the risks.



- 17 -
PART IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      The following agreements were reached durig
negotiations:
(a)   BANOBRAS and the participating States would submit to the Bank
for review and approval their annual transport investment
program, including road rehabilitation and maintenance works, to
evaluate its potential impact on the project strategy. Execution
of any major investment(s) (over US$10.0 million equivalent)
which would adversely affect the project, any subproject, or the
economic or financial viability of any Annual Investment Plan,
would constitute grounds for suspension of disbursement of the
loan or if the Bank shall so choose, only to amounts of the loan
that correspond to the subprojects being carried out in the
eligible state in which such investment has been commenced,
(para. 2.09);
(b)   The State of Mexico would agree, under the subsidiary loan
agreement, to cause COTREM to make substantial progress toward
improving the financial condition of its bus operations within
two years of the effective date of the loan agreement by
decreasing the ratio of total working expenses to total operating
revenues so as to achieve a ratio no higher than 100% (para.
2.18);
(c)   The States, through BANOBRAS, would submit annual maintenance
budgets to the Bank for review (para. 2.20);
(d)   Studies would be initiated and completed as per the
implementation schedules provided in Annex 1. Study
recommendations would be implemented as appropriate (para. 3.05);
(e)   Reorganization and the hiring of adequate personnel and
consultants in the transport technical directorate, in BANOBRAS,
and COTREM (para. 3.07);
(f)   BANOBRAS would provide quarterly progress reports to the Bank
within 30 days of the end of each quarter in the format provided
by the Bank (para. 3.08);
(g)   The States would agree to include adequate funding in each annual
budget to meet counterpart requirements. BANOBRAS would review
state budget requests and actual allocations each year and
provide written documentation to the Bank of levels of funding
for all programs (para. 3.11);
(h)   Draft on-lending agreements between BANOBRAS and the States of
Mexico and Nuevo Leon (para. 3.12);
Mi)   Procedures and conditions regarding on-lending of funds from
BANOBRAS to private entities for the purchase of buses (para.
3.13);
(j)   Procurement of civil works and goods under ICB would be in
accordance with Bank guidelines for procurement and those under



- 18 -
LCR would follow procedures acceptable to the Rank. Procurement
for studies, technical assistance and training would be in
accordance with Bank guidelines for the selection of consultants
(para. 3.15).
(k)   Retroactive Financing (para. 3.17);
(1)   Establishment of Special Account (para. 3.18);
(m)   Auditing Arrangements (para. 3.18);
4.02      The following wonld be Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)   Satisfactory execution of contractual arrangements between
BANOBRAS and the Government of Mexico for the transfer of loan
funds between BANOBRAS and the Government (para. 3.11);
(b)   Satisfactory execution of subsidiary agreements between BANOBRAS
and at least one of the States of Mexico or Nuevo Leon
(para. 3.12);
4.03      The following would be Conditions of Disbursements:
(a)   Completion of feasibility studies and execution of agreements,
satisfactory to the Rank, which would insure that all costs of
operation and debt service for the pilot maintenance facility are
borne by private operators (para. 2.12);
(b)   Execution of satisfactory agreements between the State of Nuevo
Leon and the municipalities of the Monterrey Metropolitan Region,
and effective operation of the maintenance unit (para. 2.13);
(c)   Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between BANOBRAS and the
relevant subproject would be a condition of disbursement for that
subproject (para. 3.12);
(d)   Satisfactory evidence that applicable interest rates are in
effect for subsidiary loans and subloans, (para. 3.13);
(e)   Funds for purchase of buses wotld not be disbursed in a
particular subproject until (para. 3.13):
- completion and implementation of route re-organization studies;
- completion of tariff studies and implementation of
recommendations; and
- satisfactory financial analysis of each borrower by BANOBRAS,
including substantiation of full cost recovery.
4.04      Sublect to the above conditions and assurances the project would
be suitable for a Rank loan of US$125.0 million to BANOBRAS to be repaid
over a period of 15 years, Including three-years grace.



- 19 -
ANE 1-
Page 1 of 5
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Organization
1.        BANOBRAS would be the Borrower and implementing agency for the
Government of Mexico (GOM), and would supervise and coordinate the project
under the general policy direction of the Interministerial Working Group.
Each participating State would be responsible for execution of its
respective subproject. BANOBRAS would be responsible for the Federal
subproject. The project organization chart is shown in Attachment 1 of
this Annex. The executing agencies, organizational issues, and responses
to those issues are described in the following paragraphs.
Interministerial Working Group
2.        This committee, developed in conjunction with the preparation of
this project and the preparation of the Municipal Strengthening Project
(Loan 2666-ME), would function as a policy and implementation review group
and coordinate, where necessary, activities involving different ministries.
It would be comprised of high-ranking government officials from the
secretariats of Planning and Budgeting, Government, Finance and Public
Credit, Urban Development and Ecology, and from BANOBRAS and meet no
less than quarterly in conjunction with issuance of the project progress
reports. Their primary responsibility is to provide high-level government
review of implementation progress and initiate actions, if necessary, to
resolve problems which could adversely impact on timely execution of the
project or attainment of its objectives. This committee is operational and
functional.
BANOBRAS
3.        Durir-g the past year, BANOBRAS has been undergoing a reorganiza-
tion to make it more efficient and responsive as a development bank. A new
Director-General was appointed and final organizational changes announced
in August, 1986. A part of the new organizational structure is a financial
analysis unit responsible for analysis of the financial impact of proposed
loans, and a transportation directorate, responsible for technical and
economic evaluation, and supervision of proposed loans for transport
purposes. These units would also provide direct support to a project
coordinator who will report directly to the Director of Development Finance
in BANOBRAS. The project coordinator has been appointed and was active
during the final stages of project preparation. The satisfactory staffing
of the financial analysis unit and the transportation directorate was
confirmed at negotiations. A qualified consulting firm has been retained
to provide technical assistance to the transportation directorate and
BANOBRAS agrees that the effectiveness of this unit is critical to the
project and would maintain capable staff to carry out the responsibilitiea
assigned to the unit and act as counterparts to the consultants.



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
Nuevo Leon
4.        In Nuevo Leon, the Secretariat of Public Works and Transport
(SOPT) would be the implementing agency and project responsibilities have
been distributed as follows:
(a)   Coordination, Administration, Monitoring, Evaluation, Accounting
to the Administrative Unit;
(b)   Design to the Directorate of Engineering;
(c) Construction (roadsA to the Department of Road Construction;
(d)   Construction (huildings) to the Directorate of Construction
(e)   TSM Planning to the Department of Traffic within the Directorate
of Transport;
(f)   Public Transport to the Directorate of Transport;
(g)   Maintenance of Urban Roads and Traffic Infrastructure -
Directorate of Road Construction (this is an autonomous unit with
the Secretary of S.O.P.T as the President);
(b)   Supervision to respective relevant agencies;
(t)   Traffic Police Training Course to the Directorate of Transport;
and
(j)   Coordination of Bus Purchases to the Directorate of Transport.
5.        All agencies, with the exception of the Directorate of Road
Construction are In place and adequately staffed. This unlt is being
established and would take over the maintenance of all primary urban roads
and Infrastructure from the Federal Government and municipalities. It was
agreed, and confirmed at negotiations, that final establishment and
effective operation of this unit would be a condition of disbursement for
this subproject.
State of Mexico
6.        In the State of Mexico, subproject coordination and
administration, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and accounting, would be
the responsibility of the Unit for Coordination of Planning and Budgeting
within the Secretariat of Urban Development and Public Works (SDUOP). The
various aspects of the subproject will be carried out by the following:
(a)   Design, Construction and Supervision of Civil Works by the
Directorate General of Public Works;



- 21 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
(b) Traffic Systems Planning by COTREM (State of Mexico Transport
Commission);
(c) Public Transport Operations by COTREM;
(d) Road Maintenance by the State Road Maintenance Authority;
(e) Bus Maintenance by COTREM;
(f) Coordination of Bus Purchases by COTREM.
7.        The Directorate General of Public Works is well-organized and
staffed and fully capable of implementation activities. The Coordination
Unit is a full-time unit within SDUOP with adequate resources and
experience to carry out its function. COTREM, however, is inadequately
staffed and needs to Improve the financial and administrative control of
its activities. Recognizing this, the Governor of the State of Mexico has
designated the managerial improvements of COTREM a priority and presented a
plan for "improved managerial and financial effectiveness" to the Bank for
review prior to negotiations. Essentially, the enacting legislation of
COTREM and organization developed at its creation are sound. Over the
ensuing years, however, key personnel such as transport planner and
economises have left and their positions were not filled. Middle
management positions were not filled and, as a result, operational details
had to be handled by the organization's executive director who was usually
occupied with political and macro-planning issues (such as improved
utilization of the Toluca airport). The State has recently appointed a
financial controller, an operations manager, and a transport planner, and
has agreed to the need for additional staff including a bus maintenance
manager, economist, ana others to facilitate effective transport planning
and operations. These are being actively recruited.
Bus Purchase Arrangements
8.        Contracts for the purchase of buses in each - ;.e would be made
directly between the supplier and private purchaser; lo. n would be made
directly from BANOBRAS to the private purchaser. COTREM, in the State of
Mexico, and the Transport Commission, a division of SOPT in Nuevo Leon,
would coordinate the bus purchases in their respective states. These state
agencies would be responsible for administration of the bidding process.
They would first receive applications from various prospective purchasers
and review the applicants to determine if their operations are being
carried out in accordance -ath state transport objectives and regulations.
They would forward the applications to the state-branch of BANOBRAS where a
financial analysis would be conducted of each to assure borrower financial



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
viability and full cost recovery of the bus operation. The state agencies,
in association %Lth the purchasers, would then develop specifications for
bus purchases. The specifications would not be prepared for a "standard"
bus but will take into eonsideration operator needs and preferences and a
bidding package may include several sets of specifications. Bidding would
be carried out in lots of 50 buses at a time to encourage foreign bidding,
however, operators may purchase one or more as needed. All procurement
procedures (advertiseiment, receipt of bids, evaluation) would be carried
out by the state agencies in accordance with Bank guidelines, however the
purchase contract would be directly between the selected supplier and the
private purchaser. Any import duties (presently 10% to 25%) would be borne
by the purchaser. Funds for purchase of buses would not be disbursed in a
particular subproject (state) until:
-  completion and implementation of route re-organization studies;
- completion of tariff studies and implementation of
recommendations;
- satisfactory financial analysis of each borrower by BANOBRAS,
including substantiation of full cost recovery;
- procurement is carried out in accordance with Bank ICB
guidelines.
Implementation Schedule
9.        The project is scheduled for implementation over 8 1/2 years.
Attachment 2 illustrates the anticipated schedule for each component.
Training and Technical Assistance Needs
10.       In general, the project implementation capacity of the State
implementing agencies is good. They have adequate personnel and
demonstrated capabilities in the design, construction, and control of civil
works as well as over-all project management.
11.       In Nuevo Leon, however, traffic systems management (TSM) is a
relatively new concept. Under the technical assistance component, an
expatriate traffic engineer will be hired to serve as a full time advisor
to the Transport Directorate for 18 months. He will be working with
existing staff engineers, one of whom has graduate transport training, to
demonstrate procedures for problem analysis and implementation of TSM
solutions. He will assist in the direction of the TSM, Public Transport,
and Integrated Statewide Transport Studies. Terms of Reference for this
technical assistance were reviewed by, and acceptable to, the Bank and
candidates are currently being interviewed. Road maintenance procedures
are good, however, the program needs to be expanded and improved management
concepts adopted. Consultants would be hired to develop an expanded
maintenance program and instruct the newly established state agency in
improved maintenance management techniques and the use of micro computers
in management and establishment of priorities.



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
12.       In the State of Mexico, bus maintenance facilities would be
constructed for the State-owned bus company and consultants would he hired
to develop a maintenance program and provide on-the-job technical
assistance in implementation of this; program. Terms of reference for this
technical assistance have been prepared and reviewed. Terms of Reference
for the bus operations management study which includes route
rationalization and tariff review components include counterpart staff in
all aspects of study development and emphasizes transfer of knowledge. In
a similar manner, the road maintenance study prescribes the development of
a maintenance management system by consultants working with counterpart
staff.
13.       Technical Assistance is also being provided to BANOBRAS to assist
the newly created transport directorate with project management and the
review of technical documents. These consultants will also supplement and
assist BANOBRAS staff in a sector analysis of urban transport in secondary
cities.
14.       An accident investigation course for approximately 25 police
officers (sergeants and above) from the seven cities in the Monterrey
Metropolitan Region is proposed. The officers will be trained as
"trainers" to provide a continuing program in the local police
departments. Outline terms of reference and the training program have been
developed.
15.       Terms of Reference for all studies and technical assistance in
the project require counterpart staffing and the use of consultants as
advisers rather than implementers to the degree possible. This has the
effect, when qualified personnel exist, of providing transfer of knowledge
and strengthening of the local agencies. Table 1 of this Annex provides a
breakdown of anticipated man-months required and applicable costs for the
various studies and technical assistance required to support project
implementation and program development as well as the key dates associated
with each study.



- 24 -
AWEX I
Table I
ItEXICO
FIRST IMOAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STWIES
IWULEWNTATION SCHEDULE AND COStS
Impleetatlon of Studies
Prop"
Program of                                          Plan of
Activities                                        Action                   ESTIMATED      ESTINAtEO
Acceptable lleal        YAN/NOrTHS        TOTAL
Studies                                                                 Revwl#   to Bank to lmp  _                          COStS
Results   IIp_msn  tatl   ot
Begin    Comolete of Study  Rscom.o- plan of
Study by  Study by W/btnk by dotion      Action    LoCOl  Foreln  LSSWO)
! avo Leon
1. Sus Rout. ad Tariff study;                          03/87     01/88    02/8      03/88     04/88       72       36          661
2. hus ibinttoance Oertions Study;                      03/87     01/88     02W88     03/W8     04/88      36       18          345
3.  Integrated Transport Plan;                          03/87     04/88     01/89     02/89     03/89     136       55        1,150
4. Rocd N.intteanoe Progrm;                             03/87     03/88     04/88     01/89     OV29      107       42          862
S. Traffle EnglIneeo Technical Assistance               03/87     01/89     n/        n/Oa      nh/        0        16          17)
6. Traffic Systas itnagemnt Study;                      03/87     02/88     04/67     01/86     02/88     142       48        1.006
i. Bus lbanaosmt, Route and Tariff Study;              03/67     ofts8     0/88      03/88     04/88      143       70        1,360
2. Indilu  nd Lon_-ange Pubie Transwort Study;          04/87     04/88     O/6J9     02/69     03/89     138       69        1.265
3. Sus ibinteano. Proga;                                04/87     02/9      0s/9      04/89     01/90      10       so          633
4. Peod Raintene Progr";                                03/87     03/08     04/88     01/89    02/89      107       42          863
. Traffic Systs "MaginMant Study;                       03/7      03/88     01/86     04/88     01/89     170       30        1,035
8ANOUAS
I. Project Implemettion technical Assistance           03/87     04/95     n/S       n/a       n/a        164       s0        1,150
2. Seto  Studies In Seondary Cities;                    03/87     03/18     04/O1    01O89    /OV89       230                 1 1 903
TOTALS                                                                             1469      383       12.026
NOTESs 1. Dots refer to celendar Quarter and year;
2.  Iolementatlon of studios and technical assistance will be revIewed by the Stank  vuartriy.



-25-                                   ANNUI
Attich-ust 1
NXICO
FIRST Ui JP  PROJE
PROJECT O IZAiON
Olroct.r
of Doat_mat ftuacc
Phascialdiia                              $wl*~t
0MM)~ ~ ~ r,,..
CaNM)                    (SMOM                     UMN
ISTATE ( OPMOLO  I                                                                   TT O  XC
teleto- H      mmt tlw.               Dlr O lsmet  f tRa                                         PPialuuq a"              Loal
11tla-l _        unwl_t                stoblc                                   lleIt-             S ut                  Road
ti      _  Coardi met      _  _      Causl t
unit
-.                                                                                                              -   I.
IDr.9.."         ID cOlrE eto         IDlr.to           II                             I  auII rmetWt.I               Tr|nI ort
ist               1      1           lofROadI    I  ocuntlagl                        I.ftPvbltWevrk. I03b.taa
I  .,  ,                                                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~st. ouw
l   l                                                                     | 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.T.T.S|



EIi E11       Ei Egj I                                        I~ El   l; II                                        BE.
V If E                                                         ii |~                                               4  |
.    _                "            _                  |    .            _~
|  rF _ _ | " _ _~~~~~~~~~~if
I0 



ANNEX 1
- 27 -                                                             Ittac-aimint.
First Urka  tr1sort ProJect
State of ho Lu.
Proje,t bpolnotatico Schedulo
19      19I           I 39 8       1q99         1990          1991            1992          199I         1994           9 95
Cote   t                                  ritro    1      2      1     2      1      2     1      2      1        2      1      2      1     2      1      2      1     2
_ _ _ __~~~~~._ ...................  -_----------   ---- ------ _. .... . _*.._....__.... . .... ...... ._  ...... ......._. _..... _. ....... ........ 
A. Corridor lWrovausts
1. Ahille Iatadig
. Sot litom-Rl: Ctortirni             uxnzut,zaz
.elam-2. Wm.                          utliti xu mx,uunlu
t. V liaqoe:4. Roy.                        :zuaunuuauX
d. RIeal.r Or - Lopez Nittas
t. Ft Csttitutciu - R. Som:                      ttnutns Xu
t. SUotlit.s - Las Luu                ,muuzs      nnsa,uu;na
9. ogailar tar - Fa.                       tXtItOZlU      tttJlflflt
h W Rbplar hr   Ip. nuic.                                                                                                    xnuxnau
S. Rlealar &ur - Ito. Doug.                                    nanunnxs
j.Otraaio - Filat Slvuo                                             untvinnuni
t. Ihaaco - hl  Cortim                                                             noann
1. tarba    - FFtt Tampico                                                                                        nnns:
C. horabeco-4Iadulmtitucion                                                                    anu
Paviwnto sollitat                          utxaxnnnux:
. Pavi.mtatSioo                            :sznssnusz
q. PaF    Patoesa                                  tIuIxIxIxlRIxn   Ulx uIaXuKIKzxaxsIult:
r. Traffic fltot Improvemnt                      axnsta:un
2. NiK. Cifil hefts
A. hot Custltuttee Corridor
1. bit Costitotia fxt.                                annux nns
2. Dijz Orda CworoqiUwr,                       nnunnnnnu:n
3. Die  reda - LoW   Rbto                       ntunnnx
b. Licacls bit Cortimet
I. Iliacios  uis Cortlt                       xatSnInhI
2. Ampliacioa A. Liscolo                        zaa:u
3. Rsl Fri"                                           mnomunuui
c. Critical Iotersactioe
1. Stru  ad - L. tCream
2. Alisz Vscoscelos                                        unazunn,ua
S. aruaa  - I. de las Cam                                             xanina
d. Roa Wionigl
1. A. Villaral                                        nugmnsan
2. tdaam                                                sanuxan
3. tiale kapuco                                        aau:s
4. Av. Catral                                         IftIltNtIII
S. I rtucht                                           hmuznu
4. Rep. ricioa t                                        OIItmflhI
3. kct... Rod ubasxunnw ,u,:,nnouzzn,n
8. Pulic transport
1. bt Ruuto I-tariff  tudy                          nuuxx
2. RIs  aint. OpWrations Study                             num
3. Cutr. of ID Rist. Facility                                   aUnsz,n
4. hs Pwrchaa mXx xn,,asaunn,aanznn
5. lot". Transport Piss                                unnnouznn
C. Ra Rintuata
1. hv. of Rinst. Propn                             nnnsnnnx
2. lap). Waist. Progrsa
S. traffic Syst. Ralamt
1. TO ktioss
2. Technical kst./a  it r ff i Enhiuzzaxnmna
3. TOR Study                                           snnnznxn
4. Police Trainin                                          xu
24*er-St
1206 PN



- 28 -                                                         ANNEX 1
Attachment 2.3
NIIzcn
first Urban Trnrport Projet
..... ...... ......_...
Sttt 04 onbito Subproject
Project 1EUlmtItiog  Stele
199  13987 19                       3989           1990          1993              1992           19t3 9994                    1995
COefbt                                        retro      1      2       1      2      1       2      1      2       I      2          1      2      1      2       1      2      1       2
..... . .... . . _._ . ....... . ... ..._. _...... ............. . ....... .............. _...... . ... . ............... . ......... ..............._. _._. _....... . . . .. ... . ......._._ __ .
A. Corridor leprovmmets
1. N1-m-   Tol Ra                           *:uuunntuxeXa
2. KiKc. Civil Vub
a. Circtvlaio  Woantte                                                  nItu sxt znlxxuX
b. Owtivo hi                                                                       IXIXttautX    sX nn:
c. Calt. La keawsIeelXYJtt
4. 1. tdiClls  t. 14.3)                                      *emeexeeeeexee
.. Jwultoitga                                                                      eseeeeveeeeeeeeeee
4. S. Ccatjias.  efel                                                                             flIdSflbUflf
. Carretere A. Toluca
i. Via Uweje                                                                IflfliVflfltftt
i. Avesida Ctetral                                        eeeueueeeeeeeeueeneee:an
j. ih ida *atitli otmmeuxe
. A da lTpatitla                                                                   ttxetneenieift
*. Nleuaa                                                                                         oozes
3. Public TrasWrt
3. he Npt. Imt. Tuiff                                          aenn
2. ki kibiteu ftPru                                             nnelnnmelah
3. Pub. Tr_o    t Stedy                                         *uetsu:neeuzsnn
4. Cutr. ks Riwt. Fat.                                               enhmneeenusezeeen xaee:ebeueeux:eneueee:e:eetsuxteeee
5. Ctr. h     tI"lXllhl!IRIIZUI                                                                                                                 IZXU PI      I
4. h   Pertbu                                                            eeeIeeeneeeeeeeeeeneeeeeee eIu
C. Road Isiatm
1. 0". Of hiat.  en.ustss
2. ImpI.L of hlat. Prog.
S. Traffic Stu nLuamnt
1. teb. Asuisteace S Study                                  tenxtteeux     eut
2. Proru  Ipleltaties                                                         ee       x         aeeexea beeeeehbeehaeeeea
o-Wr-I7
0ItSZP 



- 29 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Detailed Description of the Project
1.        The project would be divided into three Independent subprojects,
coordinated by BANOBRAS, with the following components:
A. Nuevo Leon Subproject
1. Corridor Improvements
(a) Inner Ring Road
Construction of vehicular and pedestrian overpasses, closing
of median openings, restriction of access, and other
improvements to develop the inner ring road into an expressway
thus providing an alternate route for traffic now crossing the
central business district.
(b) Access Roads
Paving of public transport access roads into low-income areas.
(c) Miscellaneous Civil Works
Road widening, construction of missing links, improvement of
critical intersections, and introduction of curbs, gutters and
sidewalks on major transport arterials.
2. Public Transport
(a) Bus Route rationalization and tariff study;
(b) A study to define the operational procedures for bus
msintenance facilities;
(c) Coordination of funds to be loaned by BANOBRAS to private
operators for the purchase of buses;
(d) Construction of a pilot maintenance facility for private
operators; and
(e) Development of an integrated State-wide Transport Plan.
3. Road Maintenance



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
(a) A study to assist in the establishment of urban infrastructure
maintenance operations and facilities including analysis of
procedures, identification of training needs, design of
central facilities, and development of an eight-year
maintenance program;
(b) implementation of the maintenance program to assist in
bringing roads back into a condition of maintainability.
4. Traffic Systems Management
(a) Introduction of low-cost measures to improve bus flow in the
central business district and on major arterials.
(b) Technical assistance in traffic engineering to the Direccion
de Transporte;
(c) Traffic Systems Management Study; and
(d) Training in accident investigation.
B. State of Mexico Subproject
1. Corridor Improvements
(a) Naucalpan-Cuajimalpa Toll Road
Construction of a toll road to by-pass a congested portion of
the existing beltway;
(b) Miscellaneous
Civil works and implementation of traffic management actions
to improve the flow of traffic and reduce accidents in several
congested corridors.
2. Public Transport
(a) Bus System Management, Route Rationalization, and Tariff
Study;
(b) Bus Maintenance Program;
(c) Medium and Long-range Public Transport Study;
(d) Construction of bus maintenance facilities, purchase of
maintenance equipment;
(e) Construction of exclusive bus-way; and



- 31 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
(f) Coordination of funds to be loaned by BANOBRAS for the
purchase of buses.
3. Road Maintenance
(a)  Technical asaistance to develop an eight-year maintenance
program;
(b) Implementation of the maintenance program to bring roads back
into a condition of maintainability.
4. Traffic Systems Management (TSM)
(a) TSM Study to develop data base, demonstrate procedures, and
recommend improvements at selected congested areas in study
area.
(b) Introduction of low-cost TSM actions at various locations in
area.
C. Federal Subproject
1.        This subproject would provide funds to BANOBRAS to assist in the
administration of the project, for technical assistance, and for
equipment. Specifically the funding would be provided for the following
purposes:
(a) Technical Assistance - hiring of consultants to assist BANOBRAS
in the monitoring and evaluation of the project;
(b)   Studies - the conduct of feasibility studies in the secondary
cities of the country to assist in the development of urban
transport programs;
(c) Purchase of micro-computers and related equipment and softwear to
assist In program development, monitoring, and evaluation; and
(d) Provision of credit to private operators within the subprojects
through subloans for the purchase of buses.



- 32 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3*1
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF COSTS
State of Nuevo Leon Subproject
(US$ Million)
2           X of
COMPONENTS                             Local    Foreign    Total    Foreign        Base Cost
1. Corridor Improvements
(a) Anillo Intermedio           13.6           7.6      21.2        36X
(b) Access Roads                 5.6           3.0        8.6       352
(c) Misc. Civil Works            4.8           2.6        7.4       362
Subtotal                  24.0                    37.2        36X           422
2. Public Transport
(a) Bus Route and Tariff
Study                      0.1           0.6       0.7        862
(b) Bus Maintenance
Operation Study            0.1           0.2       0.3        672
(c) Constr. of Bus
Maintenance Facility       1.7           1.0        2.7       372
(d) Bus Purchase                10.0           6.4       16.4       392
(e) Integ. Transport Plan        0.6           0.6        1.2       502
Subtotal                  15             8.8      21.3        41.2          242
3.  Road 'aintenance
(a) Dev. of Maint. Program       0.4           0.5       0.9        55%
(b) Impl. Maint. Program        12.5           6.8       19.3       352
Subtotal                  12.9           7.3      20          36%           232
4. Traffic System Management
(a) TSM Actions                  5.3           3.1        8.4       372
(b) Technical Assistance         0.1           0.1       0.2        502
(c) TSM Study                    0.2           0.4       0.6        672
(d) Police Training              0.1           0.2       0.3        672
Subtotal                   =           _T.T-       9.S        402           112
Total Base Costs          55.1          33.1      88.2        382          100X
Physical Contingencies    6.2            3.7       9.9        372           11X
Price Contingencies       14.0           8.2      22.2        37%           252
Total Contingencies       20.2          11.9      32.1        37%           362
TOTAL COSTS             75.3          45.0     120.3        372          1362
NOTES
Tr Price contingencies were developed with anticipated international inflation rates of 7.22
In 1986, 6.82 in 1987 and 1988, 7.02 In 1989, 7.12 in 1990, and 4.02 thereafter.
2/ Total subproject costs include US$18.1 million in taxes and duties.



- 33 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3.2
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF COSTS
State of Mexico Subproject
(US$ Million)
_            X of
COMPONENTS                              Local    Foreign    Total    Foreign         Base Cost
1*  Corridor Improvements
(a) Nau-Cua Toll Road               11.3        6.6       17.9        37Z
(b) Misc. Civil Works               15.9        7.8       23.7        332
Subtotal                      27.-      T4.T        41.6       351            332
2.  Public Transport
(a) Bus Mgmt. Rte. Tariff
Study                           3.4        1.0        1.4       712
(b) Bus Maintenance Program          0.1        0.5        0.6        83X
(c) Pub. Transport Study             0.4        0.9        1.3        701
(d) Constr. Bus Maint. Fac.          8.1        4.8       12.9        371
(e) Constr. Bus Way                 14.2        8.2       22.4        372
(f) Bus Purchase                    12.0        7.6       19.6        39X
Subtotal                ~3b                                    402            46X
3. Road Maintenance
(a) Dev. of Maint. Prog.              0.5        0.4        0.9        44%
(b) Implem. of Maint. Prog.          15.2        8.5       23.7        361
Subproject                    25.7         4i P6               362            202
4. Traffic Systems Management
(a) Tech. Assistance and
Study                           0.2        0.8        1.0       802
(b) Program Implementation            0.3        0.2        0.5        40X
Subtotal                       0.5        1.0                  672              12
Total Base Costs              78.7       47.3     125.9        381           100X
Physical Contingencies         7.6        4.5       12.1       371            10X
Price Contingencies           21.3       11.4      32.7        341            262
Total Contingencies           28.9      T3[T       44.8        352            361
TOTAL 0OSTS                107.5      63.2      170.7        372           1362
NOTES
;r7Trice contingercies were developed with anticipated international lnflation rates of 7.22
in 1986, 6.81 in 1987 and 1988, 7.01 in 1989, 7.11 in 1990, and 42 thereafter.
2/ Total subproject costs include approximately US$25.7 million in taxes and duties.



- 34 -                              ANNEX 3
Table 3.3
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRIANSPORT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF COSTS
Federal Subproject
(US$ Million)
X lof
COMPONENTS                             Local    Foreign    Total    Foreign        Base Cost
Technical Assistance and
Studies                               1.34      1.26       2.60       481            801
Equipment                               0.07      0.05       0.12       42%             4S
Total Base Costs                      1.41      1.31       2.72       482           100%
Price Contingencies 1/               0.36       0.33       0.69       48%            21%
PPF                                     0.20      0.30       0.50       60%
TOTAL SUBPROJECT COSTS 2/            1.97      1.94       3.91       49%           121%
Estado de Mexico, Nuevo Leon and Federal Subproject
(US$ Million)
Base     Physical   Price       Total        Total             f.e.c.
COMPONENTS         Cost     Conting.   Conting.   Conting.    Cost            1       US$000
Civil Works        142.8       20.8        40.9        61.7      204.5       37.002      75.6
Equipment           46.6        1.2         8.8        10.0       56.6       39.00%      22.0
Services            19.4        0           3.1         3.1       22.5       54.972      12.5
Land                 8.0        0           2.8         2.8       10.8        0.002       0
PPF                   .5        0           0          0            .5       75.002        .4
TOTAL          2173                                277        294.T       37Y8       110.5
NOTES
1/ Price contingencies were developed with anticipated international Inflation rates of 7.21
in 1986, 6.8% in 1987 and 1988, 7.01 in 1989, 7.11 in 1990, and 4.01 thereafter.
2/ Total subproject costs include approximately US$0.5 million in taxes and duties.



- 35 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
1.        During project preparation, meetings were held between Bank
representatives and representatives of the two states and federal
government to eiscuss procurement practices to be used during project
implementation, Agreements were reached, to be confirmed at negotiations,
on the following issues:
(a)   The policy of the World Bank regarding procurement, as cited in
"Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits",
dated May 1985, and other publications, would be adhered to with
regard to all procurement undertaken as a part of this project.
The World Bank regulations and policies would supersede all local
regulations to the contrary;
(b)   International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be used for all
civil works contracts in excess of US$1,500,000.00 and the
purchase of all goods costing over US$100,000.00;
(c)   Local shopping, with at least three quotations may be used when
purchasing goods or clvil works costing less than US$10,000.00;
(d)   Force account would be used for the implementation of small civil
works for corridor and traffic management improvements (to an
aggregate of US$2.0 million) and for approximately 30% of the
road maintenance components (approximately US$14.7 million);
(e)   Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) may be used for all other
contracts for goods and civil works not covered in (b), (c) and
(d) above. Local bidding procedures were reviewed and approved
with the following modifications:
(i)    Foreign contractors will be allowed to bid on all
contracts, even those advertised locally;
(ii)   A minimum of thirty days will be allowed between
advertisement and opening of bids (a minimum of 45 days
for ICB). A bidder would be allowed to pick up the
package and respond to the request for bids anytime during
the bidding period. The bidding would be advertised for
at least three days in a national newspaper. tn addition,
all Embassies or Consulates will be advised fox ICB;
(iii) Pre-registration would not be a requirement ror bidding.
(f)   All bus procurement would be by ICB.
Funds for purchase of buses would not be disbursed in a
particular supbproject until:



- 36 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
- completion and Implementation of route reorganization studies;
- completion of tariff studies and implementation of
recommendations;
- satisfactory financial analysis of each borrower by BANOBRAS
including substantiation of fuel cost recovery;
- procurement is carried out in accordance with Bank ICB
guidelines.
(g)   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods would be grouped
in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or
more each; contracts for works would be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$1,500,000 or more;
contracts for buses would be grouped in bid packages of
approximately fifty buses;
(h)   Foreign suppliers and/or contractors will be paid in foreign
currency where applicable based upon suitable arrangements
between the Government of Mexico and the World Bank;
i)   Procurement of technical assistance will be done in accordance
with World Bank policy.
2.        Bus Procurement.  International competitive bidding requirements
were discussed with the Mexican Under-Secretary responsible for parastatal
industries, the Under-Secretary of Planning and Budgeting, as well as the
managing directors of the state-owned bus manufacturers (DINA and MASA).
It was understood that the bus specifications would he reviewed by the Bank
and that they could not be written so as to exclude international
competition. Functional specifications would be used. Buses manufactured
in Mexico presently range from those designed to meet purely rural
specifications (low standards), those manufactured for use in the Federal
District (higher standards), to those designed for sale in the United
States (very high standards). The bus industry in Mexico is dominated by
the state-owned companies, however, there are two private companies which
assemble small buses. High interest rates and low tariffs have greatly
suppressed bus sales and there is excess capacity in the manufacturing
sector. The managing directors of both MASA and DINA see this project as
an opportunity to improve sales and, with the appraisal mission, discussed
plans for improved bus designs and manufacturing efficiency. They have
just signed a contract to deliver three hundred buses to Ecuador and plan
to make a major effort in export sales. (This was the reason for the buses
designed to U.S. standards).
3.        Procurement specifications will have to be reviewed very
carefully, however, competitive bidding can be achieved. Nevertheless, it
is probable, given the prevailing wage rate in Mexico, and the 15X
procurement preference allowed, that imported buses will not win the
bidding competition. However, the foreign competition will bring more
discipline in pricing, greater response to market requirements, and
improved efficiency in the manufacturing sector.



- 37 -
ANNEX 5
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ millions)
IM1)        FRAL   STAE (aF STAI CF  PRIME                       I.D
SCL 93AR    G( T.   MGU)   NUW  UaN IWE
ANNUAL   ANNUAL    ANNUAL    ANNUAL   ANNUAL   CUM.    aim. z
.-                                                           - - - __
1987
12/31/86   0.015      0.3       i.1
06/30/87   0.047      3.0       2.4
198B
12/31/87   0.022 7.6             .2                 11.6     11.6        9%
06/30/88   0.03)      4.7       3.5                  7.9     19.5       16%
1989
-        12/31/88   0.032      1.9       8.3       0.4        7.6      27.1
06/30/89   0.051      5.4       6.2       2.0        5.7     32.8       26%
1990
12/31/89   0.052      7.0       5.8       3.7       11.4     44.2       35%
06,30/90   0.036      4.9       3.3       3.8       15.4     59.6       48%
1991
12/31/90   0.037      6.8       3.7       2.1       15.6     75.2       609
06/30/91    0.029     6.5       2.7       0.5       11.2     86.4       69%
1992
12/31/91    0.031     5.4       5.6                 5.7      92.1       74%
06/30/92   0.031      8.9       2.8                  4.3     96.4       77%
1993
-        12/31/92   0.032      7.7       3.6                  4.7    101.1       81%
06/30/93   0.014      1.8       2.4                  3.0    104.1       83%
1994
12/31/93   0.014      5.6       5.6                 2.6    106.7        85%
06/30/94   0.011    10.6        1.5                  3.6    110.3       88%
1995
12/31/94   0.012      5.2       1.0                 6.5    116.8        93
06/30/95   0.022      1.2       0.7                  3.0    119.8       96Z
1996
12/31/95                                            5.2    125.0       10(%
TAULS         0.5       94.5      62.4      12.5      125.0
1. MM  disD rsement  wrIig 1st. Snster aE FY88 includes US$9.0 ullUl  for estaIlhM
Speial Aczmt.



- 38 -
ANNEX 6
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.        Project monitoring and evaluation would be a joint effort of the
subproject coordinating agencies and BANOBRAS, with BANOBRAS having
ultimate responsibility. Quarterly reports would be provided to BANOBRAS
by the coordinator for each subproject within 10 days of the end of each
quarter. Quarterly report formats have been provided to the States and are
included in this Annex. Utilizing this information, supplemented by
independent monitoring actions as necessary, BANOBRAS would prepare a
comprehensive quarterly report encompassing all three subprojects. This
would be provided to the Bank and Interministerial Working Group within 30
days of the end of each quarter.
2.        Monitoring and evaluation would be facilitated through the use of
key indicators to identify progress in the achievement of physical and
operational goals. These indicators are presented in Tables 1 thru 6 of
this Annex. "Before-and-after" operational analysis would be undertaken
for each relevant component. "Before' information prepared during project
preparation, would be systematized, and supplemented where necessary,
during the first year of project implementation as each implementing agency
develops a program to be approved by the Bank, for ultimate evaluation of
project components, the subprojects, and the project as a whole. A project
completion report (PCR), prepared in accordance with standard Bank
guidelines, would be developed by BANOBRAS with participation of the
subproject coordinating agencies, upon completion of the project. The
format of the PCR would be used to develop the monitoring and evaluation
program. Formal periodic reviews would be carried out during project
supervision to evaluate project performance and make adjustments as
appropriate.



MEXICO
FIRST tf"AN TIRANSPORT PROJECT
OPERATIONAL EVALUATION - KEY INDICATORS
NUEVO LEON
ANNUAL TARGETS
Subproject                     Measure of
Ctmp,nent                    Effectiveness         Key Indleator       1966      t967      1968       1969      1990      1991       t992       1993     1994       1995
1. Gonzaiitos-Los Leones  Reduction In Delay        V/C Ratto 1/        1.10      0.60      0.65      0.70       0.70      0.75      0.80       n0RO      0.85      0.90
2.  Gonzalltos--Ruir Crtlne Reduction In Delay      V/C Ratio           0.85      0.90      0.60       0.60      0.65      0.70       0.70       0.75     O.R0       0.80
3. F. Volaquez-R. RAyes   Reductlon In Delay       V/C Ratto           0.85      0.95      0.50       0.55      0.60      0.60       0.65       0.65     0.70       0.79
4. Constitutlon-Churubusco Reductlon tn Delay       V/C Ratio           0.70      0.75      0.80       0.85      0.90      0.95       0.45       0.45     050        0.50
5. Constitution-F. Omez   Reduction In Delay        V/C Ratio           1.00      1.00      0.65       0.70      0.70      0.75       0.75       0.80     0.80       0.85
6.  Velezquez--R. Gomez     Reduction In Delay      V/C Ratlo           0.70      0.75      0.45       0.50      0.55      0.55       0.60       0.60     0.65       0.65
7.  Allenza-Vesconcelos     Reduction In Delay      V/C RatIo           0.85      0.95       1.00      0.65      0.70      0.70       0.75       0.0    0.80        0.85
S.  F. Goost-lR. C*rtines    Reduction In nelay     V/C Ratio           0.60      0.8S       0.95      0.60      0.60       0.65      0.70       0.70      0.75      o.eo
9.  Anillo Intermedlo        Reduction In De.ey     Avq. Journey
10. Northwest Ouadrant      Travel Tlime            Speed               30 kDh    40 kph    70 kph    70 kph    70 kph    70 kph    70 kph       70 kph   65 kph    65 koh
t1 NMrtbern Half            Travel Time             Speed               30 koh    40 kph    S0 kph    50 kph    sn kDh    so koh    60 kph       70 kph   70 kph    70 kph
12. Southern Htif           Travel Time             oseed               50 kph    50 kph    65 kph    65 kph    65 kph    65 kph    70 kph       70 kph   70 kph    70 koh
TS. 13W Actions             The terms of reference for the TSW study will Identify measures of effectiveness for each class of actIons.
These will then be Included In the annual monitoring activities.
14. Bus Operations          Bus operations Will be cn ltored on an annual bosis to determlne correspondence wIth key performence   Icnda't  s
orovided In Table 3 of Annex 6. 
U Volue/Capecity Ratio at peak hour



mmico
FIRST  UM  TIANSORT PROJECT
OPERATIONAL EVAUATION - KEY INDICATORS
STATE OF MEXICO
AIJL TRMETS
Subbproject                     Mlesure ot
ODMPonentt                    Ef fw Ett iv ss     Vey Indicator     1986      1987      1988      198       1990      1991      1992       1993    1994       1995
leu--Cue Toll Road          Diversion of Traffd   AADT (vpd) I/                           15,000    15,600    16,600    17,600    16,500     19,400   20,400    21,400
Ecatepe gas Way             Reductlon In Trvel
Til_                  Travel Time
Dlversitm of buses Buses In via mr-.
los (vph) 2/         331       331          335       340       340       345       350       200      200       200   *
Olverson of Ruses  Buss on Ave. Cn- 
.  t+rl (vph)            217       217          220       220      225       225       230        195      19f       195
CrcBunumialoln Poniente     Reduction In Delay     V/C Retio 3/       1.0       1.0        1.0       0.95      0.60           0.80  0.5        .5es    0.90     0.90
Troncel Lopez lteos         ReductIon In Delay     V/C Ratio 3/       0.85      0.85       0.90      0.95      1.0       1.0       0.65      0.65     0.70      0.70
Juarez/Tolteces             Reductiln In Delay     V/C Rutlo 3/       0.90      0.0        0.95      "l.9s     0.5       0.70      0.70      0.75     0.75      0.80
Avenide Central             Reductlon In Delay     V/C Ratlo 3/       0.90      0.95       1.0       0.80      0.80      0.60      0.80      0.85    0.65       0.85
TS Actions                  The ters of refere ce for the TSN study will Ide tify owres of f ecti          fo each class of  Itons.
These vill then be Included In th  onnual monttorlnq activlites.
Bus Operations              Bus operatlons will be mnitored on an annual basis to detweine correspondene with key perfomenoe Indicators
provided In Toble 3 of Anne x 6.
1/ vpd a Vehicles per da
2/ vph a Vehlel s per peak hour
3/ v/c a Volum/capacity rotio at peok bour



- 41 -                       ANNEX 6
Table 3
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Bus Companies: Performance Evaluation and Improvement
Ky Performance Indicators
A. Operational Performance Indicators
1. Passenger Volumes: Average number of passengers per operating
bus per day
Type of Bus                    Crush Capacity    Passengers per bus per day
Single deck                           80                    1000-1200
Single deck                           100                   1200-1500
Single or double deck                 120                   1500-1800
Articulated or double deck            160                   2000-2400
2. Fleet Availability:
Buses in service during the peak,
as a percentage of the total fleet               80-90
3. Distance Traveled by Buses:
Average kilometers per bus per day                230-260
4. Break-downs in Service:
As a percentage of buses in operation               8-10
5. Fuel Consumption:
Liters per 100 km:  Minibuses                      20-30
Buses                         30-60
6. Staff Ratios:
Staff per operating bus:
Total Staff                                       3-8
Administrative                                  0.3-0.4
Maintenance Staff                               0.5-1.5
7. Accidents Rate
Accidents per 100,000 bus kilometers              1.5-3



- 42 -
ANNEX 6
Table 3
Page 2 of 2
8. Dead M4tleage;
Percentage length of bus journeys not
revenue earning                                   0.6-1.0
9. Cost of Bus Services:
Total cost (operating cost, depreciation
and interest) per passenger - kilometer
Mixed traffic                                  USc2-5
Segregated busways                                5-8
10. Operating Ratio:
Total revenue divided by operating costs
including depreciation                         1.05:1-1.08:1
11. Annual Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets
Net operating income divided by average of
net fixed assets in service                      0.06-0.15
B. Quality of Service Indicators
1. Waiting Time:
Passenger waiting time at bus stops
Average                                          5-10 minutes
Maxlmum                                         10-20 minutes
2. Walking Distance to Bus Stops:
Dense urban areas                                300-500 m
Low density urban areas                          500-1000 a
3. Interchanges between Routes and Services:
The number of times a passepger has to change
buses or other modes on a journey to or from work
Maximum                                          2
4. Journey Times:
Hours traveling each day to and from work            2-3
Journey speeds of buses:
Dense areas in mixed traffic                      10-12 kph
Bus only lanes                                    15-18 kph
Low density areas                                    25 kph
5. Travel Expenditure:
Household expenditure on travel as
a percentage of house hold income                    10



-  MA   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~E ~~~~-VO  WAC
Om          A     M               s     MA     M       a       A    8       SAl    MA      U us                                                    inSSmw WA  v
SW  m        Su     no    so       m      NC    "t                                                                             0004""4b~~~SW  UMBdUd  A  Pe Ae
USA    MA  MA  Sal    USA                               U~a 0"           od44004  kAM   I1
40*AW     beo    Ulssie 5                                       'WMU 
44RMM   vte       "IllowAm
ON      MA   OmA    UA       BA                                          UMf n"QI
AS~~4S5    **U~m    no**oo P"   I
xol  M          abe'SaSm  'SUM    MAUl
oa*  MA                            amA4m 3154Im%1
"MA
SW  mA                                            d      M   A
Om  Su$40om LArl
AALUUJ554'5  496  ISAU,  dMA. iA4U Wig"  AM
*                                                           MA      MA    SAg      gs,    MA     MA   4US U   'SUM                                MAUSUM ~~~~~ CO
am  ON    $60    jus    OK       14M a    "f                                   9084M        I,
l-*mA  40MA                                           AMSU 
SW  MA                                                                                               - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W g  otew**   ,I
M555 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ itom"a
MA    SW    ~~~~~                                                                355 - mUM~~m  O
volow ~ ~   ~     ~    AS
AN    sm                                                                         VftSW  MA  M AIs l   - -oovm  tA4V
ISMAISM    msew ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ AM    'U
SW  MA   ~~~~~mle4"                            WM   l- .5 asMS'$I
Om                               m"1084~ #M50554
"soUA*                                    mSm   UhA    1
nu   lowso ' Om                                - a"   4   w    ok
,onasswit;MIUMAIMS 
SW         O                               am  Is MSA
MA  *    MA                                'UMSI..msMS  V
*dSWA          mma"I*s*MA161
MA    MA                        MUM .o-USlS I ooft4V
4                                                                                                  LLjL~~~~~~~~~'~ 
fd"                                         Om                            ON ~~~~~~~A                 am                      EMS am   WA 
VA00M vmsum is ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~AM
iniSM. A  6SgM  USr-m



wxl0,
rowts toer
STATE OF   0o0J
16E0  AND SISSTER               t*l6                                   I1                   to"                 1q6 0t                                   t4 2                                         _  -         too
t l                                          1         2         *         2         1         2         I        2          *        ?         I         7         I         7         *         7         t        7         I         7
1.1   tt-_  1*11                                      c.w.$,w.    756l       *00
A.2.e Ctr.   *te*t4 t*t0    0os"tte.  *4*
btsob     pool*   C"Orve.
A.P.b 0fte...ttz                                                                                                    t*0    Co4twue.   *006
061*e,    Rseta  cDostruoe.
A.?.  061:t. to$ ito                                                                                                         toad    *00W LOd coswrso~.  to"6
-b-o.   *006 06..  bate.  Ce.tOt  wt
4.2.4  5.                                                                             SW tuja.  0 *0      *
tend    06.1.4   coatruc.
A.?.   nraa/T.4t ems                                                                                            to"    Coastrew.   *00
6.2.4  S.  etI *Is/.  .644.                                                                                                            *40       low,
A.2.o _tdrttwo A. Tolo0
t_t6 stlWt e . t
A.2.5  "O Obrftos* w0                                                                                             Wstorve. m006
Fs ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~01*                                            060*. *  5  nt t .
4.7.1  Amtd,  WSeti*                                                         "a       1ow    Coas  e.   006         too
*04.    0tsic      b*ol   Coi*gtvi,c. (*mastroc.
4.2.3  Aft. 'iNtS'IiN                                                                 *00       NM0
06.1*.  outaft^ov.
A.2.5  AVv. To"Wo                                                     .00 mo7wtrae.   *0w6
C42.1  NioIte.m                                                                                                                         ton6      *0a
flolm    cm !.eir.
C.2.    o tUe-                                                                                                                                   *1746   0.t.'raw.   low
lVA               t  Stor . Ste_                                   t                   O W     *006
6.2   an Abo Ie        Po Dip                                                $356 0              776      *00
P.3   puddef Truansarit Sthow26                                                                  756      *0
s.4   ben obloeraue beelittles                                                     riast." *06 *10.10  obas.406 o."W86oam .0 COW      ro.*00,16.)  106    100
oul. *Y 44.1p*   ftl.Pp*   ftOel*.60  ftelo.l7if I teemv 7mlbmal "*Iow
N.     usV                                                                                                                                                  in6   r.. SW6   W00    coastrue.                tow*00
towd   Lead Wm6  btats.    bat a  6..teeec. owastrae.
GA0    be purlme.os                                                                           too6 WIR    25         SW        756       Om0       mg
*.1   brad ob*t aa.SyStu,                                                              S"6      *0o6
C~2   Ob*atoeaeep POman                                    to        36        7         21      too       26       3S"        dig       S"1       96       S7"       756                 a" o      ew0       an%       06       VW
I.  Tot S,udy                                                               236       76       10
2a  13A Pracmrm                                                                                  26        06       2*  21     63       06       A"*        we6       96       961      taw



a  SIS.                                        e               ter               t_e               two               tZt.t     t       Dtt S42    1      ' St              t"94       t       1
........1                                        2        1        2        t        2        t        2        t        2        t        2        t        2        t        2        t        2        t        2
owl $                                                                m2W     tol
bT.seeS  ate4 I                                    tso      I - 7   t me      t7in   to_         in    tort       sm   to_n  _                  _.   t_ ttt _t J                          t_2  n   _ so  _  n  to  _ n I  to _ * r 
Tm  h1wt bit  stn                                                   StOtw *  CWO.             tO CIttI.
bite    1.9.     ~       t
at. Tsrn.st  W.D..t bw t                                                      et.e  scm..
_T§_+tt_t _ _____……l omle._4
I!



- 46 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Structure of State Finance
1.        State governments in Mexico have three basic sources of
revenues. The first is made up of direct collections, over which the
States have full discretion, within legal limits, in their use. Own source
revenues include impuestos (taxes); derechos (licenses, certificates, and
use permits); productos (financial investments, sale of fixed assets, etc.)
and aprovechamientos (fines, charges, and other resources).
2.        The second distinct revenue source is state revenue sharing in
the Federal "participations" fund which was constituted in 1980 through the
"Sistema Nacional de Coordinacion Fiscal de la Federacion" by which the
General Participation Fund was established. This revenue sharing is
adnministered on a formula basis, changed each year, with a provision that
no State will get less than it received the year before. Once
participations are transferred to the State, the state has complete
discretion on how this revenue source is to be used. Thus, participations
are not truly a federal subsidy, nor do they have the same status as own
source revenues since the respective States cannot set the rates or define
the products subject to tax.
3.        A third category is the extraordinary revenues.  The Federal
Government through "El Convenio Unico de Desarrollo" destines funds to the
State government which provides counterpart funds varying from 20% to 50%
of the investments. A special account is set up in an intermediary
financial institution with State and counterpart Federal funds from which
projects included in the CUD are then financed. The projects that are
included in the 'Convenio Unico de Desarrollo" depend on the priorities of
the programs to be developed. Many of these include investments in Public
Works, Education, Health, and Social Services. Also included in this
category of extraordinary revenues are the federal taxes that are collected
and administered by the State.
The State of Mexico
4.        The State's financial situation has experienced substantial
changes since 1981 when 62% of the debt service had expired or was due to
be paid off in less than 3 months. Since then, revenues of the State have
increased; the debt service which in 1981 represented 135% of total revenue
has been lowered to 19% in 1985. The debt service structure in 1986 has
also been renegotiated: 39% is due in a year and the rest on all
outstanding loans by 1995.



- 47 -.
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
5.        Of the States total revenues, current revenues by far dominate,
accounting for between 68% and 83% each year from 1982 to 1985. Of current
revenues, participations are the most important source (averaging 58%) over
this period, followed by own source revenues (averaging 20%). Completing
the total revenues are extraordinary revenues accounting for 32% to 17% of
total revenues over the same period. Borrowing is the principal
extraordinary revenues source.
6.        As with revenues, current expenditures constitute the largest
single share of state activity (a virtually constant 72% over the same
period). Of the current expenditures, general administrative expenses
constitute 29%, followed by debt service at 22%. As with all states, the
State of Mexico is legally obligated to transfer 20% of total
participations to municipalities. This revenue sharing base averages 7%.
7.        The first half of this decade has presented significant shifts in
the management of state finances. During the economic crisis, the State
has reduced its debt service in relation to total revenue. While the debt
service constituted 26% of total expenditures in 1982, it has since been
reduced to 19% in 1985. General administrative costs have increased from
29% to 31% over the same period and transfers have decreased in real terms
by 4% on an average anntual basis. Investments in capital improvements are
based on the current account surplus and borrowing and have increased from
25% in 1982 to 31% in 1985.
IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
8.        A detailed analysis of the overall ability of the State to absorb
the financial impact of the project, given currently available revenue
sources, indicates that the State would be able to absorb the project
financing required. Expected revenues from participations were projected
conservatively at a 0% real growth rate to reflect the uncertain economic
conditions currently existing in Mexico.
9.        Proceeds from the Bank would finance 43% of the State's portion
of subproject costs excluding taxes, and the remaining 57% would be
financed from counterpart funds. The loan would be paid back in 15 years
including a three year grace period at 80% of the Average Cost of Funds.
While it is State policy to finance capital investments through borrowing,
limited access to credit and/or commercial rates has limited it's capacity
to undertake long term projects. Providing access to credit will also
provide the Federal Government an opportunity to scale down transfers
through the CUDs. The impact of the project is demonstrated in Table 1.
10.       Full cost recovery would be achieved on the toll road proposed as
a project component through direct user charges. In Table 2 the project
costs, plus operation and maintenance costs and revenues derived from user



- 48 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 4
charges are provided. As reflected there the real financial rate of return
is 14.27%. Sensitivity analysis of annual traffic and varying user fees
was performed and is presented in Table 3.
The State Of Nuevo Leon
11.       Of the State's current revenues, participations are the most
important source (averaging 70%) over the past five year period while
own-source revenues account for the rest. The State has distinguished
itself from the national trend in that it has very little borrowing.
Reflecting the infrequent use of borrowing for capital investments, debt
service has declined from 0.4% of total expenditures in 1981 to 0  in 1985.
12.       Current account surpluses, and federal transfers through the CUDs
(averaging about 6.3% of total revenues), have been the major sources of
receipts for capital outlays. Although the revenue base is adequate for
current needs and for a program of infrastructure Investment, there has
been a lack of a mechanism for translating long term planning into project
investments. In general, the State's capital investmnt planning consisted
of projects that are executed within one to two years and financed
exclusively out of current account surplus and through CUDs. This had two
major consequences:
(i)   Although capital investment priorities could be decided upon,
they rarely consisted of activities requiring more than a two
year duration. Thus larger projects that required several years
to execute were at a relative disadvantage to short term
projects.
(it) Planning of needed service expansions were difficult to relate to
the budgeting process because of the short planning horizon on
which capital investments were determined.
13.       The urban transport project has served as a catalyst to the
formulation and preparation of the capital investment planning process
recently begun by the State. It is, In effect, the first long term capital
investment program that the new adminlitration (in office since the latter
half of 1935) will undertake. Long term planning In capital outlays has,
in effect, begun.
14.       The State's maJor current expenditures items are general
administrative costs and participations to the municipalities. The State
is legally obligated to transfer 20% of total participations to
municipalities, and it may provide municipalities with additional
discretionary transfers known as "Apoyo a Los Municiplos".  Of the current
budget, general administrative costs account for between 50X and 55%,
followed by capital expenditures of about 24.5% and participations to the
municipalities 25%. Reflecting the low level of state borrowing, debt
servicing is less than 1% of the budget.



~ 49 -                     ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
IMPACT OF THE PROJECT ON STATE FINANCE
15.       The proposed loan will finance approximately 46% of the States
portion of investments and the Impact of the project on the States finances
Is demonstrated In Table 4. Although increased revenue collection (7Z-10%)
is anticipated from updating the commercial cadastre, participations have
been projected to grow at a zero percent real growth rate. The annual
surplus would be available for additional capital investments in the
priority area of water supply and sanitation. More importantly, the access
to credit would reduce pressure on the Federal Government to fund projects
through the CUDs. Expec;ed capital expenditures have been projected at a
4.2% growth rate as compared to the growth rate of 32 experienced over the
past 5 year period. This was reflected by officials as a prudent estimate
for the growing needs of the State.



- 50 -
ANNEX I
Tabl* I
FIRST URDU VMS-ORT noJECT
LOAN IMAI   ANALYSIS
ISTATS Of MI IWO
(0SS MILLIONS)
19-1     1982        15 1994           191       591      17        11        59        19        1991      1992      1993      1994     1995
1. EIISTIIS WITIOIU             ------   ---   ---   ---   ----   --
TOTAL ElPIIIDT                       0       53       483       525       52        441      434       441       447       446       452       442       459       46      4U2
A. Currt Fapuiturn                   0      406       344       310       36        331      324       321       311       314       312       312       30        23       297
$Mral Adinistratt"               0       154       143       14        162       16       170       174       179       I33      1t         19        197      2         207
Participtims                     0         4        7          7        6        66        64        6         6         64        64        64       64        4         64
trmfwrs                          0        45        29        33        34       35        33        32        35        29        20        27       26        25        24
Dotwvic                          0       141        n        132       lot         5       55        4         42        33        30        27       20         0         0
1. Capitol Epwdituree                0       129      139       145       16        110       510       120      130                 140050 150          tO        175       105
vnutumnt                         0       129       139       145       166       110      110       120       130       130       1tO       150      150       1I5       135
TOTAL RECEIPTS                       0      554       500       526       534       450      453       457       415       465       469       473      477      4U         4
A. Currat Romue                      0      368       413       410       444       450      453       457       461      4*5        469       473      4*7       Un2       41
no  swc*eRemus                   0       124   1 00           82       Its       122       125      129       133       137       141       145      14        154       l55
POrticipateu                     0       244       318       33        3 32     32        323       323       323       323       323      3         323       32t       323
0th.                             0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0
0. Extrawdiury Remnu                 0       1        82       103        K          0         0         a        0         0         0         0         0         0        0
hrmrow s                         O       to0        82       100        is         0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0
C_T K0l4U8/EFICIT                    0       -38       74        33        10      11        129       534       144     I5         I5s       145        6        139       10
OWR*SLLSUP.1WICIT                    0        21       17          1        2         I        19        16        14       19        17         1        It        14         5
1. PIOJICT IPICI
. Preject Imyntmets                                                                   5        22        13       28        24        21        13        23         9         0
3. Odt Servica                                                                        0         0         1        2         2         *         7         1         9         9
Sub rttl                                                                            5       22        to        29        29        27        20        31       10         9
State   dut Ullecatlms                                                             5        13        10       16        14       15         13        1t        12        4
ItoLao                                                                            0         9         7        12        11         9        5        10         4         0
ha  VWr Chirp                                                                                          1        2         2         2         2         2        2         3
OWERL S9WtPLU9IfiCIT                 0        21       17         1         2         3         6         6       -2         3         1        -2        -1         2       -2
CUUWiTIVE SiPLUliWEFICIT             0        21       38        39        41        44        50        56       54        57        53        57        54       53        57
3225u28*aSusgau



NIOD
FIRST URBA1 TNPORT PROJECT
ILM ininin   ML n'TOLL ROAD FINANCIA  A YNASI-S
~~~a"LsL                                              *  La   I#4  OM  14  LO  LO  LGL           L        L   I    OL
c m sofmn
VA -  ~~~-                                        -a
mimiu(US                        s.  sm    ue   es  i.e  Le  i.   Las sam  se  is  iv  m   w. n.m  t.  
__du S3                        5.5  t.e  LU   tI  8.68 .  13.55.6          LU   .51    LU  LU  155L  LUt  L
lmfummm
"_W ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ S    so  al "o                                           n m s         niv20s            
__W ~ ~ ~ ~~t   ow lsS "m g                                             m i        I   0 jsjti
_ Sm
-ld                            a    f itam  u ra a  n                                                    o 6
_u   -
s~~~~~~~~ SW    _ I  1S  51  Sm51  MUM                                          S  US)        MUM                  Sr
_ _~~ *   9   5   3   3 S   3X 3   3D 3w 3l 5P 3                                               3
=L~~~m              no~~  us  to  to  us  to  to  so  to  to  US   t1  to  so  to  so   I   to
mm-an  am  Ulf  du  gm   m   am  am    o  O m                                   am        a M     m   so  aa  am  aM
-a                   x |S1 m  am a
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 52 -
UMXNE 7
T-able 3
MEXICO
FIRST URB  TRANSPOK? PROJECT
_
-                USIA099    FEES
WF1,
_ n         wmmmmo        ._d-#B aX                      slow
5.0    1.33  11.33  14.00   lL10   17.5    MM10    WIS    73.0589W
6.0    9.3  1IL=   15.4   17.33  80.1   3.L5   am5  ALM5   as"
6.W   10.80%  1.35  1L6.66  19.1   21.61%  23.3   5.11   20.3   306405
7.00   n74%  14.33  17.795   W50.1   3.33   a;41%  W7X7  30607   3.35
7.30  1861%  AiS0ILM8.,   21.61%  24.35  5.33   5.5%i  31.791  39615
LO    12.4   16.5   1&9.1    aL17    3.64%   MN3   3.33   3241   5.1%
L.3   14.17%  17.15  81.01%  24.VA  86.95  29.74%   W 3.4511%  37.8
9.0  1I.O6  1L.6,  3.05   5.19%  R.21%  31.115  390W   5.84    20.
& .3  1IL=   19.W   220W%  5.5   2.41%  3.5W   35.W   53L5  41.45
10.00   16.5W    L0.4    &04.0  2V.44%  30459  3391%  37.3   4.14%  43.5
1. Invugtit Ct913   ilo 
2. Twit? atin 0200 pms for Vuhicles 4250 pus tor Otbers
2. Tin "ibm 0f 17 paWs.
4. Twit? Innuin by 33 in 110115 in 1916



- 53 -
MEXICO                                                              TUKl 4
FIRST URAli TIOSt PROJECT
tWAN U4IPACr ANAlYSIS
NUM LawN
bow Lea
---                              5931  1932   113   1                    I35 sin            1" 1w       i    s,s   mo   1w                     m       sn sw 1
1.Ii{lStiUHR*tlSS-                                                                                   --                           ^--   --*___
tO         IP                     m 27                157         .       16       203       200       200       1"        201       212      216       220       2t0       235
A. CUrrt Ez,.itv                  203       150       113       117       124       12t       132       135      1         143       147       151       155       1o0     1i
t al.idistrU                   143       105        11        74         3       O         05        11        92        %        t1O       104      1to       113       its
Peticitis                       57        44        36        43        46       47        47        47        4         41        47        4        47        47        4?
tres4s                           0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0 o                0         0         0         0
odt Service                      3         1         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0
t.Cacitd  teE.itrn                  74       50        44        51        n         n3       6         6         5          5        is        a        61        70        10
Iewstete                        74        50       U         51        12        is        a         65        5        a         a5         5        65        70        70
FIIUCf 3?I
MLOtKmI1PT3                       290       202       I5        135       1        203       206       210       213       217       222      226       23t       236       242
A. Crst Awuse                    13        ISI       146       11        19"       203      20        210       213       217       222       221      231       236       242
11 .ecelwme          ah                   39        36.       47        51       54        54         9        62        65        6        12        75       7n         a
Peticipatiss                   139       107       142       14        142      142       142       t4        142       14        142       t 142     4        14        142
Otlhr                           15         5       -32       -11         4         7        8         I         9        10        11        12       14        15        17
. Fatrawdiwu   bwu                 82        51        13         4         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         *        0         0
Cous                             2 U       1        13         4         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0
t_T         _UI/IEflCIT             -5         I        3        64        13        74       74        74        74        73        75        is       76        74        77
ONIL  WUB3ICIT                       3        2         2        17         3        -1         6        9        19        10        10        10        11        6         7
11. U6CT NlW
A. Project lvetuts                                                                   2        t0       19        30        13        53        10        13        4          1
3.  et Service                                                                        0         0         1        1         2         5         S         6        6         4
De Total                                                                            2        10       20        31        15        to        15       13        l0         7
Ste t i_ t Illcatims                                                               2        6.       11       I          3        10         9        It        6         4
I        Loa                                                                      0         4         3        12         6         5        4         5         2         0
ha  Uer CVW  we                                                                                       1         2         2         2         2        2         2         3
OWR*L SUIPUIEFtCIT                   3        2         2        17         3        -2         0       -1         3         2         0         1         0        0         3
tWlTIVE W DEFICIT                    3        5         7        24        27        25       25        24        26        20        28        29       29        29        32
ttm uzu a,rtam



- 54 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 7
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
1.        Economic costs and benefits were quantified for all project
components except technical assistance and the bus purchase components.
The net present value (NPV), benefit-cost ratio (B/C ratio), and the
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) were calculated for each
component.  The results are summarized in Table 1.  The overall EIRR for
the project, weighted by investment costs, is 45.0% and the B/C ratio is
2.5. The inclusion of the US$10.0 million of technical assistance while
quantifying no benefits for the technical assistance reduces the EIRR to
39.0% and the B/C ratio to 2.3. The project as a whole, as well as each
component, is economically viable. The sensitivity of the results to a 20%
increase in costs and to a 20% decrease in benefits does not change this
conclusion.
2.        The economic evaluation was done for the Ring Road in Nuevo Leon,
the Naucalpan-Cuajimalpa Toll Road in the State of Mexico, for access
roads, corridor improvements, public transport components, and road
maintenance. The methodology used in each of these evaluations is
described below. Economic analysis was not done for the technical
assistance. The cost of technical assistance is included, and where
possible inputed to the cost of the project component for which the
technical assistance is to be used; but no attempt is made to quantify the
benefits of technical assistance. To this extent the economic evaluation
understates the economic viability of the project i/.
3.        Neither was a rigorous economic analysis carried out for the bus
purchase part of the public transport component. Instead, the financial
internal rate of return (EIRR) was calculated and reasons were adduced to
argue that the EIRR might be higher and surely could not be so much lower
than the FIRR as to be unacceptable.
Economic Methodology
4.        Economic costs are derived by adjusting financial costs to
eliminate domestic taxes (the 15% value-added tax), direct import duties,
and price contingencies. Phvsical contingencies are included. The
1/ The economic return on the project also is understated to the extent
that investment costs have been spread over 2-4 years, as has been done
in the appraisal report, in contrast with the borrowers' more
optimistic assumption that investments generally would be completed in
one year.



I
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 7
estimates overstate the economic costs to some degree since they do not
include any adjustment for the shadow price of unskilled labor nor for
import duties on indirect foreign exchange costs (the imported inputs used
in domestically produced machinery and equipment).
5.        Peso costs are converted into dollar costs at the market exchange
rate at the time of the cost estimate and then projected to December 31,
1986 dollar costs by using a 1986 international inflation estimate of 7.2X
for the year.
6.        For traffic improvements, the economic benefits consist of user
cost savings in total vehicle operating costs (VOCs) with the project
compared to VOCs without the project. The user cost savings are
extrapolated for the economic life of the project according to specific
forecasts of traffic growth.
7.        VOC estimates were prepared by the Secretaria de Comunicaciones
Transporte (SCT) of the Federal Government. They are based on surveys of
operating costs at operating speeds of 20-80 kph on three different classes
of road surface (paved, gravel, and hard surface) on three different types
of terrain (flat, rolling, and mountainous). Only flat surfaces were used
for this project. The VOCs include the cost of fuels and lubricants,
parts, repairs and maintenance, tires, and operator wages and
administrative charges where appropriate. The SCT's most recent revision
of VOCs (March 1986) was adjusted after analyzing other sources of VOC data
(COTREM, BIMBO, and Grupo in the State of Mexico and recent surveys of VOCs
by four bus companies and a car rental firm in Monterrey) which indicated
that the SCT estimates understate maintenance costs and capital costs. The
mission decided to increase the SCT estimates for these items. The overall
adjustments, used by both consulting firms, amounted to increases of 35%
for automobiles, 21X for trucks, and 15X for buses.
8.        Much of the savings in VOCs consists of shortening delay times at
intersections and in traffic jams rather than improvements in operating
speeds. This is particularly true, for example, for the corridor
improvements. Consequently, the unit cost of delays and the duration of
delays were estimated for the specific intersections and road links
included in the project. The value of personal time savings was
calculated but was not used in assessing the economic viability of the
project. The effect of including the value of personal time savings is
taken into account in the analysis of the social impact of the project.
9.        Speed and delay surveys were used to estimate the duration of
delays at project intersections and road links. For each intersection, the
volume/capacity ratios (V/C ratios) were calculated at current traffic
levels and traffic growth forecasts were used to project the date at which
an intersection would become saturated (V/C equal to 1.0 and level of
service F) with no change in its present configuration. For each
intersection, an at-grade improvement was designed to facilitate traffic
movement and new delay durations and saturation dates were estimated.



- 56-                      ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 7
These were compared with the without project situation and with delay
duration and saturation dates for a two-level (flyover) improvement at the
intersection.
10.       The project files include the consultants' reports for the
subprojects in Nuevo Leon and in the State of Mexico and, for each
component, the net benefit streams, economic calculations, and the
sensitivity analyses.
Project Components
II.       The Ring Road. The individual investments in the Ring Road first
were analyzed separately to compare the costs with the value of the user
cost savings for each element if it alone were carried out. A second
analysis then evaluated the economic costs and benefits of all of the
elements taken together as integral parts of a complete Ring Road which
would divert a significant amount of through traffic from the center of
Monterrey. The user cost savings consist of reduced vehicle delay costs
(intersections) and reduced VOCs (pavement improvements). For the Ring
Road as an integrated system, origin-destination information on recent trip
movements was used to forecast how much through traffic would be diverted
to the Ring Road. The benefits were considered to be the user cost savings
(delay and VOC) as users switched to the Ring-Road.
12.       Naucalpan - Cuajimalpa Toll Road.  The benefits consist of VOC
savings with the project, savings which accrue due to projected traffic
growth and to the diversion of traffic from existing roads. The IERR is
underestimated insofar as it may require less than three years to complete
the project. (The consultants estimate that construction can be completed
in 12 mDnths.) The economic cost is estimated to be that necessary
(US$17.7 million) to complete the construction. If the sunk cost already
expended (US$6.0 million) is included, however, and the total construction
period is extended to a total of four years, the IERR remains acceptable
(15.7%).
13.       Corridor Improvements. In Monterrey, this project component
consists of a major extension to Constitution Avenue (the principal
East-West artery and the southern part of the Ring Road), widening and
improving three other roads, and improvements in three intersections. In
the State of Mexico, the component consist of 17 intersections and road
improvements designed to facilitate traffic flow and traffic management.
The benefits are savings in delay operating costs and in VOCs.
14.       Access Roads.  The proposed access roads in Monterrey will serve
low-income, unplanned settlements which do not now have regular bus
service. Benefits consists of VOC savings in providing regular public bus
service at the projected level compared with the cost of providing the same
level of service without the project. The poverty impact of the access
roads is especially high because of personal time savings which, although
not included in the calculation of VOC savings, will be very real to the



- 57 -                  ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 7
low-income beneficiaries who will gain access to regular public transport
services.
15.        ublic Transport.  This component consists of bus maintenance,
loans for bus purchases by private bus companies, and, in the State of
Mexico, an exclusive busway.
(a)   The bus maintenance proposal includes six depots and related
workshop equipment in the State of Mexico, and a pilot
maintenance facility to service small private bus companies in
Monterrey. The benefits consist of savings on capital
investments in buses and in the savings of VOCs, especially on
repairs and maintenance;
(b)   the bus purchase proposal, unlike the other project components,
is not evaluated to ascertain its economic viability. Rather,
the analysis is financial in the first instance. The benefits
will be better bus service in better buses for the passengers and
VOC savings for bus owners. The thrust of the analysis is to
confirm that there is an effective demand by the private sector
to purchase new buses on the terms at which it will be able to
obtain financing. The terms used to examine this component at
appraisal were for three years at an annual nominal interest
rate, equal to 100% of the average cost of funds (ACF).
Authorities and private bus operators express confidence that
there will in fact be excess effective demand for new bus
purchases on these terms. These impressions are supported by
calculation of the IFRR based on alternative assumptions about
passenger fares and bus loads. The IFRR appears to be well above
50%. Is the IERR likely to be higher or lower than the IFRR? It
will be lower insofar as the real interest rate is negative and
below the market rate insofar as the market price of fuels and
lubricants is subsidized. It will be higher insofar as domestic
taxes and import duties are included in the IFRR and insofar as
bus fares now are less than their economic value. On balance,
one cannot guess how these factors balance out; but it would be
quite surprising to find a net effect that would lower the IERR
to an unacceptable level. Indeed, the IERR very likely is higher
than the quite high IFRR.
(c)   Exclusive busway.  This would be the first exclusive buaway in a
potential future system of exclusive busways in the State of
Mexico. The economic benefits consist of VOC savings over an
11-year period, by which time it is judged that service would
deteriorate to level-of-service D. Although the value of
personal time savings is not included in the economic evaluation,



-58 -                          ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 7
it should be noted that 41% of the households in the service area
are below the median state income. The exclusive busway will
have a great social impact.
16.       Road Maintenance.  The benefits consist of VOC savings,
especially of operating buses on better road surfaces than would be the
case without the project and savings due to longer useful lives of the
infrastructure. As with other urban transport projects, the economic
return of not postponing maintenance or of providing maintenance is
particularly high. It is expected that the economic return on the road
maintenance project component in the State of Mexico, which was not
quantified, will be on the same order as the 74% IERR in Monterrey.
Distribution of Project Benefits
17.       The central theme of the proposed project is to improve public
transportation. A major portion of the project benefits will accrue to bus
riders and especially to busriders in poorer areas who are dependent on
public transportation. Since the project benefits are quite high, one can
confidently assert that the social impact of the project will be to center
substantial benefits on the urban poor.
18.       It is not possible, however, to quantify in a rigorous way the
extent to which the urban poor will benefit. Satisfactory and trustworthy
data on income distribution do not exist. The latest acceptable data are
for 1977; and changes in the distribution and size of both population and
income in the past decade cautions against placing much faith in that
information. A 1980 census does contain more recent information; but both
the Bank and the Mexican authorities recognise that the 1980 census was so
flawed that it can be used only with considerable doubt. Finally, the
project consultants have attempted to generate project-specific information
about bus riders, their household income and household expenditures on
public transportation. This information, while indispensable for this
analysis, Is based on statistically small samples.
19.       Nevertheless, subject to these caveats, the analysis indicates
that the target population of urban poor in the State of Mexico will
receive benefits on the order of a 4.4% increase in their household
income. The chain of assumptions involved in this calculation include:
(a)   The median income can be taken as an upper cut-off figure for the
urban poor and is near to the relative poverty increase in the
project area. The 1980 census for the State of Mexico, for
example, shows that the relative poverty income was 97% of the
median income;
(b)   widely disparate estimates of present annual average household
income were derived from three sources:



- 59 -                       ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 7
(1)    the Bank's latest estimate: US$1,006 for all Mexico;
(ii)   the consultants for the State of Mexico: US$1,560 for
project area; and
(iii)  1980 State of Mexico census: US$1,650.
The minimum wage in the Distrito Federal metropolitan area
normally is 30-40% higher than the minimum wage in the rest of
the country, so the Bank-based estimate, which is for the country
as a whole, is too low for the project area. This exercise uses
US$1,600 for average household income and US$1,100 as median
income;
(c)    the NPV (12%) of benefits in the State of Mexico subproject is
expected to be US$288.8 million, including the value of personal
time savings.3/ It is assumed that half of the project benefit
will accrue directly to project beneficiaries (the other half to
investors, bus operators, owners, and the State); and that half
of those benefits go directly to the urban poor: US$72.2
million. (Indirectly and directly, almost all of the project
benefits accrue to the urban poor).
Cd)  employment in the state is approximately 2.4 million, 30% of
which is estimated to be in the built up and non agricultural
areas of the project: 720,000 workers. Consultant surveys
estimate 1.5 wage earners per household, or a derived total of
480,000 households. The urban poor below the median income would
number 240,000 households. This implies that the project NPV per
urban poor household is US$300.8 (US$72.2 million / 240,000
households); and
Ce)   the present value (at 12%) of urban poor household income
(US$1,100 per year) during the average project life (12 years) is
US$6,814. The NPV of urban poor project benefits (US$300.8 per
household) amounts to 4.4% of the present value of that household
income.
20.       Except for the Naucalpan-Cuajimalpa highway and technical
assistance components, the entire State of Mexico subproject contributes
directly to improved public transport services. Overall, 82% of project
investments generate direct benefits to the urban poor.
3/ The NPV of US$93.9 million of the subproject economic costs (Naucalpan-
Cuajimalpa, corridor improvements, and public transport) is US$89.1
million. Proportionately for the total subproject investment of
US$121.9 million, the NPV would be US$115.7;((121.9 - 93.9) x89.1)
comparison of the NPV of 29 components evaluated by the borrower
shows that the NPV is 149.7% greater when the value of personal
time savings is included; 115.7 x 2.497 - 288.8).



- 60 -
ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 7
21.       The same analysis for Monterrey indicates that the project will
increase the urban poor household by about 7.9%. The assumptions which are
involved include:
(a)   The consultants found that 47% of the households in Monterrey
have an income not exceeding 1.5 times the minimum wage in
Monterrey. The minimum wage in April 1986 was 206 pesos per
hour, equivalent to US$0.41 per hour. The relative poverty
threshold is taken to be US$1,100 per year as in the State of
Mexico subproject (US$0.41 per hour x 8 hours per day x 220 days
per year x 1.5 wage earners per household - US$1,082);
(b)   the NPV of quantified project benefits is estimated to be
US$109.1 million, which prcortionately corresponds to US$161.6
million for the entire Monterrey subproject without including the
value of personal time savings. The inclusion of the value of
personal time savings raises the total subproject NPV to US$403.6
million, of which 25% (US$100.0 million) are judged to accrue
directly to the urban poor. (As in the State of Mexico, almost
all of the project benefits accrue directly or indirectly to the
urban poor); and
(e)   the 1986 project area population is estimated to be 2.4 million,
which corresponds to 188,000 urban poor households (2.4 million-
6 people per household x 47% who are urban poor). The NPV of
project benefits is US$536.7 per household, which is 7.9% of the
present value of household income during the project life.
22.       It is true that the B/C ratio and IERR for the Monterrey
subproject are considerably higher than for the State of Mexico subproject;
but this estimate of the benefits to the urban poor in Monterrey seems
exaggerated. The increase in the value of urban poor household income
probably lies somewhere between 4.4% and 7.9% for the project as a whole.
23.       Except for the Ring Road and technical assistance components, the
entire Monterrey subproject contributes directly to improved public
transport services. Overall, 72% of project investments generate direct
benefits for the urban poor.
24.       For the urban transport project as a whole, 77% of total project
investment generates direct benefits to the urban poor and raises the
income of urban poor households by some 5.4%.



- 61 -
ANNEX 8
Table 1
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION - SUMMARY RESULTS
(US$ millions)
Subproject and                      NPV            B/C         IRR
Component            Cost        (@ 12%)       (@ 12%)       (%)
Nuevo Leon
Anillo Intermedio       20.3          18.7          2.3          24.7
Access Roads             10.1         12.9          5.1          68.9
Other Corridor
Improvements            8.4          19.8          3.4         44.3
Public Transport        16.4           -             -          46.5
TSM                      8.0           -             _            _
Road Maintenance        18.1          57.7          3.2         73.9
Technical Assistance     3.0           -             _            _
Subtotal              84.3                        3.2         50.1
State of Mexico
Toll Road               17.7          16.0          2.0         20.4
Other Corridor
Improvements           21.8         67.4           4.2         60.9
Public. Transport       54.4                                    40.6
Road Maintenance        24.0           -             -            _
Technical Assistance     4.0                         - _
121.9'_                     2           41.5
Federal                  3.5                         _ 
Project
Quantified Weighted .verage                         2.5         45.0
Incl. Cost (no benefits) of T.A.                    2.3         39.9



- 62 -
ANNEX 9
Page i of 2
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
COST RECOVERY AND PRICING
Fuel Pricing
Transport fuel prices in Mexico are set by the Government. A
Bank financed road user charges study in 1975 found that refined petroleum
products were being priced at the pump well below world market prices.
Since December, 1981, however, the Government of Mexico (GOM) has followed
a policy of gradually raising domestic fuel prices toward international
levels with the result that gasoline and diesel are now 36% and 22% higher,
respectively, than comparable Caribbean market prices (Table 1).   The Bank
through its macro-economic discussions with the Government and its economic
and sector work (i.e. Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project) will
continue to monitor the fuel pricing issue and help the Government to
assess the implications of its pricing policies.
Road User Charges
Related to the issue of fuel prices is the question of whether
road related tolls and taxes imposed on road users are sufficient to cover
the cost of providing road infrastructure. The charges which enter into
this calculation in Mexico include road and bridge tolls, f-ees for
licensing, permits and public transport concessions, producer taxes for
tires and vehicles (over and above normal taxation levels), special import
duties on vehicles, and special taxes on fuels priced above the economic
cost. At the present time none of these charges are directly assigned to
roads or identified as road user charges, and all enter the federal
treasury to be distributed in accordance with general budgetary practices.
Previous studies have shown that road user taxes and fees cover all costs
of providing road infrastructure. Fuel tax revenues, however, represented
the major contribution in these analyses and since fuel prices were below
international levels (their opportunity costs) at that time, it is most
likely the results should have been negative. Transport fuel prices in
Mexico are now above international levels and a more comprehensive study on
the allocation of road user costs and revenues is being completed as part
of the Second Highway Sector Project (Ln. 2428-ME). This study will serve
as the basis for a more detailed analysis of costs and revenues generated
by urban areas and the need for and potential impact of increased vehicle
licensing fees. These analyses will be done by the technical directorate
of BANOBRAS and its consultants as part of the urban transport sector study
to be carried out in the secondary cities as a part of this project.
Public TransportPriciag
Public transport services are provided by both publicly and
privately owned enterprises; however, prices are set by federal or state



- 63 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
agencies. Outside the Distrito Federal (DDF), fares are generally about
70% and 50% of those needed to achieve full cost recovery for private and
public companies respectively. Fares in the D.D.F. are generally 10-20% of
those needed; however, the G0OM has recently demonstrated its Intention to
address this problem by raising fares 2000% in August, 1986 (from 1 peso to
20 pesos) with further increases planned. The proposed project will
examine operating costs and route structures and develop recommendations
for adequate tariff levels in the participating states based on full cost
recovery. Implementation of these tariffs, will be a condition of
disbursement for the bus purchase component.
Toll Roads
A Bank-sponsored sector study of the Mexican toll roads (Report
No. 5176-ME) found that gross toll revenues are sufficient to cover all
administrative, operating, and maintenance costs as well as debt service
and contributions to capital extensilons and widenings. The proposed toll
road in thi3 project was examined against the operating parameters defined
in the study described above, existing experlence in the State of Mexico,
and under various toll and traffic levels, and found to be financially and
economically viable.
Cost Recovery
It is anticipated that the costs of all project components will
be recovered either directly (toll road, bus purchases, bus operations
improvements) or indirectly through tanes, fees, and other charges. If the
detailed studies being conducted indicate a deficit in indirect revenues,
recommendations will be made to correct the situation so as to achieve, at
a minimum, equilibrium.
LATIN AMERICAN FUEL PRICES
(UMO/Gallon)
COUNTRY                        GASOLINE                  DIESEL
Argentina                        1.67                     0.83
Brazil (mid'86)                  1.31                     0.85
Chile (mid'85)                   1.56                     1.55
Colombia (Jan.'86)               0.61                     0.61
Costa Rica (Sept. '86)           1.67                     1.25
Dominican Republic (Feb. '85)    1.32                     1.32
Ecuador (Sept.'86)               0.33                     0.26
Mexico (mid'86)                  0.61                     0.49
Peru (Sept. '86)                 1.26                     0.92
Uruguay (Sept.'86)               2.521/                   1.43
Caribbean FOB (Aug.'86)          0.45                     0.40
1/ Super gasoline.



- 64 -
MEXICO                     ANNEX 10
FIRST URBAN TRANSPCRT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Sector Documents
A.1  Programa Nacional de Desarrollo Urbano y Vivienda 1984-1988;
SEDUE; August 1984.
A.2  Programa Nacional de Comunicaciones y Transportes 1984-1988; SCT;
August 1984.
A.3  Plan Rector de Vialidad y Transporte del Distrito Federal;
COVITUR; June 1982.
A.4  Plan de Ordenacion de la Zona de Conurbacion del Centro del Pais;
Comision Conurbacion Centro; 1984; 2 volumes.
A.5  Plan Nacional de Desarrollo; 1983-1988; SPP; May 1983.
B. Selected Project-Related Studies
B.1 Propuesta de Evaluacion Transporte Urbano; Gobierno del Estado de
Nuevo Leon; June 1986; 3 volumes.
B.2 First Urban Transport Project; Gobierno del Estado de Mexico; June
1986; 4 volumes.
C. Selected Project-Related Working Papers
C.1 Mexico Public Sector Review - Urban Transport Subsector; LAC Urban
ProJects Division; October 1985.
C.2 Project Working Papers including:
i. Monitoring
ii.  Vehicle Operating Costs
iii.  Economic Analysis
iv.  Financial Analysis
v. Bus Company Operating Costs
vi.  Maps
vii.  Local Procurement Regulations
viii. Local Design Standards
ix.  Study Terms of Reference
x. Maintenance
xi.  Light-rail pre-feasibility studies.



MAP SECTION



. /i
0 XX aF f / AQ~~
I  _       S      V~       ~K/f    ~~A~?   ~   8                    '?: '        .''1- 0. _
rK_t  4 CA                     X..'yn'  
| ~ ~      ~     ~~~~                                            I   >\~i;8V    rsdneg   ^ea 



IBRD 20367
MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
-'     feotihvocon                      VALLE CUAUTITLAN  - TEXCOCO
To [ffofitf"a0wl
(-3) ____f _ _  Corridor Improvements
I              >               ,              ,' ---- Bus Way
Bus Maintenance Facilities
Al     Toll Road
/ /   \  J  - Main Roads
Built-up Areas
State Boundaries
-} 1g9  ---   International Boundaries
0                            5                            lO Kilometers
/ iTt w!                                                 rS  mao has bJeen pa,ed by The VthkY Bw*'s staff exchwe 'or the C cGvanws of
the reads&$ ar t  ,s em.ye, tor te atamate of Tir*e tkbkt n d M  t onot
0                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fnane Coqoat,o tire ctenoreraon used aNd IreW*  ~  nf atd 4
,,A* o tIre part of The VorK Cank an*W Mele k onelro Fence a otb srW p1t
on tre txg9al stars o anv trf lerory or any endorsment or eccepttCCe od sah boav.taas
. A .o n 120@ -+   s                                                     l io'                  16W                  5D
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
MEXICO
20?  (Aea of Map                                                                2
/        'i ct
-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E~~1,LIZE
"?ATMAL4
/ / t ,\ ''                                              rMS HONDUA
(i 1s   \                                          l2,r                 lion                   10,o0               ) 9000_ 
'0s I/0f:.                                                                                                              d
41- J                                    [t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M E X I C O 0       
K.                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tolco de
JANUARY 1987



MEXICO
FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT-8\                                                                                                                             NM .'4
MONTERREY METROPOLITAN AREA
*       'ntersections to be upgraded to Interchanges f,.                       .A2c;
° At-Grade Intersection Improveent                                        /
bkccess Roads                                                   -
-            M- h\iscellaneous Corridor Improvements
Anillo Ir,termedio
O        Existing Interchanges                                   4\   %;                               1                          A
2   -~   ;Built-up Areas
Rivers                                    .!         ;  .e-lA
-      Municipal Boundaries                                   -             '
Intemational Boundaries                                                 ' Aa                                                a
I  I                                          L~~~~~~~~~~Ala
/  i i7
, '"   '  ''  ' >...,.iab 
.    Alf:                     '-    ':q
STA.  CATARINA                                                                    'Wa, '-' 
¾-,                     *            <     ^      2            2 art
-,  ;   4                       1 !   9'1'!  '   ' ~  '   * 6 o>A2c2,  ..
e  y -\               ~~~~/ 9:., l ,".'r  i1 -   - -T ',                                   '             '                      ,'  ,'  '         . ' 
.    GARRZAGARCIA                                  -
( "A'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
O                                                         6  Kilometers                                                                               '    'rs
troI mnap has been prearred by nTe wot Baert s stafg excwow4 for the 'o''*n Ce of
fhe ,eadems ad . k eecbe for thse eternral use of Tne Wrld etk a&nd the k.tmnetat   ., 
Fencae Corporalhon Ths derwrao  used and rIe bfltatde shoon otte map do not
rnpW  on the part of The Wrtd Bank ard the htoonflt Fawence Co.poralton. a AeVwn
r the lgVa stas d of terrayt  or ary endorseent or acceptane of such boixdn.s



IBRD 20368
i6w
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
.30                        3a
MoflerreyX
MEXICO
20'                                                    2
Al               ,"      t e-                                                                             ,ATiA^
A~~~~~~ 1 i. \24 *                                                                                       C;11I t  y,,Dt
r ~~                      ~ ~ -    .o  ,~ ~
Alk
All   ~
V~ ~~~~~~~IL
A2qo~~~~~~~.
-        'm,2;JN    1987
~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                           -  $ : i      '2      -/; 
X~~~~~~ .                                                             .7;7gS                    ,
A2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUARY  1987



