Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18401-MD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
FOR A
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
PROJECT
JANUARY 11, 1999
Human Development Sector
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective Friday, October 30, 1998)
1 Leu = US$0.16
US$1.00= 6.4 Lei
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACDI/VOCA              Agricultural Cooperative Development International/Volunteers in
Overseas Cooperation and Assistance
BA                     Beneficiary Association
ED                     Executive Director
EO                     Executive Office
ECD                    Early Childhood Development
FAD                    Finance and Administration Department
FAP                    Feldscher-Accousher Post
GoM                    Government of Moldova
IDA                    International Development Association (World Bank)
IA                     Implementing Agency
LACI                   Loan Accounting Change Initiative
MCR                    Microproject Completion Report
MID                    Monitoring and Information Department
MIS                    Management Information System
MO                     Microproject Officer
MoES                   Ministry of Education and Science
MoH                    Ministry of Health
MPD                    Microproject Department
MSIF                   Moldova Social Investment Fund
NCB                    National Competitive Bidding
NS                     National Shopping
NGO                    Non-governmental Organization
NSC                    National Steering Committee
NB                     National Board
OG                     Operational Guidelines
OM                     Operational Manual
O&M                    Operation and Maintenance
PHRD                   Policy and Human Resource Development Grant
PIP                    Project Implementation Plan
PMAS                   Project Management Accounting System
PMR                    Project Management Report
PMU                    Project Management Unit
PPF                    Project Preparation Facility
PTA                    Parent's-Teacher's Association
Sida                   Swedish International Development and Cooperation Agency
TA                     Technical Assistance
UA                     User's Association
USAID                  United States Agency for Intemational Development
UNICEF                 United Nations Children Fund
Vice President:      Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:       Roger Grawe, ECCO7
Sector Director:  James Christopher Lovelace, ECSHD
Program Team Leader:       Alan Thompson, ECSHD
Task Team Leader:      Anush Bezhanyan, ECSHD



Moldova Social Investment Fund
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
4. Indications of borrower conmmitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Environmental assessment
7. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditions of Negotiations
2. Conditions-of Board Presentation
3. Conditions of Effectiveness
4. Dated Covenant
H. Readiness for Implementation
ii



l. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.   Project Design Summary
Annex 2.    Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.    Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.    Geographic Implementation Strategy
Annex 5.    MSIF Organizational Structure
Annex 6.   Project Implementation Plan Schedule
Annex 7.    Microproject Typology and Appraisal Criteria
Annex 8.   Management Information System (MIS) Structure
Annex 9.   Microproject Cycle Flow Chart
Annex 10.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.   Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.    Procurement Schedule for Project Implementation Period
Table C.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table D.    Procurement Information
Annex 11.  Financial Management System
Annex 12.  Documents in Project File
Annex 13.  Cost Per Beneficiary and Other Indicators
Annex 14.  Environmental Data Sheet
Annex 15.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 16.   Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 17.  Country at a Glance
Annex 18.  Map of Moldova (IBRD #29788)
iii



Moldova
Social Investment Fund
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia
Czech Republic, Hungary, Moldova, Slovak Republic and Slovenia
Country Department (ECC07)
Human Development Sector
Date: January 11, 1999                                  Task Team Leader: Betsy A. McGean/Anush Bezhanyan
Country Director: Roger Grawe                           Sector Director: James Christopher Lovelace
Project ID: MD-PA-44840   Sector: Human Development     Program Objective Category: Poverty Alleviation (PA)
Lending Instrument: Investment Credit                   Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes   [ I No
Project Financing Data                   [] Loan       [X] Credit         [] Guarantee       [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm):
Proposed terms:                           []   Multicurrency       []  Single currency, $US
Grace period (years): 10 years     []   Standard Variable    []  Fixed            []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35 years
Commitment fee: .75% on
undisbursed
credit balance
Service charge: .75%
Financing plan (US$m):'
Source                              Local              Foreign              Total
Government                                                       $1.20                 --                $1.20
Local Communities                                                $2.20                 --                $2.20
Co-financiers:
Sida                                                $0.95                 $0.30             $1.25
Open Society Institute (Soros Foundation)           $0.15                                   $0.15
IDA                                                             $13.50                 $1.50            $15.00
Total         $18.00                 $1.80            $19.80
Borrower: Moldova
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Moldova Social Investment Fund, Office of Vice Prime Minister
Estimated disbursements (IDA FY/US$M):          1999       2000         2001        2002       2003
Annual       1.9         2.8         3.3         4.0         3.0
Cumulative       1.9        4.7          8.0        12.0      15.0
For Guarantees:                                    [    Partial credit     [  Partial risk
'Figures may differ slightly due to rounding.



Proposed coverage: NA
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                 [      Yes               []   No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 5 years  Expected effectiveness date: 5/30/99  Expected closing date: 11/30/2004
2



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex I Project Development
Objectives)
The two project development objectives are to: i) help empower rural communities by strengthening their
capacities to make decisions, organize, and manage; and ii) improve the quality of basic social and
economic services for rural populations in Moldova, particularly the poor.
Key performance indicators include:
1) Number of new community-based organizations created to pursue local development objectives and
strengthen social capital;
2) % of beneficiaries that become members of user/beneficiary associations to sustain facilities and
programs;
3) Percentage of rural population benefiting from improved social/economic services (e.g. water, school
repairs, educational and health programs, sanitation, roads, etc);
4) Number and types of microprojects with high technical quality and cost-effectiveness completed by
communities;
5) Number of residents, contractors, local officials, professional staff, NGOs, and consultants trained
through, and participating in, the Moldova SIF;
6) Number of microprojects operational and maintained one and two years after investment completed;
7) Number of new community-driven projects/programs undertaken one and two years after SIF
microproject investment completed;
8) Satisfaction levels of beneficiaries (measured against various criteria) with improved basic social or
economic services one, two, and three years after investment.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex I).
CAS document number: 15499 MD, April 5, 1996           Date of latest CAS discussion: October 2,
1998. CAS Upstream Review Package
The project supports the sector-related CAS goal of public sector reform with a renewed focus on poverty
alleviation, in part through improved coverage and targeting of social services to the poor. This is integral
to the strategy of longer-term structural reforms in the social sectors. The combination of private sector
growth, which the project also supports, and social sector reform, provides the core Government strategy
for poverty alleviation.
[Note. This is based on the CAS Upstream Review Package, (ated September 25, 1998 and plannedfor
Board Mar-ch 4, 1999]
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy.
The main sector issues include: i) serious and growing poverty and inequality, especially in rural
populations and among vulnerable groups; ii) deterioration of public services and poor targeting of social
assistance; iii) need for fundamental structural reforms in health and education; and iv) lack of capacity at
central and local government levels to implement poverty reduction programs.
3



The Government's primary objective is to sustain macroeconomic stability and restore growth. The
Government also plans to reorient and strengthen support for public sector reforms and institution-building.
This strategy will help reach the poor more effectively through: i) restructuring of public expenditure
priorities; ii) improved targeting of social assistance and services; and iii) reforming core social sectors.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choice:
The Moldova Social Investment Fund (MSIF) will target poor commnunities and vulnerable groups (e.g.
women, children) in rural areas. The demand-driven fund aims to improve social/economic infrastructure
and services through small microproject investments (e.g. schools, health posts, water and sanitation
systems, gas supply, erosion control, roads) and to build local community capacity in decision-making and
management. The MSIF will generate short-term local employment, and will stimulate the private
contractor market. The project should also serve as a modest demonstration for the ongoing development of
civil society, in part by shifting responsibilities to the community level and strengthening and enhancing
participation in local communities. The pilot is also demonstrating that the MSIF will help improve
responsiveness and accountability of local government, and will offer a vehicle for new partnerships
between community-based organizations and local government in the management of social/economic
infrastructure. Although the MSIF is not designed to reform the social sectors, it will play a role through
improvement of technical norms and standards (e.g. space and energy efficiency in schools, health posts),
and introduction of early childhood development (ECD) educational programs and primary health
programs. By helping to build community capacity and enhance public involvement in decision-making at
the grass roots level, the MSIF should help broaden support for economic and social reforns.
Based on the pilot SIF experience, which covers six districts and has been under implementation since
November, 1997, as well as ongoing poverty assessment work, Government and the Bank have decided
that the project should remain rural in nature and expand its geographic scope nation-wide. Research
indicates that greater poverty and poorer infrastructure exist among rural populations in Moldova. With
respect to SIF resource allocations, each district will receive a level of funding based on its percentage of
rural population in comparison to the national percentage of rural population (58%). Once the new
territorial reform legislation is approved and implemented, predicted in early 1999, this method of resource
allocation will remain valid for the consolidated, larger districts or counties (i.e., judets). At the same time,
more specific poverty targeting for individual villages in each district will be based on two key criteria,
evaluated by MSIF during the Needs and Capacity Assessments: first, the capacities and leadership of the
village in terms of undertaking a successful microproject, and ii) the urgency of basic infrastructure
rehabilitation needs. The methodology will identify and rank those least advantaged villages into a "high
priority" group. MSIF will then target its specialized technical assistance to this group first, helping
communities prepare microprojects. In order to encourage initiative, however, all rural villages will be
eligible to apply for microprojects after a period of six weeks, during which the "high priority" villages will
have the first opportunity.
4



C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                 Category       Cost Incl.     % of      Bank-       % of
Contingencies    Total   financing    Bank-
4US$M)                 (US$M)    financing
I. Improved Delivery of Basic       Physical,     $16.8M           84%      $13.OM      87%
Services                            institution-
(e.g. school and health post        building
rehabilitation, early childhood
development programs, health
education, water supply and sanitation,
gas distribution)
II. Strengthened Children's Social  Physical,     $0.37M           2%       0.0         0%
Development and De-                 Institution-
institutionalization                building
III. Capacity Building for          Institution-    $1.26M         6.3      $0.7M        5.0%
Community and Local Government   building;
local project
management
IV. Project Management Unit         Project       $1.53M           7.7%     $1.3M       8.0%
(Operating Costs)                   management;
Institution-
I Building    I
Total  $19.88M         100%    $15.0        100%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Tihe project supports public sector policy reforms through improving targeting of social services to the
poor. It also builds local institutions through capacity-building of rural communities to improve the
quality, access, and management of basic public services. The SIF supports the decentralization process
and helps reorient local government into a more supportive and accountable role, working in partnership
with community-based organizations. The SIF also contributes to private sector development by enhancing
competition in the local construction and technical assistance markets. Finally, the SIF will pilot
alternatives to institutionalization of children through the introduction of specialized training and technical
assistance in an effort to demonstrate institutional reforms for children with special needs.
3. Benefits and target population:
Short-term benefits will include: i) improved access and quality of social and economic infrastructure and
services (e.g. kindergarten rehabilitation and early childhood development program, village health post
rehabilitation and primary health care program, improved drinking water supply system and beneficiary
association); ii) generation of labor-intensive, short-term local employment, especially for women who
specialize in plastering and other finishing jobs in infrastructure rehabilitation; iii) improved adult care and
educational alternatives for institutionalized children with special needs; and iv) new opportunities for
private contractors. Longer-term benefits will include: i) increased community capacity in organization
and management, including procurement, financial management, fund-raising, project management; ii)
increased participation and empowerment of local community groups; iii) improved accountability and
management by local government; and iv) enhanced grass roots support for broader economic and social
reforms.
The primary target population is poor, rural communities in Moldova, including vulnerable groups such as
'Figures may differ slightly due to rounding.
5



women, children, and institutionalized children. Secondary target populations are local government
officials, private contractors, and NGOs.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The pilot project, undertaken in 6 selected districts for a period of over one year, has been invaluable in
testing and developing effective institutional and implementation arrangements for the project. During the
pilot project, the MSIF team, local communities, local government, and private contractors have all
benefited significantly from a large investment (approximately $US 1.7 million in grants and trust funds) in
upstream technical assistance, training, and implementation. The pilot project plans to complete at least 20
microprojects by the end of January, 1999, and will then move into a transitional phase, from expected
Board approval in February, 1999 to project effectiveness targeted for May, 1999. During this transition,
the MSIF will prepare and appraise a pipeline of approximately 20 additional microprojects which will be
fully ready for implementation of works and service programming when the project becomes effective. The
project will plan to undertake work simultaneously in two regions of the country (north and south). The
geographic implementation strategy will take into account the need for MSIF supervision of pilot phase
microprojects, and accordingly, will proceed from both northem and southern regions in a concentric
pattern (See Annex 4 for Geographic Implementation Map). MSIF will accelerate its microproject
implementation schedule and quantitative targets only after the first year in order to ensure that high quality
and systematic procedures are maintained across geographically dispersed regions. The 5-year project will
aim to complete 233 or more microprojects, with an estimated average of 5-8 microprojects per district, a
range of 500-4000 direct and indirect beneficiaries per microproject (depending on size of village and type
of microproject), and an average cost of US$65,000/per microproject.
I. Institutional Arrangements: The MSIF National Steering Committee (NSC) for the pilot has been re-
established by the new Government by amendment on July 30, 1998. The NSC is chaired by the Vice
Prime Minister and provides the project with policy guidance and oversight. There are 10 voting members
representing Government (e.g. State Advisor to Prime Minister, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy
and Reforms), non-governmental (e.g. Save the Children, Moldova), and the donor sector (e.g. Soros-
Moldova, UNICEF). A new Government Order will re-establish the MSIF and its Charter for the main
project and will also convert the NSC to a National Board (NB). This new Order is expected in December,
1998.
The MSIF Project Management Unit (PMU) is under the office of the Vice Prime Minister and serves as a
autonomous, public organization. The MSIF competitively recruits local, qualified staff. The independent
set-up of the MSIF PMU is critical to its success in day-to-day project management, transparency, and
accountability. The MSIF PMU for the pilot project was comprised of 15 professional staff. To improve
efficiencies in management and to contain costs, the PMU staff will be reduced into a smaller core staff of
eight key professionals and five support staff for the main project. There will be four major departments
under the Executive Director, including Finance and Administration, Promotion and Community
Development, Microprojects, and Management Information and Monitoring. The PMU will hire additional
long-term consultants to provide support and services to the microproject promotion, implementation, and
supervision processes, as well as to financial management and the management information system (See
Annex 5 for MSIF Organizational Structure). As the MSIF begins to operate simultaneously in two regions
of the country once the main project begins, the consultants will be required to ensure two fully capable
microproject teams are working effectively in the field.
During the pilot project, an international NGO, ACDI-VOCA (ACDI-Volunteers in Overseas Cooperation
and Assistance) provided technical assistance (TA) through administration of a United State Agency for
International Development (USAID) grant for US$500,000. As originally planned, the USAID grant will
be fully disbursed by December 31, 1998 and these technical services will be completed. In addition, a
regional SIF technical advisor, funded by the Bank and a trust fund, has provided in-country technical
support to the pilot project for 65% of the time over the course of the past year. In an effort to build
maximum capacity in the MSIF PMU during the pilot phase, the staff has received a considerable amount
of additional foreign, regional, and local training and TA, including from the Armenia SIF staff. TA has
covered the following subject areas: financial management and administration; project finance and
accounting; management information systems; procurement and disbursement; logical planning framework;
6



technical norms and standards; project management and strategic planning; environmental assessment;
participatory conmmunity development and NGOs; computer skills; and the English language.
II. Implementation Arrangements: The Ministry of Finance (Borrower) would pass on the IDA credit to
the MSIF under an Implementation Agreement as a grant to finance microprojects implemented directly by
community beneficiary groups (e.g. implementing agencies). MSIF has drafted a Project Implementation
Plan (PIP) which includes a 5-year implementation schedule (See Annex 6 for Project Implementation
Schedule), detailed project cost tables, and a MSIF Operational Manual (OM). The Operational Manual,
with four accompanying handbooks on finance and administration, microproject promotion, appraisal, and
follow-up/supervision, have been consistently updated and refined based on lessons learned during the pilot
project. The OM clearly specifies processes, procedures, roles, and responsibilities for project
implementation, and offers one of several tools for project transparency and accountability. The OM also
describes eligible microproject typologies and key appraisal criteria for microprojects (See Annex 7 for
Microproject Typology and Appraisal Criteria). The Operational Manual (OM) is approved by the National
Board, and is adopted as a legal document. In addition to the OM, a comprehensive, computerized
Management Information System (MIS) has been developed, tested, and utilized during the pilot. The MIS
will be used to support the project as both a monitoring and project management tool, helping ensure
transparency by tracking each microproject at every decision stage of its cycle, and monitoring
performance indicators (See Annex 8 for MIS Structure). For example, the entire microproject cycle is
tracked at each step (See Annex 9 for Microproject Cycle Flow Chart). The MIS is linked to the project
management accounting system, and will provide timely information in various formats for project
management decision-making.
The key institutions involved in MSIF implementation, and their respective roles, are described below.
1) Project Management Unit (PMU): The MSIF PMU is responsible for overall project management. The
PMU is also responsible for: i) promotion of microprojects at the community level, training and technical
assistance to local communities, NGOs, and government; ii) microproject appraisal and supervision (i.e.
follow up) of microproject implementation; and iii) monitoring and evaluation of all project and program
aspects. The monitoring and evaluation program will be supported in large part through the use of the MIS.
2) Implementing Agency (IA): The community-based organization, referred to as the local implementing
agency (IA), is directly responsible for microproject implementation. This group is elected during the
general community meeting to represent the community, and typically includes five members, two of
whom must be women. The IA is responsible for the microproject proposal and for the up-front collection
of a financial and in-kind contribution consisting of 15% of total project cost. The beneficiary community
is expected to organize itself through the IA, identify and reach consensus on small-scale investment
priorities which maximize public benefit, and take responsibility for procurement and implementation. In
cooperation with local government, the IA is also responsible for planning and funding the operation and
maintenance (O&M) of the facility and/or program in order to ensure sustainability. This often entails the
formation of a local beneficiary association (e.g. such as a Parents-Teachers Association) which registers as
a legal non-profit organization and assumes a key role in supporting the facility infrastructure and improved
programs and services.
3) Private Contractors: Private local contractors will compete for microproject contracts for design and
rehabilitation works. Contractors must be financially and managerially independent from the state.
Procured and supervised by the IA and a local, on-site supervisor, contractors are paid directly by the MSIF
PMU based on certified statements of accomplished works that meet quality standards.
4) Local Government: The primaria (i.e., Mayor) and local government officials typically own, operate
and are responsible for maintaining key social assets/infrastructure which have been, or will be, divested
from state enterprises and/or collective farms. This infrastructure is frequently targeted by communities as a
priority for rehabilitation through the SIF. Local government officials will receive training in public
management and collaboration with community-based organizations, particularly beneficiary associations
with whom they may partner in the management of social assets.
7



Procurement and Disbursement: Based on the pilot project experience, detailed procurement and
disbursement arrangements have been agreed with the Goverrnent and are reflected in the final project
documents and the Operational Manual. Annex 10 provides procurement and disbursement arrangements
covering goods, civil works, and services. The project reached agreement with Government at Appraisal on
the preferred disbursement methodology, agreeing to initially disburse by traditional methods (e.g.
statement of expenses) until a future date when internal controls and forecasting capacity have improved
and the Project Management Report (PMR) quarterly disbursement method would be justified.
Financial Management, Accounting and Auditing: To address new Bank requirements in financial
management, a consultant, Bank accountant, and financial management specialist have helped the MSIF
with the design and testing of a LACI-compliant project management accounting system (PMAS). The
system provides streamlined reporting capacity through Project Management Reports (PMRs), as well as
quarterly disbursement capability. A separate but inter-connected automated accounting system will be
used for reporting to the Government of Moldova, as requirements are different. The financial management
system will allow for single source data entry through an electronic conversion between the two software
systems. The financial management system has been certified by a Bank-approved specialist during
Appraisal, although improvements in the internal control system still need to be undertaken. As such, the
IDA credit will be disbursed initially using the traditional method of disbursement. However, MSIF will
start submitting PMRs and will receive continuing guidance from the Bank in its preparation for PMR
quarterly disbursements. A more detailed description of the financial management system, including
intemal control requirements, is provided in Annex 11 Financial Management System. The project will be
audited each fiscal year, in accordance with Bank guidelines, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank.
Monitoring and Evaluation: The MSIF's Management Information System (MIS) will be the major tool
to support the detailed monitoring of performance and impact indicators for the project as a whole, and for
each individual microproject. The MIS will track progression of microprojects through the cycle, including
all financial transactions, civil works, and program developments based on field reports by on-site
supervisors, MSIF engineers and social scientists. The MIS will support project management by
highlighting such information as microprojects suffering delays and overruns, and will produce reports
geared to daily management decision-making as well as reports to the MSIF Board, the Bank, and other
donors. The MSIF supervision team will monitor a sample of microprojects after their completion on a
periodic basis, some of which will be monitored according to two-year Performance Contracts. Financial
audits will be undertaken annually, as will technical audits for procurement and construction quality. The
Resident Mission project assistant will also undertake quarterly microproject procedural reviews to ensure
consistency with the Operational Manual. In addition to the rapid Needs and Capacity Assessments
undertaken in each village during the promotion stage, annual Beneficiary Assessments will be
independently contracted out by MSIF to provide feedback and evaluation from the community concerning
the project's direct and indirect impacts regarding improved access and quality of services, local
participation and organization, attitudes and values, local government relations, new associations and
partnerships, sustainability, and future action plans and goals. The Bank team will undertake its semi-
annual supervision missions and a mid-term review no later than December 31, 2001.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Two project alternatives were considered at the early planning and identification phase in late 1996. The
first alternative was a traditional investment project focusing on single-sector rehabilitation of municipal
level infrastructure, such as water and/or sanitation system. While considered a feasible intervention, a
traditional municipal infrastructure project would not effectively engage the local community, nor build its
skills in implementation, nor systematically target the rural poor. The second alternative was a municipal
development fund. A municipal development fund would primarily focus on larger infrastructure works
with municipalities as central actors, while poorer, more rural conmmunities would be passive beneficiaries.
Due to several important factors in Moldova, including growing poverty in rural areas, the breakdown of
essential social/economic infrastructure and services, the need to target, mobilize, and build capacities in
poor communities, and the pressure to deliver rapid, tangible benefits, the SIF operation was deemed most
8



appropriate. The SIF offers a flexible, multi-sectoral approach that can target the poor, respond quickly to
diverse community needs, reward initiative, build local skills and self-reliance, and directly improve the
quality of social services.
2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                          Project            Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation      Development
Progress (IP)     Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Rural finance for small farmers; creation of  Rural Finance (FY'98)            S                  S
credit cooperatives
Public Sector Reform                       PSR 1/11 (FY'99)
Poverty Alleviation                        Ethnographic Poverty Study
(FY'97)
Poverty Assessment (FY'99);
Social Assessment (FY'99)
Reform Core Social Services, including social    Social Insurance Management
assistance                                 (SIM) FY'99
Improve education curriculum and learning  General Education ('98)            S                   S
assessments
Health care reform                         Health Sector Reform project
(FY'2000)
Other development agencies
US Agency for Intemational Development     MSIF pilot support to TA and
(USAID)                                    microprojects; farm
privatization and restructuring
Swedish Intemational Development Agency    MSIF pilot support to TA and
(Sida)                                     microprojects
Soros Foundation, Moldova                  Early childhood development
(Step by Step) program;
primary health education
UNICEF, Moldova                            Primary health care programs,
early childhood development,
children in especially difficult
circumstances (CEDC),
training
EU TACIS                                   TA for local government
reform
Save the Children                          Rehabilitation of street
children, alternatives to
institutionalizing children
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
9



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The MSIF pilot has provided highly useful lessons for the design of the main project. The Armenia SIF has
also transferred valuable experience and expertise, especially in finance and administration, the design of
the management information system (MIS), and documentation. Other SIFs in the ECA region highlight the
following learning: i) the importance of maintaining an autonomous PMU to depoliticize the microproject
process and ensure effective targeting; ii) the advantage of recruiting competitively at market prices for
PMU staff; iii) the composition of the Steering Committee or Board, were possible, should a) include
central ministries but avoid line ministries in order to minimize influence over microproject types and b)
include 50% government and 50% non-governmental representatives; iv) the advantage of investing in a
pilot phase to tailor the SIF to specific country context and to work out the practical details of
implementation; and v) the need to focus upstream, with TA and training, on community organization,
strong participation, collection of community contribution and procurement. Over the past twelve months
in six districts, with over 25 microprojects underway, the MSIF pilot has tested community demand and
different procedures with numerous microproject types. Initial indications are that over 40% of
communities select kindergarten or school rehabilitation as first priority. There is also higher demand for
water supply microprojects in the south, where scarcity is historical. As a result of the large demand for
educational facility rehabilitation, MSIF promotional messages are now focused on the benefits of
introducing early childhood development programs with school microprojects. All communities interested
in school rehabilitation are selecting the combination of improved facilities and early childhood
development programs.
The MSIF has also learned the need to offer a stronger program in participatory community development,
including dissemination of comprehensive information to communities on microproject choices and their
cost and benefits, technical assistance in fund-raising, organization, sustainability, and user associations,
and broad stakeholder participation. During the pilot process, it also became clear that more specialized,
sectoral training would be required for MSIF engineering and social science teams in the areas of technical
norms and standards, environmental assessment and occupational safety, primary health care and health
education, and drinking water supply/sanitation. The focus on intensive up-stream training and technical
assistance for the MSIF PMU during the pilot phase is proving a worthwhile investment. Due to the
importance of continuous training and capacity building, systematic activities to further develop the skills
of the PMU have been incorporated into the design of the five-year project. The MSIF has subcontracted an
experienced NGO, the Contact Center, to begin training at the community level with beneficiary
associations in order to establish more enduring community-based organizations which can better ensure
the sustainability of improved services.
The community contribution of 15% to total project cost has proven the most difficult and time-consuming
process in the microproject cycle. As a result, the MSIF has agreed to extend collection periods and offer
periodic technical assistance in fund-raising. The idea of lowering the 15% requirement has been
considered, however the project team believes that the benefits of the process, and the subsequent
community ownership once the contribution is collected, outweighs the potential savings in time. In order
to work more effectively with larger villages over 2000 residents, the MSIF has decided to waive the
requirements of 1/3 population attendance at the general community meetings. MSIF will also require a
house-to- house referendum vote to confirm microproject priorities. Due to the decentralized nature of
MSIF's work, and the growing difficulty of keeping up with increasing demand, the PMU will subcontract
some of its promotion work to trained local consultants from the relevant regions.
Other lessons learned during the pilot and reflected in project design include: i) the value of using national
competitive bidding for procurement of civil works, even if works are small in scope; ii) the need for MSIF
to maintain complete transparency, and patience, in order to build trust within communities; and iii) the
need to designate a deputy chairman of the National Steering Committee to substitute for the Vice Prime
Minister when he is not available to convene meetings.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Ministry of Finance requested an advance of $US500,000 from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
in May, 1997 and has played an important support role in the NSC during the pilot phase. The new
10



Government, which came to office in May, 1998, and in particular the two Vice Prime Ministers
responsible for social services, and economy and reform, respectively, have expressed strong support for
the MSIF. The Government issued an amendment on July 30, 1998 to re-establish the NSC, designating the
Vice Prime Minister as Chairman. A new SIF Order will be drafted for the main project in December,
1998. During the pre-appraisal, the Speaker of the Parliament and the Chairman of the Parliamentary
Commission on Social Protection, Health Care, and Family offered support to the operation. Despite the
spring elections of 1998 in Moldova, the MSIF was able to continue the microproject implementation
process with few delays. Finally, high level Government officials (e.g. Prime Minister, Vice Prime
Minister, line Ministers, Speaker of Parliament) are actively participating in microproject hand-over
ceremonies and supporting the grass roots, community action approach of the MSIF.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is gaining a strong comparative advantage based on its growing experience and expertise with
SIF operations in ECA. At present, other SIFs are under preparation or supervision in Armenia (SIF I and
II), Georgia, Ukraine, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Bulgaria, Romania, Albania, and Bosnia. Because of their
design and flexibility, SIFs offer timely opportunities in transitional economies to initiate and support the
process of local participation and community-based implementation, allowing the space to redefine more
decentralized roles for the state and communities. The expanding ECA SIF network, supported in part by
the Bank, has helped improve exchanges of information and professional resources, and has identified best
practices within the region. For example, the Moldova SIF has benefited greatly from lessons learned,
technical assistance, and mentoring provided by the Armenia SIF. The Bank has also helped enlist the
participation of important partners in the Moldova SIF, including the Open Society Institute (Soros
Foundation), Contact Center (formerly part of Soros Foundation), UNICEF, and Save the Children,
Moldova. The Bank has been successful in raising donor interest and grant resources for the pilot project
from bilateral governments, including the U.S, Japan, Sweden, Netherlands, Switzerland, and others. The
Bank has also helped the Government secure co-financing for the main project from both the Open Society
Institute (Soros Foundation) and the Swedish Government (Swedish International Development and
Cooperation Agency or Sida). Both the Bank and Govemment are currently seeking additional co-financing
for the main project.
E: Summary Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 12)
1. Economnic ('supported bY Annex 13):
[]Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$       million; ERR=    %  []Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[  Other (Specify)
The project will generate substantial benefits for the poor through the provision of basic social/economic
service improvements financed through hundreds of demand-driven microprojects. The microprojects will
deliver immediate benefits in terms of employment generation opportunities, as well as improvements in
access and quality of infrastructure and services that have been identified as priorities by beneficiaries
themselves, most of whom are among the poorest groups in Moldova. In addition, longer-term benefits
will accrue as a result of institutional reforms (e.g. greater community involvement in decision-making and
implementation; competitive contracting; improved energy efficiency and space utilization in social
infrastructure). This, in turn, will help improve living conditions, and through community empowerment,
will help sustain the difficult economic transition. In a non-project scenario, it is reasonable to assume a
continued deterioration in the provision and accessibility of basic social and economic services in rural
areas of Moldova.
Due to the demand-driven nature of microprojects, their number, and their small size, no detailed economic
or financial analysis has been carried out. Nonetheless, the experience to date during the one year pilot
implementation period has been instructive. Four microprojects have been completed in health, education,
roads, and environment (erosion control). In addition, fourteen (14) ongoing microprojects have been
analyzed on a cost per beneficiary basis in the education, transport and energy sectors. Although a small
sample to date, the average cost per beneficiary is approximately $84.0/beneficiary for completed
microprojects. Of the ongoing microprojects which have been evaluated, road/bridge rehabilitation has the
11



lowest cost per beneficiary (US$14), followed by gas distribution at US$15 and education (e.g. school
rehabilitation) at US$31 (See Annex 10 Cost Per Beneficiary and Other Indicators). However, the sample
size is very small to date.
An important economic benefit of the project is the introduction of competitive procurement. In terms of
cost-effectiveness resulting from the project's competitive procurement procedures, the pilot project alone
is generating savings ranging from 2.6%-20.5% of estimated cost for each microproject; this is compared to
the cost of comparable work in the area that is undertaken without competitive bidding. In the future, as
new private contracting companies gain additional skills and competition increases, it is expected that
further savings will be generated.
A future, longer-term benefit will be the introduction of new construction norms and standards. The project
will pilot new construction designs for rehabilitated facilities that will improve on space utilization and
energy efficiency. If new norms and standards introduced in the MSIF project are well-demonstrated and
become the country's norms, as they have become in other countries, there will be a significant beneficial
impact on the fiscal position of the country over time.
An external benefit, more difficult to quantify, is the integral project design of MSIF. Instead of focusing
on rehabilitation of basic infrastructure as an end in itself, the project allocates significant resources to build
local institutional capacity through training and commnunity participation. Communities are trained to
organize, implement, and manage rehabilitated facilities and service programs. They are also trained to
form long-term beneficiary or user's associations, responsible for sustaining the infrastructure and related
programs in cooperation with the local government. This community capacity-building and empowerment
will have future, longer-term positive effects, and should help facilitate the economic transition and
associated reforms.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$         million; FRR=        %
No financial analysis will be undertaken since the MSIF is a non-revenue generating project.
Fiscal impact: The impact on govermment finances would include social taxes raised on wages of the PMU
consultants and private contractors. 15% of microproject costs, as well as certain implementation costs, will
be absorbed by communities, estimated at over US$2.2 million ( 11% of total project cost). The counterpart
contribution from the central budget is estimated at $1.2 million (US$240,000 annually) or 6% of total
project cost. If Government decides to widely adopt MSIF procurement procedures at the municipal level,
significant savings of up to 20%-25% may be realized.
3. Technical:
MSIF will only approve technically sound, least-cost, and relatively simple microprojects that can be
realistically rehabilitated and maintained by the local community and/or local government. Adapted
technical norms and standards will be supported by the project in order to achieve improved space and
energy efficiency. There is potential in the future for Government to adopt norms and standards developed
under the MSIF, which would lead to much larger gains in efficiency and resource allocation. To ensure
strong technical quality in microprojects, MSIF engineers are involved in promotion, appraisal, and weekly
supervision site visits. Local on-site supervisors are also hired by the Implementing Agency to guide and
monitor day-to-day works. Technical quality will be assessed during Bank supervision missions, and
independent technical audits will be commissioned annually.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The Operational Manual provides details on all aspects of implementation.
Community-based Implementing Agencies will have primary responsibility for implementing microproject
works through local contractors (with technical assistance from, and under the supervision of, MSIF).
Investments by MSIF and consultants in community capacity-building through training and workshops are
12



an integral part of every microproject. As experience is gained, well trained community members of
Implementing Agencies that have completed microprojects are serving as local consultants in new
communities. In the case of children living in institutions, the implementing agency may be a state
institution/agency, an NGO, an association, or other eligible institution committed to provision of
alternative care. In consultation with the Ministry of Education and Science (MoES) and the MSIF, the
Soros Foundation and UNICEF will be responsible for the methodological training and supervision of early
childhood development programs in kindergartens and primary schools. A signed Memorandum of
Understanding details the roles and responsibilities of each party. Similarly, UNICEF, in consultation with
the Ministry of Health (MoH) and MSIF, will be responsible for primary health education programs at the
health post level (Feldscher-Accousher Post or FAP), including training of local medical staff in new
directions of primary health care reforms. The Contact Center, an umbrella NGO with experience in
training and civil society development, will be responsible for training of beneficiary associations and local
government officials.
b. Project management: The Moldova SIF Executive Director, four Department Directors, and core
staff will assume responsibility for overall project management (See Annex 5 Organizational Structure).
The MSIF Project Management Unit has demonstrated strong capacity and competence in project
management during the pilot phase, during which a substantial investment in training and technical
assistance has already been made. The MSIF will continue to benefit from additional training and technical
assistance inputs throughout the life of the project. In terms of scaling up its activities, the MSIF will
accelerate its work portfolio after another year of experience is gained (e.g. after the first year of the
project). The MSIF National Board will oversee the quality of project management and ensure its
consistency with Government policies and the Operational Manual. The monitoring and evaluation
program, with a management information system (MIS) as its cornerstone tool, will support detailed day-
to-day project monitoring and strategic management decision-making. The Resident Mission project
assistant will also play an important role in formal quarterly monitoring of a sample of microprojects in
order to evaluate documentation, consistency with the Operational Manual, and results on the ground.
S. Social:
The primary goals of the SIF are to catalyze the process of community empowerment, build local
capacities, and create incentives for the improvement in access and quality of social and economic services
to the poor. The MSIF specifically targets poor rural populations, including women and children, and has a
special component for disadvantaged children in institutions who will have the opportunity to benefit from
alternative, community-based care options. The MSIF should have a significant social impact in terms of
changing a community's collective mentality away from dependence and toward initiative and self-reliance
as the roles of state and civil society are gradually transformed. Other significant social impacts will be the
more equitable distribution of benefits within society, and the re-formation and/or enhancement of social
capital and cohesion within rural beneficiary communities and between them. The pilot project indicates
that there is still a fairly high degree of distrust of local and regional officials among the community.
Community capacity-building, consensus-building through participation, building of trust, empowerment,
and new partnerships with more accountable local governments will all take time for the MSIF to nurture,
but are critical to the process of community-based development. There are several gender-supportive
elements in the MSIF: i) the requirement of at least 40% women of total participants in attendance at
general community meetings; ii) at least two female members elected as members of the Implementing
Agency; iii) a higher share of employment opportunities in microproject rehabilitation for women, who are
skilled at finishing work; iv) greater opportunities for mothers to be involved in their children's early
childhood development programs, including voluntary teaching and supervision, and Parent's-Teacher's
Associations. In its support for the development of users or beneficiary associations to maintain the SIF-
assisted social/economic infrastructure, the MSIF aims to build social capital and move toward local-level
institutional sustainability.
6. Environmental assessment:    Environmental Category   []A  [X] B  [] C
There are no major environmental issues anticipated due to the small size and rehabilitation nature of most
microprojects. However, each microproject will be individually screened and reviewed by the MSIF -- by
specific type -- for any negative impacts, and mitigation measures will be proposed where necessary. The
13



community proposal will incorporate an environmental review checklist, and the microproject appraisal
documents will adapt type-specific analyses of benefits, costs, and mitigation measures, in part based on
proven practices in SIFs in the Latin America region. Certain microproject types, such as reforestation, soil
erosion control, potable water, sanitation and hygiene, and related health education programs, should have
small but positive environmental benefits. See Annex 14 for Environmental Data Sheet.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; ifparticipatory
approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Primary beneficiaries of MSIF microprojects will include poor residents in rural areas, vulnerable groups
such as women/children and children in institutions with special needs, adult care-givers, local government
officials including teachers and health staff, local workers (including women) temporarily employed at the
site, design engineers, private contractors.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other stakeholders include central and regional government, local/intermediary NGOs, trainers, other
technical advisory consultants, donors, Soros Foundation and UNICEF.
The project is highly participatory in nature. Rural commnunities, and their elected Implementing Agencies
acting on their behalf, are the key decision-makers in how best to organize, reach a consensus on a priority
microproject, raise a 15% financial contribution, procure design and civil works contractors (as well a local
supervisor), manage finances, monitor quality implementation, and ensure sustainability. Communities
participate in general community meetings, vote through voice and referendum for their priority
investments, and obtain short-term employment opportunities through the MSIF. In early childhood
development programs, parents become more involved with their children in the classroom and through
Parent's-Teacher's Associations. Local government officials are also elected as members of the
Implementing Agency, and should become more responsive, accountable, and involved in partnerships with
the community. The local government will derive benefits from MSIF project support to local infrastructure
and improved services, as well as targeted technical assistance in decentralization and public management.
Disadvantaged, institutionalized children will be direct beneficiaries from technical assistance and training
to support alternatives to institutionalization, including improved care and educational options.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project gives high priority to the issues of sustainability, particularly the operation and maintenance
(O&M) of MSIF-financed microproject facilities and services. The community microproject proposal or
application requires Implementing Agencies to work together with the local government to develop
sustainability plans, which describe both financial and institutional arrangements for the post-project
period. After microprojects are completed, the MSIF will also pilot 2-year performance contracts with
beneficiary associations in which the MSIF will match additional private funds raised by the community on
a one-to-one basis, up to US$ 1 000/year, to ensure commitment to sustaining operation and maintenance.
The MSIF will ensure the provision of technical assistance and training on sustainability issues to IAs
and/or beneficiary associations, as well as local government, charged with the responsibility of sustaining
quality of infrastructure and services. Coordination with, and approval by, line ministries such as Education
and Science, and Health, is also required in order to maintain consistency in consolidation, closure, and
reform plans in the social sectors.
As mentioned, the IDA credit will be transferred by the Ministry of Finance to MSIF as a grant for essential
social/economic infrastructure investments. While full cost recovery is not realistic, economic
microprojects will require a larger share of the community contribution in cash (7.5% for economic
infrastructure versus 3% cash requirement for social infrastructure) to initiate cost recovery. In addition,
accounts will be established up-front for required advance payments from the community to ensure the
14



ability to pay for economic services such as water and gas supply.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                            Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
Government ensures core operating budget for SIF-           S          Ministry of Finance agrees to support
financed facility maintenance and staff services.                      MSIF investments. Agreement on
sustainability plans signed between MSIF,
local government, and implementing
agency. MSIF will coordinate with line
ministries on consolidation plans.
Community financial contribution and
participation in microprojects will place
pressure on local/national govemment to
be accountable. Beneficiary associations
will raise additional funds for operation
and maintenance, and work in partnership
with local govemment.
Communities are willing and able to contribute,           M            Pilot indicates strong community interest
participate, and help sustain facilities.                              and commitment to participation.
Communities receiving additional
technical assistance from MSIF on fund-
raising and sustainability planning.
Beneficiary associations will help sustain
facilities post-investment. Performance
contracts will provide pilot models for
sustainability.
MSIF professional capacity is adequate to serve demand    M            PMU has undertaken intensive training/TA
and ensure quality.                                                    during one year pilot period. MSIF PMU
microproject staff will expand to comprise
two field teams. MSIF will do weekly
supervision/follow up for quality assurance
at all sites. MSIF will subcontract out to
local consultants after intensive training
and mentoring. Annual independent
technical audits and close supervision
more generally.
Qualified and committed community members will            M            Rapid needs and capacity assessments in
volunteer their time to participate as members of the                  each community indicate willingness to
Implementing Agency and beneficiary association;                       participate. MSIF places strong emphasis
communities collaborate to raise 15% contribution to                   on upstream technical assistance to
project cost.                                                          communities, and to microproject
promotion phase (e.g. maximum
information to communities re: costs,
benefits and choices). MSIF appraisal
process places high priority on willingness
to participate. Requirement of up to 30%
attendance at general community meetings,
including women. MSIF assists
communities in raising 15% community
contribution.
Local mayor and beneficiary or users associations are    M             Needs and capacity assessments indicate
willing to cooperate.                                                  attitudes of local govemment; local
elections keep officials responsive and
15



accountable to SIF communities. Local
government is represented on
Implementing Agencies, often as Director,
and is beneficiary of MSIF training/skill-
building.
Skilled trainers are available and training is effective in  M         Pilot has identified, and is working with
capacity-building of conmmunities and local govemments.                several professional trainers (Contact,
Soros). Close project monitoring, including
beneficiary assessments, will indicate
whether training programs and technical
assistance by MSIF are truly building
capacity and skills of self-sufficiency at the
community level.
Government remains committed to social sector             M            New reform-minded Govemment involved
improvements/reforms and supportive of early childhood                 in social sector reforms through other
development and health care reform.                                    projects/programs. MSIF works with
respected partners Soros Foundation and
UNICEF.
Government maintains its financial commitment to project   H           Bank has agreed to keep Govemment
and deposits counterpart funds each quarter.                           contribution in cash to minimum levels;
co-financiers may assist through grants to
cover counterpart funding requirements
during fiscal crisis.
MSIF and Government/line ministries are able to maintain   S           Bank teams in health and education
full consistency between social sector reform                          continue to work on strategic reforms
policies/plans, and MSIF microproject investments.                     (through sector and project work) with
Government and to keep MSIF informed;
microproject appraisal process requires
coordination with, and approval from,
relevant line ministries.
O)verall Risk Rating     M M__________________
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The new Government will require periodic orientation, and consistent flows of information regarding MSIF
operational procedures so that the project methodology and goals are well understood and may avoid undue
political influences. There may be questions and potential concerns about the resource allocations by
districts, since those with larger rural populations will receive more SIF fimds for microprojects. The
poorest communities (or those having experienced situational economic disasters such as a freeze or flood)
-- MSIF's primary target population -- are having serious difficulties raising the 15% community
contribution. If MSIF is not sensitive and patient with these communities, they may be discriminated
against and lose the opportunity for a microproject to a more organized and capable rural community. The
situation of potential exclusion will be closely monitored. Although the MSIF has begun to subcontract its
work to NGOs and local consultants, the project may face a situation similar to other SIFs in the region
where community demand for microprojects outstrips SIF's ability to respond. To address this, the MSIF
will continue to outsource to consultants and will increasingly use members of successful Implementing
Agencies to support promotion work.
G: Main Credit Conditions
I. Conditions of Board Presentation (3):
i)    Government adoption by January 10, 1999 of the Government decree regarding the Moldova SIF
Regulations (Charter), satisfactory to the Association, including the establishment of the Moldova SIF
National Board with composition satisfactory to the Association.
ii)    Appointment of core PMU professional staff of eight (8), satisfactory to the Association.
16



iii)   Final approval by National Board of Operational Manual and Handbooks.
2. Conditions of Effectiveness (4):
i)    Counterpart funding of US$75,000 deposited into local account.
ii)   the SIDA Grant Agreement or Agreements in the amount indicated in Recital B of the Preamble to
the Development Credit Agreement has or have been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent
to its or their effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled.
iii)   Execution of Implementation Agreement on behalf of Borrower and MSIF.
iv)   Financial audit reports for fiscal year 1998 for the following project preparation accounts: a) PHRD
grant; b) Project Preparation Facility (PPF); c) SIDA grant; and d) community contribution.
4. Dated Covenant (4):
i)    Completion of the final Management Information System (MIS) User's Manual by May 1, 2000.
ii)   Completion of carrying out of time-bound action plan for strengthening of the financial management
system by December 31, 1999.
iii)   Completion of procurement technical audit for the first year of implementation by October 1, 2000.
iv)   Completion of mid-term review of project implementation and progress report by December 31,
2001
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[ X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G)
17



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature]
Anush Bezhanyan
Task Team Leader, ECSHD, Social Protection Team
[signature]         j
AlanThompson        7/
Program Team  eader Human Ieve   lent, Social Protec        ova
[signature]
James Christoph     elace
Sector Director, Human Development
18



Annex 1
Logical Framework
Logical Framework
Project Design Summary
Moldova: Social Investment Fund (MSIF)
i atIeSummary: Sector-   f     Key Performance Indicators                   Monitoring and Evaluation                  Critical Assumptions  ; 2;
et lated CAS Goal  .                                                 _. _-_.                                             (Goal to Bank Mission) .'-11,
1. Improved living conditions  1. % of rural population served by MSIF  I. Data from MSIF baseline study and annual   I.  Government supports multiple
for the rural population,         to total # of rural population          beneficiary impact assessment                sector reform
particularly the poor          2.  % of rural population benefiting from   2. Facility database/records on # of users  2. Government continues to support
the MSIF rehabilitated infrastructure   3. Information from Soros, UNICEF and other  social and economic sector
facilities to total # of rural population  partners (qualitative and quantitative  investments in rural areas
3. # of rehabilitated social and economic  information)                             3. Government continues financing
infrastructure                     4. Department of Statistics household budget     of recurrent costs for operation and
survey                                      maintenance of infrastructure
5. Primarias                                    facilities
6. District-level executive Committee       4. Political stability is maintained
7. Department of Statistics employment      5.  Economic growth resumes
survey                                   6. MSIF partners collecting
information
5              -* Devel 'p'- 2 , *< i ey- Performance Indicators          Monitoring and Evaluation                   Critical Assumptions 
5%~W.9bjectlves-'_______________   _________________                                                                 (Objective to Gol
1. Help empower rural          1. Number of new community-based       I. MSIF staff and MIS                        I. Communities are willing and able
communities by                organizations created to pursue     2. Primarias                                     to maintain participation
strengthening their           development objectives based on     3. Community-based organizations             2. Infrastructure facilities are
capacities to make decisions,  democratic principles              4. World Bank supervision mission reports        maintained
organize, and manage       2. % of beneficiaries that become      5. Household budget survey                   3. Budget to ensure provision of
members of user/beneficiary         6. MSIF baseline study                           services is provided
associations to total 3 of beneficiaries   7. Annual beneficiary impact assessment  4. Personnel for rehabilitated
3. Number of residents, contractors, local                                             facilities is available
officials, professional staff, NGOs, and
_   consultantstrained tbhough, and    I                                           I i_l
19



20
participating in, MSIF.
2.  Improve the quality of basic   4.  % rural population benefiting from
social and economic services      improved social/economic services to
for rural populations in          total rural population of targeted
Moldova, particularly the          regions
poor.                         5.  Number and types of projects
completed by communities
6. Number of micro-projects operational
and maintained one and two years
after investment completed
7. % of targeted population who express
satisfaction with improved services
provided through micro-project one,
two and three years after investment.
''.Ot4y? .  'S.>';Key Performance Indicators                     Monitoring and Evaluation                        Critical Assumptions
~.  ~   ___________ ________________ -_______________      ________________(O utputs  to   O bjectives)'
1.  Rehabilitated infrastructure    1.  # of completed rehabilitated           1.  Beneficiary impact assessment                 1.  Government ensures budget for
facilities in rural areas          infrastructure facilities, total and per    2.  MSIF field staff and MIS                      operation of rehabilitated facilities
microproject type                      3.  Primaria                                       2.  Communities decided to
2.  # of newly constructed infrastructure    4.  Implementing Agencies                            participate and to sustain facilities
facilities, total and per microproject  5.  Users associations (PTA, WUA etc.)            3.  Qualified people are willing to
per type                               6.  Facility staff (FAP, school and other)         4.  Community hermbers to work in lAs
to provide minimal contribution
5.  Qualified private contractors are
willing to participate
2. Improved capacities of
MSIF participants:
2.1. Communities capable to        1.  % of IA with approved m/p newly         1.  All above mentioned sources                    I .  Target groups are motivated to
organize and sustain services          created to total # of lAs participated  2.  UNICEF, SOROS and other partners                   participate in training
(with approved mlp)                    3.  Training institutions                          2.  Skilled trainers are available and
2.  % of users associations created to                                                            training is effective in capacity
total # of micro-projects completed by                                                        building
the MISF                                                                                  3.  Primaria and users associations are
3.  % of IA/BA trained in organization                                                      I    willing to cooperate



and community development to total                                           4. Minimal turnover of key MSIF
# of IA/BA                                                                       staff
4. % of communities who have initiated   1.  All above mentioned sources
new micro-projects without the MSIF  2.  Primaria
participation to #of targeted
communities
5. % of services functioning after one
year to total # of rn/p
6. % of users associations functioning
after one year to total # of UAs
created by the MSIF
7. % of communities that have micro-
project sustainability plans under
implementation and after one year to
total # of communities with approved
m/p
8. % of teachers, doctors and nurses
trained to the total # of professional
staff in rehabilitated facilities
9. # of micro-projects with the
establishes maintenance funds
2.2. Primarias capable to     1. # of primarias requested MSIF      I . All above mentioned sources
manage divested assets           training in managing divested assets   2. Consultants
2. % of micro-projects implemented by   3. NGOs
primaria as I/A to total 3 of approved   4. Other associates
n/p
1. # of contractors trained by the MSIF    I . All above mentioned sources
2.3. Contractors capable of   2. % of contractors having more than  2. Associated institutions and consultants
competing and executing           one micro-project to total # of   3. WB supervision mission reports
contracts under market            contracts
conditions
2.4. MSIF associates, consultant,  I. # of local consultants who have  1. All above mentioned sources
NGOs etc. have acquired           participated in MSIF activities   2. Annual staff performance evaluation
organizational skills         2. # of local NGOs involved in MSIF      records
21



22
3. 0 of micro-projects implemenited by
NGOs to total 3 of rm p
2.5. MSIF staff has acquired     I . # of MSIF staff received training
improved skills                  2.  Level of satisfaction expressed in
evaluations by trainees
3.  % of staff with positive statements in
personnel performance evaluation
reports to total # of the MSFI staff
3.  Improved early child         4.  % of rehabilitated schools with a new    3.  All above  mentioned sources            I.  Government remains committed to
education in targeted            child education program from total #    4.  Trained teachers                             continuation of early child
communities                      of rehabilitated schools              5.  Parents and Teachers Associations              development education program
5.  Number of children benefiting from   6.  Soros                                       2.  Parents and teachers support early
new child programs                   7.  UNICEF                                          child education program
6.  Number of persons trained in child
care
4.  Health programs in targeted   7.  % of rehabilitated FAPs with trained    8.  All above sources                       1.  Government is committed to
communities                      personnel from to total # of          9.  Trained doctors and nurses                     strengthening primary health care
rehabilitated FAPs                   10. Soros                                           according to the sector reform
8.  # of rehabilitated FAPs with special  11. UNICEF                                         strategy
health programs to total # of        12. Other partners                              2.  FAP staff and community are
rehabilitated FAPs                                                                       committed to participated in health
education training program
5.  Temporary jobs created       9.  # of short term consultants contracted    I .  All above source                      I.  Qualified personnel and labor are
by the MSIF                           2.  Contractors                                    available
10. # contractors contracted              3.  Local Supervisor                          2.  Contractors are willing to engage
11. # of people employed by contractors    4.  IA                                           local labor force
12. % of women employed from total        5.  Beneficiaries                             3.  Qualified private contractors are
labor employed by the contractor      6.  Beneficiary impact assessment                  willing to bid for works
13. % of local labor to total from total                                                4.  Qualified consultants are available
people employed by contractor
14. average # of employee-days created
per micro-project
15. # of local supervisors employed
16. # of outside trainers employed
- - - Project Compooents/                   Inputs                             Monitoring and Evaluation                     Critical Assumptions



Subcomponents (See Annex 2                                                                                                     (Components to Outputs)
for Project Description)                                                                                                                       . _       .
1.  Poverty targeting (district  1. MSIF budget                            I . Community rapid needs and capacity         1.  Capable consultants and NGOs
and conmmunity level)        2. MSIF staff expertise                       assessments                                    available
3. Subcontracted NGOs and consultants   2. Beneficiary impact assessment                 2.  Data collected is accurate and
4. Training for the consultants          3. MSiF field staff and MIS                         reliable
4.  MSIF consultants
5. MSIF targeting (resource allocation) study
I. Public awareness program      I . MSIF budget                           1. # of programs broadcasted (TV and radio)    I . Capable consultants are available
(regional and national)      2.  MSIF staff expertise                 2.  # of publication in media
3. Subcontracted consultants
1.  Promotion of MSIF in         4.  MSIF budget                           1.  MSIF field staff and MIS                   2. Capable consultants are available
communities                  5. MSIF staff expertise                  2.  MSIF Consultants                            3. Communities are willing to
6.  Subcontracted consultants            3.  Training institutions                           participate
7.  TA and training to communities       4.  lAs
5.  Beneficiary impact assessment studies
2.  Preparation of the           I. MSIF budget                            i . MSIF field staff                           I . Capable consultants are available
microproject (up to approval  2.  MSIF staff expertise                2.  MSIF Consultants                            2.  Communities are willing to
by the EO)                   3.  Subcontracted consultants             3. MIS                                             participate
4.  TA and training to lAs               4.  Training institutions                       3.  Partners maintain their
5.  Soros budget                         5. lAs                                              commitment
6.  l]NICEF budget                       6.  Soros
7. Other partners budget                 7. liNI"EF
8.  Beneficiary impact assessment studies
3.  Process of contracting       1. MSIF budget                            1.  MSIF field staff and MIS                   I . Capable consultants are available
private contractors          2.  MSIF staff expertise                 2.  MSIF Consultants                            2. Qualified private contractors are
3.  Training to lAs                      3.  Training institutions                           willing to bid
4.  Training to the contractors          4.  lAs
5.  Beneficiary impact assessment studies
5.  Follow up on microproject                                              1.  MSIF field staff and MIS                   1. Capable consultants are available
implementation, including                                            2.  MSIF Consultants                           2. Contractors are willing to engage
programs                                                             3.  MIS                                             local labor force
4.  Training institutions report               3.  Qualified private contractors are
5.  IAs                                            willing participate
6.  Soros                                      4.  Partners maintain their
7. UNICEF
23



24
8. Beneficiary impact assessment studies        commitments
9. MSIF Financial Management System
(LACI)
6. Training for:               1. MSIF budget                          1. MSIF field staff and MIS                  1. Target groups are motivated to
*  IAs                         2. MSIF staff expertise                2. MSIF Consultants                              participate in training
*  UAs                         3. Soros budget                        3. Primaria                                  2. Skilled trainers are available and
*  Contractors                 4. UNICEF budget                       4. Training institutions report                  training is effective in capacity
*  Primarias                   5. Other partners budget               5. lAs                                           building
*  MSIF associates             6. Consultants expertise               6. Soros                                     3. Primaria and users associations are
*  MSIF project team                                                  7. UNICEF                                        willing to cooperate
8. Beneficiary impact assessment studies    4. Minimal turnover of key MSIF
9. MSIF Financial Management System             staff
(LACI)
7. Technical assistance to     7. MSIF budget                          1. MSIF field staff and MIS                  1. Primaria and users associations are
MSIF participants        8. MSIF staff expertise                 2. MSIF Consultants                              willing to cooperate
9. Consultants expertise               3. Training institutions report              2. Minimal turnover of key MSIF
4. IAs                                          staff
5. Soros
6. UNICEF
7. Contractors
8. Local Supervisors
9. Users associations
10. Beneficiary impact assessment studies
11. MSIF Financial Management System
(LACI)
8. Development and             10. MSIF budget                         1. MSIF field staff and MIS                 3. Information is made available by
maintenance of databases   11. MSIF staff expertise              2. MSIF Consultants                              participants
of:                       12. Soros budget                       3. lAs
*  Community-based health      13. UNICEF budget                      4. Contractors
programs                   14. Other partners budget               5. Local supervisors
*  Community-based education  15. Consultants expertise                6. Communities
programs                                                           7. Soros
  Consultants                                                         8. UNICEF
*  Contractors                                                         9. Other partners



*  Local supervisors
1. External monitoring and    16. MSIF budget                       1. Annual beneficiary impact assessment    4. Qualified institutions available
evaluation                17. MSIF staff expertise                   studies                               5. Qualified consultants available and
18. Consultants expertise            2. Annual financial audit reports              willing to participate
3. Annual procurement and technical review
reports
4. Bank supervision mission reports
5. MSIF Financial Management System
(LACI)
6. MSIF Management Information System    I
25



Annex 2
Moldova: Social Investment Fund
Project Component 1 - US$16.7 million (total cost of component)
I. Improved Delivery of Basic Services: The objectives of this component are to improve rural
social and economic services, particularly for the poor, and to build local community capacity and
empowerment in the microproject process. This major component entails the rehabilitation of
village social and economic infrastructure in rural communities. Many of the infrastructure
rehabilitation microprojects will be twinned with programs to improve services, such as early
childhood development, primary health care programs, and public health and hygiene education.
The Moldova SIF serves as a autonomous, demand-driven financial intermediary which provides
technical assistance and transfers small grants (average US$65,000) to local community groups
(called Implementing Agencies) to take the lead in implementing microprojects which are
identified as highest priority by that conmmunity. Microproject types will include: kindergartens
and schools, local health posts, water supply systems, gas distribution systems, roads and bridges,
sewage and sanitation systems, houses of culture, and environmental projects such as
reforestation, soil erosion control, and landslide rehabilitation. The community is expected to
attend promotional/information meetings, organize into an elected body (Implementing Agency),
complete its microproject proposal application, raise 15% of total project cost, competitively
procure works and services, and supervise the implementation and future sustainability of the
facility and services (operation and maintenance). The MSIF provides promotion and informnation
on choices, technical assistance throughout the microproject cycle, formal appraisal of the
microproject, supervision oversight, and monitoring and evaluation. For some of the
microprojects, the MSIF will enter into performance contracts with Implementing Agencies or
beneficiary organizations to provide benchmarks for performance and incentives (through a 2-year
matching grant arrangement) to sustain the quality of the microproject services after the
investment has been completed.
Project Component 2 - US$0.37 million (total cost of component)
HI. Strengthened Children's Social Development and De-institutionalization: The objective of
this component is to reach out to an identified vulnerable subgroup in Moldova, institutionalized
children, and to support innovative, alternative care to state-run institutionalization. This
component, to be co-financed by Sida. envisions a SIF-type fund facility which includes
"targeted" microprojects for $US500,000 (these are included in Component 1, but are earmarked
for children's de-institutionalization) and a training and specialized technical assistance program
estimated at US$375,000. In collaboration with the Bank, Sida will carry out a future appraisal of
this component, and, in coordination with Sida, the Bank will supervise the component as part of
the overall project.
The component will leverage project resources to finance small innovative microproject/programs
to address the problems associated with the institutionalization of children and the evolving
problems of children caused by economic or social dislocations, including parental neglect. The
component objectives are: (i) to provide alternative care options in order to de-institutionalize
children; (ii) to return institutionalized children to their families or provide them with a familial
care environment; (iii) to prepare seriously handicapped children to become productive adults; and
(iv) to prevent the institutionalization of children in the future. The target beneficiaries will be
children with special needs and adult care-providers of children.
Implementation Arrangements. The project will allocate the amount of US$875,000 equivalent to
finance demand-driven community or institutional microprojects/programs that will meet the
component's objectives. An innovative microproject/program may be supported if the following
prerequisite criteria are met by the applicant:
26



1.    The proposal must come from a public or private institution, including non-government
organizations or associations duly constituted or recognized in Moldova.
2.    The proponents or implementing unit must be 'reform-oriented' and progressive in their
approaches to meeting the component's objectives.
3.    The overall proposal is within the ceiling limit of a microproject. During the first pilot year,
the ceiling will be US$50,000 or equivalent per proposed microproject/program.
4.    There is an explicit commitment, including in financial terms of 15% of total project cost in
cash and/or in-kind, from the relevant line ministries or local government units to support
the proposal in order to ensure support for, and sustainability of, the proposed
microproject/program activities.
5.    The proponents and the expected beneficiaries must indicate a tangible commitment to the
proposal to ensure ownership and participation in the design and implementation of the
microproject's program activities.
6.    The proponents must submit a written proposal indicating the problems addressed by the
proposal, specific microproject objectives, and an implementation plan, including estimated
microproject cost and financing requirements for a 5-year implementation period.
The proposal will be submitted to MSIF and reviewed. Based on an initial cost-benefit analysis, the
proposals with the most favorable cost-benefit ratios (lowest cost per beneficiary) will be prioritized
for provision of technical assistance by the MSIF team, including specialized consultants, to
improve the proposed microproject/program design and appraise the implementation plan with a
view to ensuring sustainability. The following microproject/program expenditures will be eligible
for financing from MSIF, namely: (i) the cost of physical rehabilitation of the facility, if needed; (ii)
training of the adult care-givers and/or institutional staff; (iii) goods, including furniture and
fixtures, equipment, special vehicles for transport of children, and materials; and (iv) consultant
specialists providing technical assistance. Whenever a physical rehabilitation of an institutional
facility is required, the adult care-givers or staff in the facility must be re-trained and re-oriented to
the new program proposed under the microproject. The remaining resource requirements must be
secured from other sources by the applicant.
Project Component 3 - US$1.27 million (total cost of component)
III. Capacity Building for Community and Local Government: This component is closely
linked to Component I and is essential in support of the project's primary development objective of
local capacity-building and community empowerment. The program will target community groups,
local NGOs, local contractors, and local government, with the objective to build skills and
relationships, and foster new community-government partnerships in the management of social and
economic infrastructure. The program will include local and foreign training and technical
assistance, as well as workshops and study visits, including to the MSIF PMU. Local governments
will receive specialized training as members of Implementing Agencies, as well as conceming
public sector finance and management, the management of divested social assets, and the role of
beneficiary associations and NGOs in civil society.
Project Component 4 - US$ 1.53 million (total cost of component)
IV. Project Management Unit: Support to recurring costs of the project management unit (PMU)
is critical to the success of the MSIF. The support program will include: salaries and wages of core
PMU staff and long-term consultants, limited office equipment (computers, software, copier),
furniture and fixtures (including telephones and telephone station), and operating costs such as
communications, local travel, utilities, bank charges, printing and publications, office supplies,
office rental, fuel, vehicle insurance and inspection, vehicle rental, vehicle maintenance and repair,
office repair and maintenance, parking fees, and project audits.
27



Annex 3
Republic of Moldova
Social Investment Fund Project
Project Cost Summary
%       % Total
(US$ '000)              Foreign     Base
COMPONENT                          Local      Foreign     Total    Exchange    Costs
1. Improved Delivery of Basic Services
Component                           11,769.65    3,237.35   15,007.00     22         84
2. Strengthened Children Social
Development Component                 175.44       170.00     345.44      49         2
3. Capacity Building for Communities &
Local Governments Component           881.72       268.28    1,150.00     23         6
4. Project Management Unit             1,008.85      372.17    1,381.03     27         8
Total BASELINE COSTS             13,835.66     4,047.80   17,883.47    23         100
Physical Contingencies                 1,352.96      401.89    1,754.85     23         10
Price Contingencies                          -       251.97     251.97     100         I
Total PROJECT COSTS              15,188.62     4,701.66  19,890.28     24         111
Note: The estimated project cost is based on foreign currency and therefore, the price
contingency is only reflected in the foreign cost component of the estimates.
28



Annex 4
Amex 7
Geographic 1mplemnentation Map
Implementarea geografica' a microproiectelor F]S\I in
Republica Moldova
A.ISIFgeographic inmplenletalio  nulmp
i n Republic of foldovCl
,                  ~      ~ ~~~~~ ~Soroca
Edne   EiA               2  
t]~      ~ ~ .4)1            Caiiieneas        T'railsiuistiia
Ribiu 
IBalti 7,jji- C9.                   t                 oilr(, ,,'o;,;  
North    C nr             l                   ,-   ;u.,.                 (Ui2nr,  /
Zonee
ila~~~~~~o
(7ahul        Ei  -    ---.
llngheni/  -.:  
- tltIde sl'u-t a  cieo
Hilleestl \  ,w,w:qF ~ SIob ozla 
Lii ~  ~ Dusn                               .. ..!laX^l u ..
Saiteh&Cenf1ra s.  . F,LILesa/ luei( igll;
Zotie;   !                                ' '.-
9,~~~~~~~ ue         z i;  I
.~'trl oin 'il toiec   team
29
'             C ,   F. Xli- 
i   n "I 1; J i; !.   1e D
C8LIIul U de -     sta l1 a2 ' echip lor
.-.r pons.b e; c  eii
29...



MSIF Executive Office
Annex S                                               Organizational Structure                       Total # of staff 27
| October 21998  |                                                                0-professional staff  - 8 core staff
-12 consultants
National Board                      6-support staff      - 5 core staff
l___________________________________________________  - I consultant
l MSIF ExecutiveDirector      ll
9)                                         I(5)                        (9                     (2I
Director of Finance and                        Director of Promotion      Director of Micro-         Director of
Administrative                               and Community            project Department      Information and
development                   (1)                Monitoring
Department (1) _                                 Department (1)
(2)            (6-)             (1)          ,-Promotion Unit      Appraisal Unit    Follow Up Unit        Office
Chief         Executive       Procurement
Accountant(1), secretary(1),  pecialist (1)(2)                  (3)               (3)           technologist
Accountant(l),   secretary()'     specialist (C1)      Social scientist    Construction      Construction          (1)
cashier (1)   driver-logistic(1), _______________   (1), Construction   engineers (3)      engineers(3)
janitor (1),                         engineer (1)
guards (2)                          Training &TA      Microproject Assi4stant (1), Estimator
coordinator(1)                  (Il
Children's
Social
Development
Specialist (1)
30



31
Annex 6
Project Implementation Schedule
Actions                          1998             1999                    2                        2001                      2002                      2003
Q4      Ql   Q2   Q3   Q4   Ql   Q2   Q3   Q4  Qi  Q2    Q3   Q4    Ql   Q2    Q3    Q4    Ql   Q2    Q3    Q4
Preparation phase
I Finalize draft MSIF Charter, regulations and NB membership
2 Obtain and send to the WB a letter of Ministry of Construction
regarding MSIF-adapted norms and standards
3 Finalize cost-benefit anal ises for gas n/p and send to WB
4 Finalize draft Operational Manual and Handbooks and send to WB
5 Sign MoUs (2) for health education
6 Finalize ToRs for core staff and long term consultants
7 Obtain letters of comitments from donors
8 Conduct staff performance evaluation
9 Finalise and confirm vith WB recruittment of core staff
10 Develop performance contract and send to teh WB
I Prepare ToR for baseline data-collection study
12 Confirm with WB designation of one internal auditor
13 Finalize the I-S account system users manual and send to WB
14 Comphte implementation of 18 pilot microprojects
15 Prepare (promotion and appraisal)pipeline of 10
microprojects for the main phase
16 Conduct audit of pilot project
17 Procurement of additional equipment
18 Participation in ECA SIF regional conferance
Main phase
PMU
I Ensure that the GoM funding is deposited in
special account in local commercial bank
2 Obtaine signed agreements with co-financiers
3 Submit the pilot project audit report to the WB
4 Confirm appointment of internal auditor
5 Procurment of additional equipment
6 Procurement of vehicle
7 Project Management and administration training
8 English language training
9 Procurement of the techincal advisory firm
10 Training Microproject appraisal and supervision techniques
I Procurement training
12 Computer technology training
13 Disbursement training
14 Paticipation in the conferances
15 Participation in donor meetings
16 Study tour to Latin American SIF



Mleroprojects-                                                                           -      -      --                 -      -       --                                  --                    -      -
Promotion0
17 Dubasari, Kabul, Kantemir. Leova, Gladen, Sindjerei districts (6)
IS Razhkan, Hanchesht, Yaloven, Chimishlia, Edenets. Brichen,
Oknitsm. Dondushen (S)
19 Ungen, Kalarash, Strashen. Aneni Noy, Kahinar. Drokis, Soroka,
Kamenka (8)
20 Floresht, Sloboeia, Kaushen. Telenesht, Basarabiaska, Komrat,
Chaderlunga, Taraklia (S)
21 Resins. Orgei (2)
M icreprojeet appraisal
22 Stephan Vodi, Criulen. Dubasari, Falesht, Kahul. Kantemir. Leova
Oladen, Sidjerei. Razhkan, Hinchest, Yaloven, Chimishlia
23 Yedenetx, Brichen, Ocnitsa. Dandushen, Ungen, Kalarash,
Strashen. Aneni Noy, Kahinar, Drokia, Soroka
24 Kamenka, Floresht, Telenesht, Slobozia. Kaushen. Basarabiaska,
Komrat. Chaderlunga, Taraklia
25 Resina. Orgey
Smpervisisa of. icraprojeet procurement
26 Procurement of 10 m icroprojects (from preparation phase)
27 Stephan Vodi, Criulen. Dubasari, Falesht. Kahul
23 Kantemir, Leova. Gladen, Sidjerei, Razhkan. Hinchest
29 Yoloven, Chimishlia, Yedenets, Brichen, Ocnitsa, Dandushen,
Ungen
30 Kalarash, Strashen, Aneni Noy. Kahinar, Drokia, Soroka,
Kamenka. Floresht, Telenesht, Slobozia, Kaushen
31 Basarabiaska. Komrat. Chaderlunga, Taraklia, Resins. Orgey
M icroprojeet supervisi.s
32 Implementation of 10 microprojects (from preparation phase)
33 Stephan Vodi, Criulen. Dubasari, Falesht
34 Kahul, Kantemir. Leova, Gladen. Sidjerei, Razhkan
35 Hinchesht, Yaloven, Chimishlia, Yedenets, Brichen, Ocnitsa,
Dondushen
36 Ungen, Kalarash, Strashen, Aneni Noy, Kahinar, Drokia, Soroka.
Kamenka, Floresht, Telenesht
37 Slobozia. Kaushen, Basarabiaska, Komrat, Chaderlunga, Taraklia
Resina. Orgey
Capacity building
3S Training to the lAs and primaria
39 Training to the contractors                                                   -      -       -
40 Pre-tender conferences
41 TA for preparation of community action plans
M   itoring
42 Base-line data collection
43 Blenefrciary impact assessm ent
44 Procurement and technical audit
45 Financial audit
46 Pefformance review
32



Annex 7
Moldova: Social Investment Fund
Microproject Typology and Appraisal Criteria
1. Microproject Typology
The Pilot MSIF tested different types of microprojects in order to identify a suitable typology of microprojects for
the main investment project, elaborated in the final Operational Manual.
The microproject typology detailed below is characterized by two major types: (i) infrastructure microprojects and
(ii) non-infrastructure microprojects. The MSIF may fund infrastructure or non-infrastructure microprojects, or
alternatively, an infrastructure microproject may be complemented by a non-infrastructure component.
(i) The types of infrastructure microprojects that the MSIF may finance will include, but may not be limited to:
1. Social Infrastructure:
*  rehabilitation of local health posts (Feldshar Accousher Post or FAP), including building repairs, hygiene
facilities, sanitation, cold and/or hot water supply, winterization (insulation), ventilation, energy conservation,
space consolidation and minor equipment and supplies;
*  rehabilitation of pre-school facilities, primary and secondary schools, rural music and art schools, including
building repairs, hygiene facilities, sanitation, cold and/or hot water supply, winterization (insulation),
ventilation, energy conservation, space consolidation and minor equipment and supplies;
*  rehabilitation of foster homes, old age homes, centers for street children and institutionalized persons which are
organized by communities;
:  rehabilitation of community centers, such as libraries, houses of culture, commnunity halls and clubs, including
building repairs, hygiene facilities, sanitation, cold and/or hot water supply, winterization (insulation).
ventilation, roof repair, energy conservation, space consolidation and minor equipment and supplies.
2. Economic Infrastructure:
*  rehabilitation and construction of local (community) level potable water networks: supply lines, distribution
networks, source development, construction of new artesian wells and pumping stations, rehabilitation of public
shallow wells and measures to improve water quality (e.g. cleaning wells, installation of pumps etc.);
*  rehabilitation of community-based irrigation networks;
*  rehabilitation of village or neighborhood roads, access roads to isolated villages, access roads to agricultural
lands and farms (including bridges, drainage, culverts, retaining walls, etc.);
*  rehabilitation of energy-generating facilities for small and isolated communities, including gas distribution and
electrical lines, energy conservation measures;
*  rehabilitation of telephone lines for isolated villages.
3. Sanitation and Environmental Infrastructure:
*  rehabilitation and expansion of local/community level sewage networks, and pumping stations;
*  disposal and treatment of solid and liquid waste in the communities;
*  environmental improvement and rehabilitation of degraded villages through tree planting and clean up;
*  erosion control activity (tree planting, terracing, drainage canals) on public lands.
(ii) The types of non-infrastructure microprojects that the Pilot MSIF may finance include:
*  introduction of new early childhood development educational programs for pre-schools and primary schools
(e.g. Step-by-Step program by Soros Foundation or similar programs by UNICEF);
*  commnunity health programs, including introduction of basic service protocols and equipment, health
information/education programs, community workshops on safe motherhood, family planning, nutrition, water
and sanitation etc.
*  training of FAP/medical staff and care-givers on primary health care (e.g. CDD, ARI, pre-natal care etc.).
*  specialized training and technical assistance programs for adult care-givers and staff at children's institutions.
33



II. Microproject Appraisal Criteria
During microproject field appraisal, the MSIF appraisal engineers and social scientist conduct extensive interviews and
discussion with members of the beneficiary community. The team must ensure the inclusion of the nore disadvantaged
members of the community (women, female heads of household, old age pensioners, other minorities). Such discussions
with the community must be used for the following purposes:
*  ensuring that the proposed microproject reflects the priorities of the various members and subgroups of the
community and has full community support;
*  advising the community on advantages, disadvantages, potential terms and conditions that are required;
*  discussing the capacity of the community to contribute to microproject costs, levels of participation in the
implementation and processes to ensure transparency and accountability in use of fuxds;
*  examining the possibility of forming a Microproject Committee or Implementing Agency (IA) -- in the absence of
such community-based organization and/or larger Beneficiary Association (BA);
*  identifyting community preferences for suitable intermediaries and contractors, (where the community does not
have adequate institutional capacity) to act on behalf of the community;
*  identifying the communities needs for training, capacity building and technical assistance.
The MSIF team is required to make a thorough analysis of the microproject using the appraisal criteria described below.
This criteria has been well-tested in the Pilot microprojects, and further refined and developed for the Operational
Manual. The Pilot MSIF attempted to target a wide range of different types of microprojects in order to gain experiences
and develop technical criteria for different types of infrastructure and programs for the main project.
After appraisal all the microprojects are ranked by the MIS according to main criteria such as poverty proxy score of
conmnunity, cost per beneficiary, cost per basic unit, capacity of community to participate and contribute to the
microproject etc. The details of this ranking methodology are described in the Appraisal Handbook, which is an annex to
the Operational Manual. This information will be presented to the MSIF Executive Conmmittee (the decision making
body comprised of the Executive Director and four Department Directors) for the approval of microproject.
Exclusive Appraisal Criteria
The following exclusive criteria must be met before a microproject is selected for Appraisal:
1. Preliminary Selection Criteria.
(i) Cost of microproject should not exceed $75,000;
(ii) Microproject should meet the MSIF typology criteria described in the paragraph above.
2. Community Contribution.
the conmmunity contribution must meet the minimum requirements (15% of total project cost, out of which 20 % or
3% of total project cost is in cash). The greater the level of community contribution, the higher the project will be
ranked.
3. Sustainability and Maintenance.
The microproject must have a clear plan, budget and schedule of operation and maintenance which meets the
general requirements outlined in the MSIF Operational Manual.
4. Technical Norms and Standards.
The microproject must adequately conform to the technical norms and standards adopted by the MSIF.
5. Environmental Criteria.
The proposal must screen environmental impacts, and must include measures to mitigate any small degree of
environmental damage.
6. Lack of basic infrastructure.
The microproject must be located in the area where the community lacks appropriate basic infrastructure.
7. Duplication of resources.
The proposed microproject must not be targeted for closure, restructuring or government cutbacks. It must not be
targeted for construction or renovation by other programs (NGO or government). There must be no other plans to
provide such facilities in the area.
34



8. Legal permits.
When required by Moldavian regulations, there must be a written authorization or permit from local/ regional
government for execution of works.
9. Individual permits.
When applicable, there must be a written agreement or other evidence from individuals authorizing use of their land
for access to the microproject site.
Appraisal Evaluation Criteria
If the microproject meets the above mentioned exclusive criteria it will be passed to the appraisal and will be evaluated
against (i) social; (ii) institutional; (iii) economic; (iv) technical and (v) environmental criteria described below.
1. Social Criteria
a) Community Participation
*  the percentage of the adult population of the community who attended the general community meeting (GCM)
and supported the selection of microproject is not less than 30%;
*  the percentage of the adult population of the community who supported the microproject through petition is not
less than 50%;
*  no more than two village council officials are present on the elected Microproject Committee (MC);
*  the MC has adhered to deadlines in preparation of the microproject;
-  size and sources of the community contribution are acceptable for the MSIF;
-  the community is willing to participate in the implementation of programs to improve services; and
-  there is a sound plan by community to supervise the microproject implementation.
b) Social Impact
-  the labor cost of the microproject is at least 20 % of total cost;
*  the microproject creates a number of temporary jobs for community (number of person-days of employment
created);
-  the rationale/need! urgency of works to be supported by the microproject is evident;
:  the microproject is targeted to impact women, children, poor and vulnerable.
c) Gender Impact
* the mnicroproject has a direct beneficial impact on women and children; if not, appropriate measures are incorporated
into microproject design to ensure women/children beneficiaries;
* at least 40% of the attendees of GCM are women;
* at least two elected members of the MC are women.
2. Institutional Criteria
a) Community Organizational Capacity
the capacity of the IA to implement the microproject;
*  the existence of community organizations or other agencies which can act in that capacity, when such a capacity is
lacking within the benefiting community;
*  the existence of other organizations with the necessary expertise, e.g. contractors, consultants, NGOs, etc.;
*  review and assess the mayor's (primaria) cooperation/participation with the IA;
*  the existence of the organization to undertake the operations and maintenance and/or ability/capacity of MC to
remain as organized entity to undertake operation and maintenance;
*  community capacity to make any in-kind and financial contributions to microproject and for its further O&M;
*  determine the need for training/technical assistance and make the necessary arrangement to satisfy the needs;
*  assess the soundness of the sustainability plan, budget and schedule for operation and maintenance;
*  the history of the community in mobilizing/cooperating for infrastructure (e.g. school, church etc) repair,
maintenance and operation in the last two years - participation, contribution etc.
35



Implementing Agency Capacity
*  what is the status of the organization? Is it properly registered? Can it be/does it want to be registered?
* does it have the requisite technical and organizational experience?
*  does it have credibility with the beneficiary groups it intends to work with in implementing the microproject?
* does it have a competent and motivated staff?
* does it have an adequate administrative and organizational capacity to enable it to meet the operational and reporting
requirements of the EO?
* does it have a satisfactory accounting systems?
* does it have the ability to properly supervise and assist the beneficiaries to make a success of the microproject?
Approvals and Agreements
* the microproject has obtained the agreement of the local government and/or central government where required by
Moldavian law;
* the facility is owned by the local village council (primaria);
*  Memorandum of Understanding for facility maintenance and operation is signed with local village council (primaria)
Sustainability
* existence of organization/s (including Government or private institutions) that would take responsibility for the
recurrent costs and maintenance after withdrawal of MSIF;
* capability of community for absorbing incremental operating costs;
* creation of Beneficiary/Users' Association or possibility of the IA to continue involvement in management of facility;
*   creation of"sustainability fund".
Economic Criteria
*  the cost of microproject is not more than $75,000 (in case of school consolidation $100,000);
* the microproject is financially feasible;
* the costs are realistic and take into account all potential items of expenditure;
*   community contribution is at least 15% of microproject cost, out of which at least 3% are in cash (for economic
infrastructure at least 7.5 % cash);
* for the economic infrastructure the tariffs are calculated, the maintenance costs are incorporated into tariff and there is a
clear evidence that the IA/MC/primaria will ensure the payment of fees;
* the MC/IA agree to the MSIF disbursement and procurement conditions;
*  cost benefit analyses of microproject, such as cost per beneficiary, cost per unit are within the limits acceptable for the
MSIF;
* the capacity of the infrastructure facility vis-a-vis the actual and expected demand is evaluated.
Technical Criteria
* ensure that the necessary studies such as feasibility study, geological, technical and other expertise, additional
supervision etc are completed and results/necessary measures are incorporated into the microproject design and cost;
*  ensure the compliance of design with the national and the MSIF adopted construction norms and standards.
Environmental Criteria
*  the microproject has been screened and no adverse impacts on the environment, and if so, suitable mitigating measures
are incorporated into microproject design;
*  compliance with the environmental impact checklist as per type of the microproject.
Gender Impact Criteria
*  the microproject has a direct beneficial impact on women and children; if not, appropriate measures are taken to
incorporate participation of, and benefits to, women and children into design.
36



Annex 8
MSIF MIS Structure
Guidelines
Monitoring          *0 EC decisions                         |Library
*System                 Management Unit
Auditing
_ System
Resources                                    Milro- 
Targeting    \                               project     \
Unit\/                                                      \
System
|Pronmotion     ||Appraisal               Contracting        Follo p        Connection         |       Administra
Knit           *      Unit          >     UniUnit                        witt    +  Wl   5tor
Unit              Unit        Accounting
T                                                 System
Microproject          Unit Price Database                                          Access
Budgeting            (compound prices)                                           Rights
Supervisor
37



Annex 9 Microproject Implementation Flow Chart
MSIFMICRO-PROJECT CYCLE FLOW CHART
LOCAL STUDYAND PROMOTION
COMUNNITY INITIATIVES                          NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
INITIATIVES
Community Groups,
local governments (primarias),                    Local govenmment, NGO,
local NGO's                              PVO and other national
church authorities and                             organizations
other organizations
Based on the original target
matrix the regions to be
visited first are selected
MSIF promotion team visits          MSIF promotion teams visit
the district government and         ALL villages in the district,
conduct interviews, using the       conduct rapid  needs  and
Regional  Key  Informants           capacity   assessment   by
questionnaire  and  inform          interview  local government
officials about MSIF goals          officials, focus groups and
and objectives                      community members. They
inform them about MSIF
goals and objectives and
existing opportunities.
MSIF  holds  a  Regional            Community holds a General
Seminar to explain MSIF             Community Meeting (GCM)
objectives and procedures           and selects micro-project and
Implementing Agency (IA)
eL



IDENTIFICATION
FROM
PROMO
TION
Implementing
Agency (IA) submits to the     101
MSIF a complete standard
Micro-project
Proposal Form
a
MSIF PROMOTION
UNIT
reviews all the documents
of the Proposal
102                                                                             103
/   \                       I~~~~~~03
I.A. is asked to                                                         The Proposal is
complement the      No                   Does the               Yes        accepted and
Proposal or to                           Proposal                        forwarded to the
receive technical                         meet                           Appraisal Process.
assistance.                            prelimi  
. r ,rNo
The Proposal does
not pass the
preliminary criteria                      IF
and is REJECTED.                     APPRAISAL
104     39



APPRAISAL AND APPROVAL PROCESS
FROM
IDENTIFICA
TION
Appraisal Enigineer (AE)                 Head of Micro-project
studies the documents,Deatntrcisth
gets in touch with the IA                file  (Proposal)  and
and visits the Micro-                  assigns it to an AE
project site
IA is asked to                       The Proposal is
complement the                        rejected and the
proposal or to receive                 documents are sent
_________   _       _IF                       technical assistance           _    back to the IA with the
At the site, the AE                                                                 corresponding
verifies the original                              i i                               explanations.
information and collects                          YP        s
complementary data.
/   \             ~~~                      ~~~No  No
The Proposal wan  M//
/   Appraisal Report is
IF                 ,presented to                                              Is the  Proposa
At the Office, the AE                        Pepproval p    as_                          technically     >
appraises the Micro-                                                               Tprojec 
project for the following                                                                        aprvd
aspects:              _/                        es                                  \
TECHNICAL,/I
ECONOMIC,                                                                           tions to saNo  Yes
SOCIAL,/PrpsJne                                               \
INSTITUTIONAL & er                                 coimplementa
ENVIRONMENTAL                                y\ inom a
The Proposal and M/P
Appraisal Report iss
presented to the   I
Executive Committee.
T'he Proosal isNo                 s/\iro                     No       | Th1e Mi=cr-project is     |
reeThed Posand ishe                       project                >conditional]ly approved.
documents are sent back                 \     approved?                           The IA must meet certain
to the IA with the                       \/conditions to start with
corresponding letter.                       YsL                                      implementation.
r An official letter is sent to the IA 
authorizing the collection of
community contribution and procuring
the local supervisor.
CONTRACTING
PROCESS



CONTRACTING PROCESS
FROM
APROVAL
MSIF signs an
Agreement with
the IA
IA invites two
Yes    ~contractors and the
Shtpogna                             MSIF one
(3 C                              contractor to present
Contractors)                     bids to execute the
Micro-project.
IA with MSIF          Yes                                                MSIF assists the IA
assistance announces                     Competitive                         during the bidding
Bidding process in the                           g                           process and ensures
newspapers.                                  n                            its transparency.
No
IF                              Direct Contracting
MSIF assists the IA          The MSIF provides the IA the MIS
during the whole                generated budget of the MP.
process and assures its         The IA invites the Contractor who
transparency.                will work according to the MSIF
prices.
cool
IA and AE present to
MSIF all documents
IA selects a                     for no-objection
Supervisor.
C002
IA is signing Contract
with the selected
Contractor and Local
Supervisor
C003
FOLLOW-UP 1
PROCESS        4



FOLLOW-UP PROCESS
The Micro-project
Department Director
FO1        reviews the file and                       The FE enters a
mverifies that all                complementary information
dordmernds assignsl   into the MIS and adjusts the
t  a   I            ~~~~~order and assigns                    wr-ceue
micro-project to a                       work-schedule.
Follow up engineer
(FE).
The FE meets with the
F02        IA, Contractor and
Supervisor. At the    _
site the Letter of
Starting Order is
signed. The Micro-
project starts                    A Provisional
The Contractor                   officially.                       Hand Over
executes a portion of                                                docuinent is        F06
the Micro-project and    F03                                         signed by the
Contractor, IA,
prepares the next                                                  Supervisor and
Statement of                                                      FE. All
Accomplished                                                      recommendations
Works (SAW).                                                       are written in the
document.
.V  7F04-FO5
MSIF                            F07              All the
The Contractor                            Accountin                                        ons are
presents to the                           g Unit                                           carried out by
Supervisor the SAW.                         prepares                                          the
Contractor.
Supervisor verifies the                      and pays                                          The FE
quantities and the                         the                                              adjusts the
quality on the site.                                            Yes                         final Micro-
F08         The Final Hand
Over is signed.
No       /        \                                              /       \                  The MPD orders
/  Does the    \                               /  Is this the   \            the Administrative
/ Supe  -rvisor final                                                 \          Unit to pay the last
\ approve 'he                                   \/Paymen                               SAW.
The FE
Y es                                                l                  |        with IA are
l  No                         l                   l        officially
closing the
MP.
|   The SAW is    |     g       Documents
T   |          1                  | ~~~~~~~~~~processed in the | iI
| The SAW is                    /     \|MSIF. The Head|                          
ipresented to the FE.         /Dete\             Ys  |of Micro-project| ,                  
FE verifies        S                 ~ ~~~~~~Departmnent signs    The execution process ends.
|aFE verlfies               <                        FE approve  thPe request fgn | | At this morment the
randonily the                      the request for         ~~~~~~~~~~Commnunity is responsible
| volurnes and quality  |    \the SAW?/                | 42 payrnent.       |   |    for the operation and
at the site.   |             \    /                                    l   |  rnmaintenance of the Micro-
project.



CHANGE ORDER PROCEDURE
Change of Order                                                         FE makes necessary
(CO) is asked by                          s e  ange o             Yes  changes. Contract
Contractor,                              Orderfalls in the FE           Amendment is signed.
Implementing                             permitted limits?              Project returns to
agency or Follow-up                                                     Follow-up.
The Change of Order              Project returns to
request presented to             Follow-up.
the FU Manager.
Manage FNo
<   pproved the   /
Yes
Estimator makes             The Change of Order
Estisaory mhakges to                 request presented to
necessary changes to                 teM       ietr
Contract Budget.                     the MD Director.
Amendment is signed
Yes                                /
I                  /  MD Di~~~~~~~~recto \
approved the       -   No
/Cange ar\\                                co? /
falling in the                        \        /
|   C~ ~~rmitted limit?<
No               \      /Yes
Jutfe quatiie                      The CO details pass
passed to Estimator  *_to the Appraisal
for calculation.                     Unit to justify and
i i                  ~~~~~appraise changes.
e quantities
justed with FE



Annex 10
Moldova: Social Investment Fund
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Overview
10.1      The Moldova Social Investment Fund (MSIF) Project will finance: (a) grants to
beneficiaries/communities for implementing microproject proposals, appraised and approved by MSIF, of
two distinct types: (i) conventional microprojects consisting of small-scale social and economic
infrastructure rehabilitation such as schools, health posts, community centers, local roads, water and
sewage systems, erosion control, etc. and associated non-infrastructure programs and services such as
early childhood development in kindergartens and schools or primary health education programs; and (ii)
"targeted" microprojects which entail investments targeted to the rehabilitation of institutions for children
with special needs, with a view to offering innovative alternatives to children's institutions; and (b)
goods, consulting services, training, and operating costs for the MSIF. The conventional microproject
infrastructure rehabilitation (item (a)(i)), a portion of the targeted microproject rehabilitation costs (a)(ii),
as well as expenditures for goods, consulting services, training, and MSIF operations (item (b)) will be
financed by the IDA Credit. The targeted microprojects will be jointly co-financed by IDA and Sida. The
paragraphs that follow summarize the procurement procedures applicable to the IDA-financed
investments.
10.2      Procurement Management. The overall administration of procurement activities under the
project, as well as quality control, will be the responsibility of the MSIF Project Management Unit
(PMU). The PMU will ensure that procurement procedures, criteria, and documentation agreed with
IDA, are complied with satisfactorily. The PMU will oversee the procurement and award of contracts
under the microproject grants which will be implemented by the project beneficiaries, namely their
Implementing Agency (IA), following appraisal and approval of the microprojects by the MSIF. The
procurement management responsibilities are described in further detail in the Operational Manual and
Finance and Administration (FAD) Handbook. Framework (Grant) Agreements between the MSIF and
the beneficiary Implementing Agency would likewise stipulate arrangements for each microproject. The
MSIF-PMU will provide procurement assistance to the beneficiary lAs, in addition to its responsibility
for carrying out the procurement of expenditure items intended for MSIF operations and the capacity
building component. To carry out these responsibilities, the PMU has recruited a full-time, in-house
Procurement Officer (whose procurement and qualifications were reviewed with IDA during Appraisal).
Microproject officers and the Finance and Administration Department Director within the PMU will be
trained as procurement assistants prior to Credit effectiveness to support the Procurement Officer. Project
funds provide for the recruitment of a foreign procurement expert knowledgeable about Bank
procurement processes, on a short-term, periodic basis (3 months). The expert will train MSIF/PMU as
well as community/beneficiary staff, assist the PMU in organizing its procurement management system,
and refine any outstanding procurement documentation. A Project Launch Workshop is scheduled for
May 1999, with participation by MSIF, beneficiaries, the Bank and co-financing donors.
Procurement Arrangements
10.3      The procurement methods and arrangements applicable to the various expenditure categories
under the Project are summarized below in Table 1OA, and described in more detail in the MSIF Project
Operational Manual. Bank Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (dated January
1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 amendment) (Procurement Guidelines for
works and goods), and Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers - dated
January 1997, and amended September 1997 (Consultant Guidelines), would apply in the procurement of
contracts financed by IDA, including those funded under joint-cofinancing arrangements with the donors.
44



Model bidding documents were prepared by MSIF for use under the SIF Pilot financed under the PPF,
and Sida and PHRD grants. These documents, which were based on Bank Standard Bidding Documents
(SBD) as well as ECA SBDs, were reviewed at appraisal and found to be suitable for use under the
project. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the United Nations Development
Business by December 30, 1998. The GPN will be updated annually for all outstanding procurement.
10.4      Procurement under the Project would be undertaken in accordance with the procurement
arrangements shown in Table 1 OA and Table 1 OA 1. The Procurement Schedule for the first year and the
entire period of project implementation is presented in Table 10B and will be updated annually to reflect
any changes in the scheduling of the procurement process which could significantly affect timely and
successful project implementation. Subsequent annual Procurement Schedules would be agreed with
IDA prior to implementation.
10.5      Microproject Grants. During the 5-year project implementation period, 233 proposals from
beneficiaries for the financing of microprojects (see para 10.1) are expected to be processed by MSIF and
approved for grant financing. The processing and award of these grants would be in accordance with the
procedures and criteria described under Annex 7. No microproject grant will exceed US$75,000
equivalent without prior review. Thus, the contracts for works, goods and services within microprojects
would be small. The composition, dispersal, and implementation timing of the individual microprojects
do not make it feasible or practical to aggregate rnany demand-driven, small contracts into large packages
suitable for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and/or to handle procurement directly by a
centralized procurement unit such as the PMU.  The procurement of expenditure items under a
microproject would be carried out by the beneficiary Implementing Agency, which represents the
community, in accordance with procedures and documentation described in detail in the Operational
Manual (OM) and stipulated in the Framework (Grant) Agreements. Briefly, the OM procedures
stipulate the following:
(a)   In order to encourage wider competition, ensure transparency in the procurement process,
and provide more opportunities for small local entrepreneurs to participate/benefit from
microproject procurement and implementation, (i) Minor works contracts would be procured using
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures under lump-sum, fixed priced contracts,
consistent with Bank Procurement Guidelines and using the approved documentation mentioned
above in para 10.3. Goods packages may be procured through National Shopping (NS) procedures
and awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three domestic suppliers in response to
a written invitation.  Minor services contracts (e.g. design, engineering works, as part of
microproject preparation, etc.) under microprojects would be awarded using least-cost selection
procurement procedures. In some exceptional cases, Single Source Selection procedures may be
used for highly specialized services. In any case, none of the total contract amounts for works,
goods and services under microprojects would exceed the grant award threshold (US$75,000)
without prior review.
(b)   For microprojects which would be financed entirely by IDA, contracts for Microprojects,
including minor works, goods and services, would be awarded in accordance with the above-
described procedures and documentation. Contracts for microprojects to be jointly co-financed by
IDA, Sida, and GoM will also follow Bank guidelines. In contrast, under the Children's Social
Development component, all services contracts for specialized technical assistance and training will
be financed on a parallel basis by SIDA according to agreed arrangements between SIDA and
MSIF. Similarly, contracts for non-infrastructure programs for microprojects such as early
childhood development will be financed by Open Society Institute (Soros Foundation) or UNICEF
on a parallel basis, based on arrangements tested and agreed to by all parties during the pilot project.
Procurement of Goods for MSIF
10.6      Goods consist of computer/MIS hardware, off the shelf applications software, and office and
training equipment. No procurement through Intemational Competitive Bidding is expected because of
the low aggregate value (US$33,000) of these goods. National Shopping procedures will be used, on the
basis of quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers.
45



Technical Assistance for MSIF
10.7      Technical assistance in the project is distinguished into two parts: i) Microproject-associated
Technical Assistance (estimated at US$0.38 million) and; ii) Other Technical assistance (TA) contracts
(estimated at US$2.75 million), which include services such as consultant assignments (local and foreign
firms and individuals), external and in-country training/seminars/workshops, preparation of beneficiary
assessment studies, etc. Of the aggregate amount (US$3.13 million), TA financed in whole or in part by
IDA is estimated at US$ 1.97 million aggregate. The balance of TA services (US$1.16 million aggregate)
would be financed by donors on a parallel or joint basis by donors and by GoM. The Terms of Reference
(TOR) for all IDA-financed TA will be subject to Bank's prior review, and would be procured as follows
(see Table IOA-1):
(a)   Consultant contracts for services such as community development training, project and
financial management, beneficiary assessments estimated at less than US$100,000 per
contract (aggregate US$0.20 million) may be awarded following the Consultants'
Qualification (CQ) selection procedure in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
(b)  Individual consultants (IC) for services such as appraisal specialists, performance
supervision, promotion, technical support to priority poor villages, and procurement
(aggregate US$2.78 million) may be contracted on the basis of Qualifications for the
Assignment through the comparison of at least three curricula vitae.
(c)   Consultant contracts  for highly  specialized  services  such  as  children's  de-
institutionalization or SIF management information system expertise not exceeding
US$100,000 (aggregate amount US$100,000) may be awarded following the Single
Source selection procedure.
(d)   Consultant contracts for auditor services (aggregate value US$50,500) may be awarded
following the Least Cost selection procedure.
Bank Prior Review
10.8      Prior IDA review would be required before final decisions on contract awards are made on
IDA-financed items, for the following procurement:
(a)     Microprojects: all contracts under the first three microprojects in each of the
microproject categories of infrastructure, non-infrastructure, and microprojects targeted
to strengthening children's social development and de-institutionalization;
(b)     Other Procurement for MSIF:
(i) consultant services: (i) all terms of reference (TORs) for the competitive selection
of individual consultants; (ii) all contracts with firms of US$100,000 and above; (iii) all
contracts with individuals of US$50,000 and above; (iii) the first three contracts for
services under microprojects.
(ii) goods for PMU: the first contract.
10.9      Ex-post review of all other contracts will be carried out by IDA supervision missions. Table
1OD Procurement Information summarizes applicable procurement procedures and review requirements.
Ex-post reviews on a random basis would also be undertaken by the MSIF and the Association of the
procurement carried out by the lAs in the process of implementing their microprojects.
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR)
46



6.10      To date, a CPAR for Moldova has not been prepared.  In general, experience with
competitive bidding procedures is limited and close supervision by the Bank and the consultants will be
exercised. However, MSIF has benefited from its experience under the SIF Pilot Project (funded through
the USAID, SIDA, PHRD, and PPF) in carrying out the full cycle of microproject processing from the
generation of beneficiary interest, review, appraisal, and approval of microproject proposals for grant
financing, and subsequent microproject implementation including procurement of minor works, goods
and services contracts. For this project, the Government will follow IDA procurement procedures as
described above and as set forth in the Credit Agreement.
Disbursements Arrangements
6.9       The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed in accordance with procedures described
in the Bank's "Disbursement Handbook ". The Credit for US$15.0 million is expected to be disbursed
over a period of five years (1999-2003)
6.10      Special Account. To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government
would establish a Special Account (SA) in a comnmercial bank satisfactory to IDA. This SA will be
operated by the MSIF under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The authorized
allocation for the Special Account will be US$1.2 million. Upon effectiveness, IDA would deposit an
initial authorized allocation of up to US$ 0.6 million into the Special Account. Once total disbursements
from the Credit account have reached an aggregate amount of US$4.0 million, the initial allocation may
be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$1.2 million by submitting the relevant Application for
Withdrawal. Replenishment applications will be submitted monthly and will be fully documented,
including bank statement and reconciliation statement, except for expenditures which may be claimed on
the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). The Special Account would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
6.11.     Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The following SOE thresholds apply:
(i)   Works:                           Contracts amounting to less than US$75,000 equivalent;
(ii)  Consulting services - firms:     Contracts amounting to less than US$100,000 equivalent;
(iii)  Consulting services - individuals:  Contracts amounting to less than US$50,000 equivalent;
(iv)  Goods:                           Contracts amounting to less than US$50,000 equivalent;
(v)  Technical audits:                 All contracts.
All supporting documents would be retained by MSIF for a minimum period of two years and made
available to the external auditors as well as IDA staff during supervision missions.
6.12.     Project Account. The borrower will provide its contribution through the MSIF. The yearly
contribution will be based on the planned disbursements communicated by the MSIF National Steering
Committee/Board. The MSIF would request regular payments into its own local currency accounts.
6.13.     Accounts and Audits. In accordance with the provisions of OP/BP 10.02, accounting,
procurement, disbursement and audit are linked for effective financial management, so that the
Association can receive accurate and timely information on the Project and, at the same time, reduce
administrative burden and ensure better client services. The MSIF would be staffed with qualified
accountants, procurement officers and MIS specialists to ensure accountability for Project funds, maintain
timely records, maintain internal controls, report on the use of funds, facilitate verification of reports by
independent auditors, and provide information to IDA as required. Accounting and MIS staff have been
selected and hired to set up an accounting system, establish a chart of accounts, and prepare the outline of
project management (financial) reports.
6.14      The Special Account as well as the accounts for the Project will be audited in accordance
with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA. MSIF will provide the Association, within six months of the end of each Government fiscal year,
with: (a) certified copies of the financial statements for such year as so audited; and (b) an opinion on
47



such financial statements, records and accounts and an audit report of such scope and detail as the
Association may reasonably request. With respect to expenditures for which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of SOEs, MSIF will maintain records and separate accounts reflecting
such expenditures until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made. MSIF will ensure that all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are
included in the annual audit and that the audit report contains a separate opinion by the auditors as to
whether the SOEs submitted during each fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. MSIF will enable the
Association's representatives to examine such records.
48



Annex 10
Republic of Moldova
Social Investment Fund Project
Table 1OA: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$)
Procurement Method
National Competitive Bidding    National Shopping      Direct Contracting      Consulting      N.B.F.            Total
Services
A. Microprojects
Civil Works                                  13,893,044                                                                 -                          13,893,044
(11,321,899)                                                                                          (11,321,899)
Microprojects TA                              ,                                                                      384,450                        384,450
(331,238)                      (331,238)
Programming                                                              706,745                                                     800,187       1,506,933
(619,344)                                                                  (619,344)
B. Goods
Computers/Office and Training                                            32,532                                                                     32,532
Equipment                                                               (32,532)                                                                   (32,532)
C. Other Technical Assistance
Training                                                                  1,430                                     119,728          147,069        268,227
(1,430)                                   (119,728)                      (121,158)
Consulting Services                                                                                                 1,684,008       667,634        2,351,642
(1,448,821)                    (1,448,821)
Studies                                                                                                              55,000                         55,000
(55,000)                       (55,000)
Workshop, Conferences, and Seminars                                      5,720                                       17,006                         22,726
(5,720)                                     (17,006)                       (22,726)
Audits                                                                                                                            50,750            50,750
D. Operating Expenditures                                                   624,794                                                     114,875        739,669
(624,794)                                                                  (624,794)
E. Maintenance and Repair                                                    33,275                                                                     33,725
(33,275)                                                                   (33,725)
F. Repayment of PPF Advance                      381,600                     82,461                  225                82,570           5,000         552,036
(324,360)                  (82,641)                 (225)              (82,570)                       (489,796)
Total                           14,274,644                  1,486,958                 225              2,342,942        1,785,515      19,890,284
(11,646,260)               (1,399,557)               (225)             (2,054,543)                    (15,100,584)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit; N.B.F  Not Bank financed
49



50
Annex 10
Moldova: Social lnvestment Fund
Table 1OB: Procurement Schedule for Project Implementation
-           t        ; Ve   Jo e"(e'ea' Date-o -hs0sm- of    Sumsis      ftf                          4 aIi
~~Packaju/~~cest    wthed    -. ~GPNV           biabids'.                     qf con&aee     ofceurc 
A. Small Works
Microprojects       W      233            13.89         NCB            12/31/98       5/99-2002      7/99-2002      8/99-2002      12/99-2002
Microproject support  G/TA/ 233            1.89         NS/IC/SS       12/31/98       5/99-2002      7/99-2002      8/99-2002      12/99-20()2
Goods and services   CS
B. Goods
Office equipment &
Supplies           G      2               0.032         NS             12/31/99       5/99          6/99           7/99           8/99
C. TA & TRAINING
Training           TA/CS                   0.27         IC/CQ           12/31/98      5/99-2002      7/99-2002      8199-2002      12/99-2002
Consulting services   TA/CS                2.35         IC/SS           12/31/98      5/99-2002      7/99-2002      8/99-2002      12/99-2002
Studies            TA/CS                   0.06         IC/CQ          12/31/98       5/99-2002      7/99-2002      8/99-2002      12/99-2002
Workshop, conference TA/CS                 0.02         IC/CQ          12/31/98       5/99-2002      7/99-2002      8/99-2002      12/99-2002
And seminars
Audits             TA/CS I                 0.05          LC            12/31/98       1/1/2000       2/1/2000       3/1/2000       6/2000-2002
D Incrementsl Operating Costs
0.77
E. Repayment of PPF                          0.55
TOTAL                               19.88
W = Works, G = Goods; TA/CS = Tecbnical Assistance/Consuliant Services; NCB = National Competitive Bidding; NS = National Shopping; CQ= Consultant Qualifications; 1C=
Individual consultants; SS = single source; LC = Least Cost



Annex 10
Moldova: Social Investment Fund
Table 1OC: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                Amount in              Financing Percentage
US Dollars
1 Microprojects (works, goods and services)
(a) Regular Microprojects                  10,800,000              85%
(b) Targeted Microprojects                   500,000               35%
2. Goods                                            30,000             100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditure
3. Technical Assistance and Training
(a) Training                                  120,000             100%
(b) Consultant Services                      900,000              100%
(c) Studies and Workshops                     80,000              100%
4. PMU Operating Costs                           1,000,000              80%
5. Refund ofPPF                                    500,000
6. Unallocated                                   1,070,000
Total                                        15,000,000
51



Annex 10
Moldova: Social Investment Fund
Table lOD: Procurement Information
Section 1: Procurement Review
Procurement of Goods & Works                                         NCB                                                  NS                        Other Methods
1. Procurement method thresholds                                      <US$250,000                                        <US$50,000
2. Prior Review                                                       -First three                                        First one
Procurement of Consultant Services            QBS              QCBS                SS                Least Cost               CQ           Individual Consultant
1. Procurement method thresholds                                            US$100,000                                  US$100,000         US$50,000
2. Prior Review                                                          _       All          All TORs and                All TORs         All TORs and First two contracts
First two contracts       and first 2
contracts
3. Ex-post Review                          -              -                   -               All other contracts       All other          All other contracts
3 . Ex-post RevieweI, contracts
Section 2. Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
L. PMU has recruited and is training a qualified procurement officer and assistant back-up staff. The PMU will have primary responsibility for overseeing implementation of procurement procedures.
2. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status: None          3. Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year ready by
ncgotiations: Not all; pipeline of 10- 15 micro-projccts bidding docunments ready.
Section 3. Training, Information and Development on Procurement
I. Estimated date of Project Launch  2. Estimated date of General         3. Indicate if contracts are subject to  4. Domestic Preference for Goods:
Workshop:                           Procurement Notice publication: After   mandatory SPN in Development
negotiations (December 31, 1998)     Business: All contracts above                       none
May,1999                                                           -US$200,000
5. Retroactive financing:  No                                                                                            | 6. Advanced Procurement: No
7. Procurement Monitoring System: PMU to report procurement actions through the Management Information System and in quarterly progress reports.
Section 4. Procurement Staffing
1. Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of Project Team              UNIT                                                    Ext.
Seyoum Solomon                                                          ECSHD                                                   32393
2. Explain briefly the Expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: Field Office staff to provide advisory support on procurement matters to PMU.
52



Annex 11
Financial Management System
Accounting, Internal Control, Financial Reporting, and Audit
The procurement section of the Financial Management System is elaborated in Annex 10.
Accounting System
1.   MSIF's use of two parallel accounting systems is necessary because Moldovan banking and accounting laws require
that all transactions be made and recorded thereof in local currency (Lei), whereas WB and other donors require that the
Special Accounts be maintained in hard currency. Additionally, WB and GoM reporting needs differ. Finally, certain
accounting policies adapted by MSIF do not conform to International Accounting Standards (IAS).
2.    There are two accounting systems used in parallel. The first is the Project Management Accounting System
(PMAS), a Microsoft Access database designed to facilitate financial reports to WB in USD. The method of accounting is
on a cash basis, and the general ledger contains the amount in Moldovan Lei and the USD equivalent for all transactions.
The second accounting system is called "IS", an off-the-shelf accounting software purchased locally. This software is
commonly used in the Former Soviet Union countries by the private sector and government satellite units that are
implementing projects funded by WB and other donors. The Modules which are installed and operational are for the
following transactions: I) cash receipts and payment; 2) bank withdrawals; 3) conversion of hard currency accounts and
related bank transfers; 3) computation of salaries, income tax, and employees' social fund, pension contribution withheld,
and employer's contribution to the social fund. Required bank forms are automatically printed, and the related accounting
entries are generated and posted to the general ledger and subsidiary ledgers upon completion of the transaction.
Installation of the module to automate the printing of cash deposits to the bank and the related accounting entries is not yet
complete.
3.   For internal control purposes and for efficient use of personnel time, the two accounting systems have been linked
using a transfer utility program. The chart of accounts, data field, and record structure of IS are being modified so that all
cash and bank transactions entered into this primary system will be transmitted via network server and copied into PMAS
without any user intervention. The transfer utility program has been written and the PMAS has been modified to accept data
transmission during the Appraisal. Modification to I S is currently underway and expected to be completed soon.
Internal Control:
The accounting and internal control system was designed by the MSIF Finance Director, who is well-qualified and highly
competent as a fmancial manager. The transfer of knowledge from the Bank to MSIF staff was greatly facilitated by her
English language ability, computer skills, experience in commercial banking (foreign currency transactions) and two
months study at the University of Maryland in financial management on an exchange program. The Finance Director is
assisted by an accountant with strong qualifications in Moldovan accounting, computer skills and experience in another
GoM project funded by USAID.
The administration and accounting policy and procedures for the MSIF are documented in the Financial and Administration
Department (FAD) handbook (part of the MSIF Operational Manual), which also is supplemented by a Users Manual for
PMAS. MSIF will update the FAD handbook, including a Users' Manual of 1 S to incorporate the modifications of
transaction and accounting procedure as a result of the full automation.
The WB identified several internal control weaknesses in the financial management of the MSIF. These are listed below
with the recommended improvements:
1. Internal Auditor -- to strengthen the internal control mechanism of MSIF, periodic reviews must be performed by
government auditors, trained in auditing automated accounting systems using modern auditing procedures and techniques.
GoM will have to identify and train internal auditor acceptable to the Bank by December 31, 2001 to be assigned to audit
MSIF quarterly. WB has agreed to seek grants to fund this training.
2.   Insurance -- MSIF does not have insurance to protect against the loss of assets. MSIF needs to provide proof of
insurance by December 31, 1998.
53



3.   MSIF lacks a written policy on disposal of tangible fixed assets, which should be the basis for writing off any asset
from its accounting records. MSIF needs to seek National Steering Committee/Board approval of this policy by December
31, 1998.
4.   Program and data back-up files are not properly secured. MSIF needs to ensure that disk and tapes of program and
files are placed in fireproof cabinets.
Financial Reporting:
MSIF will provide quarterly reports to WB, as described in its Financial and Administration Handbook, starting on January
31, 1999 for the period ended December 31, 1998.
External Auditors:
The project will be audited each fiscal year in accordance with Bank guidelines by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. Bound copies of the audit report will be submitted to the Bank within three months of the close of the country's
fiscal year.
Conclusion:
MSIF has gained solid experience and knowledge in financial management during the pilot stage of the project. The
financial management system is appraised and ready to implement for the main phase of the project. However, due to lack
of internal auditors and weaknesses in planning and cash flow forecasting, the project will initially use the traditional
method of disbursement for the IDA credit until the Bank is satisfied that the necessary improvements have been achieved
by MSIF, at which time LACI (Loan Accounting Change Initiative) quarterly disbursements may be initiated.
54



Annex 12
Moldova Social Investment Fund
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Concept Document (March 11, 1997)
Project Implementation Plan Schedule (Annex 6 PAD, Sept. 11, 1998)
Project Identification Document (Revised Sept. 10, 1998)
MSIF Operational Manual and Handbooks
MSIF Cost Tables
B. Bank Staff Assessments
CAS Upstream Review Package (July 27, 1998)
Moldova CPPR (June, 1998)
Ethnographic Study of Poverty in Moldova (June, 1997, N. Dudwick)
Moldova Poverty Assessment (Banerji, Braithwaite, May, 1998)
Agricultural Social Assessment (Dudwick, 1997)
C. Other
National Report: The Situation of the Mother and Child in Republic of Moldova (UNICEF, Nov. 1996)
Children in Especially Difficult Circumstances, Institutionalized Children in Moldova: A Study (D. Morris,
UNICEF, Sept. 1996)
MSIF Final Operational Guidelines for Pilot (August, 1998)
Moldova SIF Order for pilot
MSIF Draft Field Handbooks: Promotion, Appraisal and Follow up (August, 1998)
MSIF Draft Financial and Administration Handbook (August, 1998)
Needs and Capacity Assessment of 6 Districts for Pilot (by VOCA/Adsisto, June 1997)
Social Impacts of MSIF Micro-projects (by MSIF, 10/28/98)
*Including electronic files.
55



Annex 13
Moldova Social Investment Fund
Cost Per Beneficiary and Other Indicators
Selected Microprojects - Pilot Phase
% Decline from
Type of Microproject             Cost Per Beneficiary       Estimated Costa
A. Completed Microprojects
1. Health Facility (Cusmirca)                  US$ 27                   2.68
2. Road (Fuzauca)                              US$ 40                    2.57
3. School (Racesti)                           US$ 187                    6.58
4. Erosion Control (Cot)                       US$ 83                    8.26
B. Appraised Microprojects
B. 1 Schools and Kindergartens
1. Branza School                          US$ 31
2. Alexandru School                       US$ 50
3. Vinatori School                        US$ 69
4. Balauresti School                      US$ 30                    9.19
5. DolnaSchool                            US$37                    11.65
6. Draguseni School                       US$ 41
7. Bratuleni School                       US$ 41
8. Kindergarten #3 (Soldanesti)           US$ 60
B.2 Roads                                                _
1. Vadul Rascov                           US$ 19
2. Burlaceni                              US$ 14
3. Balanesti                              US$ 20
B.3 Gas Supply
1. Parcani                               US$246                    13.44
2. Iujnoe                                 US$ 43                   20.54
3. Talmaz                                 US$ 15
'The percentage difference between the original estimated cost and the final contract price of those microprojects
that have been contracted out.
Rehabilitation cost for microprojects will have a wide variation since it is influenced greatly by the degree of
deterioration of social infrastructure. As can be seen in the above, rehabilitation of roads tends to have lower cost
per beneficiary but the rehabilitation of educational facilities ranges from a low US$30 per beneficiary to as high
as US$187 in Racesti. Rachesti was one of the first microprojects financed under the MSIF and thus has limited
applicability in this case. The other education facilities appraised are achieving lower costs per beneficiary. The
cost of the gas distribution microproject is directly correlated to the distance from the main pipeline and the
population density of the beneficiary community.
MSIF started to introduce competitive procurement procedures in awarding microproject contracts. In the last
column, based on the contracts awarded, the actual contract prices are lower than the original estimated prices
(based on a unit price database). The highest difference is in gas distribution microprojects. Overtime, further cost
decline can be expected as the competitive procurement procedures become more widespread.
In addition, the proposed revisions of Soviet era construction standards and norms will have important fiscal
implications. The project will devote resources to help revise construction standards and norms; this will lead to
improved energy efficiencies and space utilization of rehabilitated social infrastructure. Most importantly, the
Government is committed to broadening that application of the revised standards and norms developed under the
project. Presently, about 60% of the budgetary expenditures are used for energy utilities (heat and electricity) in
education and health facilities. Based on experience in other FSU countries, the introduction of the revised
construction standards and norms can reduce expenditures for utilities by about one-half; an additional 30% of the
budgetary resources can be used for other needed public investments.
56



The project design envisioned the strengthening of the country's capacity to implement development projects,
especially at the community level. The microprojects are means but not ends in themselves. MSIF provides
training to communities to become empowered and begin designing their own futures. This is done through
intensive community preparation, consultation, extension, and education. This empowerment benefit cannot be
quantified in the short run. Capacity-building takes time and may not be readily tangible. However, its impact
will benefit the current generation and Moldovan generations into the future.
57



Annex 14
Moldova: Social Investment Fund
Environmental Data Sheet
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRD,1DA Lending Program
Country:                      Moldova                 Project ID No:       MD-PA-44840
Project Name:                 Social Investment Fund  Total Project Cost:  Est. US$19.9 million
Appraisal Date:               9/28/98-10/10/98
Board Date:                   2/11/99                Task Team Leader:     Betsy McGean
Managing Unit                 ECSHD                  Sector                Human Development, Social
Protection
Est. date for receipt of EA by  N/A
Bank:
EA Category (A/B/C):          B                      Date Assigned:        6/8/98
Date Sheet Updated: 8/4/98
(Please do not leave any items blank: use "N/A" or "To be developed" when appropriate)
Major Project Components: (presents description of project components)
1. Improved Delivery of Basic Social and Economic Services
2. Strengthened Children's Social Development
3. Capacity Building for Community and Local Government
4. Project Management Support
Major Environmental Issues: (describes major environmental issues identified or suspected in project)
There are no major environmental issues anticipated due to the small size and rehabilitation (versus new construction)
nature of the microprojects. Since most school and health post facilities have asbestos roofs, it has been decided that no
asbestos roofing will be reconstructed and that no asbestos roofing will be deconstructed. The MSIF team will receive
basic worker safety training about protection from the asbestos environment as well.
Other Environmental Issues: (describes environmental issues of lesser scope associated with project)
All microprojects will be environmentally screened, and those such as erosion control which may require soil removal
from another site or a health facility which requires management of medical wastes on and off-site, will need to be more
carefully analyzed for unintended impacts. Requisite environmental mitigation measures will be designed for these
microprojects. Some microprojects, such as reforestation, potable drinking water, sanitation and hygiene, and related
public health education programs should have small but positive environmental benefits.
Proposed Actions: (describes actions proposed to mitigate environmental issues described in project)
Both community microproject proposals, and microproject Appraisal evaluations will incorporate more extensive, best-
practice environmental screening checklists. To raise awareness, the MSIF will have environmental impact assessment
training and worker safety training re: asbestos from specialists during the pilot project. The MSIF field team will become
fully familiar with the Bank's environmental safeguard policies.
Justification/Rationalefor Environmental Category: (reasons for env. Category selected & explanation of any changes
from initial classification)
58



The MSIF pilot project was initially zlassified as a C project in March, 1997. This was consistent with similar, parallel SIF
operations in Armenia and Georgia. The rationale was that microprojects are small in scope, and most will entail
infrastructure rehabilitation, not new construction. In addition, the majority of microprojects are anticipated to have a
positive or neutral impact on the environment. However, due to the need to raise awareness and more carefully screen
(and/or analyze) all microproject types, and in some cases to design mitigation plans, the project was reclassified as a B in
June, 1998. This has proven valuable in raising environmental awareness within the MSIF team, and in communities.
Status of Category A Environmental Assessment: (presents EA start-up date, EA first draft, and current status)
N/A
Remarks: (gives status of any offher environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted, tells whether
borrower has given permission to release EA, etc)
-Moldova National Environmental Action Plan completed 1997
-Consultation with Moldova Department of Environment and Natural Resources indicates that only a few professionals
have been trained in environmental assessment and impact analysis. MSIF will have access to training by the most
qualified in-country specialists and by foreign specialists.                                              l
Signed by:
Betsy A. McGean                      Michele de Nevers
Task Team Leader, ECSSD, Social
Development Unit (SDU)                Environment Sector Leader, ECSSD
59



Annex 15
Moldova Social Investment Fund
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                           Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Preparation and Implementation of Pilot Project      $150,000                TBD
(Nov. 1996-Dec. 1998)
B. Project Schedule                                  Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)           18 months               24 months
First Bank mission (identification)                  11/10/96                 11/13/96
Appraisal mission departure                           3/1/98                  9/28/98
Negotiations                                          5/7/98                  12/14/98
Board Date                                            1/28/99                 2/11/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness              I         9/30/98                   5l/99
Prepared by: Moldova Social Investment Fund
Pilot Preparation assistance: PHRD ($368,000), USAID (US$500,000), Sida (US$500,000), PPF
US$500,000), bilateral trust funds ($268,500: Dutch, Swiss, Norwegian, Swedish)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                          Specialty
Anush Bezhanyan                               Social Investment Fund Specialist, Task Team Leader
Betsy McGean                                  Social Ecologist, former Task Team Leader
Antonio Lim                                   Human Resources Specialist
Alan Thompson                                 Program Team Leader, Moldova Social Protection
Alexandre Marc                                Project Advisor
Anatol Cebotaru                               Social Sector Assistant, Resident Mission '97
Jennifer Sara                                 Rural Water and Sanitation
Sandra Durham                                 Financial Management and Accounting
Alexei Ionascu                                Project Assistant, Resident Mission '98
Leonardo Concepcion                           Procurement Specialist and Architect
Mala Johnson                                  Project Team Assistant
Manilena Payos                                Financial Management Specialist
Consultants:
Erik Whist                                    Logical Framework, Training
Victor Ibabao                                 Public Health
Marleen Dijkman                               Public Health
Gurdev Singh                                  Procurement
Piet Goowaerts                                Engineering
William J. Gallagher                         Project Management Accounting System
Seyoum Solomon                               Procurement Specialist
Evan Meyer                                    Project Assistant
60



Annex 16
Moldova: Social Investment Fund
Statement of Loan and Credits
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                    disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit No.   Year             Borrower                      Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancellations   Undisbursed      Orig Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 4
Active Loans
MD-PE-35771  IDA30610    1998   REPUBLICOFMOLDOVA                  FIRSTCADASTRE                    0.00       15.90           0.00        15.31        .65       0.00
MD-PE-35781  IDA30310    1998   GOVT. OF MOLDOVA                   RURAL FINANCE                    0.00       5.00            0.00         4.38        -.26      0.00
MD-PE-44147  1BRD4229    1998   REPUBI.IC OF MOLDOVA               SAL 11                          55.00       0.00            0.00        55.00       35.00      0.00
0
MD-PE-44147  IDA29880    1998   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                SAL 11                           0.00      45.00            0.00         9.99       35.00      0.00
MD-PE-8558   IDA30030    1998   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                GENERAL EDUCATION                0.00       5.00            0.00         4.66        2.80      0.00
MD-PE-35811  IDA29620    1997   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                PSD 11                           0.00       9.00            0.00         8.55        2.00      0.00
MD-PE-8558   IBRD4151    1997   REPUBI.ICOFMOLDOVA                 GENERAL EDUCATION               16.80       0.00            5.00        11.80        2.80      0.00
0
MD-PE-8555   IBRD4020    1996   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                ENERGY                          10.00       0.00            0.00         7.07        2.27      0.00
0
MD-PE-8556   IBRD4011    1996   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                AGRICULTURE I                    10.00      0.00            0.00         8.38        5.33      0.00
0
MD-PE-8561   IBRD3977    1996   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                PRIV. SECT. DEV. 1              25.00       0.00            0.00        10.92       10.35      0.00
0
MD-PE-8561   IBRD3977    1996   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                PRIV. SECT. DEV. I               10.00      0.00            0.00         7.22       10.35      0.00
I'otal                                                                                           126.80      79.90           5.00        143.28     106.29       0.00
Active Loans       Closed Loans           Total
Total l)isbursed (IBRD and IDA):               54.99             145.82             200.81
of which has been repaid:                   0.00               0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               201.70             145.82.            347.52
Amount sold                                     0.00               0.00               0.00
Of which repaid                               0.00               0.00               0.00
l'otal Undisbursed                            143.28               0.00             143.28
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system
wvill be used (lIS - highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory. tJ = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating
Methodology (SecM94-90 1). August 23, 1994.
Note:  Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
61



Moldova at a glance                                                               10/1/98
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central     Low-
Moldova      Asia  income        Development diamond-
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                       4.3      476      2,048                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   540      2,320      350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      2.3     1,106      722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                       -0.2       0.2       2.1
Labor force (%/6)                                     0.1       0.5       2.3     GNP                             Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  19
Urban population (% of total population)              47         67       28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      67         69        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              23         25        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             ..        ..       61   !            Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 62        ..        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   ..        ..       47               -
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  79        92        91                 Moldova
Male                                                 ..        ..       100                 Low-income group
Female                                               ..        ..       81    _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                            ..       ..       2.3       2.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 ..       ..      24.4      24.2                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              ..      ..      56.2      52.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     ..      ..       5.6       0.3
Gross national savings/GDP                     .,      ..      11.6       7.6
Current account balance/GDP                    ..      ..      -9.1     -14.9     Domestic            \
Interest payments/GDP                          ..      ..       1.1       1.6  X an                           investment
Total debt/GDP                                ..       ..      36.2      52.0     Savigs
Total debt service/exports                    ..       ..       5.8      16.5
Present value of debVGDP                      ..       ..      32.4
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..      76.3
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3.4    -10.9     -7.8       1.3       2.2                  Moldova
GNP per capita                      2.5    -12.6     -8.4      -0.1       0.0                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         ..    19.4    15.1       11.1       3.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and investment(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         00
Agriculture                                   ..       ..      30.5      31.4
Industry                                      ..       ..      32.4      34.9     50
Manufacturing                                ..      ..       26.0     27.8       0
Services                                      ..       ..      37.1      33.7      -so         9s                    07
Private consumption                           .6 ..            87.2      73.6    100
General government consumption                ..       ..      27.1      26.1                    GDI       C  GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..      75.0      76.5
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average ann7ual growth)
Agriculture                                   ..   -12.7      -11.9      10.7   40
Industry                                      ..   -27.8       -6.5      -7.0   30
Manufacturing                                ..      ,,                        20
Services                                       ..   -24.3      -3.7    -19.5   20
Private consumption                           ..      4.7       8.7      17.3
General government consumption                ..    12.1       -4.1      -2.8     0
Gross domestic investment                     ..   -21.9       -9.6       0.5           92   93   94  9e  9i   97
Imports of goods and services                 ..    19.7       30.3      21.3                  Exports        nImpons
Gross national product                       3.4    -12.6      -8.7      -0.3   1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
62



Moldova
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1976      1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                            1.000
Consumer prices                                  ..       ..       23.5      11.8       750
Implicit GDP deflator                             ..      ..       28.2      11.6      Soo
Government finance                                                                     250
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     0o
Current revenue                                  ..       ..       36.5      39.6               92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                                              -7.9     -7.7                -GDP deflator    C  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..       ..       -7.6       -8.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               11976      1986       1996      1997      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..       ..       829       851      1.500
Commodity I                                     .        ..        75        75
Commodity 2                                     ..       ..        86       110
Manufactures                                   ..        ..       103        59
Total imports (cif)                              ..       ..      1,056     1,235
Food                                            .        ..        50         0       504                    u     i~
Fuel and energy                                                   316       337
Capital goods                                  ..         .       100       130         o
91   92   93  94   95   96   97
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..       ..         98        93
Import price index (1995=100)                    ..       ..         98        93                . Exports      N Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..        ..       100       100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (y )
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                    ..       ..        936       983       0    ;      -   :.- 
Imports of goods and services                     ..      ..      1,248     1,430           91  l     -      -9
Resource balance                                 ..       ..       -312      -447      .5
Net income                                        ..      ..        -40       -63
Net current transfers                            ..       ..        142       201
Current account balance                           ..       ..      -210      -309
Financing items (net)                            ..       ..        243       359
Changes in net reserves                           ..       ..       -33       -50     -20
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            ..      ..        315       366
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)                 ..       ..        3.3       4.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..       ..       834     1,078
IBRD                                                              142       135                     G49      A135
IDA                                            ..35.A0135
Total debt service                                ..        ..       57       173                                    B.35
IBRD                                            ..      ..         10         9
IDA                                            ..       ..          0         0        F 331
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                        C :234
Official grants                                ..       ..         10         0
Official creditors                             ..       ..         60        19
Private creditors                              ..       ..         74      260
Foreign direct investment                      ..       ..         53       79
Portfolio equity                               ..       ..        23        25                E 156          D 132
World Bank program
Commitments                                    ..       ..         55       131     A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  ..       ..          0        40     B- IDA     D - Other multilateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                           ..       ..          0         0     C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                               ..          0        40
Interest payments                              ..       ..         10         9
Net transfers                                  ..       ..        -10        31
Development Economics                                                                                                     10/1/98
63



27           O             O 27 3o -8                                  O          D 28 3(C
.   --- . . , j ..  ~->                                                                                                                                                8 ol  VZ'3 21!-FEFA-O
/ '~ tOc S 3riYEai                                                                                                                                       EllA   N /> -   .    - .   UKRA NtUR
r'i                                                                                          \ .  t   - ) ~ \ ) : 9 A0P: , - MOLDOVA  -
0-h ~ ~ ~ ~ 8-
~ '<75 /                                          ,<s\.Sorocotf)   ; -r4  IREy>
,8 00                     ';                              oh            '       2S,                                   4mns_                                     29 30'                       30 00      ao
88.4   -lodev1il3   R\ $Y L, tS+                                                                t      v                           U              K    R  A    I N    E
t855~~~~~~~ ,922                                                                                                                                                                   - 08      48 C, ee   ~ . i
47 30 22Ch  -r-                                                                                                                               "                                                        47 30
.44-                                     A ~ -  0  ,,   T;   rllez  01d .  
MOLDOVA                                                                                               i          N.i
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
j -  j P LOT PROJECT D STRICTS                                              ,                                             -
-        EXPRESSWAYS                                                 i                   :                  t
PRIMARY ROADS                                                                  CIr_                     -_-                                        346 ID'
-62        ___RAILROADS'                                                                          W)                                                  >          '      A
AIRPORTSY* ,                                                                                                           f S           '          -      '8A
PORTS                                                      j            U                     4                                      V       I
RIVERS                                                                     J               '     t Rsrbc
SELECTED C TIES AND TOWNS                              r                   ' Comm2  i
9    RAYON CAPITALS                                         -C rne
RAYON BOUNDARIES                                      (                                             /
---   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                      -        -             /
j  t    ;  .      , ~~~~~~~\_ .d3 r     "N'
'   iMESER'                                                             4 Ta~6 DO
46 00                                                     
8      10     22     30      40      SC                                                   --                                   U    K         R    A     I  N     E
K LO.ETERS(t Ctiy                                                .          f       |
--.\                          ---.t  4
This m   p w - rd-cd by th,                                  
M,,,S 0e-i.,, J,,il  The W-,d ,S- |
The b-ud-;- i -s oos de    sCiol  
S444p4444'.4p4  444ntofs 4444                                               ti n
-44-3C          Th.eW-ld 3ankG-p,p 447, 89,4,44,                              0, 494                                                                                                                    45`30
27dT                         272 30                                                     28 30'                      2900'                       28 4C                        3088              N



