Page  1
October
8,
2001
Mr. Mihail Manoli
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Chisinau,
Republic of Moldova
Re:
United Kingdom Grant for Social Investment Fund Project
Grant Number TF028377
Dear Mr.
Manoli:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association
(IDA)
to
indicate IDA
’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the United
Kingdom, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding two million seven hundred
forty-four thousand Pounds Sterling (GBP 2,744,000) (the Grant) to Republic of Moldova 
(the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, 
that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.
Upon
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Roger W.
Grawe
Country Director for Czech Republic, Hungary,
Moldova, Slovak Republic, and Slovenia
Europe and Central Asia
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By
/s/
Mihail Manoli
Date:
10/16/2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to co-finance the Social Investment Fund Project 
(Credit Number 3170 MD), which has as main objectives to improve the quality of basic 
social and economic services for poor rural populations, and to increase the capacity
of local communities to organize and manage development activities
(the Project).
The
activities
(the Activities) for which the Grant is provided are as follows:
(a)
selection and carrying out in accordance with the criteria and principles 
set forth in the Operational Manual of: (i) demand-driven infrastructure and 
non-infrastructure Micro-projects for forty (40) villages to improve delivery of basic 
services and implement follow-on micro-projects in four targeted regions (judets 
Cahul, Soroca, Gagauzia and Chisinau) under Part A (1) of the Project; and (ii) ten 
Page  2
(
10
)
additional targeted Micro
-
projects for strengthening institutionalized children
’
s
social development and promoting said children
’s de-institutionalization under Part A 
(2) of the Project;
(b)
provision of technical assistance in establishing community based 
organizations;
(c)
provision of technical assistance and training to local Non-Governmental 
Organizations
(NGOs) for community development and development of social partnerships; 
(d)
provision of training and technical assistance to Moldova Social 
Investment Fund’s (MSIF’s) staff and key personnel of the Project  implementing 
agencies on Project management issues, space utilization and energy efficiency issues
in public facilities and on construction know-how; 
(e)
carrying out of beneficiary impact assessment studies of the Project; 
(f)
conducting procurement and technical reviews for the Project; and 
(g)
overseas study and training programs for MSIF staff and representatives 
of community-based organizations and local governments on the project management
issues, space utilization and energy efficiency issues in public facilities, and on
the construction know-how .
1.2.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in this Letter 
Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement for the Social Investment Fund Project
(Credit Number 3170 MD) have the respective meanings herein and therein set forth.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient through the MSIF shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due 
diligence and efficiency;
(b)
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for that purpose;
(c)
furnish all information covering the
Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request;
(d) from time to time exchange views with IDA’s representatives on the progress and 
results of the Activities; and
(e) take all necessary measures required to enable  IDA 
to visit the territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant.
Without
limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if  IDA shall so request, prepare
and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and
substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services 
required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or
repair such goods.
The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the
Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient
(the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section
4, for expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the
%
of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Item
(in Pounds Sterling)
to be Financed
Page  3
(1)
Consultants' services
580,000
100%
(2)
Micro-projects
(a) under Part A(1)
 1,449,000
85% of amounts
of the Project
disbursed under
"Contracts"
(b) under Part A(2)
500,000
97% of amounts
of the Project
disbursed under
"Contracts"
(3)
Training and study
120,000
100%
tours
(4)
PMU's Operating Costs
95,000
80%
including technical
audits
TOTAL
2,744,000
For purposes of this paragraph the term:
(a) "PMU
’s Operating Costs" means expenditures incurred by the PMU on account of 
management of Project implementation for salaries, but excluding salaries of civil
servants, communications, local travel, utilities, printing and publications, office
supplies, vehicle rental, office maintenance, vehicle maintenance, including repair,
insurance, inspection and fuel, parking fees, bank charges, and such other
expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Association; and
(b) "Contracts" means contracts to be concluded between the contractors or 
consultants and MSIF or implementing agencies as referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement for Social Investment Fund Project between Republic of Moldova and
International Development Association dated March
17,
1999
for micro-projects 
including goods, works, services, and training and study tours.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA;
(ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the 
Recipient;
(iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is 
not a member of IDA or for goods produced in or services supplied from such
territories; or
(iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter
of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after July 30, 2004,
or such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient
(the Closing
Date).
However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures
incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is
received by IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount
of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and
(c)
If, in  IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
items in the table in paragraph
4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to
such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, in  IDA’s 
opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the
form specified by IDA. Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by the Minister of Finance of the Recipient or such other person as he or
she shall have authorized in writing; and
(b)
accompanied by such evidence in support
of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.
Authenticated specimen signatures
of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the
first application bearing his or her signature.
Each withdrawal application for an
amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and
substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from
the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the
Page  4
Activities
.
IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
 IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) contracts for 
works costing less than US$
75,000 equivalent each; (b) contracts for goods costing 
less than US$50,000 equivalent each, (c) all contracts for training; (d) all contracts 
for technical audits and beneficiary impact assessment;
(e)
services of consulting
firms costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (f) services of individual 
consultants costing less than US$20,000 equivalent each; and (g) training and study 
tours, all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the
Recipient.
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.
IDA, at the Recipient
’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient,
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant.
Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in Pounds Sterling a special deposit account
(the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment
II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient through the MSIF shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial
statements in a format acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
Activities.
(b)
The Recipient through the MSIF shall: (i) have the records, accounts and 
financial statements referred to in subparagraph
(a)
above and the records and
accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
auditing standards acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to  IDA;
(ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited, and
(B)
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient through the
MSIF shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph 
(a) above, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at 
least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) 
enable  IDA’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such 
records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph
(b) 
above and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
 IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or
(b) the right of the Recipient or any other 
entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the IBRD) 
has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any
loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have
Page  5
been suspended
.
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1
above; or
(b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment I
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January
1995
and revised in January and August
1996, September 1997 and 
January
1999
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section I.
2.
For the purposes of this Section, in paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, 
the references to
"Bank member countries" and "member country" shall mean any and all 
countries that the Association determines meet the requirements set forth in Section
11
of Resolution No. 194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on 
April
8,
1999
(the
"Participating Countries" or the "Participating Country"). For the 
purposes of this Grant, the Bahamas, Bahrain, Brunei Darussalam, Cyprus, Oman, Qatar,
Singapore, and United Arab Emirates are not Participating Countries.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works required for the carrying out of Micro-projects paragraph 1.1 (a) (i) and 
(ii) of the Annex, estimated to cost less than US$75,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1,949,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.3
and
3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods required for Micro-projects under paragraph 1.1 (a) (i) and (ii) of the 
Annex, estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by  IDA of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations  for bidding or to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to IDA for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of Appendix
1
to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by IDA, and with the provisions of
said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior review
With respect to the first two contracts for goods and works procured in
accordance with the provisions referred to in Part B. 1 and 2 above, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs
2
and
3
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  6
3.
Post Review
With respect to all contracts for works and goods, the procedures set forth in
paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants
’
services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Introduction and Section IV of the
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the World Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September
1997
and January
1999
(the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "World Bank 
member countries" and "member country" shall mean any and all countries that the 
Association determines meet the requirements set forth in Section
11
of  Resolution
No. 194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999 (the 
"Participating Countries" or the "Participating Country").
For the purposes of this
Grant, the Bahamas, Bahrain, Brunei Darussalam, Cyprus, Oman, Qatar, Singapore, and
United Arab Emirates are not Participating Countries.
Part B: 
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for design and engineering preparation for Micro-projects under 
paragraph
1.1 (a) (i) and (ii) of the Annex, technical audits estimated to cost less 
than US$10,000 equivalent per contract and beneficiary assessments estimated to cost 
less than US$15,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.1
and
3.6
of the Consultants’ 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training and overseas study, under paragraph
1.1 (d) and (g) of the 
Annex estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for technical assistance under paragraph
1.1
(a), (b), (c) and (e) of 
the Annex tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph
5.1
of the
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Single Source Selection
Services for specialized tasks under paragraph
1.1 of the Annex tasks which are 
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the IDA’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.8
through
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by  IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to IDA for
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines.
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by IDA,
and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  7
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs
1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be
furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.
The contract shall be awarded
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in 
paragraph
4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Activities and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to GBP 
280,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph
3
(a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit 
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
On the basis of such request or requests, IDA
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as IDA shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph
4
of this Attachment for the payment or payments in
respect of which replenishment is requested.
On the basis of each
such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from
the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits
shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under the
eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment,  IDA shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  8
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period 
of time specified in paragraph
5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the
Recipient.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph
2
of this Attachment; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished
to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as IDA may request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account
(or,
if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless IDA shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such
outstanding amount.
