Page  1
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
January 30, 2003 
 
H.E. Vasile Tarlev 
Prime Minister  
1
Piata Mari Adunare Nationale 
Chisinau 
Republic of Moldova 
 
Re:    Republic of Moldova: Japan Social Development Fund 
 
Grant for Pilot Community Driven Development Project 
 
Grant No. TF051709                                                           
Excellency: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate 
IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan under the Japan Social 
Development Fund, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding nine hundred seventy nine 
thousand and five hundred US Dollars (US$979,500) (the Grant) to the Republic of Moldova (the 
Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance for the 
project described in paragraph 1.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement (the Project) and on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the said Annex. The Recipient represents, by confirming its 
agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said Project and 
on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please note that it is IDA’s policy to make publicly available this Letter Agreement and 
any information related thereto, after this Letter Agreement has become effective and the 
Recipient has given its consent to such disclosure. The Recipient, by countersigning this Letter 
Agreement, confirms its consent to such disclosure. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of the 
copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Carlos Elbirt 
Authorized Representative 
 
AGREED: 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
By /s/ H.E. Vasile Tarlev 
Title : Prime Minister 
Date: 1/30/2003 
Page  2
-2-  
 
ANNEX
Objectives, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. 
Objectives and Description of the Project
1.1. 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) develop new and innovative types of social 
services in the Republic of Moldova and use the lessons learned to further inform the 
Government policy development for social care services; (ii) empower poor rural communities by 
strengthening capacities of community-based organizations (CBOs) to make decisions, organize 
and manage funds; and (iii) improve the quality of basic social and economic services for the 
poorest rural communities. 
 
1.2. 
The Project consists of the following Parts, each of which includes the following 
activities: 
 
Part A.
Community-Driven Development (CDD) Small Grants
Selection and carrying out in accordance with criteria and principles set forth in the 
Implementation Guidelines of Small Grants, which is estimated to cost $434,000, through the 
provision of small grants (up to US$75,000) to the established CBOs for implementation of 
comprehensive community action plans.   
 
Part B.
New and Innovative Community-Based Social Care Services
Carrying out of Microprojects, which is estimated to cost $479,500, to provide: (a) small 
grant funding (up to US$75,000) to the local non-governmental organizations (NGOs) for 
implementation of new and innovative types of nonresidential services for vulnerable groups, 
including women at risk, abused women, victims of human trafficking, youth at risk and elderly 
whose needs are not addressed by the state and for whom there are no social services provided in 
their communities; (b) demonstration of benefits of alternative types of services and shaping of 
government policies in this area through financing of in-country training and international 
technical assistance to help NGOs to manage new services based on international best practices 
(social workers, etc.); and (c) elaboration of lessons for the development of government policy in 
this area and of models for sustainable financing of community-based social care.  
 
Part C.
Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of technical assistance, which is estimated to cost $66,000, for the carrying out 
of participatory monitoring and evaluation in the participating communities through: (a) hiring an 
international consultant to help the Project Management Unit (PMU) of the Social Investment 
Fund (SIF) Project with developing the methodology and guidelines for participatory monitoring 
and evaluation (PM&E); (b) producing a manual for participatory monitoring and evaluation; (c) 
training the
 facilitators in PM&E and developing their skills; and (d) documenting “lessons 
learned” from the Small Grants and pilot Microprojects to contribute to the design of the follow 
up SIF II project. 
 
Page  3
-3-  
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Project  through the SIF Project PMU with due 
diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Project and the use of the proceeds 
of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with IDA's 
representatives on the progress and results of the Project; (e) take all necessary measures required to 
enable IDA to visit the territory of the Republic of Moldova for purposes related to the Grant; and (f) 
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used exclusively for the 
purposes of the Project.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so 
request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the Project a report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Project. 
 
2.2. 
(a)  
With regard to Part A of the Project, the following implementation arrangements 
shall be in place:  
 
(i) 
CBOs established under the SIF Project shall be selected by the SIF 
PMU on a competitive basis to participate in the Project.  Eligibility 
criteria for CBOs, criteria for selection, appraisal, approval and 
supervision of Small Grants, as well as flow of funds to the Small Grants 
shall be included in the Implementation Guidelines prepared by the SIF 
PMU and approved by IDA;  
 
(ii) 
each selected CBO will enter into a Sub-grant Agreement with the SIF 
PMU with terms and conditions approved by IDA, including: (A) a 
description of the Small Grant, together with an estimate of the cost 
thereof; (B) the implementation schedule for the Small Grant; (C) the 
obligation of the CBO to report to the SIF PMU on the progress of Small 
Grant implementation and to enable representatives of the SIF PMU and 
of IDA, if IDA shall so request, to visit the facilities, construction sites or 
other activities to be financed under the Sub-grant Agreement; (D) the 
obligation of the CBO to maintain records and accounts for expenditures 
incurred under the Small Grant and financed from the proceeds of the 
Grant and to submit to the SIF PMU at regular intervals statements with 
respect to such records and accounts; and (E) the CBOs’ obligation to 
procure the goods, works and services, to be financed under the Sub-
grant Agreement, to disburse the funds accordingly and to monitor the 
implementation of the Small Grants, all in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in the Implementation Guidelines; 
 
(iii) 
the CBOs will be provided technical assistance to develop 
comprehensive community action plans, implement these action plans 
and manage Small Grants; 
 
(iv) 
the proposals for Small Grants will be evaluated and financed based on 
ex-ante evaluation criteria which will be described in detail in the 
Implementation Guidelines;  
 
(v) 
the Small Grants to be financed will be selected based on community 
demand. The communities will hold meetings to select priority Small 
Grants by voting, including education (schools, kindergartens, early child 
Page  4
-4-  
 
development programs, etc.), water supply, health education, village 
access roads and bridges, etc.; and 
 
(vi) 
participating CBOs will be required to contribute 15% toward investment 
cost and 100% of recurrent cost of the Small Grant (in cooperation with 
the local government). 
 
(b) 
With regard to Part B of the Project, the following implementation arrangements 
shall be in place:  
 
(i) 
NGOs shall be selected by the SIF PMU on a competitive basis to 
participate in the Project.  Eligibility criteria for NGOs, criteria for 
selection, appraisal, approval and supervision of Microprojects, as well 
as flow of funds to the Microprojects shall be included in the 
Implementation Guidelines prepared by the SIF PMU and approved by 
IDA;  
 
(ii) 
each selected NGO will enter into a Sub-grant Agreement with the SIF 
PMU with terms and conditions approved by IDA, including: (A) a 
description of the Microproject, together with an estimate of the cost 
thereof; (B) the implementation schedule for the Microproject; (C) the 
obligation of the NGO to report to the SIF PMU on the progress of 
Microproject implementation and to enable representatives of the SIF 
PMU and of IDA, if IDA shall so request, to visit the facilities, 
construction sites or other activities to be financed under the Sub-grant 
Agreement; (D) the obligation of the NGO to maintain records and 
accounts for expenditures incurred under the Microproject and financed 
from the proceeds of the Grant and to submit to the SIF PMU at regular 
intervals statements with respect to such records and accounts; and (E) 
the NGOs’ obligation to procure the goods, works and services, to be 
financed under the Sub-grant Agreement, to disburse the funds 
accordingly and to monitor the implementation of the Microprojects, all 
in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Implementation 
Guidelines; 
 
(iii) 
community-based services for vulnerable groups other than children will 
be pilot-tested. The communities will identify the target beneficiary 
groups and projects;  
 
(iv) 
the local governments will be required to co-finance 3% of investment 
cost and 100% of recurrent cost of the services; 
 
(v) 
grant funding up to US$75,000 will be provided on a competitive basis 
to the local NGOs for implementation of the new and innovative types of 
non residential services for the vulnerable groups; 
 
(vi) 
the proposals for Microprojects will be evaluated and financed based on 
the ex-ante evaluation criteria which will be described in detail in the 
Implementation Guidelines. 
 
Page  5
-5-  
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
 Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procuremen
t
of
the goods, works and consultants’ 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
3.2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely 
usable currency to replace or repair such goods. The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant 
to the Project are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate practices and 
that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(in Dollars)
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
(1) Small 
Grants
 under 
Part 
A 
 of 
the 
Project 
 
(2)  
Microprojects 
 
under Part B of 
 the 
Project 
 395,500 
 
441,000 
100% of amounts disbursed 
under the Sub-grant 
Agreements 
 
97% of amounts disbursed 
under the Sub-grant 
Agreements 
 
(3)  
Consultants’ 
 
services,  
 
including auditing 
 
services  
 
and training 
 
136,000 100% 
for 
foreign 
consulting 
firms and foreign individual  
consultants, 75% for local  
consulting firms and local 
individual consultants and 
100% of eligible social charges 
 
(4)   
Technical  
 Services 
 7,000
100% 
 
TOTAL  
979,500
Page  6
-6-  
 
For purposes of this paragraph: 
 
(a)  
the term “foreign consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is registered or 
incorporated in the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
 
(b) 
the term “foreign individual consultant” means an individual consultant who is not a 
national of the territory of the Recipient; 
 
(c) 
the term “local consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is registered or 
incorporated in the territory of the Recipient; 
 
(d) 
the term “local individual consultant” means an individual consultant who is a 
national of the territory of the Recipient; 
 
(e) 
the term “eligible social charges” means the employer’s contribution to social and 
medical charges assessed by the Recipient on employment contracts with citizens of the Recipient; 
and  
 
(f)  the term “technical services” means publication services. 
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) or for goods produced in or services supplied from such territories; or 
(iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods if such payment 
or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after December 31, 2006, or 
such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).  However, 
withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date 
if the corresponding withdrawal application is received by IDA within four months after the Closing 
Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account 
shall be canceled; and  
 
(c) 
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the Categories in 
the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures under such Category, 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such Category an amount of the Grant then 
allocated to another Category which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other 
expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance or 
such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such 
evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and 
Page  7
-7-  
 
its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the 
carrying out of the Project.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure under contracts for: (a) Small Grants and Microprojects costing less than US$50,000 
equivalent, with the exception of the first five Small Grants under Part A of the Project and the first 
five Microprojects under Part B of the Project; (b) services of consulting firms costing less than 
US$50,000  equivalent; (c) services of individual consultants cost less than US$10,000 equivalent; 
and (d) technical services, all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, 
at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the 
purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient may open and maintain in U.S. 
Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in subparagraph (a) above for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA 
shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included 
Page  8
-8-  
 
in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the 
guarantee of the Republic of Moldova, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the 
Bank or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have been suspended. 
 
6.2. 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Project.  
 
Page  9
-9-  
 
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Small Grants, Microprojects, goods, works and technical services shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the World Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Procurement Procedures
1. Community 
Participation
Small Grants and Microprojects under Parts A and B of the Grant shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA outlined in the Implementation Guidelines in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
 Local Competitive Bidding
Works under Small Grants and Microprojects under Parts A and B of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $665,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines with the exception that local instead of 
national advertisement will be required. 
3. National 
Shopping
Goods under Small Grants and Microprojects under Parts A and B of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $122,500 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
4. Direct 
Contracting
Works under Small  Grants and Microprojects under Parts A and B of the Project which 
must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment and 
costing $10,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with IDA's prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
Page  10
-10-  
 
5. Technical 
Services
Technical services estimated to cost less than US$5,000 equivalent shall be procured with 
IDA’s prior approval under contracts awarded to suitably qualified technical service contractors 
after comparison of not less than three substantially responsive price quotations. 
 
Part D
:
Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
IDA, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for works procured under local competitive bidding 
procedures estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for works procured under direct contracting 
procedures; and (ii) the first two contracts for goods procured under national shopping 
procedures, the following procedures shall apply: 
(A) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, the 
Recipient shall provide to IDA a report on the comparison and evaluation 
of quotations received; 
(B) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting 
or shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to IDA a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(C) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c) 
(i) the first five Sub-grant Agreements with CBOs under Part A of the Project; 
and (ii) the first five Sub-grant Agreements with NGOs under Part B of the Project will be 
furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval. The Sub-grant Agreements will be signed only 
after said approval shall have been given. 
 
Page  11
-11-  
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I and 
Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the World Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, 
January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Auditing services estimated to cost US$10,000 equivalent may be procured under a 
contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for participatory monitoring and evaluation, training of trainers and 
documenting lessons learned, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
 
Part D
:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to IDA for 
its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals.   
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by IDA. 
 
Page  12
-12-  
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$10,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, and the terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  13
-13-  
 
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$250,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as 
IDA shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, IDA shall, 
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant 
Account under the eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
 
Page  14
-14-  
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount. 
 
