                                                                                                               92006
Moldova: Helping Pennies Add Up For A Village School                                                           November 4, 2003
                         Ten-year old Valeriu Matran lives in Zberoaia, a small village in central Moldova, where winters are long, icy and
                         cold.

                         Until recently Valeriu hated to go to school, especially during the winter, because classrooms were so cold that
                         he had to wear thick warm clothes while in class. Although the heat was turned on full blast, he often had to blow
                         into his fists to keep his fingers warm because he could not write with frozen hands. Due to a lack of school
                         space, classes were held in two shifts—one in the morning, the other in the afternoon. Classes in the afternoon
                         shift had to be shortened by 15-20 minutes so students would not be walking home in frigid darkness.

When this village of 2,000 inhabitants decided to repair the school and improve its heating system with the support of the World Bank-
financed Moldova Social Investment Fund, Valeriu contributed his modest savings to the village-wide campaign to raise additional local
funds. By dropping his pennies into the communal collection box, traditionally used for elections, Valeriu not only contributed to the
campaign, but also gave it its name. It became known as “A Penny for My School.”

Two years have passed since repairs were completed, and the school is revitalized. Since additional classrooms were built, all 310
students go to school in one morning shift. Classrooms are bright and warm, yet heating costs only $800 compared to $7,000 in previous
winters, when children were shivering in their coats. Funds were also used to buy new school furniture and supplies, including new
textbooks.

Moreover, the school has evolved into a true community center whose different activities attract inhabitants of all ages, including both
Valeriu and his grandmother, who is raising him.

Updated: November 2003
