                                  63007 v1
                  Document of
                The World Bank


                                                 Report No:




            RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                     ON A

       PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                     OF
SECOND MULTI-SECTORAL HIV/AIDS PROJECT PROJECT
          LOAN APPROVED 08 March 2007


                    TO THE

   FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA


                  June 23, 2011
 Regional Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili

       Country Director: Kenichi Ohashi
Sector Manager / Director: Eva Jarawan
       Task Team Leader: Feng Zhao



                             2
         ETHIOPIA SECOND MULTI-SECTORAL HIV/AIDS PROJECT

                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER


1. The closing date for Ethiopia, Second Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS PROJECT, [Grant
   H279-ET], P098031 will be extended from July 07/02/2011 until 09/30/2011.

2. The project is in the final phase of its implementation. The objectives of the project
   continue to be achievable. More than 94 percent of project funds have been disbursed.
   All planned activities are mostly completed. There are no major outstanding
   implementation issues after the audit report for the fiscal year ending on July 6, 2010
   was submitted to the Bank.

3. The proposed extension is necessary to allow the completion of an ongoing survey
   that is intended to provide updated data to assess the status of the Project
   Development Objective (PDO) indicators. The survey is critical to ensuring an
   evidence-based final ISR for the project and the consistency between the final ISR
   and the ICR.

   Based on the original design of the project, the PDO indicators ought to be updated
   by the Demographic and Health Survey (DHS), which was scheduled to be completed
   before the closing date. Due to factors largely beyond the implementing agency’s
   control (as the Central Statistics Agency is responsible for conducting the DHS), the
   DHS was delayed and is only expected to be completed early next year. In
   anticipation of the issue for measuring the PDO indicators at the closing date, and due
   to the delay of the DHS, the Bank task team and the implementing agency (HAPCO)
   agreed that a small customized population-based survey be conducted in order to
   update the PDO indicators.

   HAPCO has advertised the work through the public media and an agency for the
   study has been identified. The technical work is ongoing. It becomes apparent that
   more time is needed for the survey to be fully completed. After considering
   alternative options, the task team thinks that the best option is to extend the project by
   three months without additional cost to allow time for completion of the survey. In
   addition, the extension will also increase the chance of the ICR (to be completed six
   months after the closing date) to use the finding of the DHS.

   In keeping with Bank guidelines, the task team confirms that (i) the objectives of the
   project continue to be achievable; (ii) the project continues to be implemented
   satisfactorily; and (iii) the borrower has prepared an acceptable action plan to ensure
   project completion.

4. This will be the second extension of the project.




                                             3
