Ethiopia: Country Results Profile

                                                                                                     93474
                                                                                                     May 29, 2012




 Ethiopia: Promoting Economic Growth


Overview
The International Development Association (IDA) is Ethiopia’s largest provider of official
development assistance: it has committed over US$7 billion to more than 60 projects in
Ethiopia since 1991, most notably for the protection of basic services, productive safety nets,
energy and roads projects. IDA has worked to promote economic growth and address systemic
poverty challenges across many sectors. Important results include a near two-fold increase in
the number of children in primary school between 2001 and 2010, a reduction in child mortality
from 204 in 1990 to 109 in 2010, increased rural access to safe water to 65.8 percent in 2010,
from only 19 percent in 1990, all the while building local government capacity for service
delivery and increased accountability.


Challenge
In recent years, Ethiopia has been one of the fastest growing
                                                                   More Results
economies in Africa. Nevertheless, its robust growth
performance and considerable development gains from 2003

                                                                   12%
to 2007 came under threat in 2008 and 2009 with the
emergence of twin macroeconomic challenges of high
inflation and a difficult balance of payments situation. The
problem was exacerbated by the high fuel and food prices in        increase in child immunization
                                                                   rates
the global market.
Though Ethiopia made progress in tackling the twin
macroeconomic challenges of 2008-2010, the recent surge
of inflation depicts the country’s vulnerable macroeconomic
condition. The annual end-of-period inflation, which stood at
16.5 percent in February 2011, increased to 39.2 percent in
                                                                   77%
                                                                   decrease in the monthly cost of
November 2011. Food inflation more than quadrupled going           a 2 Mbps ADSL broadband
from 12.8 percent to 50.3 percent during the same period.          connection from 2008-2010

Non-food inflation also remains stubbornly high at 24
percent, possibly due to the upward revision of fuel prices,
coupled with a series of depreciations of the local currency       MORE INFORMATION
over the past year, which in turn has led to an increase in
                                                                    Country Website
the cost of production as well as transportation.
                                                                    Country Brief
In an effort to control inflation and the rising cost of living,
the government has been taking various measures including           Country Assistance Strategy
imposing tight cash controls on government expenditure,             Data and Statistics
temporarily introducing price caps on selected goods (which
have been lifted except on few consumables) and increasing
the salary of civil servants by 35-39 percent.
While Ethiopia’s economy is expected to continue to grow at
a healthy pace, its macro situation will remain under stress in
the foreseeable future.
 
Approach
IDA has worked to promote economic growth and address systemic poverty challenges across
many sectors.
Education. IDA’s support for the education sector—including through the General Education
Quality Improvement Program (GEQIP) and the Protection of Basic Services program—has
helped Ethiopia expand access to quality primary education over the last ten years. Total
primary enrollment went from 8.1 million students attending primary school in 2000 and 2001 to
15.54 million in 2008 and 2009. In just a few years, there has been a considerable reduction of
the gender gap for schooling. The ratio of girls to boys in primary school increased from 89
percent in 2006/07 to 91 percent in 2009/10 in grades 1-4, and 76 percent to 91 percent in
grades 5-8. The gross enrollment rate for secondary school (grades 9–10) stood at 39.1
percent in 2009/10, about double the level of 2002. Educational quality, as measured by grade
5 completion rates, has also improved from 65 percent in 2006/07 to 83 percent in 2009/10,
and remains a major focus for the government, IDA and their partners, through both teacher
training and supply of educational materials.
The expansion of general education has occurred at the same time as a major expansion of
both technical and vocational education and higher education sub-sectors, which showed an
annual average increment of 21.3 percent and 21.7 percent respectively between 2003/4 and
2007/08. This rapid expansion of the education system has not been accompanied by
adequate improvements in quality in some educational sub-sectors. In order to address this
challenge, IDA will provide US$50 million between 2009-2013 under the General Education
Quality Improvement Program, which is also financed by the Fast Track Initiative Catalytic
Fund and other development partners, including the United Kingdom’s Department for
International Development (DFID), Italy, the Netherlands and Finland.
Roads. Ethiopia’s development has been held back by a large infrastructure gap—it has one of
the lowest road densities in Africa. IDA has invested about US$1 billion since 1991 to address
that challenge. A road sector development project supported the formulation of Ethiopia’s ten-
year roads program; it helped establish a dedicated road fund for financing maintenance work
and build capacity at many levels. Working in partnership with other donors—including the
European Commission (EC), Germany, Japan, Nordic countries and the United Kingdom—IDA
helped increase both the size and quality of Ethiopia’s road network. The network increased
from under 20,000 km of roads in 1991 to over 48,793 km in 2010.
Energy. Ethiopia has the potential to become the electricity generation hub of the Eastern
Africa Power Pool. The country is bestowed with abundant hydro-electric generation potential.
In addition, the country also has several renewable energy resources such as geothermal, wind
and solar. IDA is helping Ethiopia’s energy sector to bring this potential to fruition. In the late
1990s, IDA supported the financing of Gilgel Gibe I hydro power plant with about US$200
million. This 184 megawatt (MW) plant was the largest power plant in Ethiopia until recently.
IDA is now supporting Ethiopia with a credit of US$41 million to construct a transmission inter-
connection with Sudan that will enable Ethiopia to realize its power export revenue generation
capacity. Several other projects funded by IDA totaling about US$400 million are helping
Ethiopia increase rural access to electricity. Ethiopia is now connecting more than 300,000 new
consumers (about 2 million people) every year by expanding its rural grid network. In areas that
are too remote, Ethiopia is providing solar-based electricity to institutions such as schools and
health centers.
In addition to financing projects, IDA is supporting technical capacity building of the Regional
Energy Bureaus that will enable them to appraise off-grid and other renewable energy projects
such as mini-hydro and biomass projects. IDA-financed projects also aim to increase the
efficiency of the energy sector through various demand-side management measures. IDA has
helped Ethiopia conserve energy by financing the replacement of around 5 million conventional
incandescent lamps with efficient compact fluorescent lamps (CFL).
Decentralization. Decentralization, first to the regional level in the 1990s, and now to the
district (woreda) and sub-district (kebele) levels, is the centerpiece of Ethiopia’s strategy to
improve responsiveness and flexibility in service delivery, increase local participation, and
democratize decision-making. IDA is providing capacity-building support and financial support
to local governments that is enabling them to deliver better quality basic services (health,
education, water supply, etc.) to more of their citizens. As a result of such support, regions and
woredas have increased basic services spending by over 100 percent since 2006, while
strengthening their fiduciary systems. As of January 2011, all regions and over 90 percent of
woredas are now posting their budgets in public places, and quarterly audits take place for
over 90 percent of local governments nationwide.
Private sector. After the change of governments in 1991, IDA helped Ethiopia shift from a
state-controlled economy to one that encourages private sector growth and job creation. IDA
helped the post-Dergue government address an over-valued currency that stifled exports,
reduce tariffs and taxes, and end most price controls, thereby creating a space in which
Ethiopian companies can play a natural role in generating income and creating jobs. Still, more
needs to be done to improve the investment climate and increase business confidence. IDA is
also working with the government to strengthen its competition policy, improve the financial
system, and support firms in building new technical and business management skills.
Regional cooperation . Historically, there has been tension over water usage rights between
upstream Nile riparians (such as Ethiopia,) which contributes 85 percent of Nile waters, and
downstream countries, such as Egypt, for which the river is the lifeblood of its economy. The
Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) aims to foster cooperation among nations through which the Nile
runs, and to find win-win opportunities for better management of the river. The success of the
NBI so far in building cooperation among Nile countries has opened the possibility for Ethiopia
to draw on the waters of the Nile in new ways, and on a larger scale. Ethiopia, with support
from IDA, is also a beneficiary and active member of two key sub regional HIV/AIDS initiatives;
one is the African Regional Capacity Building Network for HIV/AIDS Prevention, Care, and
Treatment (ARCAN) Project and the Intergovernmental Authority for Development (IGAD) in
Eastern Africa Regional HIV/AIDS Partnership Program (IRAPP) Support Project.
Since 1998, IDA has provided financing for the Tana & Beles Integrated Water Resources
Development Project, which aims to lay the foundation needed to accelerate sustainable
growth in the sub-basins by developing enabling institutions and facilitating investments for
integrated planning, management, and development. This project will be critical not only for
local beneficiaries and for Ethiopia in general, but will also improve regional cooperation among
Nile riparian countries. The project seeks to develop a new paradigm of institutional
modernization and convergence in managing precious water resources, while also stimulating
sustainable development.
In the coming years, IDA plans to continue providing financing for investments in Ethiopia that
build on the political openings achieved by the NBI, in areas such as energy, irrigation, and
water resources management.
 
Results
With the support of IDA credits and grants, the Government of Ethiopia has made important
strides on a number of core sector indicators:

Results by Sector
 
Education:

       Primary school completion rate (grade 5) increased to 83 percent in 2009/10, from 65
       percent in 2006/07.            

       Gender parity: For grades 1-4, the ratio of girls to boys went from 89 percent in 2006/07
       to 91 percent in 2009/10; grades 5-8 increased from 76 percent to 91 percent over the
       same period. 

Health:

       The child immunization rate increased from 70 (2005) to 82 percent (2010).
       A total of 22.2 million long-lasting insecticide-treated malaria nets were purchased and
       distributed between 2006 and 2008.

       About 7,000 health posts and 1,999 health centers were equipped (out of a total of
       15,022 and 3,200 respectively) in the same period.

Water:

       A total of 1.5 million people in rural areas and 150,000 in urban areas have been
       provided with access to improved water sources from 2004 to 2010.

       Approximately 138,873 improved community water points were constructed or
       rehabilitatedbetween 2008 and 2010.

Roads:

       The proportion of roads in good and fair condition as a share of total classified roads
       increased from 22 percent in 1997 to 60 percent in 2010.

       Federal paved roads increased from 71 percent (2005 baseline) to 88 percent (as of
       May 2010).

       Federal gravel roads increased from 61 percent to 72 percent and rural/regional roads
       from 67 percent to 79 percent over the same period. 

       Approximately 23,736 km of rural roads were constructed and 42,417 km of rural roads
       were rehabilitated between 2008 and 2010.

Energy:

       The number of towns and rural villages with electricity access was 648 in 2004/05, has
       increased to 5,163 in 2009/10.

Information and Communications Technology (ICT):

       The monthly cost of an internet connection (including 600 minutes) fell 33 percent
       between 2008 and 2010. The monthly cost of a 2 Mbps ADSL broadband connection
       has fallen by 77 percent over the same period. 

Bank Contribution
The International Development Association is Ethiopia’s largest provider of official development
assistance: it has committed US$7.6 billion to 60 projects in Ethiopia since 1991, most notably
for the protection of basic services, health, HIV/AIDS, productive safety nets, food security, and
roads. In March 2006, the World Bank’s Board of Executive Directors approved 100 percent
cancellation of Ethiopia’s debt to IDA, as part of the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI).
Debt relief measures have freed resources for programs that benefit the poor. As of March
2011, IDA’s portfolio in Ethiopia consists of 26 operations, with a total IDA net commitment of
US$3.66 billion, out of which 1.79 billion has been disbursed. Social protection is the largest
sector, with 35 percent of the IDA portfolio, followed by transportation (20 percent), energy (15
percent), agriculture (9 percent), and water and sanitation (8 percent).
 
Partners
Official development assistance (ODA) to Ethiopia has been increasing steadily since 2000. A
large number of donors are active in Ethiopia, with 25 bilateral and multilateral donors
averaging more than US$2 billion per year in ODA from 2000-2008. Both the government and
a majority of international partners have been keen to proceed with the deepening of the
harmonization process in the spirit of the Rome and Paris Declarations.
The Bank, with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and one bilateral donor,
is one of the rotating co-chairs of the Development Assistance Group (DAG), the main forum
for donor coordination in Ethiopia. Under the DAG, efforts are underway to make strong
progress on the implementation of commitments in the Paris Declaration, including joint
research (much of the Bank’s major analytical work has already been prepared jointly with
partners) and joint missions. Much of the collective effort is focused on furthering harmonization
through a few major multi-donor programs and policy areas of importance. The target of
channeling at least 66 percent of donor support through program-based approaches has been
surpassed, with 85 percent of IDA assistance flowing through the eight approved programs by
fiscal year 2010.
The World Bank has taken the lead on developing a set of multi-donor instruments to reduce
transaction costs, align support with the country’s decentralized model, and enhance the
predictability of aid. These instruments allow for large-scale leveraging of IDA support. Such
approaches include: the Protection of Basic Services program; the Public Sector Capacity
Building program; the Productive Safety Nets program; the Water Supply, Sanitation, and
Hygiene Universal Access program and the Sustainable Land Management program. For more
traditional projects, such as investments in roads, action plans are being implemented to
harmonize implementation procedures (such as common environmental assessment
procedures) with a focus on three priorities – disbursement procedures and financial reporting,
monitoring and evaluation, and procurement (starting with standard documents for goods,
works, and consulting services for national competitive bidding).
 
Toward the Future
For the remainder of the current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) period (until fiscal year
2012), IDA will continue to support the government’s objectives of (i) fostering economic
growth, (ii) improving access to and quality of basic services, (iii) reducing vulnerability and (iv)
fostering improved governance, as outlined in its Plan for Accelerated and Sustained
Development to End Poverty (PASDEP) and Growth and Transformation Plan (GTP). Through
its programs, the Bank will continue to address the deeper and complex issues of supporting
bottom-up initiatives that are becoming increasingly necessary as a complement to a
traditionally strong state. The GTP will form the basis for the Bank’s next CAS.
 
Beneficiaries
A couple of examples that will help illustrate how IDA funds are transforming the lives of
ordinary Ethiopians: 10-year-old Senait who lives in Sele Kebele in the Oromia region is
among the beneficiaries of the Protection of Basic Services (PBS) project. “Memar ewodalehu [I
love to learn!]” she says with bright eyes. Going to school has become the highlight of her life.
The ‘older’ classroom she studied in lacked proper light and ventilation. She was excited to
start studying in her new classroom and was eagerly awaiting the completion of the facilities
there. As a nationwide program, PBS has helped improve the lives of more than 70 million
rural Ethiopians: not least among them are children like Senait who now have access to
services denied to them before. 
Access to health services has also increased. Twenty-three-year-old Birhane Wolde Giorgis
has worked as a Health Officer for the past year at the health center that serves the Debre
Libanos woreda - consisting of about 50,000 people. On a very busy day, the health center
receives as many as 40 patients. The new wing of the health center–which took five months to
build with a PBS grant–provides basic maternal and childcare facilities. As a result of
increased confidence in the services provided at the health center, the number of visitors has
more than doubled from 200 cases per month two years ago to over 500 visitors currently.
