Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 25117
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT (CREDIT 1981)
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT (CREDIT 2701)
November 13, 2002
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Rufiyaa (Rf)
1996               US$1.00             $11.52
2001                US$1.00            $11.77
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB          Asian Development Bank
GDP          Gross domestic product
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
LIL          Learning and Innovation Lending
MIS          Management Information System
NGO          Non-governmental Organization
OED          Operations Evaluation Department
PPAR         Project Performance Assessment Report
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
TVET         Technical and vocational education and training
UNESCO       United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
* As of July 1, 2001, Project Perfornance Audits have been renamed Project Perfornance Assessments
Fiscal Year
Government:         January 1 - December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation          Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department       Mr. Nils Fostvedt (Acting)
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation          Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                     Ms. Helen Abadzi



The World Bank
Washington, D C 20433
USA.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
November 13, 2002
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Performance Assessment Report on the Maldives
Education and Training Project (Credit 198 1-MAL), and
Second Education and Training Project (Credit 2701 -MAL)
This is a Performance Assessment Report (PAR) on two education projects in the
Maldives:
* Education and Training Project (Credit 1981-MAL) for US$8.19 million equivalent, which
was approved in on January 26, 1989. The loan was completed on time and closed on
December 31, 1995. An undisbursed balance of US$200,000 was cancelled.
* Second Education and Training Project (Credit 2701-MAL) for US$13.4 million
equivalent, which was approved on April 11, 1995. The loan was completed on time,
disbursed completely, and closed on June 30, 2000.
The IDA human resource development strategy for the Maldives was relevant to the
country's economic needs, and the objectives of the projects have been relevant to the human
resource development needs of the country. IDA has helped the government to carry out its
clearly planned strategies and helped promote efficiency in the implementation of large-scale
programs.
The fellowships program funded under the two projects has brought about considerable
benefits in terms of human resource development. The vast majority of recipients voluntanly
returned and assumed positions of responsibility in the government and the private sector, thus
significantly improving the availability of well-trained staff within just a few years. However, the
strategy of educating students up to grade 12 in hopes of decreasing the number of foreign
secondary-level teachers is only partly effective. Many students are not interested in teaching,
and many successful teachers who obtain foreign fellowships are then promoted to supervisors
and administrators, leaving teaching to foreign recruits. Schools have an unusually large number
of administrative positions, which absorb the trained staff. Thus, a pattern is developing of a top-
heavy administration consisting of Maldivians that manage foreign teachers in the country's
secondary schools.
For both projects, outcome is rated highly satisfactory. Institutional development is
rated substantial, and sustainability as likely. Bank performance is rated satisfactory, and
borrower performance is rated highly satisfactory.



2
Lessons
Experience with the projects confirms a number of OED lessons from education projects:
* Government commitment is critical for success. This lesson has been repeated often, yet
this commntment has been particularly important for the success of these projects.
*  In small countries, projects often have components involving multiple ministries. These
can be successfully implemented when there is a strong stakeholder commitment to
reform and when there is political and administrative commitment to setting and
achieving high-quality standards.
*  In addition to academic qualifications, criteria for awarding fellowships should include
work experience and activities indicating leadership ability.
*  The extensive use as supervisors of well-trained and dedicated teachers to support other
teachers may significantly promote high achievement. However, the persons designated
as supervisors usually no longer have teaching duties. Thus effective teacher support may
result in taking good staff out of the classroom.
*  An increase in the supply of teachers is not automatically related to the provision of
suitable education. The social and economic challenges of the profession make it
attractive to fewer people than countries often need. Suitable incentives are needed to
create a pool of qualified and effective teachers.
*  Small countries face challenges in creating human resources who require tertiary-level
training. Fellowship programs need components of cost recovery, clear prioritizing of
local needs, and clear selection criteria to raise the population's confidence level
regarding the impartiality of selections.
*  Training abroad as opposed to running costly and inefficient small national institutions
(as done by most of the Pacific countries) may be a more economical and efficient means
to reduce key skill shortages.
Attachment
A



i
OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and Independence In evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are
innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation
studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efflcacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustalnability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project) Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Principal Ratings                   ...........................................................   v
Key Staff Responsible ..........................................................v
Preface ..........................................................                               vii
1.   Background ...........................................................1
2.    Objectives and Implementation of the Assessed Projects            ..........................................2
Fellowships Program .........................................................4
Development of Secondary Education and Instructional Delivery .................................4
Teacher Training and Replacement of Foreign Teachers ...............................................6
School Management ..........................................................7
3.    Ratings ..........................................................7
Outcomes ..........................................................8
Institutional Development Impact .........................................................8
Sustainability ..........................................................8
Bank Performance ..........................................................8
Borrower Performance ..........................................................8
4.    Issues for Future Consideration .................................................9
To Reduce Foreign Teachers, Maldivian Staff Must Be Used More Effectively ...........9
Innovative Thinking Needed for Classroom Instruction .............................................. 10
Educational Research is Needed .........................................................      12
Lessons .........................................................                             12
Annex A. Project Activities .........................................................            15
Table 2. Second Education and Training Project (Cr. 2701-MAL)                     .     .      16
Annex B. Basic Data Sheet ..........................................................             19
Tables
Table 1. Project Objectives ...........................................................3
Table 2. Changes in Student Enrollments during Project Implementation .........................   5
This report was prepared by Helen Abadzi, who assessed the project in May 2002. The report was edited
by William B. Hurlbut, and Pilar Barquero provided administrative support.






v
Principal Ratings
ICR*                         ES*                          PPAR
Education and Training Project (Credit 1981-MAL)
Outcome                    Satisfactory                 Satisfactory              Highly Sabsfactory
Sustainability                Likely                       Likely                       Likely
Institubonal               Substantial                   Substantial                  Substanbal
Development
Bank Performance           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Borrower                   Satisfactory                 Sabsfactory               Highly Satisfactory
Performance
Second Education and Training Project (Credit 2701-MAL)
Outcome                    Sabsfactory                  Satisfactory               Highly Satisfactory
Sustainability                Likely                       Likely                       Likely
Institutional               Substantial                  Substantial                  Substantial
Development
Bank Performance           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Borrower                Highly Satisfactory             Satisfactory               Highly Satisfactory
Performance
* The Inplementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible
operational division of the Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED
product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
Key Staff Responsible
Project                   Task Manager/Leader           Division Chief!       Country Director
Sector Director
Education and Training Project (Credit 1981-MAL)
Appraisal                        Ruth Montague                Christopher Gilpin      Marianne Haug
Completion                      Albert Aimee                  Barbara Herz            Mieko Nishimizu
Second Education and Training Project (Credit 2701-MAL)
Appraisal                       Albert Aimee                  Barbara Herz            Paul Eisenman
Completion                      Vincent Greaney               Emmanuel Jimenez        Fakhruddin Ahmed






vii
Preface
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) covers the two completed education
projects in the Maldives:
*  Education and Training Project (Credit 1981-MAL) for US$8.19 million equivalent, which
was approved in on January 26, 1989. The loan was completed on time and closed on
December 31, 1995. An undisbursed balance of US$200,000 was cancelled.
*  Second Education and Training Project (Credit 2 701-MAL) for US$13.4 million
equivalent, which was approved on April 11, 1995. The loan was completed on time,
disbursed completely, and closed on June 30, 2000.
The assessments were conducted to study the effectiveness of Bank strategy in small
countries that face unique economic and environmental challenges.
The PPAR is based on the following sources: Project or Implementation Completion Reports
(ICRs), Staff Appraisal Reports (SARs), Credit Agreements for the projects, and project files,
particularly the supervision reports. An OED mission visited Maldives in May-June 2002 to
collect other pertinent information. The author thanks the government officials who received the
mission for their extensive cooperation.
Following standard OED procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to the relevant
government officials and agencies for their review and comments but none were received.






1. Background
1.1    The Republic of Maldives is a chain of 1,192 low-lying islands in the Indian Ocean. Of
these, 199 are inhabited by a population of 270,101 (in 2000). The Maldives faces development
constraints typical of small island states. It has a small domestic market, a narrow and fragile
resource base, a shortage of skilled personnel, difficult inter-island transport, and high unit costs
of social and economic infrastructure provision. However, Maldives has extensive fishery
resources and is an attractive tourist destination. In the past 20 years, the country has put its
resources to good use; its gross domestic product has grown by about 8 percent annually since
1980, lifting the Maldives from being one of the 10 poorest countries in the 1970s to a lower
middle-income country with a per capita income of about US$1,968. The economic growth has
brought about access to basic social services and good health indicators, with a life expectancy of
72 years (in 1999). The adult illiteracy rate is only 1.06 percent (in 2000), compared to 16
percent for other lower-middle income countries.' Thls is partly attributed to the simple and
precise Dhivehi script, which has been in extensive traditional use since the 12'h century.
1.2    Because the Dhivehi language does not yet have the vocabulary to deal with many
contemporary concepts, its use as a medium of instruction is limited to smaller schools in the
more remote atolls, where teachers lack English-language education. Pnmary schools (grades 1-
7) typically teach in English in Male' and in the more accessible atolls, with Dhivehi as a subject
for local language and religion. (All primary school children learn 3 scripts in grade 1, including
Arabic.) Primary education includes grades 1-7, while secondary includes 8-10. Secondary
education is conducted in English, and a one-year catch-up course is provided for those who have
studied in Dhivehi medium schools. The country follows the British system of 0 and A levels
and examinations, and uses the Cambridge University syllabi. At the end of grade 10, students
take the 0 level examinations. If they pass enough subjects to meet standards, they can enter the
three higher secondary education schools in the country for grades 10-12. Also the Faculty
(formerly Institute) of Teacher Education functions at the higher secondary education level, and
students only need 10 years of education and two years of training to become primary school
teachers.
1.3    The population places a priority on education, and parents show a great deal of interest in
it. Thus, excellence and attainment of high educational levels is a government priority. The entire
school system had about 103,391 students and 5,064 teachers in 2001. Primary education became
universal in the 1980s, with the net enrollment ratio reaching 100 percent in 1998, with all girls
attending primary school.2 The number of students at that level doubled between 1993 and 1998.
All education is free, and the best education is provided by government schools. Private schools
are considered less desirable, though they are often subsidized. The islands also have schools
built and supported by communities, which often lack the resources of Male's schools. All
students own textbooks, which are necessary because of extensive homework. The poorer
parents can apply and get them free.
l. Detailed data provided by Department of Statistics, Government of Maldives. Maldives at a Glance. Edstats. World
Bank has similar figures. The per capita income is calculated by the Atlas method, 2001. However, documents such as
the Country Assistance Evaluation (1999) indicate a per-capita income of about US$ 1200.
2. Maldives - Country Assistance Evaluation. 2001. World Bank: Operations Evaluation Department.



2
1.4    The country's objective is to provide secondary education (up to grade 10) for all
students, but in the past, students had to come to the overcrowded Male' schools. Due to expense
and difficulties in reaching secondary schools, enrollment at this level is only about 43 percent.
Besides lack of infrastructure, the main limitation is the provision of trained secondary-level
Maldivian teachers; there are only about 354 of them. The country relies heavily on foreign
teachers, mainly from India and Sri Lanka, who constitute about 73 percent of approximately
1330 secondary-level teachers.3 These cost twice as much as local teachers and have a high
turnover rate. Thus, the government's priority has been to decrease dependence on foreign
teachers by expanding higher secondary education (grades 11-12) and provision of tertiary-level
teacher training.
1.5    Being small, the country has limited tertiary education and relies on scholarships for
study abroad. The government functionaries of today have largely studied in the industrialized
countries through such scholarships, but these cadres are few in comparison to the needs of the
country. Traditionally, countries such as Australia, India, the Commonwealth, Egypt, and the
Gulf states have given 10-20 scholarships each, but the numbers have gradually diminished. A
systematic fellowships program was needed to provide training in various fields needed in the
country.
1.6    Other donor activities. The Maldives receives donor aid from bilateral organizations,
such as Japan, Australia, and the Gulf countries. UNDP also has a local office. During the
appraisal of the Bank's first and second education projects, considerable donor coordination was
carried out. The Australian International Development Assistance Bureau cofinanced US$1.2
million for teacher training activities for the second project, while the Islamic Development Bank
financed the construction of a large atoll secondary school in the north. Japan has financed
several primary schools, while UNDP has provided technical assistance support for studies. The
Asian Development Bank through Ln. 1637-MD is supporting institutional development for the
Center for Higher Secondary Education, and a follow-on project will support vocational-technical
education. Government staff mentioned to the OED mission that the experience in implementing
the Bank projects has been very useful in dealing with the procurement details of the ADB loans.
2.     Objectives and Implementation of the Assessed Projects
2.1    The Maldives had borrowed from the Bank in the 1980s for infrastructure projects, such
as fisheries and airport expansion. It decided to borrow for education from the World Bank only
in 1993, at a time of rapid economic expansion and when it was evident that it did not have the
resources to increase its human resources rapidly. The projects focused on the investments that
were to fill the areas of highest need: expansion of secondary and post-secondary quality
education. Due to the size of the country, different aspects of the sector were dealt with in one
project. (See Table 1).
2.2    The first, second, and third projects (the latter currently under implementation) were
designed to respond to macroeconomic and sectoral strategies. They complement each other in
addressing sector needs, and have very similar components. For example, cost recovery was
3. Ministry of Education. Educational Statistics 2001. There are only about 427 students in grade 11 students and 397
in grade 12. Of the expatriate teachers, about 940 are at the secondary level and about 625 at the primary level. Most
primary school teachers lack secondary education. About 2112 of them have received some training, but 289 others
lack both secondary education and teacher training.



3
initiated in the first, institutionalized in the second, and implemented in the third project.4 The
projects are also dealing with the high dropout and repetition rates caused by controlled transition
from primary to secondary schools and by the limited availability of secondary education.
Table 1. Project Objectives
Quality                  Physical               Managementl
Improvements-           Capacity Building
Financing
Education and        Upgrade the quality of upper   Create secondary     Finance a national scholarship
Training Project (Cr.  secondary education at the   education            program of about 171 study-
1981-MAL)            Science Education Center through  opportunities in the  years of overseas fellowships for
the provision of 28 study years of  atolls through the  higher-level training.
fellowships, equipment, and   establishment of a    Finance fellowships and experts
learning materials.           regional secondary   to strengthen the planning
school.              capacity of the Ministry of
Education, improve labor market
information, and undertake
teacher issues studies.
Second Education and  Improve primary and secondary  Reduce the shortage of  Upgrade staff at the health,
Training Project (Cr.  education quality, targeting  teachers.           vocational, management and
2701 -MAL)           opportunities for the poor, and  Focus on greater  teacher training institutions.
providing better access in the  female participation.  Increase fellowship training
.                         Reduce skill shortages  opportunities by allocating
Upgrade atoll pnmary teachers.                   . training to both public and
pnvate sector recipients
Strengthen financial
management of the education
sector.
Third Education and  Improve education quality.     Increase equitable   Raise professional skills levels
Training Project (Cr.                               access.              of the national labor force.
3325-MAL)                                                                Strengthen institutional capacity.
Effective 12/30/00;
closing 3/31/05
2.3     A project implementation unit was established at the Ministry of Human Resources,
Employment, and Labour. A project director was hired who insisted on high standards. Project
staff were dynamic, qualified and dedicated, and continuity was maintained over the years.
Initially, expatriate implementation and procurement advisors were used, and staff learned from
them. Thus, the projects started their activities quickly, disbursed rapidly, and closed within the
expected time. The third project (Cr. 3325-MAL ) became effective on June 30, 2000, and is
expected to be completed on March 31, 2005.
2.4     Implementation problems were relatively few. Widely dispersed atolls made field-based
supervision difficult. Fellowship recipients had difficulty getting admissions to regional
universities due to language problems and relatively low academic achievement. A company that
was to build a management information system went bankrupt, and this activity was not
completed. Coral reefs were used for some school construction in the atolls (as was done
traditionally), but they are endangered, and the Bank has received assurances that coral will not
be used in the future. Overall, the experience has been very satisfactory for both the Bank and the
government. Almost all targets were met or exceeded (Annex A Table 1 and Annex 1 Table 2).
4. Maldives. Third Eduation and Training Project. Sector and Project Economic Analysis. World Bank: February
2000.



4
2.5    Mission visits. The mission visited 12 primary and secondary schools, the Male' and
southern higher secondary school, the Faculty of Education, and the Center for Higher Secondary
Education. Schools were chosen on an informal random basis and for ease of access (e.g., hours
of operation at a time that the mission could visit). Three schools were visited in Male', one in
Villingili island, and eight in the Hitadhoo atoll. The mission also held meetings with groups of
staff at the Ministry of Human Resources, Employment, and Labour, the Center of Higher
Education, higher secondary schools of Male' and Hitadhoo, and other schools visited.
Discussions with officials and field visits produced the following observations.
Fellowships Program
2.6    The two projects together awarded fellowships to about 561 people in the public and
private sectors to study fields needed by the government. A 15 percent cost recovery was
expected from public-sector employees, which students were willing to pay, and most are doing
so in installments. These fellowships included graduate studies in sciences and arts but also
health, aviation, and fire safety specializations. A program of this magnitude is rarely carried out
in other countries. About 85 percent of the trainees completed their degrees and almost all
returned. (Retums were voluntary.) In the southem atoll, the mission encountered four
administrators who had studied through various scholarship schemes and returned to schools. An
impact evaluation was carried out of the fellowship program under the second project. The
fellowships were found to benefit significantly the Maldives College of Higher Education, whose
staff received advanced degrees. The study concluded that academically stronger candidates
should be chosen to improve success rates, that needs for various specialties should be enunciated
more clearly, and that the government should ask all candidates to pay their contribution to the
costs.5 The government implemented many of the recommendations. Given the pressure that
many officials were subjected to as a result of the close relationships among the country's
citizens, a council was established to review applications anonymously on the basis of clear
criteria, and announcements were made by radio to inform the population of the fellowships. The
various ministries are now asked to prioritize their needs for scholarships. To deal specifically
with the need to train secondary-level teachers, the follow-on project has set aside 48 fellowships
for masters' degrees in education.
2.7    How did overseas training improve job performance? The impact evaluation study
(undertaken during the follow-on third project) was unable to gather hard data on the performance
of the trained employees, but interviews indicated that trainees felt more capable in their technical
duties. The OED mission also interviewed about 14 persons who had received various
scholarships. Most found the question hard to answer. They felt they had increased self-
confidence, better knowledge of the subject matter, and ability to bring about changes in some
procedures carried out in various jobs.
Development of Secondary Education and Instructional Delivery
2.8    The projects built six secondary schools for 1,400 students in atolls, which resulted in a
15 percent increase of student enrollments outside Male'. With the various donor investments,
atolls now have about 16,000 students in grades 8-10, and numbers have been steadily increasing
(Table 2).6 Women have benefited from the investments and constitute 52 percent of secondary
5. Ministry of Human Resources, Employment, and Labour. Impact of the Overseas Scholarship Program Funded by
the Second Education and Training Project March 2002.
6. The population growth has been a high 2.8%, which should result in a doubling of the population within 25 years
(Allak, M. Maldives: Third Education and Training Project. Sector and Project Economic Analyses, World Bank 2000,



5
students. (Perhaps more teenage boys get jobs.) Nevertheless, there are questions raised
regarding the ability of more girls to go to secondary schools from the more remote atolls. There
are no dormitories, partly because traditionally families of friends or relatives take children in
exchange for housework. Also, families are reluctant to send girls away from home
unsupervised. Children from islands often get scholarship money for their everyday needs in
island schools. The govemment has similarly been reluctant to open dormitories, and some
officials cited a previous negative experience. However, two officials felt that dormitories, if
managed well, could be effective in attracting girls to secondary schools and thus possibly
alleviating the need for local, trained teachers at that level.
Table 2. Changes in Student Enrollments during Project Implementation
Student Enrollment             1998                1999               2000               2001
Preprimary                    11,508              12,031              12,894            12,809
Primary                      73,519               74,050              73,522            71,054
Secondary (Grades 8-10)       11,845              14,531              18,254            21,644
Male' (Grades 8-10)           7,337                8,033               9,018             9,551
Atolls (Grades 8-10)          4,508                6,498               9,236             12,093
Higher Secondary (Grades        436                 457                 638                824
11-12)
Source: Ministry of Education, 2002
2.9     The mission visited and briefly studied the activities of about 40 classes, primary and
secondary. Principals reported that teacher absenteeism is negligible, and school time is used
productively. All classes were English-medium, which is becoming the norm even in atoll
primary schools. Most were engaged in leaming tasks, though 8 classes were unoccupied at the
moment of mission entry. In all engaged classes, the students were sitting and writing, while the
teacher was standing and lecturing. In the higher primary and secondary grades no textbooks
were in sight; students copied from the board and took notes about the lecture. Although seating
arrangements often made it possible, no group work or other activities were observed. One class
only (in a primary school) was observed doing group work. The educational goal is that by the
end of the first grade, all students should be able to read in English and Dhivehi. The achievement
of this goal is not yet certain; however, all students who were randomly asked by the mission to
read could do so in English and in Dhivehi. The only major obstacle identified in some atoll
schools was multiple classrooms without separating walls, which created a high noise level and
distracted the children.
2.10    The higher secondary school in the Hitadhoo atoll was found to be impeccably
maintained, and classes were very orderly and disciplined. Almost all classes were engaged in
leaming tasks when the mission entered, with students studying various aspects of the Cambridge
syllabus. It was surprising, therefore, to see students studying about the London underground
trains, labor union negotiations, and calculations in British pounds. Even the locally prepared
fisheries course was delivered in English; there were few names of Maldivian marine life and no
practicums in the sea, located a few meters away from the students. Thus, parts of the curriculum
seemed completely unrelated to the needs of students in remote atolls, where there is much
p. 17). However, according to the government, the rate of increase is slowing down. Primary-level school populations
have been dropping as a result of family size decreases, but secondary-school populations are expected to rise for
several years due to pent-up demand before leveling off. Preschool populations are still nsing as a result of population
increase and greater coverage.



6
employment in tourism.7 Staff explained that it is important for the Maldives to have
intemationally recognized examinations to enable its students to get admission to good
universities. However, teachers and principals expressed the idea that there should be national
examinations and greater curricular freedom.
Teacher Training and Replacement of Foreign Teachers
2.11   Because there are insufficient teachers with suitable training at all educational levels,
both projects emphasized the provision of in-service and pre-service teacher training through
buildings, fellowships, and materials for the Faculty of Teacher Education and the faculty of
Education in the Maldives College for Higher Education. The former institution, which has
opened branches in some atolls, trains grade 10 graduates to become teachers through a two-year
program, and the latter trains grade 12 leavers to become secondary-level teachers. The in-
service teacher education is targeted toward untrained teachers and those with only grade 7
education, who constitute the majority of the teachers in the atolls. To deal with the more remote
areas, a distance education program has begun. Curricula are developed through intemational
benchmarking, which involves studying the curricula in industrialized countries, developing
curricula according to their needs, and then asking two experts to evaluate them.
2.12   Primary education teacher training has considerable demand, since few grade 10 leavers
are admitted to grade 11, and most students cannot study abroad; 1,000 students, mostly women
apply, and 200 are selected.8 Also, training for the certification of untrained teachers is being
taken seriously. The mission visited the Faculty of Teacher Education branch in Hitadhoo and
found about 20 untrained teachers taking a two-year evening course. The building was well
maintained and provided with materials. The teachers had been educated through fellowships,
knew the subject matter, and taught from up-to-date international textbooks. As a result of these
efforts, the need for expatriate teachers at the primary level has been minimized to about 625.
However, there is much less supply of students for secondary education teaching, where the bulk
of expatriate teachers are. The Faculty of Education visited the Hitadhoo atoll and tried to attract
students' attention, but got a limited response. Similarly, discussions with students and teachers
in Hitadhoo raised doubts regarding the probability that graduates will become secondary
education teachers. The boys get well-paid jobs in resorts, and the girls have begun to do so as
well. The students of grades 11-12 are a highly selected group that aspires to study abroad
through the next rounds of fellowships. Overall, these students have better career prospects than
teaching.
2.13   How does teacher training influence teaching performance? Primary education trainers
at the Faculty of Education praised the trainees' motivation and indicated that in terms of subject
matter mastery, the teachers are improving significantly. In terms of teaching methodology,
however, it was unclear how teacher behaviors have improved. Some indicated that trained
teachers have self-confidence, speak up in meetings, are eager to apply what they have learned,
and overall "know what to do." During training, teachers are urged to teach through varied and
more active methods, including assignment of projects that synthesize knowledge. However,
when they are assigned to schools, they find that they must abandon these activities. There is
English language to teach and the Cambridge syllabus to deliver, and classes must be
standardized to meet parents' expectations that all students will learn as much as possible. Thus,
the class time mainly consists of "chalk and talk." As a result, the teaching aids and materials for
which large amounts have been spent are not frequently used. The trainers stated that they fight
7. The serving of alcohol to tourists, however, creates some cultural reluctance to work in the resorts.
8. It is unclear how many graduates actually become teachers and how many use this training as general education.



7
against the repetitive information-only instruction and lack of reflective thinking, but content
coverage has a higher priority. The more cognitively based methods leave few paper traces, and
may not satisfy parents.
2.14   The pressure on teachers to deliver the material rather than make it more memorable also
comes from the long hours they must work. In addition to the academic work, they must organize
many extracurricular activities, such as singing, Quran recitation, and netball competitions. Male'
schools, in particular, are rated by parents on the basis of victories in these competitions. Also,
homework must be graded for about three hours per week. Though teachers teach 25-30 hours a
week, they work at least 40 and may still have no time to prepare lessons for classes. Many
foreign teachers found their earnings of about US$500 per month satisfactory, but some local
teachers expressed the view that their pay is too low for the amount of work they must do.
School Management
2.15   The mission observed schools with relatively large numbers of high-level non-teaching
staff. Most Maldivian schools (of 300-1,000 students) have a principal, an assistant principal, a
headmaster, and supervisors (one for each grade in Male' and one for every 2-3 grades in the
atolls). Many of these staff have obtained fellowships and are highly educated. Their duties are
unclear; supervisors said they support the teachers and deal with discipline cases, but discipline
problems are not reported as severe. Almost all non-teaching staff in secondary schools were
Maldivian, whereas most teachers were foreigners. (The Maldivian teachers mainly teach
religion and Dhivehi.) Maldivian teachers who obtain advanced training may become supervisors
or managers, leaving the classrooms to foreign teachers. Certainly, the government prefers to
have nationals as administrators. However, a pattern has developed whereby training and
fellowships do not necessarily result in more trained secondary teachers for the country.
2.16   Because the educational management information system is not yet well developed,9 it is
unclear how many supervisors and administrators exist and how their numbers have changed
during the last decade relative to teacher numbers. Closer inspection might show redundancy.
There may be prospects for savings if some management-level staff return to teaching. It would
be useful, therefore, to chart the increase in the numbers of administrative staff and examine the
justification for their existence.
3.     Ratings
3.1    The Bank's human resource development strategy for the Maldives has been relevant to
the country's economic needs, and the objectives of the projects have been relevant to the sectoral
objectives of the government. At often happens with small countries, the rather small IDA credits
had a substantial impact in improving educational outcomes. '° Overall, the staff consulted had
very positive opinions regarding the effectiveness of the Bank financing.
9. MIS is an important component of the third project.
10. Bray, Mark and Steve Packer, 1993, Education in Small States: Concepts, Challenges, and Strategies. Oxford:
Perganon Press, p. 97.



8
Outcomes
3.2    OED rates projects on the basis of relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. These criteria
were substantially met. The projects met or exceeded almost all their objectives and
subobjectives (Annex A, Tables 1 and 2). The government met its goal to achieve universal basic
education to grade 7 by 2000. Students are increasingly able to attend secondary school in the
atolls near their homes rather than Male'; the proportion of student enrollment in Male' has
declined from 80% to 55% of the country's students, and there is less demand for the
overcrowded Male' accommodations. Teacher training facilities in the atolls were built and
remodeled, and the proportion of untrained primary-school teachers has dropped from 40 percent
to 10 percent. The fellowships increased the pool of trained workers in all areas, from fire safety
to accounting. Local higher education was strengthened and can train human resources further.
The government followed up and implemented many study recommendations. Though a
management information system for educational and labor data could not be developed to the
extent expected, a great deal was achieved. Overall, outcomes for both projects are rated highly
satisfactory.
Institutional Development Impact
3.3    The effect of the fellowships and training of trainers on the government system in general
and the schools in particular has been profound and widely acknowledged. Lack of specific
information on labor needs and the changing educational needs has prevented to some extent very
specific planning actions. However, the impact of these projects on the institutions of the country
is rated substantial.
Sustainability
3.4    The sustainability of both projects is rated likely. Recurrent expenditure budgets are
available to maintain the buildings, and training initiatives. The second and third projects have
institutionalized partial cost recovery from fellowships, and proceeds will finance future
fellowship programs.
Bank Performance
3.5    Overall, Bank performance is rated satisfactory. There was task manager continuity and
considerable Bank appreciation of the government's efforts. The budget allocated to supervision
was small (about US$30,000 for FY99), and partly due to distance, projects were not supervised
as often as they might have been However, the good relationship established with the
government of the Maldives made it possible to communicate from a distance and to resolve
promptly any procurement and implementation issues. The government expressed appreciation
of the Bank's help in the sector, and a Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review in September
2000 rated supervision quality as highly satisfactory.
Borrower Performance
3.6    The government showed much conmnitment and readiness to implement. Staff continuity
and attentiveness to various issues ensured that work was carried out promptly and efficiently.
Overall, borrower performance is rated highly satisfactory.



9
4.     Issues for Future Consideration
To Reduce Foreign Teachers, Maldivian Staff Must Be Used More Effectively
4.1    The Bank projects have removed many systemic obstacles to training teachers at the
primary and secondary levels, but the proportion of foreign secondary teachers remains at 75
percent, as it was before the second project. The number of new Maldivian teachers barely
covers the rising demand for secondary education. The wider the access to secondary education,
the higher the demands for rather specialized teachers. It is possible that teaching is not a
desirable profession for many and that the number of people who really like it is much smaller
than the number of teachers needed.
4.2    A new strategy is needed to raise the supply of people willing to become secondary
school teachers. Some options and issues are:
-      Salaries could increase. Current teacher salaries and supplements amount to about
Rf 4,000 per month (US$314), a rate that corresponds to about 3.5 times the per
capita GDP. International experience shows that this is the minimum salary level for
a sustainable teacher corps, and secondary teachers may require more. Foreign
teachers, who often only stay for a few years, earn almost double, and much money is
spent on recruiting them and paying for their tickets. One strategy might be to pay
local secondary-level teachers salaries approximating those of foreign teachers.
Another is to give salary supplements to relatively qualified people willing to work in
the atolls. The question is whether the country values more the lower wage bill or a
national and more stable teacher corps.
-      Distance education could be extended. Since A level graduates have little interest in
secondary-level teaching, a program has been instituted to train 0 level graduates.
For the past three years, 20-30 students have been trained in Male', but the numbers
are small, and their academic knowledge was found to be low. A one-year
foundation course has been instituted to deal with these deficiencies. The program
could be expanded and also delivered through teacher training centers based in atolls
as well as through correspondence and computer-based training. (Computers are now
widely available in the atolls.) Also the academic requirements may be reconsidered,
particularly in light of the high failure rates in some 0 and A level examinations.
People learn a lot by teaching the material; since Maldivian schools have many
administrators and supervisors, it may be possible to give extra support to these less
qualified teachers until they learn well the material they teach.
-      Somewhat olderfemale students could be recruited. Efforts thus far have focused on
the present school cohorts. However, the atolls have women in their 20s and 30s who
obtained 0 levels several years ago. Efforts could be made to recruit and train this
more mature population for secondary school teaching. Also, primary school
teachers could be retrained.
-      Supervisors and administrators could be reallocated to classrooms. Maldivian
teachers often go into supervision and administration, leaving actual teaching to
foreigners. According to mission observations, perhaps two to four staff in each
school could be reallocated to teaching duties. Surely there will be much effort to
justify the non-teaching duties and pressure to remain outside the classroom.



10
However, the government must determine whether its priorities are in replacing
foreign teachers or providing high levels of support to teachers.
Teacher extracurricular loads could be reduced. The social desirability of
extracurricular activities coupled with various administrative duties may be
overloading teachers and driving away from teaching those who can find higher
paying jobs with less work. Parents (some of whom are stay-at-home women) are
already involved in schools to some extent; their involvement with social events
could increase, and thus they could alleviate teacher extracurricular loads.
Willing teachers could be trained to teach subjects they have not passed at 0 level.
An important disadvantage of the British 0 and A level system is the early
specialization and the small number of subjects studied. After grade 7, students may
not see again any mathematics, chemistry, or physics. This system, which is contrary
to international trends toward later specialization, also creates obstacles in finding
qualified teachers for sciences. The government might consider retraining willing
staff, regardless of their pass levels.
The number ofpart-time teachers could increase. At this time, part-time teaching is
mainly confined to religion courses.
4.3     The government is greatly concerned about these issues and actively looking for
alternatives. Hopefully it will balance the pros and cons of various alternatives to the country's
greatest benefit.
Innovative Thinking Needed for Classroom Instruction
4.4     The pressure of teaching the material through English in primary schools and of
delivering the Cambridge syllabus in secondary schools leaves little flexibility for instructional
methods that engage students in group work and in synthetic and analytic activities. Thus,
teachers must leave aside techniques that may help process information more efficiently but are
time consuming. For example, all sections of the same grade must teach the same material (e.g.,
parts of a tree) at the same time, and teachers have little latitude in presenting the material.
4.5     The choices that the government has made create some dilemmas:
Primary school children taught basic skills in English (particularly in the atolls
where exposure to the language is only limited to school) may repeat material
fluently, but research in other countries suggest that their comprehension of
various concepts may be more limited than is thought." Children may be better
11. e.g., H. Patrinos and E. Velez. 1996. Costs and Benefits of Bilingual Education in Guatemala, Human Capital
Development Working Papers 74, Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
Dutcher, N. & Tucker, R. (1997) The Use of First and Second Languages in Education: A Review of Intemational
Experience. The Pacific Islands Discussion Paper Series (World Bank Report Number 18803). Washington, D.C.:
World Bank Group.
Findings from a 1998 study may be applicable to the problems faced in countries such as Francophone Africa. (Wayne
P. Thomas and Virginia Collier. 1997. School Effectiveness for Language Minonty Students
(http://www.ncbe.gwu.edu). Through a US govemment grant, the authors studied the longitudinal performance of
minority-language students in various types of bilingual programs, including the performance of students studying
exclusively in English because of parental choice. They found a distinct advantage to mother-tongue instruction in
earlier years and teaching courses in both languages in later years.



11
off learning basic concepts (e.g., social studies and science) in Dhivehi while
studying English as a second language. A change of language code in
mathematical calculations may slow students down needlessly. However, there is
a high social demand for English as a medium of instruction.
Secondary-school students must pass extemal examinations on issues they are
completely unfamiliar with, such as those involved in the British social studies
and environment. After grade 7, little knowledge is imparted about the Maldives
or the South Asia region. The generally accepted principle that curricula should
be relevant to the needs of a country is being sacrificed for unquestionable
international acceptability when applying for fellowships.
4.6    Rather than continue with the Cambridge examination, the govermment may consider
altematives, such as:
*      The International Baccalaureate. This curriculum, which is implemented in
many schools and parts of the world, is more flexible and than a British
curriculum and allows for cultural sensitivity and country-oriented studies. This
diploma is accepted by the vast majority of higher education institutions
worldwide.12
*      A Maldivian examination. The govemment hesitates to undertake this altemative
because of concems that nationally awarded diplomas may not be considered
equivalent by overseas universities. However, the govermment can make
arrangements with universities to accept their degrees; there is a worldwide
system of university-level transcript evaluations, and information about the
Maldivian system must be updated. For example, the Caribbean Examinations
Council gradually abolished British examinations, successfully implemented a
locally developed examination with technical assistance, and ensured
intemational recognition of its diplomas.
4.7    By selecting the fellowship recipients and future leaders of the country on the basis of the
Cambridge examination, the govemment selects persons who can perform well in reproducing
material from irrelevant curricula and a language of limited comprehension. It is unknown how
closely this type of performance is linked to leadership ability. Perhaps the system thus selects
people who can suspend their judgment and perform unquestionably. Thus, compliant students
may not necessarily be the best future govenmment functionaries and decisionmakers. The
government might study the human resources produced and determine how best to reward and
stimulate judgment and creativity for its staff. For example, scholarships might be awarded not
only on the basis of high academic performance but also on the basis of extracurricular activities
or publications that indicate leadership potential.
4.8    The government might also benefit from study tours, particularly in countries like Chile,
that use classroom time on task well, while keeping instruction relevant and efficient. In that
country, parental involvement is institutionalized and very extensive, a model that the
govemment of the Maldives might find useful.
12. Information is available at www.ibo.org. The organization has curricula for pnmary, middle, and secondary years.
It onginated in Switzherland and is administered in Cardiff, United Kingdom.



12
Educational Research is Needed
4.9    The issues outlined above are particular to the Maldives, and merit research. The Faculty
of Education staff could carry out studies to inform the government on the best ways to train
students most efficiently. Some issues to study might be:
*  What is the cognitive effect of copying and taking notes in various grades? Are students
more likely to remember material if they listen to it and discuss it or if they write it
down?
*  How well do children understand science and social science concepts taught in English
and Dhivehi in various grades? Do children show more understanding, application,
analysis, and synthesis of concepts if they are taught in Dhivehi? How does a change in
the language affect the speed and efficiency of mathematical calculations?
*  What are the pros and cons as well as logistics of grouping in classrooms where a great
deal of material must be mastered quickly?
*  How distracting is noise in community schools that have low or no walls separating
classrooms? Controlling for other variables, how well do students perform in classrooms
with and without walls?
4.10   The Faculty of Education has no direct incentive or money to do this work. Perhaps the
ongoing projects of the ADB and World Bank (which has curriculum and technical assistance
components) could finance needed research.
Lessons
4.11   Experience with the projects confirms a number of OED lessons from education projects:
*  Government commitment is critical for success. This lesson has been repeated often, yet
this commitment has been particularly important for the success of these projects.
*  In small countries, projects that have components involving multiple ministries. These
can be successfully implemented when there is a strong stakeholder commitment to
reform and when there is political and administrative commitment to setting and
achieving high-quality standards.
*  Extensive and functional supervision at the school level may significantly promote high
achievement. (The Malidivian improvement in achievement may also be related to
school-level supervisors.) However, school-based supervision may result in taking good
staff out of the classroom.
*  An increase in the supply of teachers is not automatically related to the provision of
suitable education. The social and economic challenges of the profession make it
attractive to fewer people than countries often need. Suitable incentives are needed to
create a pool of qualified and effective teachers.
*  Small countries face challenges in creating tertiary-level training human resources.
Fellowship programs need components of cost recovery, clear pnoritizing of local needs,



13
and clear selection criteria to raise the population's confidence level regarding the
impartiality of selections.
*  Training abroad as opposed to running costly and inefficient small national institutions
(as done by most of the Pacific countries) may be a more economical and efficient means
to reduce key skill shortages.






15
Annex A. Project Activities
Table 1. Education and Training Project (Credit 1981-MAL)
Componentsl          Activities         Targets to be         Outputs            Outcomes
subcomponents                             achieved
National          Overseas fellowships  171 study years   284 fellowships     All trainees retumed by
Scholarships      for higher level                        247% of the target  3/1996, received
Program           training                                                    govemment posibons
secondary education  Post-sec graduates in
the country increased
by 200%
Upgrade upper     Fellowships         28 study years      28 study years      National teachers
secondary                                                                     increased from 10 to
education quality                                                             20
at the Science                                                                GCE pass rates
Educabon Center                                                               increased from 50% to
70%
Equipment and        Laboratory          Supplied           Quality of instruction
learning materials   equipment, books                       improved (above)
Create secondary  Construction of a    1 secondary school  Constructed        Equity for southem
education        regional secondary   for 440 students    448 students        students increased
opportunites in  school in Hitadhoo                       enrolled
the atolls
60% female
Strengthen the    Finance fellowships  2 planning officers  2 planning officers  Trained staff assumed
planning capacity                                         progress in data    positions in the
of the Ministry of                                        alyi,b              Ministry, promoted
Educabon                                                  analysis, publicabon
of statistics       Planning capacity
marginally increased
Improve labor market                                        Deferred to the third
informaton                                                  project
Expatriate advisors for  4, 3, 2 months  Advisors effective in  Project procured and
planning, project    annually            dealing with       disbursed according to
implementation                           procurement and    schedule
implementation
details
Fellowships to assist                                       Trained staff assumed
project implementation                                      positions in the PIU
Teacher issues                           Completed           Development of more
studies                                  National review of  responsive teaching
teacher demand and  strategy
supply              Teacher training and
deployment policy
changes
Labor study                              Key shortages       Findings used to fine-
identified         tune fellowship
program



16
Table 2. Second Education and Training Project (Cr. 2701-MAL)
Componentsl          Activities          Targets to be         Outputs              Outcomes
subcomponents                              achieved
Teacher training  Establish an in-                          Program successfully  Teachers trained
Strengthen pre-   country lower                             established         according to expected
and in-service    secondary teacher                                             standards
primary teacher   training program
training programs
Improve access to    5 secondary schools  Students increased  Secondary educabon
secondary educabon   increase of 1400     by 1708             has become much
in the atolls through  students in the atolls  About 3925 students  more prevalent in the
building, equipping                       in the atolls       atolls
and staffing five lower
secondary schools in                      Girls' enrollment
the atolls;                               increased by 1798,
by 19.3%
Boys' increase by
17%
53% of atoll students
are female
Implement a staff  Strengthen preservice
development plan  training
Upgrade atoll for    40% atoll teachers   Untrained teachers  Teacher effectiveness
primary and lower    untrained, most      reduced to 10%      increased
secondary school     trained had only    inservice
teachers              primary education
2410 primary
teachers
30 Dhivehi medium
teachers
Preservice
certificates for 811
males 1168 females
Program for lower     Nabonal diploma in  0 level students    Number small stll,
secondary teachers   teaching             accepted were 14-22  entrance quality low;
in 1997-2000        Expected to improve
Develop in-       Reduce skills        Construction of the  The center trained  Strengthening the
country fee-paying  shortages through fee  Maldives Center for  1313 persons in  center was highly
skill training    paying courses at the  Management and     1996-2000;          significant in the
programs          Maldives Center for   administration.     939 after center    human resource
accessible to both  Management and                          deIod               development of the
public and private  Administrabon                            evelope            country
trainees, and                                               43% from public
support staff                                               sector
development in    Faculty of Teacher                        467 students
health, vocabonal  Education                                received training
and management                                              accountng,
educaton;         Institute of Health                       administration,
Services                                  secretarial skills,
informaton
technology.
Vocabonal Training
Center
Overseas          Select the best       25% allocated for   277 fellowships     Targeted training for
fellowship training  candidates         private sector      awarded             secondary educabon
for qualified     Reduce skills                             142 for govemment   teachers
Maldivians to fill  shortages
critical skills gaps                    80% of fellowships  67 for private sector
in the public     Fellowships scheme    offered at lower-ost  68 for specialized  Almost all retumed
sector and provide  reconceptualized    regional institutions  training
trained staff for                       90 fellowships      6% failed
private sector
labor_market      _________________________________________



17
Components/         Activities         Targets to be        Outputs            Outcomes
subcomponents                            achieved
requirements
Establish more   Improve financial                       Did not improve on  Doing in third project
effective financial  practices and                       these targets      MIS
procedures and   mechanisms                                                 Now they don't have
assist with      Develop a unit cost                     They ran out of    real-Ume data
management and   formulaThyrnotf
policy support in                                        money for MIS
the education    Establish monitoring                                       3rd project is continuing
sector           and tracking spending
Strengthen budgetary
process
Policies         Recover cost of                                            Policy not yet
secondary education                                       implemented
Raising student-    From 21-24 to 25    Ratio about 21     Ratio has proved hard
teacher ratio                                             to raise
Decrease dependency  75% expatriates    Was at 74%         Could not be reduced,
on expatnates                                             low local teacher
supply
Studies          Public examinatons                                         Completed, well
system                                                     received
Post-secondary                                             Completed, well
education                                                  received






19
Annex B. Basic Data Sheet
EDUCATION AND TRAIMNG PROJECT (CREDIT 1981)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal          Actual or          Actual as % of
estimate       Current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                               9.34           8.42                   90.1
Loan amount                                       8.19
Cancellation                                                   287.9
Date physical completion:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ thousands)
FY89     Fy90     Fy91    Fy92     Fy93     Fy94    Fy95     Fy96
Appraisal estimate                    100     650    2,340    4,070    5,600   6,840    7,790    8,190
Actual                                  0     690    1,550    4,020    5,730   6,820    7,580    8,121
Actual as % of appraisal                0      106      66       99     102      100       97      99
Date of final disbursement: November 1995
Project Dates
Original                        Actual
Identification                                                             March 24, 1987
Preparation                                September 1, 1987               May 2, 1987
Appraisal                                  March 1, 1988                   May 18, 1988
Negotiations                               September 1, 1988               December 5, 1988
Board presentation                         November 24, 1988               January 26, 1989
Signing                                                                    March 23, 1989
Effectiveness                                                              June 20, 1989
Project completion                         June 30, 1995                   June 30, 1995
Loan closing                               December 31, 1995               December 31, 1995
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle               Planned                  Revised                  Actual
Weeks       US$000       Weeks       US$000      Weeks       US$000
Through appraisal               63.0        147.1        63.0       147.1         63.0       147.1
Appraisal Board                 15.0         42.0        13.0        36.4         12.7        35.4
Board effectiveness              4.0         12.8         4.0        12.8          1.8         3.8
Supervision                     49.0        164.5        38.3       125.6         37.6       123.1
Completion                       3.0          8.5         2.0         7.0          1.6         6.0
Total                          134.0        374.9       120.3       328.9        116.7       315.4
*Note low cost of this operation.



20
Mission Data
Date      No. of  Staff days in  Specializations     Performance ratfng       Types of
(month/year) persons     field      represented    Implementation Development    problems
Status      Objectives
Identficaton    March 1987   1       8            Educator
Preappraisal    Feb. 1988    4       22           Economist
TechNoc. Ed. Gen.
Educator Architect
Appraisal       May 1988     2       15           Economist Architect
Postappraisal   July 1988    1       3            Ed. Specialist
Start-up        March 1989   1       3            Architect
Supervision I   Sep-Oct. 89  1       4            Architect         1              1           CW Contract
Supervision II  July 90      1       4            Architect         1              1           None
Supervision III  Feb. 91     1       7            Architect         1              1           None
Supervision IV  Dec. 91      1       4            Ed. Specialist    1              1           None
Supervision V   Jul-Aug. 92  2       9            Sr. Ed. Planner   1              1           None
Architect
Supervision VI'  Aug. 93     3       6            Sr. Ed. Planner   1              1           None
Architect
Supervision VII  Feb. 94     2       2            Sr. Ed. Planner   I              1           None
Architect
Supervision V111  May-Jun. 94  2    8            Sr. Ed. Planner   HS             HS          None
Architect
Supervision IX9  Oct 94      1       3            Sr. Ed. Planner   HS             HS          None
Supervision X   Jan-Feb. 95  1       2            Sr. Ed. Planner   HS             HS          None
Supervision Xl  Oct. 95      1       5            Sr. Ed. Planner   HS             HS          None
According to FEPS, there was a preparation mission in July 1987, but TOR and BTO-on a preparabon mission could not
be located in the files.
a. Mission was combined with new lending operaton with limited Ume given to supervision of the on-going project.
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                       Purpose as defined at appraisal      Status              Impact of Study
Labor Strategy and Survey of  Draw together results of various  Completed in 1993.  Updated the census, identified
Skill Availability and Shortages  studies and produce a strategy and  Dissemination and  skill needs for each ministry,
in the Labor Market        plan of action for Govemment to  follow-up still needed.  established annual survey to
deal with issues, such as                          maintain up-to-date information
employment conditions, wages,                      which would aid in prioritizing the
labor migraton, etc.                               country's training needs.
Teacher Deployment         Provide a strategy and plan of  Study submitted to  Strengthened primary education
action which would guide the   Govemment on July   pre and in-service programs and
Govemment in allocating resources  14, 1993. Some of the  introduced in-country junior
efficientiy to recruit, train and deploy key recommendabons  secondary teacher training.
teachers at all levels equitable  are being implemented.
throughout the country.



21
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINIG PROJECT (CREDIT 2701)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal         Actual or          Actual as % of
estimate      Current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                 17.90             17.31                  97
Loan amount                                          13.4             12.88
Cofinancing
Cancellation                                                             0
Date physical completion:
Project Dates
Original                      Actual
Board approval                                                                   Apnl 11, 1995
Signing                                                                          May 1, 1995
Effectiveness                                                                    May 24, 1995
Closing date                                      June 30, 2000                  June 30, 2000
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual/Latest Estimate
N° Staff Weeks                        US$ ('000)
Identificaton/Preparation                   51.9                                167.2
AppraisaUNegotiation                        13.5                                 64.3
Supervision                                 32.5                                225.4
ICR                                          9.02                                42.0
Total                                      106.92                               498.9
Mission Data
Date           No. of   Specializations          Performing RaUng
(month/year)      persons    represented
Implementation     Development
progress          objectives
Identification/ Preparation  05/11/94         1       EP
1       ES
1       EC
AppraisalNegotiation   06/04/94-06/18/94      1       EP
10/10/94-10/20/94      1       ES
01/14/95               1       AR
1       LA
1        EC
I       SA
Supervisions           05/12/95               1       EP                     HS                HS
10/23/95-10/29/95      1       EP                     HS                HS
03/01/96-03/02/96      1       Director                S                HS
03/16/96-03/21/96      1                               S                HS
08/11/96-08/15/96      1                               S                HS
11/01/96-11/14/96      1       EP, EC                 S                 S
04/06/97-04/10/97      1       EP                      S                 S
07/18/97-07/23/97      2       EP, IS                  S                 S
02/03/98-02/17/98      6       EP, EC, ES, AA,         S                 S
01/25/99-02/06/99      8       CO, RA
TL, HRE, OA, PS,       S                 S
FMS, IS, ES, LA
ICR                    06/12/00-06/19/00      6       TL, EC, PA, ES,        S                  S
01/13/01-01/19/01      3       EE, OA                 HS                HS
1T, ES, EC
MA   Administratve Assistant; AR = Architect; CO = Consultant; EP = Educaton Planner; EC = Economist; ES =
Education Specialist; EE = Environment Educator; FMS = Financial Management Specialist; HRE = Human Resources
Economist; IS - Implementation Specialist; LA = Lawyer; OA = Operatons Analyst; PA = Program Assistant; PS =
Procurement Specialist; RA = Research Assistant TL = Team Leader;



22
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
*   Bray, Mark Secondary School Examinations in the Republic of Maldives: Current Modes and Future Policies,
1999.
*   Educabon Master Platt Team. Educabton Master Plan (1996-2005), Prepared for the Ministry of Education,
Republic of the Maldives with support from the Hickling Foundation and Asian Development Bank, 1995.
*   Johnston, Ian, Study on Examinabons and Assessment a the Primary/Extended Primary and Secondary Levels
in the Republic of Maldives, Interim Report, 1999.
*   Ministry of Education, Male', Republic of Maldives. Educational Statistics, 1995-2000 (published annually).
*   Ministry of Planning and National Development, Male', Republic of Maldives. Staistical Yearbook of Maldives,
2000.
*   Rawlinson Consultng Services. Post Secondary Educaton Study. Republic of the Maldives, 1997.
* Waheed, Ibrahim, Impact Study: SETP Meeting Management and Administrative Skills at the IMA, 2000.
* World Bank. Development Credit Agreement (Cr. 2701-MAL), May 1, 1995.
*   Worid Bank. Implementation Complebon Report, Education and Training Project (Cr. 1981-MAL), June 18,
1996.
* World Bank. Staff Appraisal Report for the Second Education and Training Project, February 22, 1995.
Worid Bank. Supervision/Site Visit Reports, 1996-2000.






IMAGING
Report No.:         25117
Type:     PPAR



