Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21916
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(27010)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.3 MILLION (US$13.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
April 30, 2001
South Asia Region
Education Sector Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = Rufiyaa (Rf)
Rfl 1.77 = USS 1.00
US$ 1.00 = Rfll.77
FISCAL YEAR
January I -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEC           Atoll Education Center
ACTSD         Advisory Committee on Training and Skill Development
ADB           Asian Development Bank
AIDAB         Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
AusAid        Australian Aid Agency
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CPL           Currency Pool Loan
CSU           Central Scholarship Unit
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
DER           Department of External Resources
DPE           Department of Public Examinations
EDC           Education Development Center
EMIS          Education Management Information System
ETP           Education Training Project
FMIS          Financial Management Information System
GER           Gross Enrolment Ratio
GOM           Government of Maldives
ICB           Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Agency
IDB           Islamic Development Bank
IHS           Institute of Health Services
IMA           Institute of Management and Administration
ITC           Illawara Technology Corporation
ITE           Institute for Teacher Education
MCHE          Maldives College of Higher Education
MCMA          Maldives Centre for Management and Administration
MCPW          Ministry of Construction and Public Works
MHREL         Ministry of Human Resources, Employment and Labor
MLSTEP        Maldives Lower-Secondary Teacher Education Project
MOE           Ministry of Education
MOFT          Ministry of Finance and Treasury
NA            National Assessment
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NPV           Net Present Value
NRSS          Northem Regional Secondary School
NSB           National Scholarship Board
OECD          Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCC           Project Coordination Committee
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PMR           Project Management Report/Project Management Reporting
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
QSA           Quality of Supervision Assessment
SA            Special Account
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SASED         South Asia Region, Education Sector Unit
SBCQ          Selection Based on Consultant's Qualification
SETP          Second Education and Training Project
STR           Student Teacher Ratio
TA            Technical Assistance
TETP          Third Education and Training Project
VTC           Vocational Training Center
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Fakhruddin Ahmed
Sector Manager/Director:    Emmanuel Jimenez
Task LeadernTeam Leader:    Venita Kaul/Vincent Greaney



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
I Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3, Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  13
6. Sustainability                                                                      14
7. Bank and Borrower Perforrnance                                                      15
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                      17
9. Partner Comments                                                                    18
10. Additional Information                                                            19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 31
Annex 8. Summary of Interviews with Fellowship Beneficiaries                          32
Annex 9. Project Review from Government's Perspective                                 33
Annex 10. Second Education and Training Project - Achievement Status                  39
Annex 11. Map of Republic of Maldives                                                 42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P004337                                        Project Name: EDUCATION
Team Leader. Vincent M. Greaney                            | TL Unit. SASED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: April 30, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: EDUCATION                                       L/C/TF Number: 27010
Countrv/Department. MALDIVES                                               Region. South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector. EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/lActual
PCD.  01/11/94                                 Effective: 06/01/95
Appraisal:  06/01/94                                   MTR:  10/01/97
Approval:  04/11/95                                  Closing.  06/30/2000
Borrower-/Implementing Agency:  Govemment of Republic of Maldives/Ministry of Human Resources; Employment
and Labour
Other Partners: Australian Aid Agency, Islamic Development Bank
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       Mieko Nishimizu                            Joseph Wood
Country Mtanager:     Fakhruddin Ahmed                           Paul Eisenman
Sector Manager:       Emmanuel Jimenez                           Barbara Herz
Team Leader at ICR:   Vincent Greaney                            Albert Aime
ICR Primnary A uthor:   Venita Kaul
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory. U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely. HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borr0ower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Second Education and Training Project (SETP) was the second IDA- (International Development
Association) supported education project in the Republic of Maldives. Its design was therefore largely
informed by the experiences and outcomes of the first Education and Training Project (Cr. 1981-MAL)
which was implemented from 1989 to 1995. SETP's development objectives were to: (a) upgrade education
quality; (b) increase equitable access to quality secondary education for about 1400 students in the atolls;
(c) reduce skill shortages; (d) increase responsiveness to economic priorities for overseas post-secondary
training; (e) strengthen financial management of the education sector; and (f) undertake priority studies in
the education sector.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No changes were made to the development objective during project implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
(a) upgrade education quality by establishing an in-country lower-secondary teacher training program and
contribute to the gradual reduction in the number of expatriate teachers; strengthening the pre-service
teacher training program; upgrading primary atoll teachers through in-service training; remodeling the
Institute for Teacher Education (ITE) facilities; and establishing efficiency indicators to facilitate sector
management; by reducing the number of untrained teachers at primary level, substituting the number of
national for expatriate teachers at secondary level, organizing in-country pre-service training for lower
secondary teachers, strengthening pre-service training for primary teachers, upgrading atoll primary school
teachers through in-service training, implementing a staff development plan for primary and lower
secondary teacher trainers, and improving teacher training facilities;
(b) increase equitable access to quality secondary education for about 1,400 students in the atolls by
adding lower-secondary( grades 8-10) to four selected AECs and establishing a new lower-secondary
school in the north; maintaining a career information and guidance program; and undertaking policy
reforms in secondary education including consolidating atoll secondary education, recovering costs at the
secondary level in government schools, continuing the flexible administration of the bonding of secondary
school leavers and assisting with the implementation of more economical and equitable student-teacher
ratios, and staff-deployment policies;
(c) reduce skill shortages by developing, at the Maldives Center for Management and Administration
(MCMA), fee-paying modular courses that would respond to both private and public sectors; improving the
quality of existing and new skill-training programs at the MCMA, the Institute of Teacher Education
(ITE), the Institute of Health Services (IHS) and the Vocational Training Center (VTC) through
staff-training programs and providing facilities at MCMA and equipment and books at the MCMA and the
VTC;
(d) increase responsiveness of overseas post-secondary training to economic priorities by selecting the
best candidates under a criteria-based fellowship program. The program would allocate about 25 percent of
the fellowships to the private sector with about 80 percent of all fellowships offered at lower-cost regional
institutions. Sustainability would be supported by introducing cost-recovery measures to establish a
fellowship fund;
(e) strengthen financial management of the education sector by improving financial practices and
mechanisms to provide more equitable grants and financial support to educational institutions; and
- 2 -



(f) undertake priority studies in the education sector.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not revised during project implementation.
3S5 QOzality at Entrv:
Sector Background: Education in the Maldives has been predominantly a shared responsibility between the
government and the private sector. Initially, government schools accounted for about 45 percent of total
enrollments. This proportion has gradually increased with the Government of Maldives (GOM) assuming
greater responsibility, particularly at the primary level. In the early 1990s the percentages of the age cohort
receiving primary and lower secondary education were 133 percent (GER) and 21 percent respectively. The
school structure in the Maldives includes seven years at primary level (grades 1-7), three years at lower
secondary level (grades 8-10); and two years at upper secondary level (grades 11-12). The London
University Certificate of Education 'O' level examination is taken after grade 10 and the 'A' level is taken
after Grade 12. Primary education is imparted through a dual system: (i) majority of the island schools
using Dhivehi as the medium of instruction; and (ii) All schools in Male'; using English as the medium of
instruction. Post-secondary education is pursued overseas for those holding 'O' and 'A' level certificates;
some formal training is provided in Male'. Tertiary education is, for the most part, contracted externally
and tends to be supported by government-awarded fellowships.
The Project: The predominant sector issues, at the time of project preparation, were to: a) improve
educational quality; b) meet the growing demand for secondary education through expansion of secondary
school facilities and the provision of trained national teachers; and c) reduce the shortage of skilled
manpower. In June 1993, as many as 800 expatriate teachers were employed at twice the cost of similarly
trained national teachers; 31 percent of the teachers located in the atolls were untrained; the majority of
'trained' teachers had only completed primary education. There was also a serious shortage of teachers'
guides in Dhivehi. Skills gaps and many under-qualified individuals assigned to positions of national
responsibility lhampered productivity and the delivery of critical public services.
The first Education and Training Project (ETP) started addressing some of these issues by supporting
overseas fellowships and the initial expansion and improvement of secondary and upper-secondary
schooling. The SETP built on lessons learned from the first project. It took into account, for instance, that a
senior secondary school located in an atoll had promoted equitable access for females and also noted that
the fellowship program contributed to a reduction in skill shortages among senior government officials
(three of the beneficiaries became government ministers). ETP studies and experiences helped identify the
objectives that defined the SETP components. Project preparation was carried out in close collaboration
between GOM and IDA. The project benefits and risks were well articulated and indicators identified. With
the benefit of hindsight, the range of project objectives appears to have been too extensive and diffuse,
ranging from increasing equitable access to lower secondary education to reducing skill shortages and
addressing economic priorities of the country. Also, a number of minor objectives (e.g., establish a career
information and guidance service) were overly ambitious given the level of system development.
Furthermore, the twelve legal covenants agreed to by both GOM and IDA, though intended to monitor
program quality, appear to have been too numerous. Some were also unrealistic, given the limited
management capacity of GOM at that stage. It would also have been advisable to include a financial
analyst at the time of appraisal considering that the accounting courses and setting up of a financial
management system were important project components.The project design did not adequately emphasize
process objectives and indicators linked to quality improvement. The overall thrust of the project seems to
have been correct, given the experience with ETP and the economic needs at the time; the more visible
- 3 -



focus seems to have been on fellowships and skills training to meet economic priorities, civil works to
increase enrollment, and teacher training. Quality at entry was rated satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outconme/achievement of objective:
Assessment of achievement of objectives has been greatly facilitated by availability of timely educational
statistics published annually by MOE. Absence of an EMIS/FMIS facility, which was to be developed
during the course of project implementation, adversely effected overall project evaluation. This along with
absence of some measurable quality indicators, limited somewhat the scope of the quantitative analysis.
Upgrade education quality:
The project aimed at universal coverage at the primary stage by year 2000 (Annex 3, SAR). While
population estimates are not available to make an exact estimation, the available data indicates a very
positive impact in terms of an overall increase of 3925 students at the primary stage between 1996 and
2000. The increase is more significant in the atolls as compared to Male where the primary enrollment has
increased by 4275 students from 1996 to 2000. Girls enrollment increased by 1798. The increases in atoll
and girls' enrollment are significant achievements; they demonstrate that important project objectives
related to equity were attained. In terms of total national figures in both primary and secondary education,
enrollment of girls has increased by 19.3 percent, compared to 17.9 percent for boys. Enrollment objectives
were achieved; the enrollment increase was more pronounced in the atolls (20 percent) than in Male' (15
percent) (Educational Statistics, 1996-2000, Ministry of Education [MOE]. Evidence collected through
interaction with stakeholders indicates growth in enrollment to be largely due to the creation of good school
facilities in the atolls under the project. These have generated community demand for education. It seems to
have also developed a sense of community pride and ownership in the school, and a commitment to
education. For instance, one atoll organized a week-long celebration when the local school was declared the
best school for the year, based on examination results. Many atoll communities take on the responsibility of
annually painting the school. In some atolls, families accommodate children from neighboring islands at
nominal or no charges, to enable them to study in the local school. It was not possible to assess the impact
of project interventions on other educational indicators such as leaming outcomes, since these were not
specified in the project design.
Increase equitable access to quality secondary education:
The project objective of an increase of 1400 students at the lower-secondary level has not only been met
but has been exceeded by 1708 students over the 1995 baseline (671). Prior to project commencement, out
of approximately 6,200 students enrolled in lower-secondary education (grades 8-10) in 1993, about 80
percent were in schools in Male'. There was only one designated lower-secondary school outside Male', the
Southern Secondary School in the Addu Atoll, built with support from the first IDA-funded ETP. SETP
supported the upgrading of four secondary schools. Enrollment, at the lower-secondary stage, has since
expanded sharply in the five schools (see Table 1) with overall numbers increasing about four times over
the baseline, from 671 in 1995 to 2379 in 2000. Female secondary enrollment has also risen steeply, from
326 students in 1995 to 1261 students in 2000. Female students account for about 53 percent of students in
the five schools supported through project funds. The proportion of secondary school enrollment in Male'
has consequently declined to about 55 percent, thus lessening the demand for scarce accommodation in the
capital.
-4 -



Table 1: Growth in secondary enrollment (grades 8-10) by gender
1995                         2000
female      male      total  female   male    total
Baa Atoll                           42          49        91      173     201       374
Eydafushi School
Lhaviyani Atoll                     49          58       107      140     156       296
Hinnavaru School
Gaafu Dhaalu Atoll                   93        115       208      301     248       549
Thinadhu School
Gnaviyai Atoll                      142         123      265      311     254       565
Marukazu School
Total IDA-supported                 326        345       671      925     859      1784
Northern Regional Secondary          -          -         -       336     259       595
School (IDB-supported)
Total SETP-supported                326        345       671     1261    1118      23?9
Male'                               2540       2680      5220    4613    4405      9018
Source: Ministry of Education Statistics
The project also aimed to support the expansion of access to higher-secondary education (grades 11-12) in
Male. Enrollment data shows that the project was associated with a doubling of student numbers in grades
11-12. Total student numbers in these grades increased from 313 in 1993 to 638 in 2000; female student
numbers rose from 123 in 1993 to 274 in 2000.
Reduce skill shortages:
The project's contribution to the development of the Maldives Centre for Management and Administration
(MCMA). more recently termed the Institute of Management and Administration (IMA), has been highly
significant. SETP-supported the development of IMA with the objective of reducing the shortage of skilled
manpower. Project support was designed to enable the institute to offer a range of diplomas and
certificate-level courses in subject areas associated with strong labor market demand. During 1996-1999,
about 1313 persons were trained in IMA. Out of this number, about 939 persons (72%) received training
during 1998-1999, when IMA was able to expand significantly training facilities and activities due to
project support. Among the total number trained, about 43 percent were from the public sector and 57
percent from other sectors.
-5 -



Table 2. Distribution of students across courses at IMA
1996             1997             1998             1999
COURSE
Public   Total   Public   Total   Public   Total   Public   Total
sector           sector           sector           sector
Accounting                   48       140     43       119      57      152      61       13
(34%)            (36%)            (38%)            (40%)
Island administration        24       35       23      35       36      36       28      38
(69%)            (66%)           (100%)            (74%)
Clerical staff training       22      24       21      21       22      22       23       25
(92%)           (100%            (100%)            (92%)
)
Management courses            0        0       0        0      104      180      45      202
(58%)            (22%)
University entrance diploma   0        0       0        0       13      82       8        39
(16%)            (22%)
Diploma in Information        -        -       -        -       -        -       4        10
Technology                                                                     (23%)
Total                         94      199      87      175     232      472      169     467
Note: Figueres in parentheses indicate percentage of public sector employees among course participants
IMA has improved to the level where it can now provide two-year diploma and one-year certificate courses
in three departments: (i) information technology (IT); (ii) management; and (iii) accountancy. The IT
diploma and management certificate are accredited by the University of Wollongong, Australia. IMA has
also linked up with the University of Middlesex in the United Kingdom to offer bachelors level degrees in
Business Infornation Systems and Business Studies. Under the current structure of the degree, students
spend the first year studying in the IMA and the next two years at Middlesex University. Negotiations to
offer the first two years of the degree at the IMA and the final year at Middlesex are currently underway.
About 1,000 students are presently enrolled in these three IMA courses, of whom slightly more than half
are female.
-6 -



Table 3. Institute of Management and Administration, (January 2001)
enrollment by course and gender*
COURSE           Female       Male         Total      % Female
students    students                 students
Information              49          59          108          45%
Technology                     I
Accountancy             240          229         469          51%
Management              200          186         386          52%
Total                   489          474         963          51%
Source: Institute of Management and Administration
* Table indicates current enrollment in long term courses.
According to a special impact study, commissioned for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), most
of these courses appear to be popular and in demand. Public and private sector officials claim that there is
considerable interest in IMA courses among individual students. The course content appears to be relevant
to the needs of end-users and their employers. Evidence that the courses contribute to staff development is
bome out by the incidence of repeat requests from the government sector and the readiness of private
organizations to sponsor their own staff and other participants on these courses. The Ministry of Atolls
Administration officials, for instance, asserted that IMA courses helped ensure: (a) acquisition of new
knowledge and skills; (b) exposure to modem theory and practice, useful for participants who work in
remote locations; and (c) development of uniform administrative practices across the atolls.
IMA has coimnenced cost-recovery through course fees which are paid directly to IMA on behalf of
Ministry of Finance and Treasury (MOFT). From January 2001 onwards IMA will be able to use the
revenues generated through fees to improve and expand its courses.
Increase responsiveness of overseas post-secondary training to economic priorities:
GOM introduced an overseas fellowship program in 1989 under ETP to address the issues of shortage of
graduates, which was leading to an over-dependence on expatriate professionals and absence of tertiary
education facilities in the country. The immediate objective was to help fill critical posts across a range of
government services. ETP supported about 90 overseas fellowships in a wide range of disciplines and
subject areas and succeeded in training a cadre of public sector leaders. However, the gap between the
number of highly-skilled individuals necessary to operate a modem economy and those actually trained.
continued to widen. Skills shortages were most acute in a number of certain specific professions. Arising
from this. SETP proposed that: (a) fellowship opportunities should be provided for the private sector; (b)
allocation of fellowships and national development priorities should be matched more closely; (c) allocation
of fellowships should be based on academic criteria; (d) fellowship allocations should be redirected,
primarily from OECD nations to lower-cost regional institutions; and (e) cost-recovery measures should be
introduced.
Under the re-conceptualized SETP fellowship scheme, 277 fellowships were awarded, of which 142 were
from the govemment, 67 from the private sector and 68 were for specialized skill training (for ITE, IMA,
etc.). Primary degrees were obtained by 56 students, diplomas by 46 students, while the remaining ten
received more advanced qualifications. By late 2000 about 44 percent of the beneficiaries had retumed
- 7 -



after completing their program, 47 percent were still studying overseas, six percent having failed while a
further th-ree percent returned early for other reasons. Thus, it should be noted that a sizable percentage of
fellowship beneficiaries were still overseas and had not completed their studies by the end of the project.
Two-thirds of the four-year training recipients went abroad during the third year of the project. This
resulted in a severe cost over-run, described later. Contrary to earlier plans, three quarters of all fellowship
holders went to OECD countries directly or through twinning programs which involved part regional and
part OECD-country training. The unplanned taking up of OECD-based courses stemmed from: (a) an
inability to gain admission to quality regional tertiary institutions due to academic and linguistic factors;
and (b) link-institutional arrangements (especially in Malaysia) which necessitated part of tertiary
programs being completed in an OECD country (e.g., Australia, the UK). The scheme has served to
provide much-needed expertise and knowledge to the various sectors both in the government and private
sectors. Inspired by the obvious benefits of this scheme, a small number of private organizations have
started fellowship programs. GOM has been slow in developing and implementing its cost-recovery
program; by December 3, 2000 as little as US$ 45,000 had been recovered.
Strengthen financial management of the education sector:
The project proposed to: (a) develop a unit-cost based formula for central government grants and subsidies
to atolls and educational institutions; (b) establish a workable mechanism for tracking, monitoring and
projecting educational spending; and (c) strengthen the budgetary processes needed to under- pin the
long-term expansion of the education sector. These required the development of separate systems of
Education and Management Information (EMIS) and Financial Management and Information (FMIS). The
proposed systems were not established during the course of the project. Initially MOE was unable to locate
a suitable EMIS consultant. Later, a New Zealand firn (New Zealand Qualifications Authority) was
identified and agreements reached. However, before the contract could be awarded the company went into
liquidation. Subsequently, due to paucity of funds resulting from the cost over-run in the fellowship
component, the work could not be undertaken. Since a sound EMIS is a precondition for setting up the
FMIS, the development of FMIS had to be postponed. The development of an EMIS is now being
supported under the current Third Education and Training Project (TETP).
Improving efficiency and generating cost savings:
The project proposed that the intemal efficiency of the education system would be increased and cost
savings generated by raising the student-teacher ratio (STR). The STR from 1999 base levels of 23:1 in the
Maldives, 24:1 in the atolls and 21:1 in Male would be raised to a uniform 25:1 by 2002 in all three.
Table 4. Student-Teacher Ratios
1998      1999       2000         2002
(Actual)   (Actual)   (Actual)    (Projected)
Maldives              25         23         22           25
(Republic)
Male'                 22         21         21           25
Atolls                27         24         22           25
Source: Education Statistics, Ministry of Education, and Policy Statement on Student Teacher
- 8 -



In fact, STRs have decreased between 1998 and 2000 in the atolls, Male and the Maldives as a whole
(Table 4). The decline in the STR from 1998/1999 to 2000 makes it more difficult for GOM to reach the
planned target of an STR of 25:1 by 2002. The issue raises considerable concern, especially since the
Maldives already devotes about one-fifth of government expenditure to education. The rising student
enrollment in secondary education over the next few years will exert even greater pressure on government
finances.
Dependence on expatriate teachers:
At project commencement, 75 percent of secondary-level teachers were expatriates. This dependency has
not decreased, with 74 percent of secondary teachers continuing to be expatriates. Expatriate teachers have
contributed substantially to the development of the educational system in the past. However, the cost of
over 1700 expatriate teachers is very substantial, resulting in additional expenditures of well over US$6.0
million annually. Also, expatriate teachers are unlikely to be as effective as national teachers on account of
their lack of familiarity with students' cultural background, language, customs and aspirations. In light of
this, GOM will need to give more serious consideration to redoubling its efforts to attract more nationals
into the teaching profession at both the primary and secondary levels.
Undertake priority studies:
The two studies financed under the project were completed satisfactorily. The first study focused on the
public examination system, specifically on policy options which included a review of the expensive
London-based examinations system, which was used at the end of the lower- and upper-secondary levels in
the Maldives. Progress on the study was hampered by the death of the first consultant. Subsequently the
study was completed and was well received by GOM. The second study "Post-Secondary Education" was
also well received by GOM and had a major impact on educational policy. It's principal recommendation
lead to the setting up of the Maldives Centre of Higher Education (MCHE), an umbrella organization
which helped unify and streamline the administration of the six existing post-secondary training institutions.
4.2 Outputs bY components:
Upgrade Education Quality:
Reduce untrained teachers at primary level: At project preparation two-thirds of the primary teachers were
located in the atolls; of these more than 40 percent were untrained. The majority of the 'trained' teachers
had completed only primary education. A significant impact of the SETP has been the reduction in this
percentage to under 10 percent in the year 2000. However, in absolute terms, the number of untrained
teachers has expanded as the overall total teacher population increased in response to the sharp increase in
student enrollment. The issue of untrained primary teachers has been addressed in the project through
large-scale training carried out by the ITE. The Institute has, in the course of the project, conducted five
on-site teacher education programs for 2410 primary teachers and three batches of in-service teacher
training for 30 Dhivehi-medium teachers. These programs have been targeted on atoll teachers. In addition
to these, ITE has conducted four different types of pre-service certificate courses in primary teacher
education through which 811 males and 1168 female teachers have been trained. According to school
principals interviewed, training has contributed substantially to teacher quality.
Substitute national teachers at secondary level: SETP has not succeeded in reducing the number of
expatriate teachers, largely due to the rising enrollments at the secondary stage which are not matched with
a corresponding increase in number of national trained teachers. At appraisal, the percentage of expatriate
secondary level teachers was about 75; in 1998 it was 72.24 percent and to 74.07 percent by 2000. This
suggests that there has hardly been any decline in the ratio of expatriate teachers to Maldivian teachers at
the secondary level. The rapid expansion in the secondary system has helped ensure that for the foreseeable
future GOM will have to continue to recruit these teachers. The percentage of total expatriate teachers
-9-



which amounted to 25 percent of the teaching force in 1998 has risen to 31.3 percent by 2000. The
objective of rationalizing the teaching force remains important, not alone for financial but also for
pedagogical reasons. Principals, teachers and education officials expressed preference for national over
expatriate teachers. Though expatriate teachers are in many cases competent, some lack familiarity and
insensitivity to the local cultural context and adopt inappropriate disciplinary methods. Dependence on
expatriate teachers is likely to continue as the number of secondary school places increase and in the
absence of realistic incentives for national teachers to take up positions in the outer atolls.
In-country pre-service training program for lower-secondary school teachers: ITE established a National
Diploma in Secondary Teaching in 1997 for the lower secondary stage with the objective of preparing
local secondary teachers. The course was set up with technical support available to ITE through its link
with the Macquarie University. ITE accepted 14 students in this course in 1997, 16 students in 1998, 21 in
1999 and 21 in 2000. ITE is concerned that: (i) many candidates for the course are not able to meet the
entrance criteria; and (ii) more competent school leaving students give preference to overseas scholarships
or IMA courses, which provide better career prospects. Consequently, ITE has resorted to introducing a
bridge program of a year's duration for students with "O" level qualifications which adds on to the overall
costs since student teachers are paid stipends or basic salaries during training.
Strengthen pre-service training for primary teachers: The curriculum for primary teacher education was
revised using an integrated approach; further restructuring from the point of view of cross-stage linkages
and inten-al consistency is required. SETP funded the development of supporting education materials as
well as material in Dhivehi; this will continue under TETP. In addition to the in-service training mentioned
above, ITE has also conducted three programs leading to the Associate Certificate in Primary Teacher
Education for 80 teachers and two programs (Advanced Certificate of Primary Teaching) for 28 teachers.
Training has concentrated largely on subject matter, content and methodology.
Upgrade atoll primary school teachers through in-service training: The Seenu in-service training facility,
consisting of two classrooms and a staff office, was completed after an initial delay due to difficulty in
attracting interested contrctors. The atoll resource teams and school supervisors require further training to
enable them to provide continuous on-site support to the teachers, to be addressed under TETP.
Implement a staff development program for primary- and lower-secondary teacher trainers: At project
inception the ITE had an academic staff of 36, comprising 30 nationals and six expatriates. Only six out of
the 30 held university degrees. The project proposed supporting a program of staff upgrading through a
combination of overseas fellowships and distance education approaches. The ITE faculty strength, at the
time of project completion, had risen to 50, of whom 18 have post-graduate qualifications and 16 possessed
graduate qualifications. A professional link institution arrangement with the Macquarie University,
Australia, has contributed to the development of well-qualified teacher educators. The link-institutional
arrangement helped develop the appropriate infrastructure, design course curricula and training of staff to
offer a National Diploma of Secondary Teaching. It also contributed to restructuring other programs to a
semester mode.
Improve teacher-training facilities: The project has contributed substantially to the improvement of
teacher education facilities, equipment and library resources. Improved facilities include four classrooms,
two seminar rooms, two in-service training rooms, one training room, one printing room, staff offices,
storage facilities, well-equipped computer centers for both teacher educators and student teachers, and
audio-visual equipment. Evidence suggests that the new facilities created are being actively utilized by the
faculty and students and have enriched the quality of training. Atoll-based resource persons periodically
visit and utilize ITE facilities for their own professional development. Initially serious problems, notably a
- 10-



leaking roof, were incurred during ITE construction, partly attributable to inadequate supervision by the
Ministry of Construction and Public Works (MCPW). These were resolved at some cost to GOM. The
regional in-service center building was completed and handed over to ITE in March, 1999. Howmever, the
building is unusable at present since it is located on a low-lying, high-tide area and is largely unprotected.
GOM is providing a separate budget to address this problem.
Increase Equitable Access to Quality Secondary Education:
The project supported the expansion and upgrading of four secondary schools, the Baa, Lhaviyani. Gaafu
Dhaalu and Gnaviyani atolls, with IDA funds. The Northern Regional Secondary School (NRSS)
co-financed by the Islamic Development Bank (IDB) was also completed at Kulhudhuffushi in Haa Dhaalu
atoll under the project. As a result, enrollment capacity at the lower secondary level increased by about
1708 places between 1995 and 2000. This represents an enrollment capacity increase of about 250 perceiit
in the atolls. IDA funds also provided books, educational materials, equipment for a science lab, an audio
visual/multipurpose room, and new furniture to the four new AECs and for the Northern Regional
Secondary School. Teachers, too, were trained under the project. The proposed career information and
guidance program could not be taken up due to lack of capacity.
Reduce Skill Shortages:
The MCMA was established to help reduce critical skill shortages in the labor force. SETP supported
upgrading physical infrastructure, equipment and facilities, and faculty development. Civil works included
construction of a new wing which accommodated five classrooms, a library, computer laboratories, and
washroom facilities. Books and educational materials were also supplied. Professional development of the
faculty was carried out with the assistance of a link institute, the University of Wollongong, Australia.
Under this arrangement, 12 staff completed B.Ed. level training and one was trained to post-graduate level.
Prior to retuming as MCMA instructors, the link institution provided technical assistance (TA) to
sfrengthen institutional development, support course development and deliver training. Graduates of this
program for the first time received their overseas university degrees in Male' in December, 1999 at an
occasion which was a source of considerable national pride. In a recent development, GOM has given the
institute pennission to use fees collected from students to pay for the activities related to course provision.
To provide long-term vision and strong institutional leadership, MCMA (now IMA) requires qualified
graduates in all important executive roles, an unresolved problem since the inception of the SETP.
Increase Responsiveness to Economic Priorities for Overseas Post Secondary Training:
SETP supported the implementation of the fellowship program through the National Scholarship Board
(NSB) and the Central Scholarship Unit (CSU), located in the Ministry of Human Resources, Employment
and Labor (MHREL). The NSB had responsibility for establishing the national policy for the award of
overseas training fellowships and providing guidance to its secretariat, the CSU. The NSB: (i) formnulated
guidelines for overseas training; (b) allocated fellowships according to perceived national needs and
priorities (iii) took decisions on other matters relating to overseas training; and (iv) approved procedures
for managing fellowships. Government institutions sent their annual requirements to the CSU who
identified priority training areas according to agreed criteria. In the public sector, priority was given to
skills with high-developmental impact (e.g., teaching and nursing) and priority needs of the administrative
sector (e.g., attomeys, architects and fishery scientists). Recipients of the fellowships were bonded to the
sponsoring agency after completion of their studies.
Students, public and private sector employees, government departments highly valued the fellowship
program. Focus group meetings with parents indicate that the scholarship is the "glittering prize" at the end
of the senior cycle, for which they are prepared to make great sacrifices. Available records suggest that all
fellowship beneficiaries who have completed their studies have retumed to the Maldives and taken up their
- 11 -



expected posts. Interviews conducted with a sample of fellowship holders, as a part of the ICR mission,
indicated the program has contributed substantially to their professional and personal development, and has
generally resulted in career advancement. Placing students in regional institutions rather than in the OECD
countries directly proved difficult. Many applicants failed to gain admission in regional tertiary institutions
due to inability to meet academic criteria (especially in India) and/or due to language issues. In a small
number of instances, students did not have sufficient institutional or course information which led to
choices of sub-standard institutions and inappropriate programs. The issue is now being addressed under
TETP, by placing the responsibility for contacting and selecting institutions with the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The fellowship beneficiaries also indicated there was a need to streamline some
administrative procedures, particularly those related to monthly payments. Details of interviews are given
in Annex 8.
The SETP fellowship component also included cost-recovery charges of 15 and 50 percent from the
fellowship recipients, in the public and private sectors respectively. Cost recovery was instituted to: (a)
encourage students to be more cost effective in their training choices; (ii) contribute to a financial reserve to
provide the foundation for a self-sustaining fellowship fund; and (iii) to ensure that students had a strong
incentive to apply themselves to their studies. To date, the cost-recovery mechanism has not been
implemented effectively. About 66 percent of SETP fellowship "completers" have not commenced
repayment. Significantly, about 50 percent have not been requested to repay. In cases where graduates have
been notified, two-thirds have actually begun to repay. Repayment notifications are particularly low among
fellowship holders now employed in the private sector and in institutions such as the IMA and ITE. In
January 2001, the MOFT gave a firm undertaking that it will strongly support the implementation of the
SETP cost-recovery program. An analysis of the cost-recovery program was conducted and showed that
total repayments financed from the fellowships was estimated at over US$1.4 million, the Net Present
Value (NPV) of such an amount (discounted at 6 percent per year) is US$0.7 million. Clearly this amount
is inadequate to develop a long-term sustainable tertiary fund. Further analyses revealed that the repayment
burden on private-sector beneficiaries was less than that on their public-sector counterparts. These
considerations resulted in modifications in the cost-recovery system under TETP. Private sector
beneficiaries will be charged 60 percent of fellowship costs (with interest); repayment rates for public
sector beneficiaries will remain the same as under SETP, i.e., 15 percent with no interest charges.
Strengthen Financial Management of the Education Sector:
The proposed systems were not established during the course of the project. The reasons are discussed in
Section 4.1 above. TETP will support the establishment of an EMIS.
Undertake Priority Studies:
Both studies were completed and well received by GOM. The examinations study helped formulate GOM
policy and its findings were taken into account in the design of TETP. The post-secondary study had a
major impact and lead to the establishment of the MCHE, an umbrella organization for all post-secondary
institutions. The development of MCHE was supported subsequently by the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) and by IDA, under TETP.
4.3 Net Present Value/lEconomic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial r ate of return:
N/A
- 12 -



4.5 Institutionial development impact.
The project has evidently made a substantial impact on the development of institutional capacity and
overall economic and social well being of the country. The capacity of existing AECs has also been
considerably enhanced. The consolidation of six post-secondary national institutions under a common
administrative umbrella of the MCHE is expected to lead to greater efficiency, standardization of course
quality, resource sharing and other benefits. Both the IMA and the ITE have been strengthened
institutionally and now represent the two largest institutions within the MCHE. SETP support, in the form
of physical infrastructure, equipment and in particular the link arrangements, have contributed to upgrading
the quality of their programs and faculty development. The fellowship program has contributed to the level
of technical competence and professional self-confidence in virtually all ministries and in some private
sector organizations. Program management, procurement, financial management and computer skills
developed in the PIU have set the standard for other government ministries and in many instances have been
copied to good effect.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
I . IDA procurement procedures were found by GOM to be very effective in facilitating competitive
bidding and minimizing subjectivity and corruption. They have been adopted by other GOM ministries.
2. Widely dispersed atolls made field-based supervision very difficult.
3. Fellowship beneficiaries found it difficult to get placements in regional universities due to language
problems and challenging academic admission standards in the more prestigious institutions.
4. The consulting group which was to establish the EMIS/FMIS systems went into liquidation.
Subsequently, the GOM opted to use component funds to support the fellowship cost overrun.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
I . GOM's strong political commitment greatly facilitated project implementation. Ministry heads have
benefited from the first fellowship scheme. There was widespread recognition within the public sector
that the SETP fellowship program was GOM's primary instrument for developing much-needed
technical capacity in the public sector.
2. Key appointments to agencies involved in SETP were in the main based on perceived merit and
competence.
3. MHREL provided strong leadership in project planning and implementation, and received support from
the MOE.
4. Various supervision missions and the ICR team were impressed with the quality of governance and
lack of any evidence of corrupt practices.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
1. The professional commitment, competence and efficiency demonstrated by the PIU has proved to be a
major facilitating factor in the efficient implementation of the project.
2. Staff turnover in the PIU, particularly in areas of civil works and procurement (in which persons
gained expertise and moved to other agencies) impeded progress a little.
3. More close monitoring of fellowship commitments would have identified the cost over-run. It resulted
in funds having to be transferred from the much-delayed EMIS/FMIS sub-component to support the
fellowship program.
4. The level of financial management expertise was judged satisfactory by a consultant, a former IDA
Financial Management Specialist during his evaluation of the PIU.
- 13-



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The Credit financed US$13.4 million equivalent (75 percent of the total project cost). Over the life of the
project, this amount was reduced by 3.9 percent ($520,203) due to currency fluctuations. The project fully
disbursed 96.1 percent ($12,879,797 equivalent) of the IDA Credit. Sufficient financial provisions was
made for civil works, goods and in-country training, but the costs of the technical assistance component,
which included link institutions, consultants and studies, were under-estimated by about US$0.8 million.
This over-run was offset by reallocation between the disbursement categories. Fellowship commitments
exceeded cost allocations by about US$1.7 million. Factors accounting for the over-commitment include:
(a) sending two-thirds of the four-year training recipients overseas during the third year of the project; (b)
over-ambitious appraisal estimates that up to 80 percent of fellowships would be allocated for studies at
lower-cost regional institutions; (c) high costs associated with tertiary training in OECD countries, not
envisaged at project appraisal; (d) a cash-based accounting system which did not take adequate account of
long-tern commitments; and (e) expectation of a follow-up project. To address this over-commitment,
retroactive financing of about US$2.55 million is provided under TETP. A project monitoring
reporting-based accounting system has been installed to monitor commitments under TETP.
6. Sustainability
6. 1 Rationale fbr sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated as likely. The AEC's which were expanded and enhanced in the Baa,
Lhaviyani, Gaafu Dhaalu and Gnaviyani atolls, as well as the Northern Regional Secondary School are
experiencing stronger than expected student demand. The quality of education in these AEC's appears high
by Maldivian standards, with examination results comparable to those recorded by secondary schools in
Male'. The ITE has established a strong foundation for in-country teacher education and has a trained staff
and modem facilities. The IMA has also established a firm base for providing training in priority labor
market skills, such as information technology, management, accounting and administration and has a
trained academic staff. It is capable of offering courses up to degree level. IMA offers courses in high
demand and recoups some of these costs. The overseas fellowship fund has also been instituted, and about
US$45,000 has already been collected from past fellowships beneficiaries; the size of the tertiary fund will
increase as more graduates return from overseas studies, and as the planned cost-recovery mechanism is
implemented. Strong commitments have been given by GOM to improve the implementation of the
cost-recovery program.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations.
Fellowship beneficiaries who have completed their courses have returned and taken up prominent positions
in the public and private sectors. The vast majority of public sector fellowship beneficiaries also work in
the private sector in the afternoons, a unique and conspicuous labor market feature of the Maldives. Focus
group discussions established that the benefits of high-level technical training for public sector fellowship
holders are having a sizable immediate effect on the private sector. While the final position remains
unclear, pending the return of graduates who are pursuing teaching courses, there is concern that some of
these may wish to take up positions in Male' rather than in the atolls. The expanded and equipped AEC's
have been staffed with trained teachers and have experienced a more-than-expected increase in student
enrollments, evidence of the increasing demand for secondary education throughout the Maldives.
Both the ITE and the IMA have been absorbed into the new MCHE structure. Focus group discussions
revealed a high level of public confidence in the quality of teacher preparation and in the quality of most
courses offered to meet labor market needs. MOE looks to the ITE staff to provide leadership in the
provision of in-service teacher education. MCHE has given IMA considerable freedom to develop new
- 14 -



courses and some financial autonomy, supported by its fee levying courses.
Sustainability of Benefits: Project investments have generated substantial benefits through: (i) equitable
expansion of secondary schooling access; (ii) enhanced learning through better in-country teacher education
and training, and increased quality inputs in schools; and (iii) the reduction of skill shortages in the labor
market through substitution of trained Maldivian workers in place of expatriate workers. The five AEC's in
Baa, Lhaviyani. Gaafu Dhaalu. Gnaviyani, and the NRSS increased their capacity by about 1,708 students
in grades 8-10, an increase of about 175 percent in relation to intake capacity prior to project intervention.
The regional distribution of the five atolls ensures that access to lower- secondary education (grades 8-10)
is now more equitably spread across the country; secondary education had been disproportionately centered
in Male'. ITE has expanded capacity, through project investments, to produce about 36 secondary teachers
annually. This reduces the cumulative cost of expatriate teachers by about US$120,000 annually. The IMA
possesses capacity to produce more than 1,000 trained and skilled workers annually, to meet labor market
requirements in priority areas such as information technology, management, accounting, island
administration, and clerical and secretarial skills. The cumulative foreign exchange savings generated by
the substitution of about 1,000 skilled Maldivian workers in place of foreign workers can be estimated, at
the minimum, to be around US$6.0 million per year. The overseas fellowships scheme provided
opportunities for tertiary level education for 277 students. Among these, 142 (50%) were from the general
public sector, 68 (25%) from the public institutions such as IMA, ITE, IHS, MOE and the Maldives
Institute of Technical Education (MITE); and 67 (25%) from the private sector. These fellowship retumees
are young individuals, mainly in their twenties. The transfer of knowledge, skills and technology to the
Maldivian economy, through this investment in human capital, is likely to have long-term impact.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance was rated satisfactory. IDA worked closely with GOM to prepare the
project. GOM considered that the technical advice given by IDA facilitated efficient project
implementation. Project preparation took into account lessons learned from ETP, and the emerging labor
market needs of the developing economy. While the design of the project focused on improving access,
particularly for secondary education, it did not directly address processes influencing the quality of
education, especially student learning. Some project covenants were over-ambitious and did not take into
account the limited capacities of MOE.
7.2 Supervision:
The quality of supervision had been rated highly satisfactory by IDA's Quality of Supervision Assessment
(QSA) team. The QSA team justified the rating based on evidence of the team's sound assessment of the
implementation problems, regard for development impact and its supervision efforts. It commended the
team particularly on its use of project-generated data to stimulate dialogue on key policy issues with
respect to teacher recruitment and cost-recovery. It noted that the team had made effective use of the small
supervision budget by integrating supervision with policy dialogue and preparation of TETP. QAG also
commended the team for its effective skill mix in educational measurement and project management with
skills in fiduciary areas. Both the Team Leader and Country Director agreed that a mid-term review was
unnecessary given that 84 percent of the credit had been disbursed by this stage. The ICR mission accepts
that there is some validity in the PIUs assertion that the prospect of a mid-term review might have focused
attention on fellowship disbursements and commitments sooner and might have resulted in a somewhat
smaller cost-overrun. The quality of Bank supervision was rated satisfactory.
- 15-



7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Discussions with GOM during the ICR mission revealed that IDA had established a strong working
relationship and, according to one key policy maker, was always prepared to go the "extra mile" to assist
the client. Overall bank performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The quality of preparation was rated satisfactory. SETP policies emerged in part from GOM's plans for
education reflected in its 1991 Education Sector Review, 1993 Report on Teacher Demand, Supply and
Training, and it's 1994 National Development Plan, 1994-96. Building on lessons learned from ETP, the
Borrower worked closely with the Bank to prepare the project. The Bank agreed to support SETP's
USS17.9 million program with a US$13.4 million credit. The borrower negotiated an additional credit of
US$2.3 million with IDB and secured US$1.2 million from AIDAB (AusAid). The commitment of the
govermnent along with the willingness to learn from experience and place priority on national needs, had a
strong impact on project design. The detailed planning, reflected in the SAR annexes, provides evidence of
borrower commitment during project preparation. However, the borrower also committed itself to a number
of covenants which could not subsequently be honored as they proved too challenging. The borrower too
did not give adequate priority to aspects of quality improvement (enhanced student learning) in the project
design at the time of preparation, opting in the main for fellowships, civil works to increase access to
secondary education, and support for IMA and ITE.
7.5 Governme7t implementation performance:
The government implementation performance was rated highly satisfactory. GOM's political will and
commitment demonstrated throughout have significantly facilitated project implementation. The
government has been responsive to the IDA's suggestions even with regard to issues that may not have been
politically popular, such as cost-recovery. GOM has consistently placed priority on the country's
developmental needs. It has also been receptive to new ideas and has incorporated lessons from project
experiences and methodologies into other sectors, particularly in procurement and administrative
procedures. Coordination across departments, especially between MHREL and MOE requires attention to
improve efficiency and ease implementation.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency was rated highly satisfactory. The PIU, a unit within
MHREL, has demonstrated a high level of efficiency. Its young dedicated staff, under the dynamic
leadership of the Project Director, maintained meticulous records and documentation. The staff have
upgraded their knowledge and skills on the job, particularly in areas related to procurement. Despite staff
turnover, the PIU has maintained continuity and efficiency in handling different project components,
including the complex demands related to implementing the fellowship scheme.
The project audit reports were submitted regularly and on time and were unqualified. However, closer
attention to financial monitoring and accounting would have avoided the cost-overrun. The PIU could have
been more proactive in implementing the cost-recovery aspect of the fellowship scheme. The new
PMR-based system will help ensure that the TETP-supported commitments are carefully monitored.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the borrower has been rated highly satisfactory. As a result of strong GOM
leadership, supported by a competent PIU, the key project objectives were achieved and IDA finds were
fully disbursed. In particular, access to secondary school has been greatly enhanced in an equitable manner,
- 16 -



pre-service teacher training improved, skill shortages reduced and human capacities enhanced in the public
and private sectors.
8. Lessons Learned
SETP demonstrates that projects in small countries with limited resources can be successfully implemented
where there is strong stakeholder commitment to reform, and where there is political and administrative
commitment to setting and achieving high quality standards. In this instance the level of parental
commitment to education manifested itself in the much larger than expected enrollment in the new junior
secondary institutions, and in post-secondary courses, and improving equitable access to school.
Implementation:
1. An efficient and autonomous PIU, supported by strong political commitment from GOM, is a
necessary condition for effective project implementation.
2. Investment in developing PIU capacity in areas such as project implementation, financial management
and computer applications can have wider benefit since skill transfer takes place to other departments
through personnel deployment. This contributes to an increase in public sector management efficiency.
Fellowships:
1. The fellowship scheme has proved successful in developing much-needed expertise and knowledge.
2. Fellowship beneficiaries seeking placements in overseas institutions lack adequate knowledge and as a
result may select sub-standard institutions. The PIU, or a similar agency, should play a strong
proactive role in seeking placements and establish early formal communication with tertiary authorities.
3. Criteria for awarding fellowships should include, not only academic excellence but also relevant work
experience.
4. Fellowship placements should commence early during project implementation to allow for completion
of studies within the project period.
5. Cost-recovery mechanisms, including repayment modalities should be implemented as soon as
beneficiaries retum from overseas study. The mechanism should be firmly established by the initial
stages of project implementation.
6. The SETP cost-recovery mechanism, even if implemented effectively, could not create a viable tertiary
fund for future fellowship aspirants. As a result, the cost-recovery mechanism to be applied under the
follow-on TETP project has been changed. Percentage repayments have been amended from 50 percent
for private sector beneficiaries (under SETP) to 60 percent (under TETP) coupled with interest
charges. The rate charged to public-sector beneficiaries remains unchanged.
7. Long-tenn financial commitments for fellowship beneficiaries must be monitored regularly to help
avoid cost over-runs.
Other:
I . Improving the intemal efficiency of an education system by increasing student-teacher ratios requires
strong govemrnment comrnitment, in addition to MOE leadership.
2. Community commitment to education can have a strong positive impact; in this instance it resulted in a
much higher than expected demand for places and active support for school maintenance.
3. Link-institutional arrangements can help promote quality programs and create a climate conducive to
professional growth of the faculty.
4. Substitution of expatriate teachers by national teachers will require GOM initiatives to make the
teaching profession more attractive to national teachers and in particular to create incentives for
-working in atoll schools.
- 17-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowi;erlimplementing agency:
The Borrower informed IDA that they do not have any reservations with regard to the ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers:
The Islamic Development Bank (IDB) co-financed SETP with a contribution of US$2.3 million to cover
the cost of construction and furnishing of the NRSS. It noted that the demand for secondary school places
was out-stripping the number of available places. IDB rated the quality of construction as good, although
they have not yet received the final construction report. IDB considered GOM's performance satisfactory
and comunented on GOM's high degree of commitment and seriousness in monitoring and implementing
SETP. Procurement procedures were implemented smoothly.
Australian International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) also co-financed the project with a
contribution of US$ 1.0 million; other on-going Australian aid programs contributed an additional US$0.2
million. Australian support covered part of the cost of establishing the new Maldives Lower-Secondary
Teacher Education Project (MLSTEP) and some primary teacher training costs at the ITE, including TA
provided by the Australian link institution. AIDAB noted:
"Our contribution to the Second Education and Training Project took the form of the MLSTEP. This
project was completed in December 1999 and at present there has been no formal evaluation of the
outcomes.
Capacity building and institutional linkage established through the project has been successful. The
relationships between counterpart staff at the ITE and Australia's Macquarie University continue to be
nurtured and remain mutually beneficial. The ITE also have an operational and high quality secondary
teacher training program as a result of the project. ITE also subsequently has the capacity to train many
more secondary teachers than the college can attract to the course and secondary teachers are needed in
Maldives. However, this leads to one of several issues that the project scope could not address, that is the
problems for Maldives at fhe primary and secondary education level.
Not only does Maldives have an ongoing and increasing dependence upon expatriate secondary school
teachers at significant financial cost, but the quality of expatriate teachers is decreasing. A decrease in
quality has been attributed by GOM to the wage increases in expatriate teachers home countries resulting
in the good teachers staying at home. Consequently, despite greater access to primary and secondary
school, Maldivian students are not achieving grades that would enable them to enter ITE and the problem is
also compounded by the unattractiveness of secondary school teaching (low wage and low prestige) as a
career for successful secondary school graduates.
AusAid believes that the wider World Bank project has met an important need for Maldives, however much
of the reward will only be evident once the quality of primary and secondary education and access to
secondary education in Maldives has improved.
AusAid understands that the World Bank's next investment in Maldives has a significant primary education
focus and this is to be encouraged. Australia intends to continue its support to IHS which has been an
extremely successful capacity building project. Australia will also continue to offer higher education
fellowships (for overseas undergraduate and Masters degrees) to the best performing student graduating
from the diploma of secondary teaching at ITE each year and approximately 10 other higher education
fellowships to the govenmnent to meet human resource development needs in the education, health and the
environment sector.
- 18 -



AusAid and the World Bank have been successful in meeting development needs at one end of the
education spectrum in the Maldives. The need now exists at the lower levels, but at least the institutes and
govermnent will have the capacity to provide quality advanced education to what one hopes will be a
growing number of high achieving secondary school graduates. AusAid is impressed that the governmenit
would rather not reduce the entrance requirements for students into ITE but would prefer to tackle the root
of the problem. The Maldives remains one LDC where the outcome of Bank and donor investment is
effective over time. Furthermore, it is one of the few countries in the world where sociologist and
anthropologists have revealed that education is valued even more than health".
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
The following persons contributed to the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report:
D.H.C. Aturupane, Senior Economist
Kamal Gaur, Consultant
Julie-Anne Graitge, Program Assistant
Vincent Greaney, Team Leader/Lead Education Specialist
Venita Kaul, Task Leader/Senior Education Specialist
Starlet Vedamuthu, Operations Analyst
- 19-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                    Projected in last PSR                 ActuaULatest Estimate
Information in this column has been included The following improvements in the primary
wherever relevantVavailable from the PSR    school system have been achieved.
dated January 1999. The last PSR did not
report on status vs targets since the ICR was
to be prepared.
1. UPGRADE EDUCATION QUALITY
Increase in total school enrollments in Male'                                Increase in enrollment: Male' (15%); Atolls
and atoll schools since 1996                                                 (19.96%); and total (18.59%)
2. INCREASE IN EQUITABLE ACCESS TO
QUALITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS                                                    Total lower secondary enrollments:
Year      Male'      Atolls
Total enrollments in lower secondary (grade                                  1996       5987      2140
8-10) in Male'/Atolls                                                        2000       9018      9236
Transition rates from prmary to lower  -                                     Transition rates from primary to lower
secondary                                                                    secondary (%)
Year     *Male'      Atolls
1996      105      30.98
2000      110      42.04
t over 100 percent possible due to continued
migraton from atolls for secondary.
Total enrollments (Male' & Atolls) in grades  Total enrollments in grades 8-10:  Total enrollments in grades 8-10
8-10                                   Male 7060; Female 7471                Male 8736; Female 9518
3. REDUCE SKILL SHORTAGES
Skills training received through                                             467 students received skill training at MCMA
MCMAVITE/IHS                                                                 4599 teachers received training at ITE
4. INCREASE RESPONSIVENESS TO
ECONOMIC PRIORITIES FOR
OVERSEAS POST-SECONDARY
FELLOWSHIPS
No. of general fellowships (regional/OECD)  No. of general fellowships: 276 (1999)  No. of general fellowships: 276 (1999)
No. of targeted fellowships (regional/ OECD) No. of targeted fellowships: 325 (1999)  No. of targeted fellowships : 325 (1999)
for MCMA, VTC, IHS, and NRSS
Fellowships/training received by public/                                     Public fellowships: 142; Public training: 68
private sector                                                               (total); Private fellowships: 67;
Cost recovery at the Secondary level                                         Process of cost recovery has just begun.
5. STRENGTHEN FINANCIAL                                                      FMIS and EMIS has not been achieved due
MANAGEMENT OF THE EDUCATION                                                  to difficulties in identifying appropriate
SECTOR                                                                       agencies to provide technical support internal
work pressure at MOE and altemative
demands for project funds.
6. UNDERTAKE PRIORITY STUDIES                                                Two studies were successfully completed
and had policy impact. These were:
(1) Post-Secondary Education Study; and
2) Study on Examinations and Assessment
at the Primary/Extended Prmary and
Secondary Levels in the Republic of
Maldives.
- 20 -



Output Indicators:
L.          Indicator(Matrix                     Projected in last PSR         l        Actual/Latest Estimate
1 SCHOOL FACILITIES
Number of secondary classes            Number of secondary classes             Number of secondary classes
(grades 8-10) (1999)                   (grades 8-10) (1999)                    (grades 8-10) (1999)
237                                    237
42                                     42
46                                     46
31                                     31
Lower secondary schools in atolls (total)                                     4 schools
Student teacher ratio for
Male' (Lower secondary schools)        Male': 19.1                             Male': 17.3
Atolls (Lower secondary schools)       Atolls: 15.3                            Atolls: 15.1
2. TEACHERS' PROFILE
Number of national teachers with following
qualifications:                        71                                      63
Trained Graduates                     1760                                    1933
Trained Non-Graduates                 35                                      33
Untrained Graduates                   259                                    347
Untrained Non-Graduates               775                                    950
Temporary
Number of expatriate teachers with following
qualifications:
Trained Graduates                     555                                     978
Trained Non-Graduates                 260                                     322
Untrained Graduates                   105                                     123
Untrained Non-Graduates               31                                     24
Temporary                             35                                      71
Number of nationals/expatriates teachers for                                   Total no. of teachers (Male' & Atolls)
grade 8-10: in Dhivehi/lslam/other subjects                                    National    Expatrates
294            840
Teacher attrition rate (Male'-yearly)
Teacher attrition rate (Male'-yearly) (1999)   Teacher attrition rate (Male'-yearly) (1999)
Primary teachers (%)                   National       Expatriate               Natonal       Expatriate
Secondary teachers (%)                   - 3           - 8.5                    - 3            - 8.5
-4            -12.5                    -4             -12.5
3. TRAINING OF TEACHERS
Number of teachers receiving pre-service                                      -Assoc Cert. in Primary teaching- 80
training in Primary (2 years)                                                 -Advanced Cert. in Primary teaching- 28
Number of teachers receiving pre-service                                       Year    National Dip.  Foundation
training in lower secondary (2 years)                                          1997    11
1998    14               14
1999     9               16
2000    ----               9
Number of teachers receiving In-service                                       Total number of teachers trained
training for upgradation                                                       (1997-2000)
Male    Female       Total
931      1351        2282
- 21 -



Teaching Learning material produced for                                            Teaching-Learning Materials in draft form
primary pre-service training in Dhivehi/
English
Teaching Learning material produced for                                            Teaching-Learning Materials in draft form
primary in-service training in Dhivehi/English
4. ENHANCING INSTITUTIONAL
CAPACITY
Setting up training program at IMA with link                                       Carried out by the link institute, University of
institution                                                                        Wollongong, Australia
Number of ITE staff with:                                                         Total ITE staff: 50 qualified
Post Graduate Degree                                                             21
Graduate Degree                                                                   12
Dip.lProfessional teaching                                                        17
Facilities Created in ITE for primary/                                             4 classrooms, 2 seminar rooms, 2 in-service
secondary                                                                          training rooms, training room, printing room,
staff offices, computer center, audio-visual
equipment and storage facilities.
Number of academic/administrative staff in  17 staff members                       17 staff members
MCMA
Facilities created in MCMA                                                         Construction of a new wing accommodating
5 classrooms, a library, computer
laboratories and washroom facility
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million   _ .  ,
Teacher education (primary and lower secondary)       2.70            2.84          105.2
Secondaiy education access (NRSS and SCSs)            5.60            5.50           98.2
Skill trainitng (MCMA, VTC, IHS)                      1.40            2.48          177.1
Fellowship program                                    6.20            5.44           87.7
Education financial management                        0.30            0.12            40
Studies/project management                            0.20            0.93           465
Total Baseline Cost                                  16.40           17.31
Physical Contingencies                               0.70
Price Contingencies                                  0.80
Total Project Costs             17.90           17.31
Total Financing Required              17.90          17.31
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        IC             NCB                        N.B.F.     Total Cost
_~~~C               Other
1. Works                       0. 00          2.90          0.00          2.10         5.00
(0.00)         (2.70)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.70)
2. Goods                       0.60            0.30         0.80          0.20         1.90
(0.60)         (0.30)       (0.80)        (0.00)       (1.70)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00          0.60          0.80         1.40
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.60)        (0.00)       (0.60)
4. Fellowships                 0.00            0.00         8.20          0.40         8.60
(0.00)         (0.00)        (8.20)       (0.00)       (8.20)
5. In-country                  0.00            0.00         0.20          0.00         0.20
TrainingNVorkshops             (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.20)        (0.00)       (0.20)
6. Recurrent Costs             0.00            0.00         0.00          0.80         0.80
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                        0.60           3.20         9.80          4.30         17.90
(0.60)         (3.00)       (9.80)        (0.00)       (13.40)
- 23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB                                2         N.B.F.       Total Cost
NC 
1. Works                          0.00            2.69           0.00            2.10           4.79
(0.00)         (2.56)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (2.56)
2. Goods                           1.08           0.18            0.22           0.20           1.68
_______________________         (1.08)          (0.18)         (0.22)          (0.00)         (1.48)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00            1.37           0.80           2.17
(0.00)         (0.00)          (1.37)         (0.00)         (1.37)
4. Fellowships                    0.00            0.00            7.27           0.40           7.67
(0.00)         (0.00)          (7.27)         (0.00)         (7.27)
5. In-country                     0.00            0.00            0.20           0.00           0.20
Training/Workshops                (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.20)         (0.00)         (0.20)
6. Recurrent Costs                0.00            0.00           0.00            0.80           0.80
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          1.08            2.87           9.06            4.30           17.31
(1.08)         (2.74)          (9.06)         (0.00)         (12.88)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Coniponenit             Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
-________________   .Bank            Govt.      CoF.      oBank        ovt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Teacher education          1.80       0.10      0.80       2.01       0.03       0.80     111.7   30.0   100.0
Secondary education        3.50       0.10      2.30       3.10       0.10       2.30     88.6   100.0  100.0
access
Skill training             1.50                            2.48                           165.3
Fellowships                6.10                 0.40       5.04                  0.40     82.6           100.0
Education financial        0.30                            0.12                           40.0
management
Studies/project            0.20       0.80                 0.13       0.80                65.0   100.0
management
T'OTAL                     13.40      1.00      3.50       12.88      0.93       3.50     96.1   93.0   100.0
- 24 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The project has generated substantial economic benefits, assessed in terms of higher human capital
accumulation, improved equity in access to secondary education, enhanced labor market opportunities,
reduction of potential skills shortages in critical economic services, and cost savings through the
substitution of Maldivian nationals for potentially more expensive expatriate workers, including teachers.
Higher human capital accumulation in the Maldivian economy is evident in:
*   The expansion of lower secondary education enrollment (grades 8-10) between 1995 and 2000.
Enrollment in SETP-supported schools in the AEC's in grades 8-10 increased from about 670
students in 1995 to about 2380 students in 2000, an expansion of over 250 percent during the
project lifetime. Expansion in female enrollment has reflected the increase in overall numbers,
rising from about 326 students in 1995 (49 percent of students) to about 1260 students in 2000 (53
percent of students).
*   The increase in opportunities for overseas education, skills acquisition and training at the
post-secondary level, through the award of 277 fellowships for post-secondary education abroad.
These fellowships were offered to employees in the public sector (51 percent), private sector (24
percent) and in specialized programs, such as IMA, ITE, HIS and MOE (25 percent).
*   The rapid expansion of in-country opportmnities for education, skills acquisition and training at the
post-secondary level, through the development of IMA. In 1996, about 200 students received IMA
training in such disciplines as management, information technology, accounting, island
administration, clerical staff training and the University entrance diploma. By 2001, enrollments in
IMA in these courses had risen to about 1000 - a 400 percent increase.
Equity in access to secondary education (grades 8-10) has improved between Male and the atolls due to
SETP investments. Prior to project commencement, in 1993, out of about 6,200 students enrolled in lower
secondary grades 8-10, only approximately 20 percent were outside Male. The expansion in lower
secondary education in the atolls, due mainly to the four AEC's improved with IDA assistance, has caused
this proportion to rise to about 45 percent. In consequence, regional disparities in access to lower secondary
education have decreased sharply, promoting equity in human capital investment opportunities throughout
the Republic of Maldives.
Labor market opportunities for Maldivians, in terms of the variety and quality of jobs, has improved
sharply through project investments. The expanded capacity for lower-secondary education enables higher
numbers of Maldivians to access better paid, middle-grade jobs in administration, the tourist industry,
commerce and services, in place of less profitable jobs such as basic fishing and lower-level administrative
employment. The absence of a labor market survey makes it difficult to estimate rates of return and
eamings premiums by education level. However, salary differentials and non-income benefits of
employment opportunities above the primary level are considered substantial by Maldivian labor market
aspirants; this is reflected in the strong demand for secondary education.
In 1995, skills shortages in the labor market were experienced/expected in a range of services, such as
information technology, management, accountancy, secondary-level school teaching, teacher education,
island administration, and the tourist industry. Through project investments, the Maldivian economy is
better placed to match demand and supply of skills in these critical areas of the labor market. The IMA
now possess capacity to produce annually more than 1,000 trained and skilled workers in priority areas
such as infonnation technology, management, accounting, island administration, and clerical and secretarial
skills; through degree and diploma programs, and certificate courses. In the absence of such skills training
- 25 -



opportunities, the country would need to obtain at least some of these skilled workers from abroad. The
total income differentials between domestic and expatriate workers, on average, are about US$6,000 per
worker per year (inclusive of salary and non-salary benefits for expatriate workers). At the SAR stage of
the project, the present value of future benefits was calculated based on benefit horizons of 15 years and a
discount rate of 6 percent. Assuming the same benefit horizon and discount rates, we give below an
estimate of the potential cost savings per year, under three scenarios: a) substitution of 300 Maldivian
workers per year for expatriate workers; b) substitution of 400 Maldivian workers per year for expatriate
workers; and c) substitution of 500 Maldivian workers per year for expatriate workers.
Table 1: Estimates of Cost Savings Generated by the Substitution
of Maldivian Workers for Foreign Workers
Scenario One         Scenario Two         Scenario Three
Substitution of 300  Substitution of 400  Substitution of 500
Maldivian workers   Maldivian workers per   Maldivian workers
per year for        year for expatriate   per year for
expatriate workers  workers               expatriate workers
Annual Cost Savings in
Nominal Terms, USD          1,800,000            2,400,000             3,000,000
Present value of cost savings,
over a 15 year period and
assuming a discount rate of 6    95,000,000      126,700,000           158,400,000
percent, USD
Source: World Bank estimates.
At the most conservative estimate, where it is assumed that only 30 percent of IMA trained workers will
replace expatriate workers, the present value of cost savings produced by this aspect of the project, over a
15 year period, would be equal to about US$95 million. At less conservative estimates, where it assumed
that 40-50 percent of IMA trained workers would substitute for expatriate workers, the present value of cost
savings produced by the project over a 5 year time horizon would be between about US$127 million to
about US$158 million. These are substantial economic benefits, from just one aspect of the project, cost
savings through substitution of Maldivian labor for expatriate labor.
Further, the SAR provided an estimate of a benefit cost ratio of 1.87 for the replacement of expatriate
teachers with Maldivian trained teachers. This calculation was based on the assumption that about 430
lower secondary teachers would be trained in country, over a 10 year period. ITE has developed capacity to
meet this target for lower secondary teacher training, suggesting that the project will produce these benefits.
Also, apart from the direct benefit of cost savings, increases in the number of Maldivian teachers should
generate externality benefits. Maldivian teachers are more sensitive to the cultural and social environment in
which students learn, and have a greater stake in the school communities and children. This is likely to
translate into higher learning achievements and superior human capital accumulation.
In addition to the direct economic benefits outlined above, the project is likely to generate substantial
externality benefits. The longer schooling durations of females should serve to improve fertility control,
reduce family size and enhance household health conditions in the future. The expansion of lower secondary
education opportunities in the atolls reduces crowding in Male and decreases the social costs of congestion.
- 26 -



The beneficiaries of overseas fellowships bring back not only advanced knowledge and technical skills, but
also enhanced work ethics, understanding of new technologies and modem notions of economic efficiency
and productivity. These externality economic and social benefits are likely to be very considerable.
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Ratin
________(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count             Specialty                       Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
FY93-5/11/94                 I   EP
1   ES
I   EC
Appraisal/Negotiation
6/4/94-6/18/94               I   EP
10/10/94-10/20/94           I   ES
01114195                     1   AR
I   LA
I   EC
I   SA
Supervision
5/12/95                      1   EP                                  HS               HS
10/23/95-10/29/95            I   EP                                  HS              HS
3/1/96-3/2/96                1   Director                             S               HS
3/16/96-3/21/96              1                                        S               HS
I/1 1/96-8/15/96             1                                        S               HS
|1/1/96-11/14/96             1   EP, EC                               S               S
4/6/97-4/10/97               I   EP                                   S                S
7/18/97-7/23/97              2   EP, IS                               S                S
2/3/98-2/17/98               6   EP, EC, ES, AA, CO, RA               S                S
1/25/99-2/6/99               8   TL, HRE, OA, PS, FMS, IS, ES,        S               S
LA
ICR
6/12/00-6/19/00              6    TL, EC, PA, ES, EE, OA              S                S
1/13/01-1/19/01             3    TL; ES, EC                          HS               HS
Key: EP = Education Planner; EC  Economist; ES = Education Specialist; EE Environment Educator; AA =
Administrative Assistant, CO = Consultant; RA = Research Assistant; TL = Team Leader; HRE = Human
Resources Economist; OA = Operations Analyst; PS = Procurement Specialist; FMS = Financial Management
Specialist; IS = Implementation Specialist; LA = Lawyer; EE = Environmental Engineer; AR = Architect;
PA=Programme Assistant;
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                51.9                        167.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                      13.5                        64.3
Supervision                               32.5                        225.4
ICR                                       9.02                         42.0
Total                                   106.92                        498.9
- 28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H4=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
E Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
LF Environmental                          O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                 O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
n Gender                            O H * SU O M O N O NA
Z Other (Please specify)            0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Expansion of skills
O Private sector development              0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
E Lending                                          OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Supervision                                      OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                          OHS OS  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
O Preparation                                      OHS OS  O U  O HU
O Government implementation performance            O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                OHS OS  O U  O HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS  O U  O HU
The HS rating for borrower performance is based on GOM's overall consistent commitment to project
implementaton, the strong support received from the relevant ministries, and the professionalism of the
Project Implementation Unit. Both the GOM and the PIU were committed to quality international standards
which they agreed to at the outset (e.g., standards for teacher education courses and teacher certification)
and which they maintained throughout the life of the project. Many project objectives were achieved ahead
of schedule.
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
* Bray, Mark. Secondary School Examinations in the Republic of Maldives: Current Modes and Future
Policies, 1999.
*   Education Master Plan Team. Education Master Plan (1996-2005), Prepared for the Ministry of
Education, Republic of the Maldives with support from the Hickling Foundation and Asian
Development Bank, 1995.
*  Johnston, Ian, Study on Examinations and Assessment a the Primary/Extended Primary and
Secondary Levels in the Republic of Maldives, Interim Report, 1999.
*   Ministry of Education, Male', Republic of Maldives. Educational Statistics, 1995-2000 (published
annually).
* Ministry of Planning and National Development, Male', Republic of Maldives. Statistical Yearbook of
Maldives, 2000.
*   Rawlinson Consulting Services. Post Secondary Education Study. Republic of the Maldives, 1997.
*   Waheed, Ibrahim; Impact Study: SETP Meeting Management and Administrative Skills at the IMA,
2000.
*   World Bank. Development Credit Agreement (Cr. 2701 -MAL), May 1, 1995 .
*   World Bank. Implementation Completion Report, Education and Training Project (Cr. 198 1-MAL),
June 18, 1996.
* World Bank. Staff Appraisal Report for the Second Education and Training Project, February 22,
1995.
*  World Bank. Supervision/Site Visit Reports, 1996-2000.
- 31 -



Additional Annex 8. Summary of Interviews with Fellowship Beneficiaries
Interviews were conducted with 25 public and private sector SETP fellowship recipients who completed
their courses and returned to the Maldives. The purpose was to gather feedback on their perceptions of the
fellowship experience and identify issues to be addressed in future fellowship programs. The overall
feedback suggests that fellowship beneficiaries enjoyed their courses abroad, and benefited both socially
and professionally from their overseas experiences. The exposure abroad evidently had a significant impact
on their personalities, perceptions of self worth, attitudes towards work and initiative. In most cases they
returned to their original jobs and were awarded promotions to match their upgraded qualifications. Each
beneficiary had been bonded to the employer for a period of double the fellowship term. Cost-recovery had
not commenced in most instances, and some had not been asked to start repaying. Some of the delay in
recovering costs can be attributed to problems confirming student expenditures and payments at overseas
institutions.The feedback from the students, as discussed below, particularly related to delays in fund flow
to the students and improper choice of institutions, are being addressed now in the third project.
Comments/suggestions from the beneficiaries:
*   The amount of scholarship stipend should be determined by course requirements and not be
standardized for all courses, e.g., some art and graphic courses require students to purchase
expensive art material whereas other courses had no such requirements.
*   The administrative aspects and monitoring of disbursement of fellowships needs streamlining. Most
students, particularly those who studied in Malaysia, experienced problems receiving timely
payments which created hardships.
*   If a student failed a course or fell ill, he/she did not get compensation for the duration of the course.
Students had to continue to incur living expenses. Ideally, recovery of these additional funds should
begin, as part of the cost-recovery mechanism, upon return to the Maldives.
*   Stipends should be at a fixed US dollar rate to help adjust for inflation. Accident/medical insurance
should also be provided.
*   Some argued that the difference in cost recovery for private and public sector candidates is not
justified, since private sector employees are not always well paid; public sector employees had the
advantage of other employment to supplement their incomes.
*   Some fellowship beneficiaries seeking placements in overseas institutions lacked adequate
knowledge and, as a result selected sub-standard institutions, particularly in Malaysia. The PIU
should maintain a database on the various institutions and course content to help overcome this
problem.
*   Orientation of students prior to departure and feedback sessions upon return to the Maldives would
be beneficial in preparing students for their studies abroad and in seeking feedback to improve
future implementation.
*   The twinning arrangement with Malaysian and British/Australian universities often creates
difficulties when students spend the first two years in Malaysia; the fornal didactic nature of
instruction in the former does not prepare students for the more participatory and interactive
approaches used in British and Australian universities.
*   High-level performing students should be supported if they seek further education to upgrade their
qualifications. There were instances where students opted for fast-track programs and completed
the courses with high grades in less than the prescribed time, but were not allowed to utilize the
time saved (e.g., one year) to gain a higher-level qualification.
*   Spouse allowance should be provided to facilitate married students.
- 32 -



Additional Annex 9. Project Review From Government's Perspective
Development Objectives:
a) Improve quality of primary and secondary education;
b) Reduce shortages of teachers at primary and secondary levels;
c) Upgrade atoll teachers;
d) Make secondary education widely available in the atolls;
e) Reduce skill shortages;
f) Institutional development of post-secondary training institutes; and
g) Strengthen financial management of the education sector
Project Components:
Teacher Education Program: Under this component the MLSTEP), financed by AusAid, was completed in
November 1999. Under this component ITE had a link-institution arrangement with Maquarie University.
Australia to improve teacher education.
The Program achieved the following:
a) Trained 13 teacher educators (M.Ed level) for lower-secondary teacher training at the link institution in
1998;
b) Introduced a two-year National Diploma in Secondary Teaching Program in 1997 at ITE; and
c) Developed the curriculum for nine subjects to be taught in the two-year National Diploma course for
Secondary Teacher Training.
Initially the entry requirement for the National Diploma in Secondary Teaching was 'A' level 2 passes.
However, it was soon noted that there were few candidates who were eligible under this requirement. In
order to increase the number of eligible students for the course, a foundation program was started in 1998
with the entry requirement as 'O' level. Table I includes information on enrolled students for these courses.
Table 1. Number of Students enrolled and number of passe from ITE courses
Year          Course Name              Nu ber of entrants             Number passed
male    female    total    male   female    total
1997  National Diploma of Secondary   5        9         14       3         8        11
Teaching 1
1998  National Diploma of Secondary  4         12        16       4        10        14
Teaching 2
1999  National Diploma of Secondary   5        16        21       1         8         9
Teaching 3
2000  National Diploma of Secondary   5        16        21          to be completed in
Teaching 4                                                     December 2001
1998  Foundation for National        6         14       20        4        10        14*
Diploma of Secondary Teaching
1999  Foundation for National        14        18       32        6        10        16*
Diploma of Secondary Teaching
2000  Foundation for National        18        24       42**      5        14         19
_   Diploma of Secondary Teaching
Source: ITE
* The number of students who joined for the Diploma of Secondary Teaching
** By the end of the first semester of this course, in July 2000, there were 22 students (6 male and 16 female).
- 33 -



Under this component an in-service program for lower-secondary school teachers was initiated in 1996 and
continued to date throughout the atolls. Table 2 shows the details of the programs.
Table 2: In-counhy in-service programs heldfrom 1996-2000
Year          Program Centers                    Program               Male    Female      Total
1996    HaAlif, Shaviyani, Noonu, Raa,   Onsite teacher education      216       216        432
GaafuDhaal, and Seenu atoll    program.
1996    Male and atolls (temporary     Associate certificate in         27        12         39
teachers in atolls)            primary teaching.
1996    Male (teachers in atolls)      In-service teacher training       9        21         30
program for Dhivehi- medium
teachers (for batch 6, 7 and 8).
1997    HaAlif, Ha.Dhaal, Shaviyani,    Onsite teacher education       251       290        541
Noonu, Raa, Laamu,             program.
GaafDhaal, and Seenu atoll
1997    Male and atolls (temporary      3 Month Associate certificate    6        14         20
teachers in atolls)            in primary teaching.
1997    Male (for teachers in atolls)  In-service course for middle     42        17         59
school teachers.
1998    Ha. Alif, Ha. Dhaal, Shaviyani,   Onsite teacher education     222       235        457
Noonu, Raa, Baa, Gaaf Dhaal,    program.
and Seenu atoll
1998    Male (temporary teachers in     3 month Associate certificate    9        12         21
atolls)                        in primary teaching.
1998    Male (teachers in atolls)      In-service course for middle     45        18         63
school teachers.
1999    Ha. Alif, Ha. Dhaal, Shaviyani,   Onsite teacher education      316      474        790
Noonu, Raa, Lhaviyani,         program.
AlifAlif, Vaavu, Meemu,
Dhaal, Thaa, GaafuAlifu, Gaaf
Dhaal, Naviyani and Seenu
atoll
1999    Male (teachers in atolls)       Advance certificate of primary   8         7         15
teaching.
2000    Raa, Gaaf Dhaal, and Seenu      Onsite teacher education        59        131        190
atoll                          program.
Source: ITE
The expansion of ITE physical facilities was also undertaken under this component. Equipment, books and
furniture were also provided. Initially the civil works problems in construction were due to lack of
- 34 -



supervision and a bad contractor. However, these were later resolved at GOM expense. The construction of
a regional in-service center was completed and handed over to ITE in March 1999. Due to some difficulties
the building has not been fully utilized. ITE plans to resolve this and conduct programs in early 2001.
Education Access:
The project supported the expansion and upgrading of four secondary schools, the Baa, Lhaviyani, Gaafu
Dhaalu and Gnaviyani atolls. Enrollment at lower-secondary education has expanded sharply in the four
schools built under the project, with overall numbers increasing threefold, from 417 in 1993 to 1399 in
1999. Female secondary enrollment has also risen steeply, from 224 students in 1993 to 772 students in
1999. Female students account for about 55 percent of students in the four schools supported by project
funds. In 1993, 80 % of the lower secondary school enrollment was in Male'. As a result of project support,
to expand access to secondary education in the atolls, the proportion of secondary school enrollment in
Male' has declined to 55 percent.
The NRSS was completed at Kulhudhuffushi in Haa Dhaalu atoll under this project in 1998. The
construction of the school was funded by IDB under co-financing arrangements while IDA funds were used
to provide fumiture, equipment and educational materials. IDA funds also supported teacher training.
Skill Training Program:
Under the skill training program, a link-institution arrangement was made between MCMA (now IMA) and
the Illawara Technology Corporation Ltd., the comnmercial arm of the University of Wollongong, Australia.
Under the arrangement, 12 students completed B. Ed level training at the University of Wollongong and one
student completed post-graduate level training. They are currently employed as instructors at IMA.
Provision was also made for academic support to IMA. The link institution provided TA to strengthen
institutional development, develop courses and deliver training at IMA.
Expansion of IMA's physical facilities was completed and a new wing was constructed, which facilitated
computer laboratories, libraries and classrooms. With the return of the trained instructors and expanded
facilities, IMA has been able to increase the number of full-time and part-time courses. The Management
Certificate 1 & 2 courses and the Diploma in Information Technology courses developed in collaboration
with the link institution are accredited.
A semi-autonomous budget, proposed under the project, was not approved by the GOM and IMA was
made one of the institutions under the MCHE. However, from January 1, 2001, GOM has given flexibility
to use fees collected from students to pay for the activities related to the teaching of courses at IMA.
Skill Development Program:
a) National Fellowship Program: Under this activity, funds were provided for training of public and
private sector candidates. GOM provision of funds for private sector training was first introduced in the
country under this program. The concept of cost-recovery of fellowships was also introduced where GOM
sponsored candidates repay 15% of the costs incurred for their studies while private sector candidate repay
50%. The difference in the repayment amount was judged by the difference in public and private sector
salaries. A total of 107 fellows in public sector and 33 fellows in the private sector were trained under this
component of the project. A further 38 are continuing their studies as part of SETP fellowship carryover
under TETP.
The cost-recovery mechanism and repayment concept was new to the retuming fellows and the public in
general. However, it was received reasonably well. Since, this was a new concept and various issues were
raised in the initial stages, recovery has been slower than expected. A total of 75 students, including
- 35 -



students sent from skill training, are now repaying.
b) Staff Development: As institutional development of post secondary institutions was an objectives of the
project, staff from IMA, ITE, MITE, EDC, NRSS, IHS and AECs were trained. 51 fellows have
completed and returned, while a further 16 fellows are continuing under the SETP fellowship carryover
under TETP.
The fellows who returned have provided vital support to the institutions and as a result, the courses offered
from these institutions were increased and improved.
Strengthening Financial Management:
The planned EMIS and FMIS work was not undertaken. Initially, MOE was unable to find a suitable
consultant for the EMIS work. Later a New Zealand Firm, New Zealand Qualification Authority (NZQA)
was identified and discussions between MOE and NZQA were conducted and agreement was reached about
the work. However, the TA was not awarded as the company went into liquidation. Subsequently, MOE
had approached the Victorian Department of Education and some discussions were held. At this time, the
issue of the cost over-run had been brought to the attention of the GOM and IDA, and as the project was in
its final stages, the GOM felt that this could not carried out under SETP. Therefore, it was decided that the
work would be carried out under TETP. TETP funding has been provided to carry out the EMIS
sub-component. The lack of progress on EMIS prevented the FMIS from being setup.
The following two studies were financed under the project:
*   Examination and Assessment Study. Mr. Ian Johnston, Director of the South Pacific Board of
Educational Assessment, Suva, Fiji was contracted to do the study. However due to his death, the
unfinished report was later completed by another consultant, Dr. Mark Bray, Director of the
Comparative Education and Research Center, University of Hong Kong.
*   Post-Secondary Education Study. The contract for this study was awarded to Rawlinson Consultancy
Services, Pty Ltd. of Australia in 1997. The consultant made two in-country visits and held a series of
discussions with high-level official of various GOM agencies. The principal recommendation of the
study -- to establish an umbrella organization to rationalize and standardize all post-secondary training
-- was accepted well by GOM. This resulted in the establishment of MCHE.
Project Implementation:
The PIU, established ETP continued to implement SETP. A senior-level PCC was established to provide
overall policy guidance and coordination of the project activities. The ACTSD was established during the
project period. This comnmittee, which replaced the NSB, reviewed and selected the candidates who were
awarded fellowships. During project implementation, two PIU staff left for further studies. Also, in the
latter part of the project, the responsibilities of Project Director and Project Manager were taken by one
person which increased the difficulty of project implementation.
Project Impact:
The construction of four AEC's, provided access to quality education for about 1400 students in the atolls
(see Table 3). In addition, the NRSS provided quality secondary education to about 517 students in 1999.
The construction of an ITE in-service center at Addu Atoll Hithadoo provided teacher-training facilities for
the first time in atolls.
- 36 -



Table 3. Second ary school enrollment (8-10) by gender, 1993 and 1999
Atoll/School                     1993                           1996
female     male      total    female      male      total
Baa Atoll
Eydhafushi school              34        41         76        151        153       304
Lhaviyani Atoll
Hinnavaru school               26        33         59        115        124       239
Gaafu Dhaalu Atoll
Thinadoo school                64        43        107        194       148        342
Gnaviyani Atoll
Marukazu school                100       75         175       312       202        514
TOTAL                          224       192       417        772       627        1399
The MLSTEP provided confident lecturing staff who were capable of mounting and maintaining a
high-quality teacher education program while at least 60 one-semester units of study have been developed
under the guidance of the project.
The link arrangement between ITE and Maquarie University in MESTEP enhanced the institutional
capability of ITE by upgrading staff and providing support in subject curriculum development.
The link arrangement between IMA and ITC enhanced the institutional capacity to conduct various courses
in management, accounting and information technology through the training of 13 staff teachers and
providing support staff to develop and teach the courses.
The beneficiaries of the fellowship program who have completed and returned to the Maldives have
provided much needed expertise and knowledge to various sectors both public and private. Teachers who
have been trained for the NRSS and the AECs returned after completion and are currently employed as
teachers in their respective schools. The development of human resources was new to the private sector,
when the project started, and it has now started a trend. Private agencies are now offering schemes for more
fellowship programs. Of the 277 students who went for their studies under the program, 191 fellows have
completed and returned while 32 retumed without completing mainly due to poor academic progress.
However, some of these students are continuing on their own funding. Fifty-four fellowship beneficiaries
who are currently studying under the TETP funding will complete their studies within the
TETP-implementation period.
Lessons Learned:
There is a need to carefully monitor and forecast the financial commitments made under the project. This
matter is addressed in TETP by establishing a PMR which monitors and forecasts the financial status of
the project and forewarns any cost over-run.
Most of the fellowship beneficiaries obtained placements from universities of their choice which led to
some students studying at sub-standard institutions. There was also a comnmunication gap between the PIU
and some institutions which led to a delay in obtaining progress results and other information regarding
students. This issue is covered under TETP by the PIU finding placements from recognized and established
universities and establishing early communication.
When awarding education-related fellowships, priority should be given to candidates who are already
working in the education sector even though they may not have academic credentials comparable to other
- 37 -



candidates.
Retaining PIU staff, so that their training and experience is withheld for future projects is another issue,
which is addressed by having relatively the same PIU which implemented SETP to implement TETP
Sustainability:
To sustain the achieved benefits the link-institutional arrangements in ITE and IMA, provision is made
under TETP for continued support to new link arrangements for both institutions, while provision is made
under TETP for staff development and for much needed educational and other equipment.
The need to sustain the human resource development of the country when donor agencies cease aid is
addressed by GOM by establishing a fellowship fund which is created from the repayment of retumed
students through the cost- recovery mechanism. This cost-recovery mechanism is also introduced in other
fellowship programs, which are funded by donor agencies other than IDA, so that the human resource
development would be more sustainable in the country.
For the smooth implementation of TETP the same PIU is appointed.
World Bank's Role:
GOM benefited from the technical advice and IDA procedures which led to efficient and consistent
implementation. Direct and easy communications between the GOM and IDA led to good working relations
which facilitated effective implementation. GOM would have benefited from regular supervision and the
mid-term review mission.
- 38 -



Additional Annex 10. Component/Activities - Achievement Status
Project Components/Activities       Year           Targets               Achievement
(a) upgrade education quality by:
*  strengthening the pre-service       2000     No specific targets   Until 2000, total teachers
teacher training program;                     given              trained for primary are:
Male: 811
Female: 1168
* upgrading primary atoll teachers     2000     No specific targets   2440 atoll
through in-service training;                  given              teachers were trained through
in-service training;
* remodeling ITE facilities; and     1995-2000   No specific targets   4 classrooms, 2 seminar rooms,
given              in-service training rooms,
printing room, staff offices,
computer center, audio- visual
equipment and storage facility.
*  establishing efficiency indicators to
facilitate sector management.
- 39 -



(b) increase equitable access to quality  1
secondary education in atolls
*  establishing an in-country lower-  1997-2000   Setting up of an  Year  Students
secondary teacher training program;           in-country lower-    1997    14
secondary teacher    1998    16
training program   1999    21
2000    21
0 contribute to the gradual reduction in  2000    No specific targets   Percentage of expatriate
the number of expatriate teachers;             given              teachers Appraisal 75%
2000       74%
*  adding lower-secondary grades 8-10  2000      Increase secondary   1708 more places were created
to four selected AECs and                     access in four     over the baseline of 1995.
establishing a new lower-secondary            AECs and one
school in the north;                          NRSS school by
1400 students
* maintaining a career information       -               -
and guidance program;
* undertaking policy reforms in          -               -
secondary education including;
* consolidating atoll secondary          -               -
education;
* recovering costs at the secondary      -               -
level in government schools;
* continuing the flexible                -               -
administration of the bonding of
secondary school leavers; and
* assisting with the implementation of  2000     STR - 25 in Male',  STR - 2000
more economical and equitable                 atolls and Maldives  Male: 17.31
student-teacher ratios, and                                      Atolls: 15.07
staff-deployment policies.
- 40 -



(c) reduce skill shortages by:
* developing, at the MCMA,            2000     No specific targets  467 students received skill
fee-paying modular courses that             given              training at MCMA
would respond to both private and
public sectors;
* improving the quality of existing
and new skill-training programs at
the MCMA, ITE, HIS and VTC
through staff-training programs;
and
* providing facilities at MCMA and   By year   No specific targets   Construction of a new wing
equipment and books at MCMA        2000     given              accommodating 5 classrooms, a
and VTC.                                                       library, computer laboratories
and washroom facility
(d) increase responsiveness of overseas
post-secondary training to economic
priorities by.
*  Selecting the best candidates under  During    No specific targets  277 general and 374 targeted
a criteria-based fellowship program.    project    given        fellowships were awarded based
period                       on a specific
(e) strengthen financial management of
the education sector by:
* improving financial practices and   2000     Setting up of FMIS  FMIS has not been created due
mechanisms to provide more                  and EMIS           to difficulties in identifying
equitable grants and financial                                  appropriate agencies to provide
support to educational institutions.                           technical support and internal
work pressure at MOE.
(t) undertake priority studies in the  Completed    Two studies    'Public Examinations' and'
education sector                      by Year                       Post- Secondary Education'
2000                        studies were conducted during
the project period.
- 41 -






71'                           72'                            73'                            74'
-      Dhidhclhm
7'                                                          HAARALIFf             Dlddho7
MALDIVES                                                      ' _-
SECOND EDUCATION AND  HAAHAA :,                                                          h
TRAINING PROJECT
,  .                         5 ' r    SHAVIYANI
*    Institute for Teacher Education, institute of                     -       @Fundhoo
Management and Admiinistrirton and                      |            - .,
6                    .Maldives Institute of Technica Education  -
*    Northern Regional Secordary Schood                  RAA        -:       '                  NOONU  6'
*    Institute for Teacher Educotion In-Service Facility
6I    AECs Expanded Urnder SETP                                                  .
AtIl Administrtive Capitals
9 Notional Capital                                      --, ' lavfr                                i a,iHiRnn ar
Atoll Administrative Boundaries'                                               Noslo    LHAVYANI
1 atS  Nu,,e d.s b,ry OAStNoml H*ss bw ,ti. ':             - '
't.-I ~~ha                               ll- AO N-d-iy,CfWWN--m
Eydhofushi
5'                                                                                                                5
BAA
MtEs5          25         50
QIK5MEI   0     25    so    75    100                                                       I K,4fUM
AIIFU     R       -sdh4    6ulsdhoo
, , , , ., '': ~~1 A1016
4'
3.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~.
:  - E v ,,#  z         M~~~ulldhoo, 
"NVAAW
FAAA
I N D I A N                   FA'o
3w                                       -":                     ,  ,,Qdi~~~~~~~4"MErAW3
71'~~~~~~~~~..
INCDI A  N
-pq d. far k*  fh M,p.1 r6 Wd I.h C-if f.'
SRI %
LANKA,                                  GAAFU AUFU
71' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1 72-
'MALt
I INDIAN                       Thinadh5oo4
CGAo~ Dfmaalu 
O CAN E A NFVkAxR
GAALI
5,                                             ~~~~~~~~~~DHA4LU
Fcan,ulolku
T-7)Gnaiyani Foun  uk
-5 E NLNAVIYANI
Hit dff. .
S. HA=;372'                             74;
Ck-~ ~ ~ C-fl           E   Nlh o                         .K_   _ 
73AF    *74 '*



