Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                    r
Report No. P-3834-BEI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 17.2 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR THE
SEME OIL FIELD PHASE II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 30, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit - Franc CFA. (FCFA)
US$1.00 = 418 FCFA
FCFA Million = US$2,392
Weights and Measures
Bbl   = Barrels of 42 US gallons
BD    = Barrels per day
ha    = Hectare (10,000 sq. meters)
GWh   = Gigawatt hour (1 million kWh)
km    = Kilometer (0.62 miles)
kWh   = Kilowatt hour
kVA   = Kilovolt ampere
lr   = liter (0.26 US gallon)
m     = cubic meter
MW    = Megawatt (1,000 kW)
MMB   = Million barrels
Abbreviations and Acroryms
ECGD = Export Credits Guarantee Department (UK)
EIB  = European Investment Bank
ERR  = Economic Rate of Return
GIEK = Guaranti-Instituttet for Eksportkreditt (Norway)
IDA  = International Development Association
OIP  = Oil in Place
Saga = Saga Petroleum, A.S.
SPB  = Saga Petroleum Benin, A.S.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
Seme Oil Field Phase II Development Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower;              People's Republic of Benin
Amount:                SDR 17.2 million (US$18.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms
Project Description:  The purpose of the project is to assist the Government
to optimize the development of the Seme oil field. The
field is being developed by Saga Petroleum Benin (SPB),
a Norwegian oil company, under a service contract with
the Government of Benin (Phase I). Specifically, the
project will permit further development of the proven
reserves and delineation of possible extensions to the
reservoir (Phase II). The project includes the
following components:
(i) the drilling of five development wells and
two confirmation wells;
(ii) the installation of three monopod
structures and an integrated
wellhead/production platform;
(iii)  modifications to Phase I installations;
(iv) consultancy services for detailed
engineering and supervision during
construction. Specialized consultants will
also be hired to assist the Government in
monitoring SPB's activities, evaluating gas
reserves and studying the economics of
their utilization; and
(v) training of Beninese professionals in the
petroleum sector.
Project Benefits
and Risks:             The project will permit the Government to produce
an incremental 5.2 MMB from the field and make the
overall Seme development project profitable. The
risks associated with the project are those
inherent in petroleum priduction. These concern
particularly the dritlir,g of dry wells, operating
problems such as malfunction of downhole pumps,
water and sand production, and possible improper
reservoir management. These risks are acceptable
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
as development and operating experience has
already been gained on the field since June 1982,
and appropriate steps have been taken to minimize
them. They include a 3-D seismic survey to better
locate wells, an independent reservoir engineering
study, technical assistance from pump
manufacturers, and provision of consultants'
services for close technical supervision of SPB.
There is a financial risk in the short term
evidenced by the relatively low debt service
coverage ratio of the project.
(US$ Millions)
Estimated Project Costs                              Local    Foreign    Total
Drilling of seven wells                               1.1        11.4       12.5
Three monopods                                        0.3         5.5        5.8
Integrated production platform and equipment          1.4        15.0       16.4
Modifications of Phase I installations                0.2         1.2        1.4
Consulting services                                    -          2.6        2.6
Training                                               -          0.2        0.2
Base Cost                                           3.0        35.9       38.9
Physical contingencies                                0.3         3.6        3.9
Price contingencies                                   0.2         2.3        2.5
Total Project Cost                                  3.5        41.8       45.3
Financing Plan
IDA                                                    -         18.0       18.0
EIB                                                    -         15.0       15.0
Other co-financing                                     -          7.5        7.5
Government contribution                               3.5         1.3        4.8
3.5        41.8       45.3
Estimated Disbursements                                    (US$ Millions)
FY85       FY86       FY87
Annual                                                11.1         5.0       1.9
Cumulative                                            11.1        16.1      18.0
Economic Rate of Return: 60% for Phase II project
11% for overall Senne development project
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 5011-BEN, dated May 30, 1984



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR THE SEME OIL FIELD PHASE II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the People's Republic of Benin for an amount in various
currencies equivalent to Special Drawing Rights 17.2 million (US$18.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance the Seme Oil Field Phase II
Development Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The latest economic report on Benin (Report No. 4686-BEN) was cir-
culated to the Executive Directors in April 1984. The paragraphs below are
based upon that report and other information that has since become
available. Annex I provides basic country data.
Political Background
3.       After independence in 1960, a period of instability characterized by
frequent changes in Government prevailed in Benin until the revolution in
1972, which brought to power the military Government of Lieutenant-Colonel
Kerekou. The country has since then enjoyed a comparatively long period of
political stability under a one-party system. Following the adoption of a new
corstitution, President Kerekou was confirmed in 1980 as head of a largely
civilian Government.
Structure of the Economy
4.       Benin is a small, poor nation with a population of 3.5 million and an
estimated 1982 per capita CDP of US$280. Agriculture, the most important
sector of the economy, employs three-fourths of the active population and
accounts for 40 percent of GDP and 36 percent of foreign exchange earnings.
There is a small industrial sector consisting of a few import substitution and
agricultural processing plants. It contributed an estimated 11 percent to GDP
in 1982. The tertiary sector is dominated by trade and transit activities
that link economic activity in Benin to conditions existing in neighboring
economies.
5.       The agricultural sector is predominantly foodcrop oriented, producing
maize, sorghum, yams, cassava, beans and small quantities of rice. Benin, at
present, enjoys an overall food surplus; it is estimated that a significant
portion of domestic foodcrop output (perhaps as much as 20 percent) is
exported unofficiaLly to Nigeria and Niger. This offsets Benin's foodgrain
imports which have been rising in recent years. The main export crops are
palm oil, cotton and peanuts. Cotton, which is well-suited environmentally to



- 2 -
conditions in northern Benin, is rising in importance while oil palm in the
south is in relative decline because of insuff-icient rainfall.
6.       The production of petroleum, cement and sugar which have significant
export potential began recently. For cement and sugar, however, major
marketing hurdles will need to be cleared to permit export sales to take
place, particularly to Nigeria.
Recent Economic Developments
7.       Real GDP growth during 1978-1982 averaged about 5 percent per annum,
up substantially from the 0.7 percent annual average during the 1972-76
period. Growth appears to have been strong in 1977, 1981 and 1982 when there
were sharp increases in construction, manufacturing, trade activity and public
administration. This growth was linked to the heavy public investment program
and to strong growth in commercial activities due to the oil boom in Nigeria
and the uranium boom in Niger. Agriculture, on the other hand, consistently
grew at less than one percent per annum between 1970 and 1975, and grew at an
average rate of 2% between 1976 ancd 1981. Agricultural performance improved
substantially in 1982 and 1983 with a sharp rise in cotton output attributable
to higher producer prices and the availability of modern inputs.
8.       During the mid-seventies, the Government expanded its presence in the
modern sector of the economy by nationalizing the major industrial enterprises
as well as extending its involvement in the agricultural sector. The First
Development Plan (1977-1980) went further by irnvesting in three large
projects; Seme Petroleum (see para. 29), Save Sugar and Onigbolo Cement. This
policy of greater Government involvement has determined the course of the
recent evolution of public finance, external debt, and external balance.
9.       Until the late seventies, the Government maintained a conservative
public finance posture. Tight control over expenditure resulted in current
budget surpluses, which averaged 31 percent of revenues between 1977 and
l979. Modest foreign borrowing financed the limited public investment
program. More recently, the public finance current surplus has been
declining, partially because of rising current expenditures, about three-
fourths of which are wages and salaries. The other factor contributing to
this decline is the weakened revenue base. Over half of public revenues are
derived from import duties, of which a significant proportion is levied on
imports re-exported (officially or unofficially) to Nigeria and Niger. The
downturn in economic activities in these neighboring countries has reduced
demand and limited the inflow of dutiable goods that transit through Benin.
In consequence, the current budget surplus fell to about 5 percent of revenues
in 1983.
10.       Public enterprise financing also poses a problem for Government
finances. Two-thirds of the 60 public enterprises in Benin are in financial
difficulties. Losses have been financed by the state-owned banks, rather than
through transfers from the budget. As many of these advances cannot now be
repaid, the Government, either as shareholder or as banker, will have to cover
these deficits.  Public enterprise l fficulties have stemmed from poor initial
project design, undercapitalization, inexperienced business management,
inadequate Government pricing and personnel policies, and other
inefficiencies. In 1982, the Government announced a series of measures to



- 3 -
strengthen the public enterprises, including more realistic pricing policies,
better incentives for managers and workers, tougher controls, and the
liquidation of non-viable units. A program is now being prepared (see para.
20) to support these decisions.
11.      In the external sector the growth of exports has been modest while
imports have grown rapidly, mainly because of capital imports associated with
the major public investments. In 1981, the resulting current account deficit
reached 34 percent of GDP as the investment ratio reached 35 percent of GDP.
Financing came mainly from external loans, principally supplier credits and
long-term official lending.
Policy Changes and Future Prospects
12.      Confronted by many problems, the Government has begun to eliminate
economic distortions and to lay the foundation for growth. The Government has
sought to strengthen its ability to manage its public finances including
external debt and to improve planning functions. Agricultural producer prices
are being raised, and input subsidies are being eliminated in a planned
fashion. Major reforms have been decided in the pricing, personnel and
management policies affecting the public enterprises, and some marginal
enterprises have been closed. In addition, the Government has decided that
its direct involvement in productive activities will be reduced and private
capital will be accorded a greater role in the development process. These
policy changes, which are reflected in the new medium-term Development Plan
(1983-1987) should lay the basis for more vigorous growth in the longer term.
13.      Benin's growth performance will be limited by several constraints
which make it unlikely that GDP will grow by more than an average of 3 to 4
percent per year during the 1982-90 period, even taking the Seme oil output
into account. Key constraints include the slowdown in demand in neighboring
countries and the poor initial performance of the cement and sugar projects.
14.      The public finance situation is likely to remain difficult in the
years ahead due to the recurrent cost implications of recent major
investments, the need to re-finance a number of public enterprises, and the
external debt problem. On the revenue side, the buoyancy in import duties
over the last few years associated with goods re-exported to neighboring
countries is not likely to continue in the mid-1980s.  The exploitation of
Seme oil is not expected to make even a modest contribution to fiscal
resources until 1986. Import duties are projected to continue providing
slightly over half of total Central Government revenues.
15.      Benin's balance of payments is difficult to project because of the
large size of unrecorded exports. It is estimated, however, that the current
account deficit in relation to GDP will decrease during the rest of the
1980s. This results from expected new exports of petroleum, cement and sugar
by 1985 and from a decline in the real value of capital imports from the high
levels of 1981-82, following completion of the cement and sugar projects. As
a result of a more modest leveL of public investment, fewer loans will be
required in the near-term. There-ore debt service ratios should begin to
stabilize, although at a higher level than in the past. The ratio is
projected to remain at about the 25 percent level through 1990. To address
the financial disequilibrium in general, the Beninese authorities have begun a



- 4 -
dialogue with the IMF in the hope that this will result in an IMF-supported
stabilization program.
16.      Benin remains a very poor country with large needs for directly
productive investment and supporting infrastruct;ure. Its increased debt
burden due to heavy foreign borrowing in support of public investments will
constrain future access to commercial loans. The Government has recognized
the need to mobilize increased concessionary financing from bilateral and
multilateral sources, as reflected in the Donors' Roundtable Conference
convened in March 1983. In view of Benin's poverty and the inability of
public savings to finance more than 5-10 percent; of the future public
investment program, the country will continue to need foreign financing on
concessionary terms. Foreign donors should provide a large share of total
project costs, including, if possible, the financing of local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN
17.      To date there have been 19 IDA credits to Benin, including two
supplementary credits, totalling US$182.47 million. Five of the credits were
for agriculture, seven for road construction and maintenance, two for
education, two for energy, and one each for port expansion, urban water supply
and development of small- and medium-scale enterprises. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank group operations in Benin as of March 31, 1984. In
the past, the Bank Group's dialogue with Benin was limited and based on a
case-by-case approach to lending operations. More recently, however, the
policy and lending dialogue has intensified and Government has displayed
considerable interest in and responsiveness to Bank advice and policy
assistance.
18.      A large proportion of Bank assistance to Benin's development so far
has been in the agricultural sector. IDA's earlier operations in this sector
met with mixed success and, in fact, during the execution of an IDA-FAC Zou-
Borgou credit for cotton development made in 1972, cotton production actually
fell. In 1977, a technical assistance credit was approved to help the
Government better prepare rural development projects. The assistance provided
by this credit was instrumental in preparing the Borgou, Zou and Atacora
provincial rural development projects. Under the Borgou project, for which a
US$17 million IDA credit was approved in April 1981, cotton production in the
Borgou province doubled in the 1982-83 season and sharply increased again in
the 1983-84 campaign. The Zou Project (FY83 IDA US$20 million) is noteworthy
for the fact that it includes financing of fertilizer import's on a declining
scale as a response to the Government decision to phase out fertilizer
subsidies and reduce pesticide subsidies. The rural development project in
Atacora Province, appraised by the Bank, was financed by a US$6 million credit
from the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD).
19.      In the tranzport sector, Bank involvernent began with a Land Transport
Study which led to tIne financing of a four-year Highway Maintenance Project
beginning in 1969-1970. Since then, the Bank Group has financed three highway
projects, two feeder roads projects and a port extension project. In general,
these projects were satisfactorily completed with actual economic rates of



return comparing favorably with appraisal estimates. In the case of the Third
Highway Project, however, the project completior. report notes that
institutional development objectives were only partially met. A third Feeder
Roads Project was approved on May 29, 1984.
20.      Following the Government's decision in 1982 to proceed with the
reform of public enterprises, it requested Bank group support in the public
enterprise sector. Discussions in progress are expected to lead to agreement
on specific policies for this sector.  An IDA credit to finance detailed
studies needed to prepare individual enterprise rehabilitation programs, and
to finance the execution of these programs, is under preparation. A second
project under preparation is a technical assistance effort designed to
strengthen Benin's macroeconomic planning and public finance management.
Other assistance to Benin is expected to continue in the transport, education,
urban and energy sectors. In the energy sector, the Nangbeto Hydroelectric
Project, to be implemented jointly by Benin and Togo, will be presented for
Board consideration shortly.
21.      Benin's performance with respect to project implementation and
disbursement is generally satisfactory, and the Government is quite familiar
with the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures. Delays are sometimes
encountered, however, because of the Government inability to make timely
contributions of counterpart funds, a problem which has been exacerbated by
the difficult budgetary situation.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Demand and Supplies _/
22.      Because of low per capita income (about US$280 in 1982) and an
undeveloped industrial sector, Benin's energy consumption--230 kg of oil
equivalent per capita in 1982--is among the lowest in the world. Traditional
fuels, primarily wood and charcoal, satisfy 87% of energy needs, the rest
being met by imported petroleum products (11%) and imported hydropower (2%).
The country's major energy sources are dense forests and savannahs, covering
about 78,000 km2, but their indiscriminate use is leading to rapid
deforestation near cities and villages. The Government has taken steps to
promote small- and medium-scale forestry industries and to reduce uncontrolled
exploitation of natural woodland by establishment of plantations. Five
projects are under implementation or preparation with financing from various
aid agencies including a US$13 million forestry project to be financed by IDA
and the Federal Republic of Germany. The hydrocarbon resources are not yet
fully appraised. A small offshore oil field, Seme, is under exploitation by
the Government with the assistance of a Norwegian oil company. The rest of
1/ The energy data base in Benin is poor and incomplete. The Bank Energy
Assessment mission, which visited Benin in August 1983, prepared an energy
balance and evaluated the issues and options in the sector. This section
relies primarily on this information.



-6-
the basin has yet to be explored and the Government plans to promote acreage
to foreign oil companies within the next six months under an exploration
promotion program financed under Credit 1207-BEN (see para. 28). Benin's
hydroelectric potential is estimated at 750 GWh per year in addition to the
joint 65 MW Nangbeto hydroelectric scheme with Togo which is under an advanced
stage of preparation with financing from Credit 1189-BEN.
23.      The demand for petroleum products which was growing at about 12% p.a.
in the late 1970's decreased sharply in 1980 following a 50% increase in the
price of products. Since then, consumers have resorted to unrecorded imports
from neighboring countries which are estimated to represent 30% of the
official imports. The official consumption totalled 139,000 tons in 1982 (the
equivalent of 3,000 BD), representing an import bill of US$48 million, or 20%
of the value of merchandise exports and 8.4% of total merchandise imports in
that year. The Seme field has been producing crude since October 1982. Benin
has no refinery, all petroleum products are imported (mostly from Algeria),
and the Seme crude is exported.  The production from Seme is forecasted to
plateau around 7,000 BD in the years 1985-87 and decline thereafter, so Benin
is expected to again become a net importer in the petroleum subsector around
1989 unless other fields are discovered and developed by then.
24.      Electric energy consumption, which totalled 148 GWh in 1982, was
mostly supplied (92%) by the Akosombo hydroelectric plant in Ghana. The
installed thermal capacity in Benin--about 40 MW plus two 8-MW diesel units to
be commissioned soon--comDares favorably with a peak demand which totalled
only 27 MW in 1982. The thermal plants, used historically mostly as standby
units, are now operating with much higher load factors since the late 1983
decision by Ghana to curtail by 50% its delivery of hydropower because of
critically low water levels in Volta Lake. The consumption of petroleum
products for thermal power generation is therefore expected to increase
significantly until hydro energy is again available.
Energy Pricing
25.      Prices for traded fuelwood (only 15% of total consumption) have
increased more than ten-fold in current terms d[uring the last decade and the
cost of fuelwood supplies is quite high compared to the average monthly income
(about 10%), although fuelwood prices are about 50% below kerosene prices.
Electricity prices have just been increased by about 80% to reflect the long-
term marginal cost of electricity, as recommended under a tariff study
financed under Credit 1189-BEN. Retail prices of petroleum products are on
the average set above border prices.  The price of gasoline is US$1.75/gal
equivalent, 27% above the economic cost of US$1.38/gal.-   Kerosene is the
only product which is subsidized (about 10% below the economic cost) for
social reasons, as is the case in most African countries. The prices of
petroleum products could not be increased much higher because of the ready
availability of these products from a low-cost source across the Nigerian
border which places Benin in an atypical situation where demand for
officially-imported petroleum products is very price-elastic.
1/ Based on a March 1983 exchange rate of FCFA 350/US$, and including
handling, transportation, distribution and profit margin.



- 7-
Sector Institutions
26.      A number of government institutions participate in energy policy
making. The Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy (MIME) supervises the
state-owned power and water utility and the entity in charge of supervising
the search for hydrocarbon resources in the country. It also oversees Saga, a
Norwegian oil company, which is developing and operating the Seme field on
behalf of the Government.  The Ministry of Commerce supervises the state
enterprise which has a monopoly on petroleum products imports, transport and
distribution. The Ministry of State Farms, Livestock and Fisheries supervises
the state enterprise responsible for developing forestry resources, promoting
more efficient production of traditional fuels, and distributing wood and
charcoal. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Planning play a role in
energy matters by administering fuel taxation and participating in decisions
on the public investment program. Energy prices are set by a Price Committee
composed of representatives of various ministries and political organizations.
Oil Exploration History and Government Strategy
27.      Benin's main sedimentary area covers about 15,000 kmi2, of which only
some 2,000 km2 on the continental shelf (up to 200m water in depth) seem to
have a fair hydrocarbon potential. Benin's coastal basin belongs to the
Dahomey Embayment, a small geologic province different from neighboring basins
in its stratigraphic sequence and tectonic features. Two foreign oil
companies, Union Oil (1965-1972) and Shell Oil (1971-1975), have explored for
petroleum in offshore Benin, shooting 6,000 km of seismic lines and drilling
nine exploratory wells. In 1968, Union Oil discovered the Seme field 15 km
off the coast in water depths ranging from 20 m to 54 m. In late 1973, it
proposed a development plan to the Government but negotiations fell through
and Union Oil relinquished its exploration acreage, given the expected
marginal internal rate of return of the development scheme by industry
standards. Subsequent negotiations with several oil companies did not bring
about an agreement to develop the Seme field on a concession basis, because
the economics of the field, even after the 1974 oil price increase, remained
marginal and the oil companies could not offer terms attractive to the
Government. The Government decided in 1978 to develop the field on its own
with the support of the Norwegian Government. In May 1979, the Government
hired as operator under a service contract Saga Petroleum, A.S. (Saga), a
J        private Norwegian oil company.  Financing was obtained from Norwegian banks
and guaranteed by the Norwegian Government. Work on the project was initiated
in April 1980 (see para. 29 for further discussion on the Seme field).
28.      Since 1977 no oil company has held exploration rights in Benin.  As
Benin's sedimentary basin outside Seme was little-known, the Government
decided to get more data to see if it could promote exploration by foreign oil
companies. Thus, the IDA technical assistance project to the petroleum sector
(Credit 1207-BEN approved in February 1982 - see para. 37) included a
petroleum exploration promotion component. Under this financing, 1,500 km of
offshore seismic lines were acquired and processed in 1982-83. The basin
evaluation report concludes that the Seme field appears to be unique in



- 8 -
Benin's offshore basin, and a similar combination of traps is unlikely to be
found. The western half of the offshore basin and the onshore basin are
considered to have low prospectivity. However, various prospects have been
identified in the eastern part of the basi.n. They can be divided into two
categories: (i) structural traps which appear too small to attract most of
the foreign companies, but could still interest the Government as an addition
to the Seme field; and (ii) subtle traps (unconformity, stratigraphic and
paleogeomorphic traps) which might interest foreign oil companies, provided
the terms of the contract reflect the high risks involved. The Government has
hired a consultant to prepare the economics of a model contract, and plans to
invite bids for acreage acquisition in the second half of 1984.
Phase I of the Seme Oil Field Development Project
29.      Implement: tion and Production History.  Seme oil reserves were
discovered in two ndependent fields: the main one, North Seme, and a smaller
one, South Seme. Saga envisaged the development of the fields in two
phases: Phase I, where 9.8 MMB would have been recovered by natural depletion
with six wells (four in North Seme), and Phase II, originally envisaged as a
secondary recovery project, where an additional 11.9 MMB would have been
recovered by water injection. Phase I included mainly the construction of a
jack-up platform for drilling and workovers, three wellhead platforms, one of
them being also a production platform, and an onshore tank farm. All
installations were ready for the spudding of the first well in June 1982,
within the time frame and budget established by Saga. However, the drilling
and initial operating phase suffered from several technical setbacks which
delayed production: (i) the first well proved to be dry, and a side-tracking
undertaken a year later also proved to be dry; (ii) the jack-up platform had
an accident to one of its legs which required a lengthy repair; and, (iii) the
downhole pumps broke down frequently thus limiting production. The field
started producing commercially on October 31, 1Si82, the first crude shipment
took place on April 15, 1983, and accumulated production was about 2 MMB as of
March 1, 1984. Production averaged 7,300 BD in the months of January-March
1984. Five wells are now in production and the sixth well of Phase I is
expected to be drilled in November 1984. The production history and reservoir
simulation studies indicate the existence of a partial water drive, thus the
implementation of the above-referenced secondary recovery project has been
postponed and may not be required at all. A step-out confirmation well,
drilled in July 1983, has proven a western extension of the field which will
be developed under the proposed Phase II project. Other potential field
extensions have been identified to the north and northwest of the field which
will be delineated under the proposed project. A deep production well drilled
in March 1983 penetrated a gas strucLure in the deeper zone of the reservoir
which will be tested under the proposed project.
30.      Costs and Financing.  Phase I investments, when com eted, are
expected to cost NKr 780 million (US$121 million equivalent)- , with a cost
overrun of 5% over the budget due mostly to the drilling of two dry wells.
The Beninese Government is the sole owner of the project assets. It initially
1/ Excluding capitalized training and Phase II preparation costs financed
under IDA Credit 1207-BEN (about US$5 rnillion).



-9-
invested US$13 million equity in the project in 1980. Saga is not an
investor. A blend of commercial loans and export credits totalling about
US$120 millio  and covering 90% of the initial project financing
requirements- (including about US$19 million of interest during construction)
was secured from Norwegian banks (US$112 million equivalent) with the
guarantee of the Norwegian Export Guarantee Institute (GIEK) and a UK bank
(US$8 million equivalent) with the guarantee of the British Export Credit
Guarantee Department (ECGD). The loans and export credits are repaid through
N,       a security arrangement, whereby all sales proceeds are deposited in a trustee
account managed by a Norwegian Bank.
31.      The financial performance of Phase I has been unsatisfactory because
of delays in production and a drop in oil prices. In late 1982 and in 1983,
Saga was operating the field on a precarious cash-flow basis, delaying some of
the suppliers' payments until the first sales revenues came in May 1983 as
Phase I loans were totally drawn down. Moreover, the Phase I debt service was
established on a tight schedule which left little room for delays and/or a
decrease in revenues. Although the first interest payments due on
December 31, 1983, were paid on time, sufficient funds were not generated by
the project to cover the first US$10 million principal payment due on that
date. In December 1983, the Phase I lenders and the Beninese Government
agreed in principle to reschedule this principal payment and the one due on
June 30, 1984 to be repaid in five semi-annual installments starting on
December 31, 1984.  The formalization of the rescheduling agreement would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).  The financial structure of the project will be
strengthened by the provision of equity through the proposed IDA credit.  The
possibility of increasing the equity base of the project through investments
by private partners was envisaged. This approach was not pursued due to the
relatively low profitability of the overall project and the commitment of
large parts of the cash flow to service the debt of Phase I.
32.      Institutional Arrangements.  The Government, which owns directly all
assets of the project, has not created a national oil company. Saga, under
its service contract, became the Government's authorized agent for all field
development, production and marketing operations, as well as for securing
financing for the project. Saga has created a wholly-owned subsidiary, Saga
Petroleum Benin A.S. (SPB), registered in Norway, with a branch office in
Benin. SPB employs both the expatriate (70)2' and Beninese (310) staff
P        working on the project.  Saga appoints, subject to approval of the Beninese
Government, a general manager for SPB who makes all operating decisions in the
field. Under Phase I institutional arrangements, the Beninese Government has
been supervising SPB's activities with four "co-managers," employed by SPB who
1/  The balance of financing requirements, US$7 million (Investments $121
million + interest during construction US$19 million - Equity US$13
million - Loans US$120 million), has been financed from the project cash
flow.
2/  Including the 20 expatriate staff of the drilling contractor.  The number
of expatriate staff for Phase I operations would be reduced to 50 by end-
1984.



- 10 -
have therefore a dual role: (i) as employees of SPB they perform their own
day-to-day activities, as would any other manager, and (ii) as Government
representatives they supervise the activities of SPB and advise the Government
on Beninese decision making. While this arrangement has allowed the
Government representatives in SPB to receive effective on-the-job training, it
limited their time available to effectively monitor SPB's activities and
created a potential conflict of interest. This issue has been resolved for
Phase II by the creation of a small independent project unit in charge of
monitoring SPB's activities which will report directly to the Minister of
Industry, Mines and Energy (see para. 50).
33.      Salaries for Beninese staff are in line with neighboring countries'
industry practices and are significantly above average Beninese salaries for
similar jobs in other sectors. There has been no Beninese turnover since
project start. The Beninese staff of SPB will be subject to a framework for
salary policy (Convention Collective) that will regulate salaries in the
sector. It was agreed upon during negotiations that the Government would pay
the petroleum sector staff according to the above arrangements (Section 3.04
of the draft Development Credit Agreement) and the signature of the Convention
Collective would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Actions To Be Taken for Phase II Implementation
34.      The implementation of Phase I has been constrained due to the
specific arrangements made initially (tigh  project financial structure, tied
financing, limiting cost competitiveness,- and management by a relatively new
oil company). The technical setbacks described above have endangered the
financial viability of the project. However, the outlook for recovery appears
favorable. The western extension of the field has been proven and additional
possible reserves have been identified.  There is evidence of a partial water
drive which will allow a higher recovery than anticipated without need of
water injection. The operating efficiency, principally downtime due to pump
breakdown, has improved. The drilling efficiency has also improved.
35.      The Beninese Government has decided to continue to entrust SPB with
developing and operating the field. This arrangement is acceptable as the
Government has agreed to take the following actions:
(a) set up the above-referenced project unit, to be assisted by an
expatriate petroleum engineer-consultant, to closely monitor
SPB's activities;
(b) strengthen the financial structure of the project by providing
additional equity through the proposed IDA Credit;
1/ At least 72 percent of the goods and services had to be procured from
Norway.



- 11 -
(c) introduce international competitive bidding procurement
procedures to minimize the Phase II investment costs;
(d) make its best efforts to minimize operating costs by
introducing competitiveness when contracts with existing
service suppliers expire;
(e)  amend the service contract with SPB to reflect the revised
institutional arrangements; and
(f)  have independent auditors acceptable to IDA perform a detailed
financial audit of the project accounts.
The Government's Strategy and IDA's Role in the Energy Sector
36.      The Government's strategy in the energy sector is sound and
cautious. Its major goal is to develop the country's limited energy
resources. In the power sector, IDA has been helping the Beninese Government
prepare the Nangbeto hydroelectric project and an electricity master plan, and
implement appropriate tariffs (Credit 1189-BEN). A forestry project,
including a fuelwood plantation component, that would assist the Government to
alleviate fuelwood shortages is under consideration for IDA financing (see
para. 22).
37.      The Government's investment and pricing policy in the petroleum
subsector is adequate. Prices are above international levels and plans to
build a refinery have been abandoned. The Government's strategy for
developing the petroleum resources of the country is two-fold: to develop the
Seme oil field on its own while at the same time to promote the rest of the
sedimentary basin to the private oil industry. IDA has assisted the Beninese
Government in this strategy, under Credit 1207-BEN approved in February 1982,
which had three major objectives:  (a) training Beninese personnel to be
employed on the Seme field; (b) promoting exploration acreage to private
industry; and (c) preparing Phase II of the Seme development project. The
training component is almost completed: (a) 104 Beninese-trained technicians
are employed on the Seme field, replacing costly expatriate manpower (e.g.,
certified welders, mechanics, roughnecks, derrickmen and wireline operators);
and (b) 15 Beninese professionals (drilling, production and reservoir
engineers, geologists and geophysicists) have responsibilities within SPB and
the Government unit in charge of supervising the promotion of exploration by
private companies. The Government has prepared a second-phase training
program for the Beninese to be promoted to replace expatriates and for
additional staff to be recruited for Phase II and replace the Beninese staff
promoted. This program will be financed from the remaining uncommitted funds
of Credit 1207-BEN until mid-1985 and thereafter through the proposed IDA
Credit (see para. 40). The progress of the exploration promotion component is
discussed in para 28. The engineering studies financed under Credit 1207-BEN
have been the basis for the preparation of the proposed Phase II development
project.
38.      IDA's participation in financing Phase II of the Seme project will:
(a) assist the Government to develop the field in a technically and
economically efficient manner. This will continue what has already been



- 12 -
accomplished under Credit 1207-BEN, not only in terms of financing
consultants, but also through direct advice from Bank Project Staff (e.g.,
Project Staff recommended a 3-D seismic survey to reduce risks of drilling dry
wells); (b) attract co-financing for the project. The World Bank Group
presence provides support for the project both in terms of technical and
financial risks. World Bank Croup involvennent is an incentive for other
lenders (European Investment Bank and possibly export credit agencies) to
participate in the financing of a project which originally suffered several
technical setbacks. The provision of IDA funds as equity injection to the
project will permit a financial restructuring to strengthen the debt repaying
capability of the project. This is particularly important as the short-term
financial outlook for the project remains uncertain; and (c) improve the
project's institutional arrangements by assisting the Government in more
efficiently supervising the development of the field by SPB.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Background
39.      The proposed project is the logical continuation of the first-phase
development of the Seme field. Its basic objective is to fully develop the
proven reserves, including the western extension proven in July 1983 (see
para. 29), and to delineate possible additional reserves to ensure optimum
development of the field. The Government officially requested IDA assistance
in financing Phase II in July 1982, but, due to a change in reservoir behavior
and interpretation, the definition of the final project scope was delayed
until the last quarter of 1983. The project was appraised in December 1983.
Credit negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in mid-May 1984. The
Beninese Government was represented by a delegation headed by Mr. Barthelemy
Ohouens, Minister of Industry, Mines and Energy. The Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 5011-BEN), dated May 30, 1984, is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. A Supplementary Data Sheet appears as Annex III.
Project Description
40.      The proposed project comprises the following components:
(a)  Drilling of five development welLs.  Five development wells
will be drilled to fully develop the proven reserves of the
field. An estimated incremental 5.2 YMB would be recovered
over the next eight years.  The first well will be drilled from
the existing platform, P-1, the second completed as a monopod,
and the last three completed from an integrated
wellhead/production platform (component (e));
(b) Drilling of two confirmation wells. Two confirmation wells
will be drilled to prove the possible north and northwestern
extensions of the field. If these reserves are proven, the
proposed project could be followed by a Phase III project to
develop them;



- 13 -
(c) Modifications to Phase I installations. The existing
production platform (P-3) will be modified to handle more
liquid volume by installing emulsion treatment equipment,
booster pumps and electrical power generation. On the onshore
tank farm, an electrostatic heater will be installed to further
treat emulsion problems. The existing communication system
will be expanded to have a two-way line of communication
between all offshore and onshore installations;
(d) Monopod platforms. Three monopod platforms will be constructed
and installed. One will be installed on a development well to
rapidly put it in production. The two other monopods will be
installed on the confirmation wells, to put them in production;
(e) Construction and installation of an integrated well and
production platform. The platform will be constructed to
accommodate the last three development wells of the Phase II
investment program, and other additional wells that may be
required in a possible Phase III development project. The
platform will also include incremental production and living
facilities; and
(f) Engineering and consultancy services. Engineering studies and
bid preparation will be performed for the platform P-3
modification and monopod and integrated platforms, including
supervision (project management) during construction and
installation. Specialized consultancy services will be
contracted to assist the Government in-monitoring SPB's
activities. The natural gas resources encountered in the Seme
field (see para. 29) will be tested to assess reserves and
deliverability. Consultants will be contracted to study the
detailed economics of their utilization.
(g) Training program. This component will finance specialized
technical courses overseas for Beninese professionals (mostly
drilling, production and reservoir engineers and geologists) to
improve their technical capabilities so that they could replace
expatriates.
41.      The project will be implemented in stages.  The first stage will
include the drilling of the first two development wells and the two
confirmation wells. The second stage will be the drilling of the last three
development wells from the integrated production platform. The installation
of the platform is justified mostly on the assumption that the possible
additional reserves will be proven. If the results of the confirmation wells
are negative, it could be more economical to use monopods rather than an
integrated well and production platform to put the last three development
wells of the project in production. The project scope would be modified and
its cost reduced (see para. 47). It was agreed during negotiations that the
int-grated platform would be constructed and installed only if the Government
and IDA have determined that, based on the results of the first confirmation
well and an updated feasibility study, the installation of the integrated
platform is economically justified (Schedule 2 to the draft Development Credit
Agreement).



- 14 -
Project Costs and Financing
42.      The project is estimated to cost US$45.3 million, including physical
and price contingencies. The foreign component is estimated at US$41.8
million. Physical contingencies were determined on the basis of a 10% rate
and price contingencies on the basis of a 3.5% inflation rate in 1984, 8% in
1985, and 9% in 1986.
43.      The proposed financing plan for the project is as follows:
US$ Million    Percent,%
IDA Credit                        18.0             40
EIB Loan                          15.0             33
Other Co-Financing                  7.5            17
Government Contribution            4.8             10
Total                      45.3           100
44.      The proposed IDA Credit will finance about 40% of the estimated costs
of the project. It will finance engineering, supervision (project management)
and consultant services, training, drilling and completion services, materials
and equipment for the five development wells, construction and installation of
one monopod platform, and power generation systems and production faciiities
to be installed on the integrated platform. The provision of IDA funds is
justified both on project and country grounds. As indicated in para. 41, the
project has suffered from financial problems in the past and the short-term
outlook is still uncertain. The project definitely needs an equity
injection. As Benin is itself in a strained financial situation, the equity
can be provided only through concessionary financing. It should be noted
that, when the US$5 million disbursed for trai;ning and preparation of the
project under Credit 1207-BEN is added, the ov(erall IDA contribution to the
entire Seme development scheme would represent only 13% of its total cost
(i.e., including Phase I).
45.      The European Investment Bank (EIB), wlhich participated in IDA's
appraisal mission, would lend ECU 18 million (US$15 million equivalent).
US$3.7 million equivalent would be at preferential sates ("risk capital") to
cover the financing of the two confirmation weLls.!   The balance of EIB
financing, covering mostly the financing of production structures (two
monopods and part of the integrated platform) would be under the rates
stipulated in the Lome II Convention (interest rate of about 10.5%, ten-year
maturity, including four years of grace). The EIB loan is scheduled to be
submitted to its board in mid-June 1984. It would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Credit that IDA be notified by the EIB that any
conditions precedent to the first disbursement under the EIB Loan Agreement,
except for the effectiveness of this proposed credit, have been fulfilled
(Section 6.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). As the EIB
1/ The interest rate is 1% until the well is declared productive and 7%
thereafter, the principal to be repaid in ten years. If the well is dry,
the debt would be cancelled.



- 15 -
wishes to have its loan (i.e., excluding risk capital) repaid from the trustee
account (see para. 30), it has been agreed upon in principle between Phase I
lenders and the Beninese Government that the EIB, and other institutions who
would request it, would be included in the existing security arrangements on a
pari passu basis.
46.      The Government will provide an equity contribution of US$4.8 million,
about 10% of the project costs, from the internal cash generation of the Seme
project. The principle of allowing disbursements from the trustee account to
finance the above expenditures has been agreed upon between Phase I lenders
and the Beninese Government and the finalization of the agreement would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
47.      The proposed IDA credit and EIB loan together with the US$4.8 million
cash flow contribution will cover 83% of the financial requirements of the
project. On the likely assumption that the results of the confirmation wells,
to be drilled in the first stage of the project (see para. 41) prove positive,
the Government of Benin and SPB have contacted suppliers and export credit
agencies for financing of the remaining 17% (US$7.5 million) required to
complete the construction of the integrated platform. Under these
circumstances, due to the type of equipment involved, it is expected that
export credit financing would be forthcoming. However, as a prudent
contingency, it has been agreed upon in principle between the Government of
Benin and Phase I lenders that any shortfall in export credit financing wylld
be met from the trustee account, if additional reserves have been proven._
The finalization of this agreement would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In
the less likely event that the results of the confirmation wells are negative,
the project scope would be modified. The integrated platform would not be
constructed but be replaced by additional monopod platforms and related
equipment. Project costs would be reduced to US$34.5 million. The reduced
investment requirements, accompanied by less proven reserves and a reduced
generation of revenues, would make it less appropriate for the Government of
Benin to seek export credits in such an eventuality. Despite the reduction in
revenue in such a case, it would still be expected that a cash flow
contribution to project costs of about US$3.5 million, 10% of the project
cost, should be feasible, and if so, about US$1.0 million may not have to be
disbursed from each of the external funding source commitments.
Procurement and Disbursements
48.      The IDA-financed components for works, materials and equipment will
be procured under ICB in accordance with World Bank guidelines. This will
include the procurement of: (a) cement and chemicals, mud chemicals, core
bits, drilling bits, tubular goods, and downhole equipment to drill the five
1/ In this case, additional production would be available from the
confirmation wells, thus making possible a higher contribution from the
cash flow (financial projections shown in para. 52 are based on proven
reserves and therefore exclude the potential contribution of the
confirmation wells).



- 16 -
development wells; (b) construction and installation of one monopod platform;
and (c) power generation systems and production facilities to be installed on
the integrated platform. Drilling and completion services (cementing,
directional drilling, electrical logging, and drilling contractor (labor
only)) will be procured by extending the existing contracts available under
the ongoing Phase I development project. The selection process and the terms
of the contracts, estimated to cost US$4.5 million or 25% of the proposed IDA
Credit, have been reviewed and are acceptable to IDA. Consultants will be
selected according to World Bank guidelines. Some consultants have already
been selected according to World Bank guidelines under Credit 1207-BEN, and
their contracts will be extended. The EIE would finance under its own
international competitive bidding procurement procedures the production
facilities (two monopods and part of the integrated platform). The table
below summarizes the procurement arrangements.
Procurement Method (US$ Million)
Extension of
Project Element             ICB    Existing Contracts   Other   Total Cost
1. Drilling and Completion
of Wells
a)  Services                    -           7.0               -          7.0
_   (4.cj)d/       _         (4.5)
b)  Materials/Equipment        7.7                            -          7.7
(5.0)                           -         (5.0)
2. Modifications to Phase I
Installations                                              1.6         1.6
3. Production Facilities
a)  Monopod Structures         6.5c/         -                -          6.5
(2.3)          -                -         (2.3)
b) Integrated PLatform
(i) Well/Production
Platform             5.5./         -                8.2       13.7
(ii) Equipment and
Production
Facilities           2.9           -                2.6        5.5
(2.9)         -                 -         (2.9)
4. Engineering, Supervision
and Consulting Services         -                            3.1         3.1
(3.l)b/    (3.1)
5.  Training                                                     0.2         0.2
-            -              (0.2)       (0.2)
TOTAL                         24.9          7.0             15.7        45.3
(10.2)        (4.5))           (3.3)      (18.0)
a/  Figures in parentheses ar- the amounts financed by IDA.
b/  Selected in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
c/  Including international competitive bidding procedures of the European
Investment Bank.



- 17 -
49.      It is proposed to allow advance contracting for US$2.0 million and
retroactive financing up to the amount of US$1.5 million, 8% of the IDA
credit, for drilling and completion services and consulting services
contracted after March 31, 1984. A condition of disbursement for the power
generation systems and production facilities to be installed on the integrated
platform would be that the Government and IDA have determined that, based on
the results of an updated feasibility study, the installation of the
integrated platform is economically justified (Schedule 1, para. 4(b) to the
draft Development Credit Agreement).  The project is expected to be completed
by December 31, 1986. The closing date will be June 30, 1987.
Project Implementation
50.      The project will be implemented over the period mid-1984 to end-1986
by SPB under close Government supervision. The Government will set up a
project unit composed of three professionals assisted by at least one
expatriate petroleum engineer/consultant on a regular basis, and other
specialized consultants as needed. The unit will report directly to the
Minister of Industry, Mines and Energy. The role of the Project Unit will be
on the one hand to supervise SPB's service contract and activities, including
discussions of budget proposals, drilling locations, and reservoir management,
and on the other hand, to serve as a liaison between the Government and SPB,
financial institutions, and consultants. The precise functions and
responsibilities of the Project Unit were agreed upon during negotiations.
The establishment of the unit, and hiring of the staff with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to IDA and of the expatriate petroleum
engineer/consultant would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section
6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government considers
that the above arrangements will permit it to exercise its control over the
development and exploitation of the field. Should the Government decide later
to create a national oil company, it would consult with IDA on its proposed
organization, financial management and operations, in particular on the
proposed methods for the transfer of assets and liabilities, as agreed upon
under Credit 1207-BEN (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Amendments to the service contract with SPB to cover the Phase II
development are being negotiated. They include, in particular, a definition
of Phase II activities and a clarification of decision-making responsibilities
under the revised Phase II institutional framework (i.e., the creation of the
Project Unit). The Government has also decided to renegotiate SPB's
remuneration formula.  A consultant is assisting the Government in these
matters under financing of Credit 1207-BEN.  It would be a condition of
disbursement for the engineering and supervision (project management) services
that the above-referenced service contract has been amended in a manner
satisfactory to IDA. (Schedule 1, para. 4(c) to the draft Development Credit
Agreement). It was agreed upon during negotiations that the Government would
continue to employ a project management company under a service contract
satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.03(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Accounting, Auditing and R-porting
51.      SPB has developed a commercial accounting system for the Seme
project. The 1980 and 1981 project accounts and the accounts as of
February 28, 1983 (date of official "project completion" according to Phase I



- 18
loan agreements) have been audited by Saga's Norwyegian external auditor. The
Government has hired an international audit company to undertake a detailed
audit of the project's account as of Decernber 31, 1983. This audit is
financed under Credit 1207-BEN and the auditor will also train Beninese staff
to audit petroleum sector accounts.  The 1983 audit report would be submitted
to IDA by September 17 1 984e It was agreed upon during negotiations that the
future Seme project accounts and audiit report would be submitted to IDA not
later than six months after the close of the fiscal year (Section 4.01(b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).  It was also agreed upon that the
Government would continue to prepare the mnonthly operational reports for the
Seme Project which are telexed tC all lenders and submit quarterly
consolidated progress reports to IDA3 rSect:ion 3.06(c)(i) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement)c
Financial Evaluation
52.      As indicated in para. 30, the project suffered initially from several
technical setbacks which have led to a rescheduling of Phase I loans. The
unsatisfactory financial performance of Phase I requires injection of equity,
which will be provided by the Government through the proposed IDA credit, to
Dut the project back on a sound financial footing. The financial evaluation
of the project depends mostly on the production assumptions.  SPB and an
independent consultant- Franlab, have prepared production projections based on
the proven reserves k'.e., excluding possi.ble reserves to the north and
northwest of the field) which show t:hat the project would generate a sizeable
surplus to the Government. The appraisal mission estimated that a much more
cautious attitude is required at this stage, as experience with pump
efficiency and water intrusion is insufficient to guarantee that the
production rates estimated by SPB could be achieved (total recovery of about
22.5 MMB by 1992).  Financial projections based on a conservative production
profile prepared by the appraisal mission (total recovery of 17.7 MMB by 1992)
and the price of oil remaining constant in real terms at US$26.451   indicate
the project's financial condition will remain uncertain in the short term
(1984-1986).  The debt service coverage ratio would average 1.3 in that
period. A sensitivity analysis indicates that if the price of oil remains
constant in nominal terms in the years 1984-1986 the projected cash surpluses
after servicing the debt would be reduced from about US$22 million to US$5
million in this period. The uncertainty on production and prices clearly
justifies the injection of equity th-rough the proposed IDA Credit.  The
longer-term outlook is more favorable, with debt service coverage reaching a
satisfactory level in the 1.8-2.0 range. The table below summarizes the
project's main financial indicators.
1/ Net FOB price for the three shipments from November to February 1984.
The Government of Benin has signed a one year sales contract with an
American oil company. A longer term contract would be difficult to obtain
under current oil market conditions.



- 19 -
(US$ million in current terms)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988-1992
Net sales                           63       69       80       79          253
Operating Costs                     (23)    (25)    (28)    (28)          (146)
Internal Cash Generation            40       44       52      51           107
Investments                        (14)    (24)    (10)         -            -
Borrowings                            6      10        6        -
Equity Injection (Proposed IDA
Credit)                            3       12        3       -            -
Debt Service                        (27)    (40)    (39)    (29)           (54)
Net Cash Flow                         8       2       12       22           53
Debt service coverage                1.5     1.1      1.3      1.8          2.0
53.      As it is of primary importance to follow closely the project's
finances, and particularly to control operating costs, it was agreed upon
during negotiations that the Government would submit to IDA for its review and
comments (i) the annual operating and investment budgets at least two months
before the beginning of each fiscal year; and (ii) the drilling program,
including recommendations for detailed drilling locations at least one month
before the drilling of each well (Section 3.06(c)(ii) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Moreover, it was agreed upon during negotiations that the
Government would introduce competitiveness when contracts with existing
service suppliers expire with a view to minimize project operating costs
(Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
54.      The economic benefits of the project are measured in terms of
incremental exports of crude (about 5.2 MMB) resulting from the implementation
of Phase II. On the assumption that crude prices would remain constant in
real terms at US$26.45/Bbl, the economic rate of return (ERR) for the project
is about 60%. This high rate of return results from the fact that most of the
required production infrastructure already exists, which allows rapid
production from the first wells to be drilled, and from the fact that a great
part of the operating costs are fixed. The Phase II project would make the
overall Seme oil field development project more economical to the Government
(ERR of 11%). An analysis of the sensitivity to alternative pessimistic
assumptions (15% decrease in revenues, 15% increase in costs) indicates that
under all such scenarios the ERR of the Phase II project would remain above
the cost of capital in Benin. If the project scope is modified (see para.
47), the ERR would be slightly higher (73%).  While production projections
would remain identical (they are based on proven reserves only), the
investment requirements would be reduced by about US$11 million.
55.      The risks associated with the project are those inherent in petroleum
production. These concern particularly the drilling of dry wells, operating
problems such as malfunction of downhole pumps, water and sand production, and
possible improper reservoir management. These risks are acceptabLe as
development and operating experience has been gained on the field since June
1982, and steps have been taken to minimize further uncertainties. They
include a 3-D seismic survey to better locate wells, an independent reservoir
engineering study, technical assistance from pump manufacturers, and provision



- 20 -
of consultants for close technical supervision of SPB. There is a financial
risk in the short term evidenced by the relatively low debt service coverage
ratio of the project. The short-term risk depends mostly on production and
oil prices hypotheses and a careful monitoring of the project finances will be
required to prevent financial difficulties.
Environmental Considerations, Safety and Insurance
56.      All precautions will continue to be taken to avoid undue damage to
the natural environment. Minor, nonpermanent effects cannot be avoided
completely, e.g., some small amounts of well cuttings and mud would likely be
dispersed in the sea water.  Substantial environmental damage can only occur
in the event of a serious oil spill resulting from a well blow-out. Such an
occurrence is unlikely as the wells would be drilled under close control at
all times. SPB has been training all its staff in fire prevention and
security matters and will continue to do so on a regular basis, in accordance
with industry practices. The overall safety record on the project has been
good. The project carries adequate comprehensive insurance on all its
facilities and equipment against fire, blow-outs and other kinds of damage and
the insurance policies will be extended to cover the Phase II development.
All offshore facilities have been certified for commercial operation by Det
Norske Veritas.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Benin and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for-in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
58.      Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are referred to in the text of this report and are listed in Section
III of Annex III. Special conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(i) that the Phase 1 lenders would have concluded agreements, acceptable to
IDA, on debt rescheduling, including provisions to allow disbursements from
the trustee account for the financing of some of the Phase II expenditures;
(ii) that the Government would have established and staffed the project unit
and hired an expatriate petroleum engineer; (iii) that IDA be notified by the
EIB that any conditions precedent to the first disbursement under the EIB Loan
Agreement, except for the effectiveness of the IDA Agreement, have been
fulfilled; and (iv) that the Convention CoLlective regulating salaries in the
petroleum sector has been signed (Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Special conditions of disbursements would be (i) for power
generation systems and production facilities to be installed on the integrated
platform, that IDA and the Beninese Government have determined that, based on
the results of an updated feasibility study, the installation of the
integrated platform is economically justified; and (ii) or project management
services, that the service contract with SPB has been amended in a manner
satisfactory to IDA (Schedule 1, paragraphs 4(b) and (c) to the draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 21 -
59.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 30, 1984



-22-                                          ANNEX 1
Page I of 4
BENIN
BENIN                     - SOCIAL INDlCATORS DATA SKEET
BENIN                                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) la
HOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
b  RECENT b               LOW INCOME               hIDDLE INCOME
1960/1b      1970'k  ESTIMArE/-        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA       AFRICA S. OF SAHLAR
ARA (TELOUSAMD SQ. Di)
TOTAL                                  112.6         112.6        112.6
AGRICULTURAL                            19.8          20.4         22.4
GNP PEE CAPITA (USS)                       100.0        140.0        320.0                254.6                      1147.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  MR CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          38.0          55.0        7J.0                  79.8                       724.2
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    2U50.0          2659.0        3595.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)            9.5          12.6         14.b                 19.5                        28.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                    6,8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                     24.6
YEAR STAIrONARY POP. REACHED                                  2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KQM.                          18.2         23.6          30.9                29.5                         56.5
PER SQ. EY. AGRI. LAND               103.4        130.2         155.5                94.1                        131.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                             44.1         45.3         46.1                 45.0                         45.9
15-64 YRS                             53.3         52.0         51.1                 52.1                         51.2
65 AND ABOVE                           2.6          2.7           2.8                 2.9                          2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                  2.2           2.6     9     .7                  2.8                         2.8
URBAN                                  5.8          5.4           4.1                 6.2                          5.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)            50.6         49.3          49.0                47.9'                        47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)            26.8         22.1          17.1                 19.2                        15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.3           3.3          3.2                  3.2                         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TROUS)
USERS (2 OF MARRIlD WOMEN)             ..            ..
FOOD AND NIUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                           95.0        101.0         92.0                 87.8                         95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OP REQUIREMLENTS)        100.0         97.0         103.0                88.0                         97.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              55.0         54.0         54.0                 51.2                         56.0
OF WH8CII ANIMAL AND PULSE           15.0         15.0          13.0/c              18.1                         17.2
CIIILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            49.0          41.2         33..2               25.7                         23.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)           37.2          42.1         49,9                 47.4                        51.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER TLOUS)          205.6        179.4         152.1               126.5                        117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                    ..          ..          2L.U                24.7                         25.4
URBAN                                   ..           ..         52.0                 56.B                         70.5
RURAL                                    ,.          ..         16.0                 18.3                         12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRgTA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ''          14.0           ,,                 2d.1
URBAN                                   ..         83.U            ..                 65.7
RURAL                                   ..          I.U            ..                 21.9
POPULATION PER PEYSICIAN             23030.0      28590.o      17050.U              2742U.6                      12181.o
POP. PER NURSING PERSON          .   2700.O/d    2870.0         1670.0               3456.2                       2292.U
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                150.0        850.0         73O.O/c            1183.2                       1075.4
URBAN                                540.0        230.0        390.(7E              380.6                       4U2.3
RURAL                                780.0       2200.0       1120.0/c             3177.5                       3926.7
ADMISSION'S PER HOSPITAL BED               ..         30.2         17.7/e
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..            ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (. OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                   ' '_



-23~
ANNEX 1
Page Z uf 4
BENIN                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BENIN                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
/b      1  Lb  RECENTIb               LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960./-     197      ESTIMATE'        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA      AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
muuc&rou
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     27.0         40.0         62.0                63.9                        97.2
MALE                     38.0         55.0         84.0     -          73.6                       103.1
FEMALE                   15.0         25.0         39.0                51.6                        88.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      2.0          6.0         16.0                12.5                        17.2
MALE                       2.0         8.0         23.0                 16.7                       23.5
FEMALE                    1.0          3.0          8.0                 8.1                        14.2
VOCATIONAL (T OF SECONDARY)            12.9          4.1          8.1                  7.3                        5.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
5'                           PRIMARY                               41.0         44.0         48.0                46.4                        42.9
SECONDARY                            23.0         25.0         31.0/e              25.1                        23.7
lADULT LITERACY RATE (1)                 4.6         11.0/i      27.9                 36.5                       37.1
C8T 0IiOu
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             1.4          4.6          5.5/f               3.3                        18.8
RADIO RECEIVEKS/THOUSANU POP           12.2         32.0         71.9                45.3                        97.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                ..          ..           0.1                 2.2                        18.6
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                1.5          0.8          0.3                 4.7                        18.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         0.2          0.5          0.3/f               i.0                         0.6
LA-9 iOM
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (fHOUS)            1049.0       1292.0       1621.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     45.4         45.1         45.3                34.5                        36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                54.0         50.0         46.0                76.9                        56.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    9.0         12.0         16.0                 9.8                        17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.2         48.6         45.1                40.9                        37.0
MALE                                 57.1         54.3         51.4                53.0                        47.1
FEKALE                               45.5         43.1         39.3                28.9                        27.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9          1.0          1.1                 1.2                         1.3
IK=  DISTUIWTTIO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5Z OF HOUSEHOLDS             31.4/R         ..
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS            51.7.
LOWEST 2ZO  OF liOUSEHOLDS            5.5./.
LOWEST 401 oF HOUSEHOLDS             15.87j         ..
POVT  T&in GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVKTY IliCOMlE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAi                                  ..           ..           ..               165.9                       534.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..         84.0/h              87.4                       255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..               100.8                       491.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..         82.0/h              64.6                       188.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY I:COME LEVCL (2)
Uit3AN                                 ..           ..           ..                39.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..         65.0                69.0
NOT AVAILABLE.
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T F. S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithaetic means.  Covtrage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted,  Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for 'Host Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1962; /e 1975; /f 1976; ig Population; /h 1978; /i 1973.
May 1983



24-                                         ~~~~ANNEX 1
Pa g e3 ~of 4
ZIEntal?IOeh IF SO-Ito INDCotATOR
Ad trrrttottdaa  redrar  oc  aarr  erralojudged rot  _tr on-hort rrr  oat rot  blot, to c'o.cC     he totd thor Ity cay are be  reeeoa
rrpc'cl  becase ofo:lrIfc>oadedtetitt   r   ucyaoed by dhff-r-r  oureetchrtog  rtdat.   flo  dore era Iocott  .e.. ...to  to
decpetb orer   of .cgo 1-da  ta  cte tred.. o   hrret t tattra dl irra   eee    trro
f trfrnc    rrtettteaeo-rgtyatglrrrrrcdl   atrtrooclhroahhtrtrerortateouoogrpfa
coher  conty  errytfo  'Oflgyt toce  t       oertootar roarther  'MdleIcer -ttrr  odr-_ ta__dli                  ato  etr    eae   tcrageut-olua
at tittita    to re reerenc   ara  dat   tee recade  arc royalotta cI-rtgord oriote-t1r 'ecac.. far~ eahltboralatetat   ar .h-tyo   h   outtt
grryha  drefo  ta  td roor   Soc   tecoergeatcrarir  ctr  hetrttooo.  eyrta  r  I  aauah l:vtOdtara  I  rt  raa-c  000toIcs-h
arert.etoreettg  atragr afoottrdc.ecc Iceroher,frreaorarr   atealcrfoloooeeetOsOrasrottrlatrrrrerttca_r_th.auoty.o
ceeere .oy   r-    ..d   rdpdt                                                                                                               ' 
nra  atraacctoy.o.t                                                                 arutriaaorr,rroirr-rafla_toa dradd  hr'j moerf   roro..               r  tog
- Taot  arfae aea rcyretoglar  tre  ea -lur  orcera  -,.h,                          pr  -tcort.r irlhh o   rfa,     IIdou  eroa -rifr-,e-el - leel
i~tcd l-h ro.ttrlatr  e  fhrt`fJ yea- 1cylattr  dud    ,cce   fy~rro
atroaraal    ftla. ...  a.....    rs  ee .   ed -   fryror -l  o  2erorr  ctl   r   ea     rdaerro     rtrr   ae.   rtir   aeaa
frareco  rarr. ,.  re   a   tce   eta   rc  I  cla;16,rrta   otlotc
19f cd190daa                                                                               aclctrea  'oalta  ed-toa,art   rrcaa    f'.tpuatarbe
..rRt dd~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ca a Lco I hr rter ayote ahto hat, e
ole  ff  latfOI t I- If cr  ryta ot iato S  corec  talit 0tor ,           orlihr I  tall  ea  prora  gacrl et e,rllted   ocyta_co
rEInae   yee    arrtrcta   ehrdSa    ta   17-1tr  ;                                                  eai  taa    art.Ityrl   r  eat-                t   "I-eeer  yeecaaerecrfte
19th,1910  sad1981data   r-tttac   rtyyeoto   tvt-a.acd   oolloSrlctalycseIata
121;  .dy'I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~or rtra arora  cr'h-rl-I -oet,fotd  rar o
fttal ootterat  et  oe~u -hose  etaratvoaatr oo  f  a.cercr   cttc    lolrr  olaeacttto   ruterhoa oorro -r bo  h a  edca
.rfcrrrary  oca  ar  toate,  ecrlau.   rtarl  ar  odhodo-.tooer  aotttor,aora,rltttr  eo.tallt cfa  icorteeraoadatoeer
art0 gerrralaattocla   tlOaeat00   tlcta   oyoyt;-docalrohrr5   todoo   rt9rt.reactetclyooe
bitt,  Off.  rt 199r tar.                                   srtra  voftoric  tcvldc thOr ovlctrolororeal toariral, ced core
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAphvrtol.lcoaosrlaatleattdalrtoreclycrrr
~aPl.#IteStA 0191.tfAlhTIh                                                             eaoolIaS  oaoottr ra lv-ort  aI  aeo  cora."f 
acof aartteo   19h.  Q01  ar .ed)  dae                                                     Orrrr  to  0   ractihortiatrv  oue,lh_-tca,  the9aMrua
Oc -aatta  trfetdc                                                                                     -crtllvctrto    Oofa  totItal    o  hrd-ao                            ot
yaoata  t    n  OO  -Ivrc    avlt acriotir  oehoe   0  31                                 o  ocrorI -oo SR.airoar o  ltdduoo. S  aetrh   rrldI
fealcyuato  b   gect  e  aa   rtetrr  tt  ultrrlifooetl  ltr Sia l9    rvcrr
roe.crlotr  aaert   a   ovalr   ur   ratirofar9ta   fl te   jp-seactc                                                          crd    rat   o   artecarrce
ttataaefidltaehecaccocltcrooreatoaitroarto'ort                              fet va  ovvortol   orot SoootI otaoeoaroat  ra
r   PIatca   rn    r   eaaIt   raot rrelllaC   11lar   aovlr  .hallorovIt    lvyrurtortu,   r
eat   ito fat Leet  for Iet. ayrot..            ceeotrlod                                     oco-l fr
Ico Ttgh ctatta,_--           o   vthataacaesclatpuaeel                                          doo'otlorolor eotalIa-ocotra4 rl.
rIIds yerStc- re f-art1 a-Itn I  hr   cretoo   thovr                                         I'.,vlvS   hr- toat   lvvt   cho  aIahc       eretg
rrchaataraarcctatf~ot rerlatycrtroorraactaorofoao.               olotac   ea  totl oallooaar.eccorl
trattrarytotaatta-toacoattooa0 foalroot vraraI-I0
ecreh   brt   ot  o  qolharh   eohruo   r _c   frae__Ca' 
rtrctaartotacoeor..   ftatarlaotolfatetrr- lvvvcraLjatrI-rolca   Ouro
detllatattorolucoerrteat htattaat       .,ralovr-aroo,atj                               votccot          'aa    uarotue-ca                   aololar           tt
eac  caeatttfotaat2tre             Otal  tacha    -t-cacr                                       valrci0'aauor   ttrlvburecaerrcerc
roalroastetrneo rao   i  herrI   t  arooloca   Oraoe-                                    rtaco o    rrfaoatov                ata  -  oooOavfllte   ue  hI
tatic  at  he yralarot I  thefastrOth,att  hararo t  rvto   at  ou ahoc a  aea   o tltevav   teatc.aoc ptcart etoarar1  ir
ferolreatrrroloeerlhaacl.                                                                  vo0trctsvooodaldaotlrero-ootoferad-chireo
craraaeccerrpoct _hla   loach-lrroaloaovouo                                                    oararrtottluvaat-tflvartal
arId  1961), 197c act 19hh hate.Accooc01oa   pocto   cotr        oal-o   arrrto
yaltt11960, 197f. art lih1 hoc-                                                           f01-r-a   SI      cao.atr,odt-oa   vtrtaa dI
fY, fcoacr;1t.  31   a  lOS  deco                                                             l.Sotlll
Irt  -hoh R-t  tort thau-raf  -MoAI-        -hoa rc   c   vao-l0 id-four                       LaeTa       o.       tOtt   0ctcao                aarrratctctro
Pdaratar-o; 1960. tOOl. roh 1991 tat.-vot~rglr   ~0lo   ,1--taa  a-lIcaooaord    eto
Irtetortaetc  ar-oeou    s ho  a   oaoeroaoa   aIthotovrlloooId--
ftltyraa-,; -naIr fISe-fe   ovrcc  tbo  00  9, tIll, ot                                      racraoIo,lptl    c   caafo   oooe;aloea-d
191c.                                                                                              l;aroeorloootoof0   ct   lor0 rutto   ot
000yfrtt1f-K          etror.h-oa  teroaruovio   -ttotoh.etooovot-oa-otv-ao fr   vatroeryvtrocaet    lerot
aihirt,-eacalrlcaotouaoettaooulallpa-ia                                                            ooat_eo,tv0  orlg
crga.ioaIoveto    aoo0)lcoratt0adett
crctl  Olataao-rocoloroova o  ratrch ocoo  avootefo  0 co-ooO      t patto ocr'oo-cvao- 'a 'I '  ooaeor  ol-voaah      vcolooo
dor,o fc  fth-d'1    1  0-00  12
hoto                                                                                          - - -p-t-c1 150c9,_~ 1
Yroro  er   too   eock    t                                                                          ,Fe   olh    orlba,oco  Iteol    16I 197  oc   1   eati.
-arote-       adtfohfrccAa,  ofltoor   tvtes  o-.r6Soorccococ9                                                                    trcrvO0-oeeaafotlarcoto
-oareet d crotoat  h  oOtteI0doraltoa   oro0OrofIl-tteorot-r  I-ono   oe   i  ut  h  toero,hetta-t
of  atrhoa Ice;   it-f,  90  ao b   o,F~    daa                                                   c0ct  t-o           t    too, oI0 cv,,o0  atttlItc  oc; t
Ore err ct rarcl  ot tatta 1 rocr arr cg) - trotlo  ovorvo of 0voafoto000  001 hats                                                       .I'  18i 
Ott0ofl0of  oa  fe  tt.   oo  eoolvohfoa  i  hofar  rocoe                           O  - 0f0        -   ot cI lt              ttaocu.              orilatto
teaetrrooeoforol  oo-aorraotcaol oOorrttoacocsalotoocooosr                                rod 0      otraa...     ro..  io.......      a
allaaroOoceflrrararscultoctltecoutocooaoaaat  eooatao.                                          rod    -os  0000cr~lvoI......err..1c..
-ddletpoo   -oo,oavtvttgrso   Otc'  arlspovl.5hr                                                                               .at01S  ttt-ho2)V_do'sor-0Iea _                alrs
.1arat-ttattet- taeva,,ot -srIoa,o   ftve..o..                            rst                      rt ovo    oc-00-000oatotoevca
of edna W.   atoa  Or       961cr 65, too > -to  sooth  orpac--   1  t 
000c-~tthutht0arLtcr'o1catta  ; it?  Ii)  uo  1 I If,         I,.a
at tooh; l960, 1970  -th lIft c-t.
ctho-cud lOea-h;-          t   01    r 19,u     L  9                                                                                  clelurto      Ota
croerof  at Soco)-  tacotaotrt                nOO,P0u0  '-vl  -'0fIo c'sotrrtola-
tarhor ot Ocotto )tatot. oclco, too~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_~
oofl  locoatrovtaot'aoor.o  50roOofvlatc  ea'-o  oot.vOr .-otto..00.....-  ctooc  rta.
aoa -ceara .Ye   ot0   Ot9'   thorchrht                                                                teo0o~fot'                                lda    taofte0
oocturoolola   cooecuce   Ofchrrcoc-,tc i     oatto         10                          proO'totoIf.tc0,oa
arturrraaarlOctoaoaot.  ratuh- oarvc         -,artaoaaos)l'actdsorrtk__o-fhcvrso,oOo
coaa  oRo tryo If      oaorot  lto-Otvv   croslaveo   f  Oo                                    aovto   acloor  tLo   crlvefoovv  -000  rolrtco --aco



25-                                ANNEX  1
Page 4 of 4
BENIN
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1981                                                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH9%
(1978 constant prices)
US$ Million                % of GDP                                 1976-81
GDP at Market Prices                    951.8                      100.0                                   3.1
Gross Domestic Investment               333.6                       35.0                                  14.1
Gross Domestic Saving                    12.5                        1.3                                   9.5
Current Account Balance                -328.9                     -34.6                                   14.2
Exports of Goods, NPS                   298.9                       31.4                                  11.5
Imports of Goods, NFS                   658.0                      69.1                                    7.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981                 Value Added                      Labor Force             Value added per Yorker
US$ Million      X         Thousand             %            US$       _
Agriculture                             369.8        44.5        1,220.0           73.6           303.1      59.9
Industry, Construction
and Public Works                      102.5        13.4          100.3            6.1          1021.9    201.8
Services                                367.6        42.1          338.2           20.3          1086.9    214.6
GDP at Factor Cost                   839.9       100.0         1658.5          100.0           506.4    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(CFAF Billion)                 % of GDP
1981                   1981     1976-8l  a!
Current Revenue                          52.6                   20.6       16.6
Current Expenditures                     34.8                   13.8       11.3
Investment Expenditures                  25.1                    9.8        4.7
Transfers                                 0.4                    0.2        0.4
Net lending                               2.8                    1.1        2.0
Overall deficit (-)                  -10.5                   -4.1       -1.2
External Borrowing                       13.9                    5.4        2.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                 1976        1977       1978       1979       1980       1981
(Bfllion CFAF Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                    30.6        34.9       39.0       46.7       61.4       71.3
Net Claims on Central Government        -7.1         -9.4      -12.9      -11.8      -17.5      -20.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector a/         32.1        38.6       47.1       59.4       85.0       87.0
(Percentage or Index Number)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        22.5         23.2      23.2       23.9       28.5       27.6
General Price Index (1978=100)           83.8         86.8    100.0       113.3      131.1      159.2
Annual Percentage Change in:
General Price Index                     ..           3.6      15.2       13.3       15.7       21.4
Net Claims on Central Gov't.            ..         -32.4    -37.2         8.5      -48.3      -19.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector           ..          20.2      22.0       26.1       43.1        2.6
a/ AveraZe,
b/ Includes Public Enterprises.



- 26 -
AINNE  II
Page 1
Status of Bnk Grop Oreations in BENIN
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of Mach 31, 194)
tUS$ mirnon
Ammut (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year   Borrower      ose                          Bnk    DA    Undisbursed
Nine credits fUlly distzrsed                                    44.01
746-i        1977   Bnin         Third Highway                       10.0X        .01
86-BEN       1978   Bnin         Cotonou Port                        19.30         .35
997-BEN      19e     enin        Industrial Developnent              10.C0        6.84
10990-BE      1981   Benin       Feeder Roads                          7.00         .90
11Z7-BEN      1981    Benin      Borgou Prov. Rural Developnent       20.00       12.06
1142-EN       1981   Benin        Fourth Highway                      11.30       5.07
1171-EN       1981   Benin        Cotonou Water Sanitaticn             5.00       2.27
1189-BEN      1981    Benin      Power Engineering and TA              1.82        .69
1207-BEN     1c   2enin          TA in Petroleun Sector                8.00       4.33
1246-BEN      192   Benin         Second Education                    14.00       11.89
1314-BEN      1963   Benin        Zou Rial. Develognent               20.00      18.72
Total                              170.47      63.13
Of which has beer. repaid    .'      9.78
Total now outstanding                                  16o.69
Total now held by IDA                                  160.69
Total undisbursed                                       63.13
B. Statenent of Regional I Bk Loans and Credits to Banin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegl,
Togo, Upper Volta
US$ million
loan or                                                        Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year   Borrower    Pupose                          k     IDA     Undisbursed
969-F        1989   BOAD         Project Preparation Credit           3.0        2.03
2242/lIF 3/   1983   BAD         Regional Developnent          6.1      -         6.05
1331-W        1983   BOAD        Regional Developnent                 14.0 1/    13.63
1/ Beginning with Credit 1090-BEN, credits have been denoruinated in Special Drawing Rights.
The doUar amouLnts in these colunns represent th1e dollar equivalents at the time of credit
negotiations for the IDA amounts and the dollar equivalents as of March 31, 1964, for the
unlisbursed amounts.



27
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
Seme Oil Field Phase II Development Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 6 months
(b) Project prepared by: Beninese Government and SPB
(c) Initial discussions with IDA: July 1982
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: December 1983
(e) Completion of negotiations: May 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: October 1984
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Phase I lenders would have concluded agreements,
acceptable to IDA, on debt rescheduling (para. 31),
including provisions to allow disbursements from the
trustee account for the financing of some of Phase II
expenditures (paras. 46 and 47);
(b) the Government would have established and staffed the
Project Unit and hired an expatriate petroleum engineer
(para. 50);
(c) that IDA be notified by the EIB that any conditions
precedent to the first disbursement under the EIB Loan
Agreement, except for the effectiveness of the IDA
Agreement, have been fulfilled (para. 45); and
(d) that the Convention Collective regulating salaries in the
petroleum industry sector has been signed (para. 33).
2. Conditions of Disbursement
(a) Disbursements for oower generation systems and production
facilities to be installed on the integrated platform are
conditional on agreement between IDA and the Beninese
Government that, based on the results of an updated



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
feasibility study, the installation of the platform is
economically justified (para. 49); and
(b) disbursements for engineering and supervision (project
management) services are conditional on the signature of
an amended service contract with SPB in a manner
satisfactory to IDA (para. 50).
3. Other Conditions
The following agreements were reached diuring negotiations:
(a)  the Government would submit to IDA for its review and
comments the annual operating and investment budgets and
the drilling program, including recommendations for
detailed drilling locations (para. 53);
(b) the Government would introduce cornpetitiveness when
contracts with existing service suppliers expire with a
view to minimize project operating costs (para. 53);
(c) the Government would continue to employ a project
management company under a service contract satisfactory
to IDA (para. 50);
(d)  the Government would pay the Beninese staff employed by
SPB, and the staff of the project unit, in accordance with
the "Convention Collective" applicable to the petroleum
industry sector (para. 33);
(e) in the case where the Government would decide the creation
of a national oil company, the Government would consult
with IDA on its proposed organization, financial
management and operations, in particular on the proposed
methods for the transfer of assets and liabilities (para.
50); and
(f) the integrated platform would be constructed and installed
only if the Government and IDA have determined that, based
on the results of the first confirmation well and an
updated feasibility study, the installation of the
integrated platform is economically justified (para. 41).



IBRD17720
M A L I             N I G E R                                        a2 oo                                       2030            JANUARY1984
-7303>1                                                                                              '
~  AO  4   -X0/  " 
0UPPER    ~*                       
-    VOLTA A 
'7-'B.,\ Njt  ~'7o"                                                                '     /'n ,                                 \
SGG A/L!                                                                    
IVORYI
COAST /GHANA~  4Ao~o 
/ X ~~~~~~,                                                                  ..Za
7 XO_                         -                                SOFRS NN
$1  UASOReAFbome
Seismic suvey carried under Credit-1207BEN  '                                     ,(' , ,Lm
- ~ ~    ~ ~ 0                                                                 / Ries'1E    0   03
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Porto- 3 . t n i e
130'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nv    6'30'2-30
I'                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~On-Shoren
8>                                ~~~~~~COTONOU             Tn Fr*
LOME                        nh__I
6~~~~~~~~~~~~~CO'                                                                                           8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6000
\ \            ~SEME OIL FIELD SECOND PHASE
- Limit of sedimentary basin                                 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basement                                             GENERAL  LOCATION  OF SEME FIELD
Fault zone                                             AND  BENIN  5EDIM[NTARYW(  A N
Semne Field                                          KLMTR             p~              p~
Seismic survey carried un,der Credit- 1207 BEN         IOEES9           1      29      3       4       5
-, Rivers                                                  MILES 0           ib          Tb           T0
--Depth conEour in meters
.-International boundaries                                1obO0000.,0,y r 40.0SII011*010yrrey 0
030                             ~~~~~~~~~~2000                               282



I



