Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONlY
Rgpqt No. P-6123)èKZ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
llINERTNAL BARK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELO9EN
TC THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED REHLABILITATION LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$180 MUILION
TO THE REPUIBLIC OF KAZAIBSTAN
AUGUST 25, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report NO: P- 6123/i <K
Type: PR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by tecipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bandc authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENS
Currency Unit       =      Rublc
I Ruble                    100 kopecks
Period Average             End of Period
i22
Quarter l                             102.4                      100.0
Quarter 1                              94.6                      100.0
Quarter m                             177.7                      254.4
Quarter IV                            396.4                      414.5
1993
Quarter 1                             580.1                      6840
Quarter U                             968.1                     1060.0
Quarter m  1/                        1019.0                      987.0
1/ As of August 5, 1993
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBR                              Central Bank of Russia
CEM                               Country Economic Memorandum
CIS                              Commonwealth of Independent States
CMEA                             Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
FSU                              Former Soviet Union
FXC                              Foreign Exchange Component
GDP                              Gross Domestic Product
IBRD                             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                              International Competitive Bidding
IMF                               International Monetary Fund
IC                                Letter of Credit
NBRK                              National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhsn
PIC                               Pre-identified Imports Component
PIU                               Project Implementation Unit
SPC                               State Property Commuittee
SOE                               Statement of Expenditures
STF                               Systemic Transformation Facility
TA                                Technical Assistance
GOVERNMEN FISCAL YEAR
Janmary 1- December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
REPUBUC OF KAZAKHSTAN
REHABILRTATION LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ....................................... i
I.    THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC PROGRAM  ........................                        1
A.    Recent Economic Developments ..........         .....................   I
B.    Economic Reform Policies and Objectives ....4.....................          4
C.  Macroeconomic Stabilization.                                                  5
D. Structural Refonns .6
H. THE REHABILITATION LOAN .13
A. Origin and Objectives .13
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvement .14
C. Project Description .14
D. hImlementation Afrangements .17
E. Procurement .17
F. Disbursement .18
G.    Project Accounting, Financial Reporting, 1nd Auditing.19
H. Agreements Reached .19
1.  Environmental Assessment .20
J. Benefit and Risks .20
K. Recommendations .21
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Memorandum on Structural Reform Policies
Annex 2: Selected Economic Indicators: 1990-94
Annex 3: Goods Which Would Not Be Financed
Annex 4:  Goods to be Finantced under the PIC
Annex 5:  Implementation Arrangements
Annex 6:  The Foreign Exchange System
Annex 7:  Key Processing Events
Annex 8:  Status of Bank Group Operations
Map: IBRD No. 2370OR
This document has a restricted distrbution and may be used by recipienb "n'v in the performance
of their ofcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
PROPOSED REHABILIXTATION LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Botrower:          Republic of Kazakhstan
Amount:             US$180 million equivalent
Terms:              17 years, including 5 years grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.
Objecives:         The objectives of the Loan are: (i) to support the Government's reform program
which is outlined in a Memorandum of Structural Reform Policies (Annex 1); (ii)
to ease the shortage of foreign exchange needed to finance critical hnports of
inputs, raw materials and spare parts in key sectors, thus minimizing the further
contraction of economic activity; and (iii) to support foreign exchange markets
and allow the private sector access to foreign exchange.
Descrption:         The proposed Loan would finance imports in an amount of US$180 million,
consisting of: (i) a foreign exchange market (FXC) component, in an amount of
US$94 million, to support the access of enterprises to the foreign exchange
auction market for financing inmports through normal commercial practices; (ii)
a pre-identified imports component (PIC), in an amount of US$86 million, would
finance essential imports, procured through existing procurement channels
working in accordance with Bank procurement procedures. The latter imports
are required for the continued operation of essential public services and a
recovery in critical productive sectors. Inports under the FXC are subject to a
standard negative list.
Benefits:          The proposed Loan would allo,6 increased capacity utilization and production in
a number of vital sectors. The imports to be financed by the Loan would have
direct output and employment effects and would ensure minimum availability of
certain essential items, such as medicine and other health supplies. In some
cases, critical imports of spare parts could also preserve existing capital assets
and prevent a deterioration which would require considerable future investment.
In addition, the Loan would increase the access to foreign exchange of companies
operated on a commercial basis.
Riksis:            The main risks include: (i) policy slippage or implementation bottlenecks in
carrying out the reforn program, (ii) further deterioration in the country's
extemal sitation due in particular to increased difficulties with trade and
payment arrangements within the FSU, or because the external financing
requirements would not be met; (iii) the possibility that in view of prevailing
conditions, some of the imports financed by the project could end up maintaining
activities and enterprises that are fndamentally not viable and should be left to



-ii-
disappear; Pnd (iv) Kazakan's lack of familiarity with Bank procuremw nt
procedures, which could limit absorptive capacity and lead to significant delays.
Close monitoring of economic performance and provision of policy advice and
selected technical assistance will aim at alleviating the economic risk.
Inexperience with procurement procedures will be mitigated by the establishment
of a Project hIplementation Unit, which will include procurement advisers.
Close attention to procurement and other implementation constraints will be
provided during project supervision, and through technical assistance.
Cofinancing:       Cofinancing on a parallel basis may be provided by the goverunents of Japan,
Belgium and Austria.
Fbnacing Plan:                   FY 94        FY 95    (US$ million equivalent)
IBRD          150          30
(foreign cost)
Poverty Category:   Poverty-focused; supports safety net reform.
M.ap:              IBRD 23700R



REPORT AND RECOeMMENDATION
OF TME PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATLONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMT
TO  'I  EXECUrTVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED  HABIITATION LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKEAN
1.           I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Rehabilitation Loan (the Loan) to the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the equivalent of
US$180 miiion in support of a program of macroeconomic stabilization, systemic and structural reforms.
The Loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with a rtuturity of 17 years, including
five years of girace. Cofinancing on a parallel bas.s is expected from Japan. Belgium and Austria.
2.           The Republic of Kazakhstan joined the IMP on July 15, 1992 and the World Bank on lu.y
23, 1992. An economic mission visited Kazakhstan in April 1992 and a draft Country Economic
Memorandum (CEM) was distributed in NPovember 1992.
PART 1. TE GOVERNMETS ECONOMIC PROGRAM
A.    Recent Economic Developmens
3.             Po      l   The early steps towards economic restructuring in Kazakhstan were
initiated before the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Key steps included (i) the larger autonomy extended
to state enterprises under the Law on State Enterprises of 1987; (ii) the devolution of substantial fiscal
autonomy to the republics of the FSU in 1990; and (iii) the adjustment of administered prices in January
and April 1991. But, although initial steps had been taken already , the economic reform process in
Kazakbstan was greatly accelerated following the declaration of independence in December 1991 and the
widespread price liberalization in January 1992, in the wake of a similar move in Russia. By mid-1993,
significant progress had been made on defining and starting the implementation of a comprehensive
reform agenda. The centerpiece of this program is the rapid privatization of the economy. In this spirit,
a comprehensive privatization program, developed by the State Preverty Committee (SPC), in
coordination with the Bank, was approved by the President in March of this year.
4.           The Government's program reflects a desire to maintain political sustainability in the
transition. Aware that sharply rising unemployment, plant closures and sListained drops in the standard
of living could increase political resistance to reform, and could derail the reform agenda, the
Government has opted for a pragmatic approach to market transformation. In order to mainain social
cohesion and foster the mandate to press ahead with economic reform, the Government recognizes that
it nmst also deliver growth and employime. Increasing attention is therefore being given to eliciting the
desired supply response and promoting the emergence of new growth centers as quickly as possible to
absorb unemployed resources, particularly labor.
5.           Stmic Ro . The turning point of the reforms was the liberalization of prices of
most goods and services in January 1992, and the parallel adjustment of administered prices (mainly basic
food, rents, energy and essential public services, covering about 20 percent of consumer goods) in



-2-
January, June and October of that year. Petroleum product prees were frther adjusted in May 1993 to
reflect a near doubling in the inport price of Russian crude oil.
6.           Paralleling price reforms, the state gradually withdrew from trade. In 1992, the comyry's
system of "state order" ("goszakaz"), inroduced in late 1991 to replae te dying Union-wide system,
still covered the bulk of output. It proved next to impossible to opeate however. Therefore, a much
less ambitious "state needs" system ("gosnub") was put in place to handle mainly the procremen of
goods for the use of the government, the army, defense industies and the fulfillment of bilateral trade
agreements. Under this new system, enterprises and individuals are, in principle, free to trade
domestically or inernationally, and procurement for "state needs" is to take place at freely negotiated
prices.
7.           The transition process gained momentum through the recognition of private prope:q.
Some initial progress was made towards privatization, albeit slow and lacking in transparency. It is
estimated that by the end of 1992, about 20 percent of all eerprises, representing about 12 percent of
total employment, had some form of private sector participation and thut about half the housing stock had
been transferred into private hands at the initiative of local administrations. The development of the
private sector is being encouraged through extensive legal reform and- institution building. The new
Constitution, adopted in January 1993, establishes the legal basis for private ownership and other
legislation has been enacted, inter alia, on companies, pledges, leases and banruptcy.
8.           Output and fIolL As in the case of other PSU republics, the transition to a market
economy has been accompaied by many difficulties, whicl the disruption of trade and payments
intensified. Kazakhstan was not insulaed from the inflation that swept through the ruble zone.
Following decades of price stabuity, consumer prices increased by about 150 percent in 1991, then rose
more than 25 times during 1992. Prolonging the trend of the last quarter of 1992, monthly inflation rates
increases remained as high as 30 percent during the first four months of 1993, before declining to about
15 percent a month in May-June 1993. Not unexpectedly, price decontrol against the backgwround of a
sizable monetary overhang and monopolistic market structures generated a step change in the price level.
But the m  Uion of large budget and quasi-budgetary deficits in Russia, and to some extent in the
country itself, was the main fuel to a continuous surge in inflation throughout the ruble area.
9.           Over the 1990-92 period, the country suffered a cmtive decline in output that
amounted to about 30 percent in real terms. Demand was negatively affected by a steep fall in investment
expenditures, depressed consumption levels reflecting the decline in real wages and wealth, and by a
cutback in defense outlays throughout the FSU. Futhermore, the collapse in foreign trade which
followed the dissolution, first of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), and then of the
Soviet Union, the absence of free transferability of non-cash rubles between republics, and the el_ination
of state orders, all disrupted the established supply and marketng arrangements. Their effects were
magnified by the extreme integration of FSU production.
10.          Labor and   s. Employment declined less rapidly than output during 1992-93, with
unemployment (registered and unregistered) reaching less than 3 percent of the labor force by mid-1993.
Labor retention was made possible by (i) real wage cuts caused by the lagged adjustment of wages to



-3-
accieratng iifiatlon'; and (ii) relavtiely easy access to bank financing. With the minimum wage
reduced at the end-of-1992 to only about 20 pecent of its end-of-1991 level in real teams, wage
differen_al widened considerably.
11.          Pube. The government has endeavored to restore its fc  situation in
response to the loss of Union trasfers. This restrictive fiscal stance was maintained despite the enormous
strains caused by the loss of implicit taxes that accompanied price liberalization, and social pressures to
shield some sectoTs and segmen  of society from economic hardship. During the last years of the Soviet
Union, when fiscal operations were parts of the larger USSR budget, Kazakhstan's fiscal situation
detedorated considerably. Overall deficits rose from 3 percent of GDP in 1985 to over 10 percent of
GDP in 1990. These were covered by Union transfers. With national independence, these trnsfers were
lost. Faced with this situation, the authorities succeeded in reducing the overall deficit (excluding grants
but including the country's share of the FSU debt) to about 7 percent of GDP in 1992 from 12.4 percent
in 1991. This allowed a reduction in domestic bank financirg from 8 percent of GDP in 1991 to 1.1
percent in 1992 (the remainder of the deficit was financed by an accumulation of arrears, mostly
domestic).
12.          The reduction of the deficit was achieved despite a continuous erosion in fiscal revenues:
the latter (including social securit contributions) dropped from 30 percent of GDP in 1991 to only 23
percent in 1992 due mainly to a drastic erosion of the tax bases (state enterprise profits, real wages),
pressures for tax exemptions and crippling collection difficulties (widespread evasion, including through
barter, lack of familiadty With new and constandy changing tax ndes). It is hoped, however, that over
time measures already taken in 1992, such as the introduction of VAT, excise taxes and customs duties,
as well as the reform of the income taxes, will be instment in reversing this trend.
13.          Expenditures have therefore had to bear the brunt of the adjustment: they peaked at 41
perent of GDP in 1991, after a new pension system was introduced, than declined precipitously to about
30 percent of GDP in 199. 'his reflected (i) cuts in excess of 50 percent in real terms in the investment
budget; (ii) the drastic reduction in subsidies; and (iii) severe reductions in civil servants' pay and
pensions following the evolution of the minimum wage.
14.          MoK   and Credt. Monetary developments have been determied by Kazastan's
continued participation in the ruble zone: the expansion of domestic credit and liquidity has remained
largely based on National Bank of Kazakhstan (NBRK) refinancing, itself based on C mtral Bank of
Russia (CBR) credit and deliveries of currency.2 Credit expansion was thus restrictive in early 1992 and
trned highly expansionary duing the second semester of the year and first quarter of 1993. Despite a
multiplication of commercial bans, the number of which had reached 180 by now, credit has continued
te a large etent to be admintavely allocatd and channeled through the four largest banks, which
make up for 75 percent of bank assets. NBRK refinance rate, however, was raised to 65 percent in July
1992, as the CBR rate had moved to 80 percent, and was again adjusted to 110 then 140 percent in July
1  In December 199, ave   real wages were about 10 prcent higher than a year before, but for the year as a whole,
they had allen by 30 peet cwared to 1991. In spite of nominal adjustment, average wages lost about 20 percen in real
ems between Decembe 1992 and May 1993.
2  The couatzy has periodically experened severe curency shortges, when currnwy deliveries were rationed by CBR,
such as in the first part of 1992 and dd-1993.



-4
1993 as the CBR re was moving to 170 percent. But this rate affected only about 20 percent of its
lending, the remainder being extended at preferential rates ranging from zero to 25 percent. Proges
was made however towards financial liberalizadon with, inter alia, (i) the introduction of credit auctions,
starting from the last quarter of 1992; (ii) the elimination of restrictions affecdng the i tion
marins and the deposit basis of commercial banik; (iiV) the adoption of new commercial and central bank
and foreign currency legislation; and (iv) the implememation of tighter prudential rules regarding capital
adequacy requirements, creditor exposure and credit to shareholders.
15.          Exm     aJ  hti s.  Reflecting the disarray in interstate trade and payment
arrangements, Kazakhstan has experienced a contraction in the volumes of external trade since the
beginning of the decade, a redirection of transaction towards non-FSU countries and a widening of the
current account gap. Ever since the breakup of the FSU, interrepublican trade has been plagued with
payment problems, due to crippling difficulties in routing payments through the centralized correspondent
accounts of CBR. Until the end of 1992, external trade remained dominated by, and subject to the
vicissitudes of, the operation of the "state orders" system with FSU countries. Under this system,
impors from FSU countries, primarily Russia, held steadier than exports, causing the FSU curren
account deficit to widen to over 10 percent of Kazakhstan's GDP in 1992. The deficit was financed in
large part through Kazakhstan overdraft on its correspondent account at CBR. Exports also shifted in
part to non-PSU markets, illowing a closing of the current account deficit with that area. While access
to imports is relatively free, exports remain subject to an intricate system of export licenses and quotas,
surender requirements and export taxes. The external situation is expected to change dramatically in
1993 with the current account deficit with the FSU shrinking as access to CBR resources is reduced,
while the non-FSU balance moves into deficit.
B.    Economic Reform Objfctives and Policies
16.          Following the euphoria of independence and rush to dismante the Soviet command
system, the authorities were confronted with the realities of the economic and social transition in the
second half of 1992. In response to the realization that a market system will not emerge ovemight, and
the need to redefine the role of the state the authorities began grappling with the complex and difficult
task of phasing the transition to a new market-oriented economy.
17.          The Government's economic reform program has two key elements.  First, the
development of a macroeconomic framework which will stabilize the economy, reduce inflation and
renew growth in the economy; and second, the implementationof structural and sectoral reforms designed
to promote an early supply response. Key elements of the structural reforms include:
(a)    Enterprise reform, including privatization and better governance of Statowned
enterprises expected to remain in state ownership;
(b)   Creation of an incentive framework to foster private sector development, including
promotion of foreign direct investment and dismantling monopolistic markets through
increased competition;
(c)    Reform of the financial sector to support both enterprise restructuring and development
of the private sector; and,



-5-
(d)   Establishment of an adequate social safety net to prevent futher vulnerable groups from
falling below the poverty line, safety net under which spending is targeted to the most
vulnerable groups and is consistent with the budget constraints imposed by stabilization
needs.
18.          The Govenmment's sectoral policies are focused on the development of energy, and mining
and metallurgy sectors which are expected to provide a rapid supply response and generate critical export
earigs durig the early stages of the transition. Given the importance of a steady food supply and the
sector's export potential, the 13overment is also placing emphasis on the development of the agricultural
sector. However, as yet there is no clear and agreed strategy for the development of this sector.
Attention is also being given to infrastructure development, particularly telecomr, unications and
transportation, to support export expans; And speed integtatien into the world economy.
C.    Macroeconomic Stabiffizaon
19.          Kazakhstan's immediate objective has been to reduce inflation and attain macroeconomic
stability. Although Kazakhstan authorities and the IMF were engaged in discussiors for several months
in late 1992 and early 1993, outstanding monetary and, to a lesser extent, fiscal issues prevented the
conclusion of a regula stand-by agreement. With the creation of the Fund's Structural Trans.ormation
Facility, however, it became possible for Kazastan to have access to IMEF resources. An STF
agreement was approved by the IMF Board on July 23, 1993. It is expected that this STF agreement will
lead to a regular Stand-By Agreement.
20.          While significant steps have already been taken in the fiscal area, the Govermnent intends
to further tighten its control over the budgetary situation. The 1993 budget contains expenditure cuts,
as well as measures designed to broaden the tax base and improve collection. Actions are needed to
compensate for the elimination of transfers from Russia and also to counteract the revenue erosion
ste aming from the expansion of the informal sector and the increasingly autonomous behavior of state-
owned enterprises. The Government must also taclde the difficult question of reducing substantially the
large contingent liabilities and implicit subsidies throughout the economy. While reassertion of state
property rights and improved corporate governnce of state entities should decrease financial demands
on the budget and reduce the quasi-fiscal deficit resulting from directed credits for state owned
enterprises, policy initiatives in this area will need to be consistent with the overall macroeconomic
framnework.
21.          The STE program agreed with the Fund embodies major steps toward financial
stabilization. The primary objectives of the program are to limit the fiurher fall in output in 1993 to
about 7 percent and to stabilize output next vyar while reducing inflation to a 5 percent monthly rate by
the end of this year. In addition, the balance of payments is to be strengthened and official external
reserves increased. While the fous of the program is on the last half of 1993, the objective is to lay a
sound basis for a continuing effort in 1994 which could be supported by an upper credit tranche stand-by
arrangement. The program states that, "as a precaution in case finaicial policies and monetary
arrangements in the ruble area fail to restore price stability, the Govermnent will continue preparations
for the introduction of a national currency."
22.          Restrictive fiscal and monetary policies during the balance of 1993 are designed to support
the target for reducing inflation. The overall fiscal deficit in 1993 is targeted at about 6 percent of GDP
with domestic bank financing not to exceed 4 percent of GDP. An important element in the fiscal



-6-
program is the strict limitation of all budgetary trCnsfers and subsidies (including the social safety net)
to about 5.1 percent of GDP. Although thc. specific program remains tc be worked out, the levels of the
deficit, domestic bank deficit financing, and total transfers and subsidies, are all to be further reduced
in 1994. The achievement of the fiscal deficit targets for 1994 is to be supported by further reform and
streamlining of the tax system, in particular reductions In tax exemptions and the reform of taxes of
natural resources.
2M.          While recognizing that a nescessary condition for stability may be a separate currency and
monetary policy, the Government has so far chosen to remain in the ruble zone. This has been motivated
primarily by Kazakhstan's political telationship with Russia. Purther, this position has been adopted in
the hope that credits from Russia continue to be available through these monetary arrangements, even
though the terms may be more onerous, as long the country is unable to fully meet its foreign financing
needs from other sources.
24.          As long as Kazakhstan remains in the ruble area, NBRK will need to align its policies
with those of CBR. Although adjustment of the NBRK's refinance rate is expected to follow that of CER
with a lag, this will still involve a massive increase in interest rates in Kazakhstan. Consequently, NBRY
raised its refinance rate from 65 percent to 140 percent in July 1993, and further increases are expected
as the CBR's refinance rate reached 170 percent in mid-July. In addition to the higher refinance rate,
an increasing portion of NBRK credit to commercial banks will be auctioned. The proportion of new
credit (excluding credit to the Government) to be auctioned will be expanded from 20 percent in the last
half of 1993 to 35 percent and 50 percent, respectively, in the first and second quarters of 1994. The
overall expansion in the NBRK's net domestic assets is to be held to an average of less than 7 percent
monthly during the last quarter of 1993 (compared to the 34 percent monthly average rate of expansion
in the first quarter of the year).
25.          On the basis of the output, inflation and exchange rate assumptions of the STF program,
the external current account deficit would amount to US$1.15 billion (60% of which is with other
republics of the FSU), equivalent to 6.4 percent of Kazakhstan's GDP. Kazakhstan and Russia are
expected to reach formal agreement on the "zero option" (under which Russia takes over Kazakhstan's
share of the international liabilities and assets of the USSR). Consequently Kazakhstan's "inherited" debt
burden is small, and the projected 1993 curent account deficit, followed by a deficit of a similar dollar
magnitude in 1994, should not give rise to balance of payments and debt management problems. As of
April 1, 1993, the net official foreign reserves (including gold) of the NBRK were about US$139 million
- equivalent to approximately two weeks of estimated imports (including those from the FSU). The STF
program calls for increases in net official reserves to US$318 million by December 31, 1993.
D.    Strctural Reforms
26.          Kazakhstan's broad approach to structural reform is set forth in the Government's
Memorandum on Structural Reform Policies which has been submitted to the Bank, see Annex 1.
Specific, time-bound steps to implement this structural reform program have also been agreed and
attached to the Memoganmm. This "Plan of Action for Implementing Selected Structural Reforms" is
also shown on the next two pages. The Memoranm focusses on five areas of structural reform: (a)
price, subsidy and trade policies; (b) privatization and the reforrr of state enterprises, (c) developing a
competitive private sector, (d) financial sector reform, and (e) social protection.



-7-
PLAN OF ACTION FOR IMPLMdETG SELECTED SRUCTURAL REFORMS
(Anex to "Memorandum on Sttucturta Refotm Policies")
A.       Ptice. Subsidy ad   a Policles
I . Adjust administered prices of subsidized goods to reduce subsidies (by begiaing of 1994).
2. Price contmols on fodder to be eliminated by October 1994.
3.  Ptces for petroleum and othw eergy products to be raised to border levels as of the beginning of 1994.
4.  Beginning in 1994, the Govrnment intends to elimiate over a three-year period the remaining subsidies for publi utiides
consumed by householders: this wUI be done in pamall with sengthning targetd support for vulnerable groups suffering
tho nive consequences of dte huease in taiffs.
5. Tots transfers and subsidies in the State Budget to be limited to 5.1 % of GDP in 1993, and further reduced in 1994.
6.  NOU  to cease providing credit at preferendtal res, and any Iterest rate subsidies to be included in the budget (effecive
beginning 1994).
7. Reduction of number of conunodities under export quotas, and increae of not less than 20% in quotas for those
conmodities remaining under quotas (by Septmber 1993).
8.  A unifonn import tauff of 15 percent will be introduced on non-CIS impots by October 1993, with exemptons libited to
basic food items and medicines.
9.  State procurement to fufil bilaterad trade agreements to be at freely negotiatcd or market prices (effetive beginnin of
1994).
B.  Privation and Reform of Slate Enterprise
1.  AD enterprises engaged in retail and wbolesale trade, and related trucking and disribution, to be offered for sale befote the
end of 1994.
2.  Distribution of investment coupons for Mass Privadzation to be complted by end of 1993.
3.  Conversion of medim and large enterprses included in Mass Privatization Prrm  to joint stock companies by Marcb
1994.
4.  Mass Pivatization Progamn targets are for privatizaton of 30 percent of assets of no-agticutudal medium and lare
enterprises by March 1994 and 70 percen of assets by March 1995.
S. Selected vety large and special enterprises are to be privatized on a case by case basis, wthb 10 offered for sale by March
1994 and another 10 by Marh 1995.
6.  Governme to pepa  admnirstrative guidelines, and to submit draft legisation to Parliament at its first session in 1994. on
strengthening governance and management of enterprises expected to renmain in te public sector.
7.  MInistries of Finance and Economy, and the State Propeny Comminee, to develop an approach to adjustment asssance for
state enrprises, which will be implemented as par of the 1994 State Budget, and which will (as capacities for prepring
and reviewing restuctuang plans are develped) condition financial assist.  to large enterprises on the preparation and
implementationof satisfactory restnctrinj plans.
8. Effective with the 1994 budget, all forms of direct Govenmment financial assistance (including tax exemnptions) to individual
enterprises are to be uincluded in ft consolidated budget (State Budget an exta-budgety funds).



C.  Develonine a Compotidve Private Sector
1.  Anti-Monopoly Committee will prepare revisions to existing legislation, for submission to Padiament at the Fall 1993 and
Spting 1994 sessons, to strengthen the legal framework for control of abuses of monop'1y power, for 'fair trade' an for
protection of consumter rights.
2.  Revised administrative guaidelines for the implementation of the anti-monopoly legislation will be prepared by June 1994.
3.  Completion by March 1994 of a review of obstacles ftced by private entrepreneurs in commercial and industial activites,
with rmmendations rt administradve measures and legislative actions to overcome these obstacles.
4.  Take measures, by end June 1994, to Improve access to commercial real estate by private fms, including measures to
increase the supply of, provide transparent access to. and secure long-term rights on commercial real estate.
5 .  Complete by June 1994, a study with recommenti.ions for reforms of tax law and administration that would support private
sector development (but stdll be consistent with revenue requirements).
6.  Submission to Parliament before December 1993 of a new law on foreign investment which will provide for equal treatment
for foreign and domestic investors.
D.  Financial Sector Reform
I .  Increase the proporion of new NBRK credit which is auctioned from 20 percent in the last half of 1993 to 39 percent in the
first quarter and 50 percent in the second quarter of 1994.
2.  Intoduce, by end 1993, a strengthened regulatoty framework for commercial banks and a tightening of licensing
requirements for new banks (so new banks should be able, in time, to meet international banking standards); introduce, by
the sane date, a revision of capital requirements for all banks (which will at least adjust for inflation).
3. Completion of an audit of the NBRK and in depth financial and operational diagnostic studies of the ten largest banks by
March 1994.
4.  Completion of studies and recommendations on the development of term lending facilities, and on restructudng the
comnerciae banking system, by June 1994.
E. Social Protection
1. The (3ovenument will complete an analysis of the income and expenditures for social protection, for individual funds and for
each level of govenument, under alternative assumptions on employment and unemployment, wage rates, benefit levels
(including gradually increasing the redrement age), inflation, and other relevant factors. A preliminary analysis will be
available September 30, 1993 (in time to serve as an input for the 1994 budget); the futal report and recommendations will
be available by the end of 1993.
2. The Government will undertake a study of the social services now provided by enterprises which, with the
commercialization and privadzation of enterprises, would in the future be more appropriately provided by local authorities
(or other levels of government). Recommendations will be made covering the social services to be trainsferred and how, in
the future, they shouW be fnanced. The study and recommendations should be completed by end March 1994.
L~~~,            ,  



-9-
27.          PrIce. subsidv and trade nolidSc. Administered prices of petroleum products were
doubled in May 1993 to pass through to consumers a similar increase in the price of oil imports from
Russia. The authorities envisage further measures to complete the reform of price and trade policies.
These would foster both short-term financial stabilization and longer-run reallocation of resources along
efficient lines. Such measures involve: (i) adjusting administered prices to reduce subsidies, at the start
of 1994; (ii) moving petroleum and other energy prices to the level of border prices at the beginr g of
1994; (iii) limiting total budgetary transfers and subsidies to 5.1 percent of GDP in 1993; (iv) abowi.hing
NBRK credit at preferential rates and including any interest rate subsidies in the budget; (v) increasing
remaining export quotas by no less than 20% by September 1993; and (vi) introducing a uniform import
tariff of 15 percent on non-CIS imports by October 1993, with exceptions linitel to basic food items and
medicines.
28.          Furthernore, the Government indicated that, beginning in 1994, it will eliminate over
a three-year period the remaining subsidies for public utilities consumed by householders. This is to be
done in parallel with strengthening targeted support for those vulnerable groups that suffer negative
consequences from the increases in utility tariffs. It is also understood that, effective in 1994, all state
procurement to fulfill bilateral trade agreements will be at freely negotiated or market prices. In addition,
price controls on, and the accompanying subsidies for, fodder are to be eliminated by October 1994.
With the elimination of price controls on fodder, the only goods that will continue to be under
administrative control will be bread, some qualities of flour, baby food, inmported medicines, and energy
products. In addition to these goods, only public utility and public transport tariffs and housing rents will
still remain under administrative controls.
29.          Pivatizltion and Reform of State Enis. The privatization program recently
approved by the President is expected to accelerate the pace of reform in this field. The program
envisages: (i) the rapid sale of small-scale-enterprises such as shops and restaurants, through municipal
auctions or tenders of assets, with concurrent measures to ensure competition in wholesale and trucking
through segmentation and auctions; (ii) the mass privatization of medium- to large-scale-enterprises after
prior corporatization as wholly state-owned enterprises, through the auctioning of the majority of shares
to private investment funds, in which Kazakhstan's citizens will invest non-material, points denominated
privatization coupons; and (iii) the privatization of very large enterprises on a case-by-case basis,
sometimes with prior restructuring and changes in the regulatory framework.Implementation of this
program has started. The privatization of very large enterprises began in July 1993 but will be a long
process over many years. The mass privatization program was also initiated in July 1993 with
establishment of the investment funds in July 1993, opening the way for the distribution to the population
of privatization vouchers, starting in September 1993, distribution which should be substantially
completed in the second half of 1993; mass privatization could technically be implemented over 2-3 years.
As indicated in the Memorandum, the Government's targets for the privatization program are ambitious.
All enterprises engaged in retail and wholesale trade, along with related trucking and distribution
activities, are to be offered for sale before the end of 1994. Under the Mass Privatization Program, 30
percent of the assets of non-agricultural medium and large enterprises are to be privatized by March
1994, and 70 percent of these assets are to be privatized by March 1995. In parallel to privatization, the
Government envisages a threepronged approach to reform those enterprises which for the time being will
remain in the state sector: aimed at improving corporate governance of state enterprises; hardening budget
constraints by making subsidies explicit and phasing them down rapidly; and undertking restructuring.
To strengthen governance, medium and large scale state enterprises are to be rapidly corporatized as joint
stock companies with proper legal status, property rights and fnctional boards of directors established.
Moreover, the State Property Committee (SPC) envisages introducing a system to monitor, assess, and



-10-
stimulate the financial performance of state enterprises. The SPC is to exercise the state's remaining
ownership rights, and will only delegate effective ownership back to sectoral ministries in cases where
imnportant regulations cannot yet be enforced at arms' length. As indicated in the Memorandum, the
Governnent is to prepare administrative guidelines, and to submit draft legislation to Parliamnent at its
first session in 1994, on strengthening governance and management of enterprises expected to remain in
the public sector.
30.          Reform of the financial sector and the phased reduction in state financial assistance to the
enterprise sector is expected to tighten enterprise budget constraints and prompt restructuring. An
important provision in the Memorandum is that, effective with the 1994 budget, all forms of direct
Government financial assistance (including tax exemptions) to individual enterprises are to be included
in the consolidated budget (State Budget plus extrabudgetary funds). The Ministries of Finance and
Economy, together with the SPC, are to deve'op appropriate methodologies to condition financial
assistance to large enterprises on the preparation and implementation of satisfactory restructuring plans,
which will be initially introduced as part of the 1994 budget. This conditional approach to adjustment
assistance to enterprises will be expanded as rapidly as capacities for preparing and reviewing
restructuring plans can be developed. The need to increase efficiency and improve lending decisions
within banks is expected to restrict credit and accelerate restructuring in loss-makers. Once the legal and
institutional framework for contracts, pledges, and bankruptcy becomes functional, the banking sector
is expected to exert more financial discipline on the enterprise sector. Enterprises will be forced to djust
away from obtaining working capital relatively easily through the banking system to an envircanent in
which access to credit is more conditional.
31.          In the vast majority of enterprises the necessary restructuring is expected to be undertaken
by their future private owners. State induced restructuring of state enterprises prior to privatization is
generally to be confined to passive restructuring involving changes in management and staffing. :he
separation of social infrastructure, segmentation of businesses, and partial liquidation. To assist in the
pre-privatiation work, the Government is considering the creation of a special restructuring agency into
which the bank loans of a small core of Kazakhstan's most important inefficient enterprises would be
transferred. This agency would make debt work-outs and further funding conditional on progress on
restructuring and privatization plans, or liquidation. This is expected to be followed after privatization
by more comprehensive restructuring and new investment by the new owners. In addition, i:flows of
foreign capital are expected to prompt adjustment in some of the internationally tradeable sectors of the
economy, such as mining and energy. Rapid adjustment in those sectors with foreign involvement is
expected to stimulate reform elsewhere in the economy.
32.          Develon  a Competiffve Private Sector. A reduction in the role of the state and
promodon of a strong private sector not only requires privatization, but also the elimination of direct
controls and subsidies, the strengthening of prices as an allocative mechanism, and the regulation or
elimination of monopolies. The Govermnent is adopting a two-pronged approach to the promotion of
private enterprises. The first focuses on the development of an institutional and regulatory framework
which is conducive towards the private sector, while the second focuses on strengthening the operation
of the market through the promotion of increased competition.
33.          The Government is well advanced with the development of the necessary institutional and
regulatory framework. Legislation on property, companies, pledge, and lease, for instance, has been
enacted; improved legislation on foreign investment, natural resource exploitation, and bankruptcy has
been prepared; and the civil code - with a framework for contracts - is being overhauled. The



-11-
Memorandum indiates that the Goverunent will complete, by March 1994, a review of obstacles faced
by private entrepreneurs in commercial and industrial activities, with recommendations for administrative
measures and legislative action to help entrepreneurs overcome these obstacles. Before next June
measures are to be taken to increase the supply of, provide transparent access to, and secure long-term
rights on commercial real estate. Recommendations for the reform of tax law and administration, that
wold support private sector development while still being consistent with revenue requirements, are to
be prepared by this same date.
34.          The Government has also strengthened the legal basis and enforcement capacity for
competition policy. Dominant or monopolistic enterprises will be segmented, prevented from further
mergers, monitored to ensure fair market behavior, and exposed to competition through a reduction in
entry barriers. As indicated in the Memorandum, the Anti-Monopoly Committee is to prepare revisions
to existing legislation, for submission to Parliament at both the Fall 1993 and Spring 1994 sessions, to
strengthen the legal framework for control of abuses of monopoly power, for 'fair trade," and for
protection of consumer rights. Revised administrative guidelines for the implementation of this
strengthened legal framework are also to be prepared by next June.
35.          The second leg of the Govermnent's strategy focuses on promoting increased competition
through improved economic incentives, the adoption and implementation of a more liberal trade regime
and the promotion of direct foreign investment. Short term priority will be given to competition in
distribution and transport, to the development of a homogenous and relatively open trade regime, the
streamlining of enterprise registration and a shift from state orders to competitive public procurement.
Complementing this strategy, the Government expects foreign investment to play an important role in the
development of the productive base of the private sector and the establishment of autonomous growth
centers independent of the economic influence of the FSU. This will be supported by a one-stop system
for foreign investment processing and licensing, and the development of a stable macroeconomic
environment, and a favorable regime for foreign investment. Before the end of 1993 the Governmuent
expects to submit to Parliament a new law on foreign investments which will provide for equal treatment
for foreign and domestic investors, which was drafted with assistance from the Bank.
36.          Financial S dcor Reform.   The sector is expected to play a critical role in the
restructuring of the economy. in particular, the creation of a modern and efficient banking system is
expected to improve the alocation of scarce financial resources, tighten financial discipline on, and force
restructuring in the enterprise sector, and also to facilitate Kazakhstan's integration with international
trade and financial markets. While the Government's financial sector strategy is still evolving, extensive
financial sector reform will be required to achieve these objectives.
37.          As indicated earlier, the authorities are now moving subsidies and transfers from the
banking system to the budget, and are raising interest rates through both increases in the central bank
refinance rate and auctions of an increasing share of central bank credit. Additional measures are needed
to address a number of inherited problems from the old system. Not least, a weak payments system, a
limited regulatory and supervisory framework, and poor accounting and auditing standards. To transform
the sector, and address these weaknesses, the emerging policy framework is focusing on the establishment
of a core group of international standard banks, development of an efficient payments system, and the
promotion of a rapid transfer of international banking techniques and skills into the sector. An important
step was taken in April 1993 with the adoption of a commercial banking law, prepared in consultation
with the Bank. In the area of accounting and auditing standards, the Memorandum indicates that an audit



-12-
of the NBRK, and in depth financial and operational diagnostic studies of the ten largest commercial
banks, are to be completed by March 1994.
38.          The Government's early focus has been on developing an appropriate policy and
institutional framework. New central bank and commercial bank legislation was approved by Parliament
in April, credit auctions have been introduced to increase competition in the allocation of funds, and new
prudential supervision standards have been established. The design of the new system has focused on
establishing international norms in banking, and promoting competition in the provision of financial
services. A phased increase to international supervision standards is expected to promote the emergence
of a core group of banks which form the basis of the new financial system. Thus the krandum
indicates that, by the end of 1993, a strengthened regulatory framework will be introduced for
commercial banks along with a tightening of licensing requirements for new banks (so these new banks
should be able, in time, to meet international banking standards).
39.          As institutions develop and the economy recovers, the financial market is expected to play
the main role in mobilizing savings fronr and allocating investment financing for the private sector.
However, the necessary policies and institutional arrangements have not yet been put in place. As
indicated in the Memorandu  studies and recommendations for the development of term lending facilities
are to be completed by June 1994. Although the response to new incentives and prudential standards will
take time, extensive institution building in the sector is required to build up expertise, to furither improve
banking standards, and to tighten prudential requirements.  The Memorandum  indicates that
recommendations on further desirable restructuring of the commercial banking system also are to be
prepared by June 1994.
40.          Social Protection. The Goverment's ability to implement, and sustain, such a major
economic and social transformation will depend critically on its ability to manage the adverse dislocation
costs arising from the adjustment and mitigate the effect on the most vulnerable groups in society. The
Government is aware, however, that the reform program necessitates an adjustment in real wages and a
short term revision in the standard of living below that underwAtten by the Soviet system. While the
strong medium term economic outlook suggests that the economy may quickly move to a higher growth
path, and thus generate renewed growth in the standard of living, the transitional period is likely to
iapose increasing costs on some segments of the population. The Government is, therefore, concerned
about the welfare of the most vulnerable groups during this transition period, as well as about regional
disparities that have existed within the country for some years.
41.          With financial resources seriously constrained in the short term, the Government is trying
to address the difficult task of redesigning the system of social protection to be consistent with the needs
of a market economy and, in particular, to provide a minimum level of social protection during the
difficult transition process. To prevent further segments of the population from falling below the poverty
line, as was recently observed, the Government is implementing a two-pronged approach: (i) improving
the focus and targeting of the social welfare delivery system; and (ii) increasing the efficiency of
expenditures and ensuring adequate financial provision for key items of social services. The tightening
fiscal position, and expected increase in unemployment (with corresponding implications for additional
social protection spending), imply the need for quick action towards both of these objectives.
42.          The approach being taken by the Govermnent is to develop a measure of the "subsistence
minimum" to which can be related the minimum benefit levels under pension, unemployment and social
assistance programs. Given the budget realities, this "subsistence minimum" will have to be estimated



-13-
parsimoniously. But then its real value should be proteced by regular adjustments for price changes.
By basing the 'subsistence minimum" largely on the costs of a food basket, it can be adjusted for both
inflation and regional differences. One objective of the Government's program is to move from universal
benefits and subsidies to more targeted assistance to paiticular vulnerable groups. However, to address
the emerging problems of unemployment and poverty with more targeted and means tested methods, it
will be necessary to strengthen the Govermment's ability to administer more targeted social protection
programs. Attention has also been given to cutting unnecessary or wasteful social spending, and to
exploring the potentisl for user charges. The local authorities are also likely to have to assume
responsibility for the provision of some social services currently provided by enterprises.
43.          As indicated in the Memorandum, the Government is now undertaking a analysis of the
income and expenditures for social protection, for individual funds and for each level of government.
The study will explore likely developments under alternative assunptions on employment and
unemployment, wage rates, benefit levels (including gradually increasing the retirement age), inflation,
and other relevant factors. It is expected to contribute to an appropriate balance between social protection
and budgetary objectives. At least preliminary results are expected to be available in time to be useful
in the design of the 1994 budget. A second study, to be completed by March 1994, will concern social
services which are now provided by enterprises, but which (with the privatization and commercialization
of enterprises) would be more appropriately provided by local authorities (or other levels of govenunent).
Recommendations are to be made regarding the social services to be transferred and how, in the future,
hy might be financed.
PART _ I- THE REHABII NTATION
A.    Origin and Objectives
44.          The Rehabilitation Loan has been prepared in response to the Government's request for
support to its economic program. The Bank assisted the authorities in developing the program of
systemic reforms in the Memorandum of Structural Reform Policies attached in Annex 1.  The
Goverment has translated the policy statement contained in this Memorandum into a Plan of Action
indicating the concrete and time-bound measures to be taken (Annex 1). This program lays out a
framework for reforms which are necessary for the medium-term restructuring of the economy, and
establishes realistic targets and indicators to monitor progress over the coming year. If implemented
successfully, the reform program would provide a sound basis for future Bank assistance to Kazakhstan.
The macroeconomic framework under which this reform program will be undertaken has been elaborated
in cooperation with the IMF and is the object of an arrangement under the Systemic Transformation
Facility, approved by the Board of the IMP on July 23, 1993.
45.          Agreement on such a macroeconomic framework was a prerequisite for the proposed
operation. Substantial progress has also been made by the Govermnent, prior to the finalization of this
Loan, in initiating the process of structural reforms. In particular, the Govermnent has implemented the
following actions, as agreed with the Bank in the course of the Loan preparation process: (i) adoption (in
April 1993) and initial implementation (in July 1993) of the National Privatization Program, with Bank
assistance; (ii) adoption of a commercial banking act, prepared with Bank assistance, during the recent
session of Parliament in April 1993; (iii) drafting of a new foreign investnent law, with Bank assistance,
for presentation during the upcoaning session of Parliament in the fall of 1993; and (iv) doubling of the



-14-
administered prices of petroleum products to pass through to consumera a similar increase in the price
of oil imports from Russia.
46.          Thus, the objectives of dhe Loan are: (i) to support the Government in its continued
implementation of the reform program oudined in the Memorandum of Structural Reform Policies; and
(ii) to ease the shortage of foreign exchange needed to finance imports of inputs, raw materials and spare
parts in key sectors, thus minimizing the further contraction of economic activity.
B.    Rationale for Bank Involvement
47.          Through the preparation of this operation as well as through other vehicles, the Bank has
played a key a key role in the fonrulation of the Government's reform agenda. The program supported
by the proposed Loan represents a coordinated and consistent endeavor to move the country steadily
towards the market economy. This program is expected to provide the systemic underpinning for
macroeconomic stabilization and the long term development of Kazakhstan along efficient lines. As
indicated above, in carrying out this program the country has been severely handicapped by the disruption
of its traditional trading patterns, which used to concentrate almost exclusively with the former CMEA
and FSU. Furthermore, starting in 1993, the country has experienced a dramatic reduction in foreign
financing from Russia, leaving it with a severely constrained external situation. The proposed Loan,
together with the expected cofinancing would significantly contribute to closing the resulting extemal gap,
hence help create the macroeconomic conditions under which the reform agenda has a reasonable chance
to succeed.
C.    Project Description
48.          To achieve these objectives, the proposed Loan would finance imports in an amount of
US$180 million, consisting of: (i) a foreign exchange component (FXC) in an amount of US$94 million,
to support access of importers to the foreign exchange auction market for financing imports through
established commercial practices; (ii) a pre-identified imports component (PIC), in an amount of US$86
million, to finance essential imports required for the continued delivery of essential public services and
a recovery in key productive sectors.
49.          The allocation of the proposed Loan between the two above components, as well as within
the PIC component will be reviewed from time to time in the light of a rapidly changing situation. In
particular, they will be reviewed in the light of monetary developments, the potential availability of
funding form other sources and the evolving needs of the economy. Such reallocation will take place by
mutual agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
1. Foreign Exchange Component (FXC).
50.          The FXC would increase the amount of foreign exchange available on the market, hence
facilitating the access of commercial enterprises to imports on the basis of market mechanisms, rather
than through administrative decision. Kazakhstan has already begun foreign exchange auctions. The
Foreign Currency Exchange of the Republic of Kazakhstan (the "auction market"), under the National
Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan started its first auction on April, 17, 1992. Auctions are currently
held twice a week (see Annex 6: The Foreign Exchange Market).



-15-
51.            The volume of transactions, however, remains limited. In large part, this reflects (i) the
imposition of taxes on foreign exports (payable in foreign currency) to non-CIS countries which
encourage barter trade and the non-repatriation or non declaration of export earnings; and (ii) the impact
of the unstable monetary environment: with ruble inw-rest rates substantially lower than inflation, foreign
exchange is a ideal store of value, thus encouraging the avoidance of the existing surrender requirement.
Still, foreign exchange is supplied to the auction market only by exporting enterprises. The central bank
for its part has so far this year refrained from intervening (sales of foreign exchange by NBRK were only
minimal in 1992, amounting to US$16 million). The foreign exchange obtained from the collection of
the export tax and through the partial surrender requirement, when enforced, serves to cover government
requirements and a gradual build up of reserves in preparation for the possible introduction of a national
currency. The exchange rate on the auction market is therefore considerably higher than the official rate,
or the Moscow market rate, reflecting transaction costs in the interstate banking system and highlighting
the relative scarcity of foreign exchange in Kazakhstan.
52.            The authorities intend to foster the expansion the market, as (i) the export tax becomes
payable in local currency; and (ii) interest rates are substantially increased. Activities would probably
develop even more dramatically if Kazakhstan was to introduce its own currency.
53.            Although there no doubt will be state enterprises, as well as private enterprises,
purchasing foreign exchange in the auction market, these firms can be expected to operate on basically
commercial terms. State enterprises in Kazakhstan are (as part of the program supported by the
Rehabilitation Loan) being subjected to gready increased financial discipline. The central bank has
practically ceased providing credits on preferential terms, and will do so completely as of the beginning
of 1994. In accordance with the terms of the STF agreement with the Fund, an increasing share of
central bank resources are being auctioned and the refinance rate for the balance is being raised in line
with market rates. The total of all budgetary subsidies is being narrowly curtailed, and limited to a large
extent to agriculture and the social programs.
54.            Therefore, in support of this transition from adm:nmistrative to market allocation of foreign
exchange and to alleviate import shortages prevailing throughou. the economy, financing will be provided
through the FXC to support the expansion of the auction market; the sale of the proceeds of the FXC
would also provide non-inflationary financing to the budget. The FXC would reimburse up to the net
monthly sales of foreign exchange by the NBRK on the auction market, based on evidence that imports
of eligible goods bave taken place during the said period.4 The amounts reimbursed would be paid to
the account of the Ministry of Finance t the NBRK and become available for firther interventions on
the auction market. To this effect, a protocol will be signed between these two institution providing for
the automatic sale of these proceeds to the NBRK at the official rate of the central bank.
3  Also, residents seeking to purchase or sell foreign exchange on the auction need to prent evidence of compliance
with foreign exchage regulaions, which may deter some potential paticipats.
4 Non eligible imports inctude inter alia (i) imorts paid in the currency of the borrower or ihrough barter; (ii) goods
included on the World Bank's standard negative list; and (iii) goods financed by other donors.



-16-
2. Pre-Identified Imports Component (PIC)
55.           The second portion of the Loan's proceeds would be used to finance the importation of
equipment, materials, spare parts, agricultural inputs, medicines, vehicles and other eligible goods.
56.           In the immediate future, the priority objective of the country is to curtail, then arrest the
recent drop in output and delivery of public services. While the economy is undergoing a major
realignment in relative prices, restructuring of economic institutions and redistribution of income across
sectors, it is essential that resources continue to be available for the key priority sectors either because
they provide essential services to the population or because they are expected to remain the backbone of
the country's productive structures and export earnings. Imports financed under this component would
permit the continued operation of these essential public services and a recovery in these critical productive
sectors. The focus of the PIC is primarily on critical inputs and rehabilitation of existing capacities.
Conversely, current economic uncertainties, particularly with regard to absolute and relative prices, make
it difficult to assess investment in new capacities on the basis of sound economic and technical criteria.
Therefore, imports for the expansion of existing capacities or the development of new ones would not
be eligible under the PIC.
57.          In this spirit, the proposed Loan would finance essential import requirements in energy,
agriculture, transport, and health, as follows (detailed features are in Annex  .
(a)    Enerv ($30 million). Following the disruption of trade between the FSU republics, the
purchase of critical spare parts and components has been disrupted, which has in turn
affected the production of oil, hence export earnings. Critical imports to be funded by
the credit would include spare parts and operating equipment for oi! production in the
Uzen field.
(b)    AgSiculture ($39.0 million). The critical needs of the agricultural sector include (i)
agrochemicals to prevent diseases and for weed control; (ii) veterinary medicines; and
(iii) materials and spare parts for food processing. These imports are required to
maintain basic food production and reduce crop losses due to pests and diseases.
(c)    Transuort ($4.0 million). Although local passenger transport is a stated priority for both
local and the republican governnents, it suffers from a serious shortage in transport
capacity, which is rapidly escalating as an increasing number of buses are taken out of
service due to the lack of spare parts or because they have become permanently disabled.
The critical imports are targeted to salvtge the existing fleet of buses from deteriorating
beyond repair.
(d)    Health ($5.0 million). Shortages of basic drugs, vaccines, and supplies are causing the
deterioration of a health situation which is already bordering on emergency levels. The
PIC would cover essential needs for (i) phanraceuticals and vaccines; (ii) medical
equipment; and (iii) raw materials for production of intravenous solutions.
58.           All transactions under this component will take place at the o.ficial exchange rate.
Whenever goods fianced by the Loan are for the use of government entities, adequate budget
appropriation will be made to cover their cost in domestic currency valued at the official rate.
Conversely, when goods are for non governmental entities, be they private or public, they will be sold



-17-
at the official rate and the proceeds of these sales will be transfenred to the account of the budget at the
National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan. In the exceptional case where such sales would need to
be subsidized, specific appropriations will be made in the budget, of which the Bank wIll be notified.
These provisions will be included in the supplemental 1993 and the 1994 budget. It is understood that
these operations will be subject to the standard rules regarding the execution of the govermment's budget
and the control of this execution.
D.    Implemetation Arnagemen
59.          The Broe will be the Republic of Kazakhstan, represented by the Ministry of
Finance. The Government's legal authority to undertake foreign borrowing and guarantee debt servicing
will be documented before effecivjyn   of the Loan. The Government has appointed the Ministry of
Economy as the lead Project hnplementation Am en  for the management of the Loan and the
coordination of its inplementation.
60.         In order to assist in the preparation of the Loan, contribute to its early implementation,
and ensure its speedy disbursement, a specific Project ImpM=eRntation Unit (PIU) has been established
within the Ministry of Economy (initially under the TA Loan). Responsibilities of the PIU, detailed in
(AMex ), include monitoring the overall progress of implementation, coordinating among the various
participating ministries and agencies to ensre a consistent approach in the implementation of the project,
advising purchasing entities in all aspects of procurement, administrating the Special account, and
preparation of the withdrawal applications, the consolidated progress reports and the Project Completion
Report. The Government will provide the PIU with adequate staffing, including a director-level manager
and recruit the three foreign experts mentioned below. The PIU will be maintained, with staffing
satisfactory to the Bank, at least until the closing date of the Project.
61.          For each sector, the Government wiUl appoint one entity, acceptable to the Bank, in
charge of (i) purchasing eligible goods for and on behalf of the Government, following Bank procurement
procedures; and (ii) ensuring the sale and distribution of such goods, as instructed by the Government.
The PIU will advise the said entities in all procurement matters.
62.          The PIU will receive the chnicalisnc of two foreign procurement advisers and one
foreign financial adviser (in charge of disbursement and accountint' - see Annex 5. These experts will
be financed under the Technical Assistance Loan to Kazakhstan, aprroved by the Board in August 1993.
E.    Procurement
63.          FXC. As it is expected that the FXC will be used for the import of goods procured by
conpetitive enterprises in the commercial sector, procurement for all contracts under US$1 million will
be done directly by the importers using established commercial practices. Contracts larger than US$1
million dollars will be subject to the procedures applicable to the PIC, as described in the next paragraph.
In such cases also, the first contt of any importer will be subject to Bank prior approval.
64.          PI.  All procurement of imports under the PIC would be according to Bank
Prouement Guidelines and all contracts will be awarded through simplified International Conpetitve
Bidding, following the Bank's Guidelines, except as stated hereinafter. Under certain circumstances, for
instance when the early delivery of particular goods or for proprietary parts may justify other methods
of contracing, other pro.urement methods in line with the Bank's guidelines, i.e. Limited International



-18-
Bidding (LIB), International Shopping (IS) with at least three bids from three member countries, or direct
contracting may be resorted to; each such procurement would require individual justification and Bank's
prior approval. Barring a few exception, contracts under US$ 1 million are not expected to be financed
under the PIC.
65.          Under both components, commonly traded conunodities may be procured through
organized international markets or other channel of competitive procurement acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank and with Bank prior approval.
F.    Disbusment
66.          The Loan will finance 100% of the foreign expenditures of goods, imported from World
Bank member countries and Taiwan (China). Contracts in the currency of the Borrow-et are not eligible.
Goods imported after June 1, 1993 are eligible for retroactive financing under the Loan ;p to a maximum
amnount of US$36 million, equivalent to 20 percent of the Loan amount, in view of the considerable
progress already made by the country in implementing the reform program and of its urgent balance of
payments needs. The Loan's closing date would be December 31, 1994.
67.          F_XC. Imports eligible to reimbursement under the FXC will be subject to the Bank's
standard negative list (see An    5). Disbursements would be made to the Ministry of Finance on the
basis of (i) statements of expendiures (SOEs), prepared by the PIU, following the Bank's simplified
documntation requirement for adjustment operations, i.e. prepared from customs certificates, for
contracts valued at less than US$1 million, or upon submission of full documentation (contract, supplier's
invoice, evidence of shipment, customs certificate and evidence of payment) to the Bank, for larger
contracts, respectively; (ii) statement of monthly sales and purchases of foreign exchange by the National
Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Foreign Currency Exchange of the Republic of Kazakhstan
("the auction market") or any successor thereof; and (iii) a statement by the Borrower that the imports
presented for reimbursement have not been financed by another loan or grant, or imported through barter
arrangements. The net amount of foreign exchange sales by NBRK on the auction market will determine
the Monthly Eligible Amoun5, seting for each month (except during the period of retroactive financing)
the maximum amount of eligible amounts of imports that the Bank will reimburse. Any positive
difference between the Monthly Eligible Amount of a given month and the amount of eligible imports
of that month for which reimbursement has been requested from the Bank can be carried forward. The
customs certificates covered by the SOEs will be retained by the PIU for review by Bank supervision
missions and auditors.
68.          EC. Disbursements under the PIC will be done through normal Bank procedures (for
details, see Annex 5). To accelerate disbursements, a special account will be opened in a foreign
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The authorized allocation to the Special Account will be US$25
million, equivalent to about four months of disbursem nts under this component. The Special Account
will not be used for imports under the FXC, which, as seen in the previous paragraph, will be disbursed
on a reimbursement basis. The account will be opened in the name of the Borrower and will be
administered by the authorized representatives of the PIU. Two signatures will be required to make any
5 The definition of he 'Monthly Eligible Amomt' could be subiect to review by both parties in the case of substanive
changes i te county's foreign exchange regulation, for instance if surrendering requirmnents could be fulfilled by selling
export eamnings on the auction market.



-19-
traction from the account. The PIU will send on a monthly basis, or more frequently, if necessary,
requests for replenishment of the Special Account to the World fBank. These requests for replenishment
will be accompaied by full documentation for all contracts.
G.    Project Accounting, Fnadal Reporliog, and Auditing
69.          By Loan effectiveness, the PIU is expected to have established an appropriate accounting
system, according to generally accepted standards, providing all necessary information on the receipt and
use of funds, in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. The PIU will prepare annual
statements of all receipts and payments uJier the Loan showing the amounts relating to each component
and category detailed in the Loan Agreement.
70.          The Borrower will arrange for the auditine of all the abe - financial statements by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Project Accounts (including the Special Accounts) will be
audited in accordance with the March 1992 "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing Projects
Financed by the World Bank." The Bank will receive these audited statements and audit reports in such
scope and detail that it may reasonably request, within six months after the end of each fiscal year of the
Borrower.
HI    Agreements Reached
71.          Agreements were reached at Negotiations on:
(a)   the Government's Memorandum of Economic Policies and its attached plan of action
(AMex 1); and
(b)   the sectoral allocation of pre-identified imports (Annex 3); and
72.          The official submission to the Bank of the Government's economic program, as
summrized in the Government's Memorandum of Economic Policies was a condition of Board
p~~rentation. Actions included in this memorandum that were prior actions for Board presentation were
the following:
(a)    adoption (in April 1993) and initial implementatior. (in July 1993) of the National
Privatization Program, with Bank assistance;
(b)    adoption of a commercial banking act, prepared with Bank assistance, during the recent
session of Parliament in April 1993;
(c)    drafting of a new foreign investment law, with Bank assistance, for presentation during
the next session of Parliament in the fall of 1993; and
(d)    doubling of the administered prices of petroleum products to pass through to consumers
a similar increase in the price of oii imports from Russia.
73.          As a condition of disbursement, the Borrower will submit to the Bank a copy of the
agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of the Republic of Kaakhstan, or an
equivalent ministerial resolution, providing for the automatic sales of the proceeds of the FXC from the



-20-
fonmer to the later at the official exchange rate. The creation and maintenance of the PIU with adequate
staffing and technical assistance, satisfactory to the Bank, are provided for in the Technical Assistance
Loan, which parallels this operation.
74.         It was also agreed that (i) all transactions under the Loan will take place at the official
exchage rate; (ii) whenever goods financed by the Loan are for the use of governmwnt entities, adequate
budget appropriation will be made to cover their costs in domestic currency valued at the offlcial rate;
(iii) when goods are for non govertmental ertities be they private or public, they will be sold at the
official rate and the proceeds of these sales will be transfeured to the account of the budget at the National
Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan; and (iv) in cases where such sales would be subsidized, specific
appropriations will be made in the budget, of which the Bank will be notified.
I.    E o el Assessment
75.          The project would be consistent with Bank policy and follow accepted Bank procedures.
In conformity with Bank policies for adjustment operations, no environmental rating has been assigned.
Nevertheless, in developing procurement procedures for financing imports under the Loan, specific
provision will be made to ensure that the inclusion of any toxic or hazardous substances would be under
conditions acceptable to the Bank. In particular, agrochemicals would be eligible for financing under the
PIC only provided that they meet the requirements of the World Bank's Operational Directive '(.03.
Also, the question of enviromnental liability for past pollution will become important during the
privatization process. Lack of clarity on this issue could result in unnecessary delays in concluding
privatization contracts. Therefore, it is essential to establish clear guidelines on the sharing of the known
and potential costs of -emedying problems of past pollution between the State and the prospective new
owners. This will require the development of a coherent strategy and the completion of a thorough
iventory and an estimate of the least-cost measures for mitigation, with the support of technical
assistance financed under the TA Loan.
J.    Benefits and Risks
76.          B      . The proposed Loan would maintain and increase capacity utilization, production
and consumption in a number of vital sectors of the economy of Kazakhstan. The imports to be financed
by the Loan would have direct output and employment effects and would ensure minimum availability
of certain essential items, such as medicine and other health supplies. In some cases, critical imports of
spare parts could also preserve existing capital assets and prevent a deterioration which would require
considerable future investment. In addition, the Loan would increase the access to foreign exchange of
companies operated on a commercial basis.
77.          Risks. The main risks include: (i) shortfalls in achieving economic goals under the
reform program, in particular price stability and the sharp turn-around in foreign trade, and a possible
slippage in the momentum of the reform program; (hi) the possibility that in view of prevailing conditions,
some of the imports financed by the project could end up maintaining activities and enterprises that are
fundamentally not viable and should be left to disappear; (iii) the possibility that the external financing
requirements could not be met; and (iv) Kazakstan's lack of familiarity with Bank procurement and
disbursement procedures, which could limit absorptive capacity and lead to significant delays. Close
monitoring of economic performance and provision of policy advice and selected technical assistance will
aim at alleviating the economic risk. Procurement and disbursement risks will be reduced through close



-21-
attention to procurement and other implementation constraints during project supervision, and through
the provision of technical assistance.
K. e_datlon
78.          1 am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
I mwis T. Preston
President
By Ernest Stem
Attachments
Augu 25, 1993
Washington D.C.



Annex 1
Pagp I of 12
KA3AKCTAH                                 IKABUHIET MHHHCTP0R
PECnYBAHKACbIHb!I1                                       PECnYBAHKH
MHHIICTPJIEP KABMHETI   -CA3AXCTAH
9 ~._____-                                                       ........ ,     ___
M_ ____a_a_u                                            vKi*. 1*
p.
AuguLt 13.1053
> E   Pres i dent
International 23ank t±r Reconstruction
It'g   . and Development
2eis H Street1  N.W.
Washington.Dl.C. 20n433
Dear Mr.Preston.
Tho  att.ached  emo.rmndum   of  Strurtvl,ra  Role'rin  JCi2ia#
outlineuc  tbh4*  Pr.sr am    of                    mUaa1J*cjial¢    L It1Kx    n
systemaic reformn of t.e    s Republi c of Kazakst.ltan. We requvot  th{u
Wurld buri3S tco  supporit th$es r)rs>grorm with  e Rel*cbili4tai.t4 Lvcats
in the carount of US.8GO unillioh oqquSv4loat.
It lea our intenti on to implemont t'hc program do dacril0d iT
the attechcd  M,tuorasdwut.  Ca Set  fort's II a  rlICAz of  Action
auiexed Lo Llals 1-Lt.,ur in  order to oebieve a raF;id  ruouua.tian
of   economie. growlt-.s   within   a  bust.airabl*  ,atc ;r<uOononric
Sraan1ewuzrX. Qiv"la tl)  cornplexity of t.hc tra,az.il-Aiaa-    a L   vPr-Uet
e?onoIfy. 1L £: issoviLaial*  thot there will be 0aaeaitQ  UfrlOTtCa62ty
iraosv:at.ed  wi t21  LwIa,  j;aSj,3j*Iaor`tatior&  c f  t1.ig; I,sc3gvaisa.  Solanc?
*4juWtItWtL-W i6ia'.1 r.rlCCt4SVQ   actiocras czt ** I £)Ly t.c  li(i aasu tiu el .
We wi l.l.  w lhrO appr JPr J atu   revi ew  th.c ra@Lo(JwIx¢>Y  6jJu:$r.t1sT) e1
with tthe World Bank.
*Yourx sincerely. oD
Fj. :Ji >Uputy Primc Miss pi
RepUbIl i ot i4 3;4>at arn
A1;.4 tcUlaifont



Anne 1
Page 2 of 12
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
MEMORANDUM ON STRUCTURAL REFORM POLICIES
I.    Inroduction
1.           The Govermnent of Kazakhstan is undertaking a comprehensive program of economic
reform. In addition to basic structural reforms and related institution building, this program includes
measures for fiancial stabilization and for the strengthening of key sectors. While up until the present
our emphasis has been upon stabilizadon and structural neasures, as progress is made in these areas we
will increasingly be able to shift our attention to sectoral policies and investments (including the need for
public sector investments in the economic and social infrastructure needed to support the expansion of
the increasingly privatized activities in agriculture, manufacturing and commerce).
2.           The drop in output between 1990 and 1992 was about 25 percent. Average consumption
levels, however, have fallen by less than output, while both investment and military expenditures have
declined substantially more than output. A further decline of about 8 percent in output is expected in
1993. In addition, during this year we expect to absorb a large reduction in financing from Russia, with
a consequent decline in imports and total resources available to the economy. Although open
unemployment has so far been held to modest levels, this has been done only at the cost of a sharp
decline in real wages and a deterioration in the financial situation of enterprises. It will be increasingly
difficult to sustain support for the economic reform program if output and living standards continue to
decline. Consequently halting and then reversing the recent declines in output must be a growing
concern.
3.           At the same time the Government recognizes that getting inflation under control is a
prerequisite for sustained and efficient economic growth. Consequendy our monetary and fiscal policies
must give a high priority to financial stabilization objectives. Our objective is to reduce the monthly rate
of inflation to single digit levels by the end of the year. To support this objective, we have targeted the
deficit in the State Budget at 6 percent of GDP, with domestic bank financing not to exceed 4 percent of
GDP. The expansion of central bank credit to the commercial banks will have to be severely restricted
in order to accomplish our objectives. On the basis of current projections, our target is to reduce the
growth in the net domestic assets of the NBRK from an average of 34 percent per month during the first
quarter of 1993 to less than 7 percent per month in the fourth quarter.
4.           Our economic policies will have to be balanced in such a way as to support both the
control of inflation and the recovery of output. Fortmately, mnany structural reform policies can
contribute to both stabilization objectives and also to the recovery of output in the medium-term (if not
the short-term). The past declines in output have resulted in large measure from the disruption of the
economic ties, between enterprises and between republics of the FSU, that had been mauiained under
the previous command economy. By accelerating structural reforms, we expect to speed the development
of a market economy which will prove both more efficient and more responsive to the needs of the
population.



Annex I
Page 3 of 12
5.           The Government continues to attach great importance to the improvement of trade and
payments relationships among the states of the Former Soviet Union. We will work actively to find a
solution to these problems. As long as Kazakhstan continues to be a part of the ruble area, we intend
to coordinate our monetary policies with those of the Russian Federation. The law on foreign currency
regulation, along with a specific provision in the central bank statutes, allows for the introduction of a
separate currency should this prove desirable.
II.          The Structural Refonm ProEgrm
6.           Kazakhstan has embarked upon an ambitious program of structural reforms. We have
introduced radical changes in our earlier price, subsidy and trade policies in order to establish a market
economy increasingly integrated in the world economy. Our program for the reform of state enterprises
involves the privatization of most state enterprises accompanied by strengthening governance and
magement of those remaining in the public sector. In addition to privatizing state enterprises, we are
seeking to create a competitive private economy by encouraging new private sector activities and also
through the adoption of pro-competition and anti-monopoly policies. A fundamental restructring of the
banking system will accompany the changes in the enterprise sector. The adjustments required in the
move to a market economy, combined with the disruption of economic ties among the republics of the
former Soviet Union, have involved heavy transitional burdens. Thus we are strengthening our social
protection system so we can meet our population's needs in a manner consistent with our progress
towards fiancial stabilization. The Memorandum outlines, for each of these areas, both our recent
accomplishments and the additional measures we intend to undertake in the coming year.
A.    Price. Subsidy and Trade Policies
7.           Prices of most goods and services were liberalized at the beginning of 1992. At the same
time substantial increases were made in those prices that remained under administrative regulaton.
Controls have since been eliminated on many of these items, so at present the only items re _mg under
control are bread, some qualities of flour, baby food, imported medicines, fodder, housing rents, energy,
utility tariffs and public transport tariffs. State orders, involving procuremat on a compulsory basis at
below market prices, have been completely eliminated; procurement for state needs now takes place at
freely negotiated or market prices.
8.           The prices of goods and services that are still controlled are being monitored and will be
adjusted regularly to avoid any erosion in real terms. By end-1993 the Government will review the list
of administered prices and, in order to reduce the budgetary impact, will raise the prices of subsidized
goods and services. We expect that price controls on fodder can be eliminated by October 1994.
Following recent increases, petroleum prices are now at over 60 percent of world market levels. As of
the beginning of 1994, the Government intends to move to world prices for its petroleum products
(defined as the border price for imports from Russia plus all domestic processing and distribution costs).
The only subsidized petroleum product will be diesel fuel for agricultural uses; this subsidy will be
included in the budget. Prior to next January, the Government is willing to negotiate with its FSU
trading partners on a phased adjustment of energy prices towards world levels. Any increases in the
import costs of energy products will be passed-through in ful to end-users. Beginning in 1994, the
Government intends to elimiate over a three-year period the remaining subsidies for public utilities



Annex 1
Page 4 of 12
consumed by householders; this will be done in parallel with strengthening targeted support for vulnerable
groups suffering negative consequences from these increases in tariffs.
9.           Subsidy reductions contribute to both financial stabilization and the creation of a system
of prices which provides signals to efficiently guide the decisions of producers, financial intermediaries
and consumers. In 1993 we intend to limit total transfers and subsidies in the State Budget to no more
than 5.1 percent of GDP. (While this figure includes transfers for the social safety net, the vast majority
of social protection programs are financed by extra-budgetary receipts earmarked for this purpose.) A
further reduction in subsidies and transfers is planned for 1994; we will give particular attention to the
replacement of input subsidies for the agriculture by more targeted food subsidies to protect vulnerable
groups. Beginning in January 1994, the NBRK will no longer provide credit at preferential interest rates
and interest subsidies will be limited to those that are included in the budget.
10.          The process of liberalizing foreign trade is being continued. We have already eliminated
quantitative restrictions on imports. With current account convertibility for residents, importers can
freely purchase foreign exchange at the market determined exchange rate. In February 1993 we
substantially reduced the coverage of export licensing and quota arrangements; in parallel with this, we
have also reduced interstate bilateral trade arrangements. The next steps, which we expect to take by
September 1993, will be a substantial reduction in the number of commodities subject to export quotas
accompanied by increases in the remaining quotas by not less than 20 percent. We intend to eliminate
these remaining quotas as soon as the situation permits (or in line with similar moves by our CIS trading
partners). While we may continue to enter into bilateral trade agreements with other countries, we expect
that such trade will be carried out at freely negotiated or market prices; consequently, not later than
January 1994, the state will not engage in compulsory procurement at below market prices in order to
fulfill bilateral trade agreements. A uniform import tariff of 15 percent will be introduced on non-CIS
imports by October 1993, with exemptions limited to basic food items and medicines.
11.          We expect to significantly increase our economic efficiency by reforming our price,
subsidy and trade policies, and by bringing our relative prices more in line with those in world market.
However, in some cases these economic adjustments have undesirable short-term social effects. It is our
intention to respond to these adjustment problems by strengthening our system of social protection rather
than halting the adjustment process. Our objective is to improve the relative price structure at the same
tine as we bring inflation under control. Indeed, it is only by doing the latter that we can expect to
eliminate the present undervaluation of the ruble and establish a more appropriate economic link between
domestic and world prices.
B.    Privatization and Reform of State Entenrises
12.          The centerpiece of the Govermnent's program for the reform of state enterprises is the
privatization program for 1993-1995 that was approved by the President in March 1993. This
privatization effort is being complemented by strengthening the governance and management of those
enterprises that are expected to stay (at least for some time) in the public sector.
13.          The privatization program includes three components, relating to (a) small scale, (b)
medium and large scale, and (c) very large enterprises. Small scale enterprises are being auctioned for
cash and the housing coupons distributed earlier. We expect that all enterprises engaged in retail and



Annex I
Page 5 of 12
wholesale trade, and related trucking and distribution, will be offered for sale during 1993-94. The mass
privatization of medium and large enterprises will be based upon the distribution of investment coupons
(which should be completed by end 1993) and the conversion of these enterprises to joint stock companies
(which should be completed by March 1994). Our targets under this program are to privatize 30 percent
'of the assets of non-agricultural medium and large enterprises by March 1994, and at least 70 percent of
these assets by March 1995. In the case of certain very large and special enterprises, the Government
has adopted a case by case approach under which it expects to offer for sale at least 10 such firms by
March 1994 and to offer for sale at least another 10 such firms by March 1995. Competitive procedures
will be used in these case-by-case sales.
14.          It is clear that, at least in the short-run, a number of state enterprises will remain under
Government control, and some economic infrastructure and defense-related activities are expected to
continue as part of the public sector. The Government intends to restructure enterprises that are not
expected to be privatized in the foreseeable future, including closing down those enterprises (or parts of
enterprises) that are unlikely to be viable. When enterprises are privatized, this will be done at the lowest
organizational level practicable (for example, units which maintain separate accounts). We may create
holding companies and so-called state joint stock companies (SJSCs) comprising some enterprises of
certain economic sectors but generally not those in trucking, distribution/trade, construction, light
industry, and agro-processing. For enterprises to be privatized under the mass privatization program,
or already earmarked for case-by-case privatization, only those shares that are meant to be retained in
the state sector after privatization will be transferred to the holding companies or SJSCs. Privatization
or dilution of state sector shares in the holdings and SJSCs, and the enterprises under them, shall not
occur other than according to the National Privatization Program for 1993-95. To strengthen governance
and management of these continuing state enterprises, the Govermnent will prepare administrative
guidelines, and submit draft legislation to Parliament at its first session in 1994 regarding governance and
management of state-owned enterprises. These will provide for management accountability, responsibility
and operational autonomy through the appointment and responsibilities of boards of directors, incentives
for managers, and other appropriate measures.
15.          All state enterprises will become subject to increased financial discipline. This will
support enterprise restructuring and reconstruction and at the same time contribute to stabilization
objectives. However, to help maintain output and avoid major social dislocations, some condnuing
support will be required while restructuring programs are being prepared and implemented by individual
enterprises. The Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and the State Property Committee will
joindy develop an approach to adjustment assistance for enterprises which can begin to be implemented
as part of the 1994 State Budget. For larger enterprises, our policy will be to make financial support
from the budget conditional upon the preparation and implementation of satisfactory restructuring
programs by the enterprises conterned. This approach will be phased in during 1994, as the capacity for
preparing and reviewing restructuring plans is developed. In the case of enterprises which are to be
privatized, significant new investments in plant, equipment and technology are not expected to take place
until after privatization. The initial restructuring to be undertaken while these enterprises are still in
government ownership will focus on closure of obsolete facilities, demonopolization, spin-off of social
assets, reduction in the labor force, financial restructuring, management training and reorganization.
Effective with the 1994 budget year, all forms of financial support to enterprises from government
sources wiUl be fully and transparenly shown in the budget (State Budget and extrabudgetary funds);



Annex 1
Page 6 of 12
individual enterprises will not be given tax exemptions, or other special financial benefits, that are not
accounted for in the budget.
C.    Develdompn  a Competitive Private Sector
16.          The benefits of a market economy will be realized only if Kazakhstan can develop a
competitive private sector economy. The dominance of existing enterprises, regardless of whether they
remain in the public sector, could lead to serious abuse of monopoly (and oligopoly) power. These
problems arise in national, regional and local markets. The Government has adopted a four-pronged
approach to create more competitive markets. First, demonopolization will accompany privatization.
Second, the abuse of monopoly power will be controlled. Third, new private sector activities will be
encouraged. Fourth, our liberal trade policies will require domestic producers to compete on the world
market.
17.          The State Anti-Monopoly Conmmittee and the State Property Committee will pay particuar
attention to the break-up of local and regional monopolies in wholesale trade, and in related transport and
distribution activities. We are, with technical advice from national and international bodies, carrying on
a continuing review of existing leg.slation and administrative procedures related to controlling abuse of
monopoly power, "fair trade," and protection of consumer rights. We expect to propose to Parliament,
during both the Fall 1993 and Spring 1994 sessions, revisions to strengthen existing legislation in these
respects. Among other things, these will include rules for horizontal and vertical mergers and
acquisitions, and also for the break-up of enterprises and concerns that have abused monopoly power.
We will also prepare, by end June 1994, revised administrative guidelines for the implementation of the
strengthened legal framework.
18.          The legal and regulatory framework for an expanding private sector economy is being
put in plce. We intend to reduce "profile" restictions on privatized enterprises. A law on property,
recognizing both private and state property, was passed in March of this year. Attention must now be
focussed on removing barners to the establishment and competitive operation of new private enterprises.
The Government will complete, by March 1994, a review of obstacles faced by private entrepreneurs,
accompanied by recommendations on the administrative measures and legislative action needed to
overcome these obstacles. Access to commercial real estate is a particular concern. By June 30, 1994,
measures will be introduced to increase the supply of, provide transparent access to, and secure long-term
rights on commercial real estate. Tax policy and administraon will be the subject of a separate study;
by June 1994 we will complete a study with recommendations on reforms in tax law and administration
that would support new private sector activities. A new law regarding foreign investment, which provides
equal treatment for foreign and domestic investors, will be submnitted to Parliament, with approval
expected by the end of 1993. Recent and planned measures to promote competition and efficiency
through increasing integration in the world economy have been described above as part of the discussion
of price, subsidy and trade policies.



Annex I
Page 7 of 12
D.    Financial Sector Reform
19.          The Government recognizes that a modem and efficient financial system will be needed
to support the transition to a market economy and the resumption of economic growth. We have
established a two-tier banking system, including the licensing of private banks and the transformation of
state banks into joint stock companies. In April of this year Parliament approved laws on both the
National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan (NBRK) and commercial banking activities. The NBRK
statues strengthened the central bank's independence from government and provided it with the legal basis
to conduct mnmetary and credit policies and to regulate and supervise the banking system. A revised law
on foreign currency regulation, also passed in April, establishes a liberal framework for foreign currency
transactions and, along with a specific provision in the NBRK statues, allows for the introduction of a
national currency. Other recent measures supporting the development of a more market oriented banking
sector include the introduction of credit auctions by the NBRK, intreducing competition in the banking
sector, and abolition of the limits on margins between the cost of funds and the lending rates of
commercial banks.
20.          Continuing the move towards using interest rates to allocate central bank credit, we will
increase the proportion of new credit (excluding credit to Government) that is auctioned by the NBRK,
from 20 percent in the last half of 1993 to 35 percent in the first quarter and 50 percent in the second
quaer of 1944. The balance of NBRK credit to commercial banks will be provided at a refinance rate
which, as long as Kazakhstan is in the ruble area, will be related to the CBR refinance rate. Our reform
of the banking system and the institutional strengthening of the NBRK includes a strengthening of the
regulatory framework and a tightening of licensing requirements. We intend to establish a regulatory
framework leading, over time, to a core group of banks meeting international banking standards
(International Standard Banks or ISBs). As a result of the tighter licensing standards, banks established
in the future should be qualified to enter the program to, after a transition period, meet international
banking standards. Minimum capital requirements will be revised by end-1993 (taking inflation into
account), and subsequently kept under review. Plans are underway to reform the payments system, to
enhance accounting standards, to strengthen the legal framework for banking activities, and to develop
bank supervision. An audit of NBRK and in-depth financial and operational diagnostic studies of the ten
largest banks should be completed by March 1994. Moreover, studies and recommendations will be
completed by June 1994 on term lending and also on the fuwther restructuring of the banking sector that
may be desirable. All this will lay the groundwork for the continued strengthening of the banking sector.
E.    Social Protection
21.          The Government recognizes that substantial changes in the system of social protection are
necessary if needs are to be reasonably met during the economic adjustment period. With the fall in
output, and also the decline transfers from the previous Union govermnent, some downward adjustment
in the real levels of social benefits and social services has been unavoidable. While unemployment has
not yet become a serious problem, as enterprise restructuring takes place, a substantial rise in transitional
unemployment seems inevitable. iflation has drastically reduced the real value of bank deposits that had
been the main form of household saving, and thus the ability of households to confront economic
difficulties. If we are to accomplish both our social protection and our budgetary control objectives,
improvements in the efficiency with which social protection programs are implemented are necessary.



Annex 1
Page 8 of 12
22.          The Govermment is giving priority attention to adapting the social protection system to
meet present and expected needs. The Government intends to calculate a new "subsistence minimum"
to which can be related the minimum benefit levels under pension, unemployment and social assistance
programs. This "subsistence nmnmum" will be based largy upon the cost of a food basket, so its value
can easily be adjusted for both inflation and regional differences. We then expect to make changes in
our social protection programs based upon the following general principles: (a) continuation of the shift
from universal entitlements to more targeted and means tested assistance; (b) minimum pension,
unemployment and social assistance benefits that are related to the "subsistence mininum;" (c) regular
adjustments in the minimum benefit levels to protect the real values of these benefits; and (d) continued
management of unemployment compensation and social assistance programs on a decentralized basis, but
with budgetary support from the center to local authorities if the necessary local resources cannot be
mobilized; the Pension Fund will continue to be administered by the Government on a national basis.
In addition, the Government intends to strengthen programs for the placement and retraining of
unemployed workers. We are encouraging the development of non-govermmental pension funds and other
private retirement savings programs. We are also considering, for the future, an increase in the
retirement age.
23.          The Government is undertaking two studies related to strengthening social protection and
social services. First, we will complete an analysis of the income and expenditures for social protection
under alternative assumptions on employment and unemployment, wage rates, benefit levels (including
gradually increasing the retirement age), inflation, and other relevant factors. The study will include
projections for both republican and regional levels, and for both the earmarked extrabudgetary funds and
expenditures included in regular budgets. A preliminary analysis will be available by September 30, 1993
(in time to serve as an input for the 1994 budget); the final report and recommendations will be available
by the end of 1993. Second, the Government will undertake a study of the social services now provided
by enterprises which, with the commercialization and privatization of enterprises, would in the future be
more appropriately provided by local authorities (or other levels of government). The study will include
recommendations on the social services to be transferred and how, in the future, they should be financed.
This study and recommendations should be completed by end March 1994.
F.    The Agricultural Sector
24.          Structural reform in agriculture is underway and expected to accelerate in the coming
year. During 1993, the process of liberalizing prices will continue; this is expected to improve incentives
for agricultural production and allow for some reduction in agricultural subsidies. As of early 1993, over
11,000 private farns had been registered, as well as over 400 small businesses engaged in agricultural
processing and over 2,000 cooperatives involved in agricultural production and marketing. We plan to
move ahead rapidly in privatizing state and collective farms, allowing farmers the legal right to withdraw
property from these farms. While private farmers will not be granted full ownership of the land or the
right to trade or sell their user-rights, they will be granted long-term (99 year) leases and the right to
transfer the leases to their heirs.
25.          The Govermnent is preparing a comprehensive strategy for the agricultural sector to
fusrther define our approach to structural adjustment, while minimizg disruption of agricultural
production. This study will: (a) assess Kazakhstan's capacity to produce key crops and livestock
economically and the need for adjustments in the structure and technology of agriculture production; (b)



Annex 1
Page 9 of 12
consider the adequacy of producer incentives resulting from existing price and trade policies and make
recornmendations for ensuring adequate incentives consistent with the objective of reducing agricultural
subsidies; (c) refine stategies for privatizing state farms and the development of land tenure policies
consistent with the objectives of irnproving farn productivity; (d) make recommendations for improving
the access of farmers, including emerging private farmers, to key inputs including agricultural tecmhnical
and economic information, credit, agricultural mac -inery, fertilizer, seeds and pesticides; and (e) review
existing arrangements for marketing, processing and storage of agricultural production and make
recommendations for improvement consistent with the objectives of an efficient market economy. The
Government has also initiated with the support of a grant from the Government of Japan a study of the
irrigation system, which would provide the basis for a long term rehabilitation program. The agriculture
strategy is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994 and the irrigation study, by December 31, 1994.



Annex 1
Page 10 of 12
PLAN OF ACTION FOR IMPLEMENTING SELECTED STRUCTURAL REFORMS
[Annex to "Memorandum on Structural Reform Policies"]
A.    Price. Subsidv and Trade Policies
1.   Adjust administered prices of subsidized goods to reduce subsidies (by beginiing of 1994).
2.   Price controls on fodder to be eliminated by October 1994.
3. Prices for petroleum and other energy products to be raised to world levels as of the beginning
of 1994. (Note 1)
4.   Beginning in 1994, the Government intends to eliminate over a three-year period the remaiing
subsidies for public utilities consumed by householders; this will be done in paralle with
strengthening targeted support for vulnerable groups suffering the negative consequences of the
increase in tariffs.
5. Total transfers and subsidies in the State Budget to be limited to 5.1 % of GDP in 1993, and
further reduced in 1994.
6.   NBRK to cease providing credit at preferential rates, and any interest rate subsidies to be included
in the budget (effective beginning 1994).
7.   Reduction of number of commodities under export quotas, and increase of not less than 20% in
quotas for those commodities remaining under quotas (by September 1993).
8. A uniform import tariff of 15 percent will be introduced on non-CIS imports by October 1993,
with exemptions limited to basic food items and medicines.
9.   State procurement to fulfill bilateral trade agreements to be at freely negotiated or market prices
(effective beginning of 1994).
B.    Privatization and Reform of State Enterprises
1.   All enterprises engaged in retail and wholesale trade, and related trucldng and distribution, to be
offered for sale before the end of 1994.
2.   Distribution of investment coupons for Mass Privatization to be substantially completed by end
of 1993.
3. Conversion of medium and large enterprises included in Mass Privatization Program to joint stock
companies by March 1994.



Annex 1
Page 11 of 12
4. Mass Privatization Program targets are for privatization of 30 percent of assets of non-agricultural
medium and large enterprises by March 1994 and 70 percent of assets by March 1995.
S.   Selected very large and special enterprises are to be privatized on a case by case basis, with 10
offered for sale by March 1994 and another 10 by March 1995.
6.   Government to prepare administrative guidelines, and to submit draft legislation to Parliament
at its first session in 1994, on strengthening governance and management of enterprises expected
to remain in the public sector.
7. Ministries of Finance and Economy, and the State Property Conmmittee, to develop an approach
to adjustment assistance for state enterprises, which will be implemented as part of the 1994 State
Budget, and which will (as capacities for preparing and reviewing restructuring plans are
developed) condition financial assistance to large enterprises on the preparation and
implementation of satisfactory restucturing plans.
8. Effective with the 1994 budget, all forms of direct Govermment financial assistance (including tax
exemptions) to individual enterprises are to be included in the consolidated budget (State Budget
and extra-budgetary funds).
C.    Developin a Competitive Private Sector
1-.   Anti-Monopoly Committee will prepare revisions to exisdng legislation, for submission to
Parliament at the Fall 1993 and Spring 1994 sessions, to strengthen the legal framework for
control of abuses of monopoly power, for "fair trade" and for protection of consumer rights.
2.   Revised administrative guidelines for the implementation of the anti-monopoly legislation will be
prepared by June 1994.
3. Completion by March 1994 of a review of obstacles faced by private entrepreneurs in commercial
and industrial activities, with recommendations for administrative measures and legislative actions
to overcome these obstacles.
4. Take measures, by end June 1994, to improve access to commercial real estate by private firms,
including measures to increase the supply of, provide transparent access to, and secure long-term
rights on commercial real estate.
5.   Complete by June 1994, a study with recommendations for reforms of tax law and administradon
that would support private sector development (but still be consistent with revenue requiremens).
6.   Submission to Parliament before December 1993 of a new law on foreign investment which will
provide for equal treatment for foreign and domestic investors.



Annex 1
Page 12 of 12
D.    Financial Sector Reform
1.  Increase the proportion of new NBRK credit which is auctioned from 20 percent in the last half
of 1993 to 35 percent in the first quarter and 50 percent in the second quarter of 1994.
2.   Introduce, by end 1993, a strengthened regulatory framework for commercial banks and a
dghtening of licensing requirements for new banks (so new banks should be able, in time, to meet
international banking standards); introduce, by the same date, a revision of capital requirements
for all banks (which will at least adjust for inflation).
3.   Completion of an audit of the NBRK and in depth financial and operational diagnostic studies of
the ten largest banks by March 1994.
4.   Completion of studies and recommendations on the development of term lending facilities, and
on restructuring the commercial banking system, by June 1994.
E.    Social Protection
1.    The Government will complete an analysis of the income and expenditures for social protection,
for individual funds and for each level of govermnent, under alternative assumptions on
employment and unemployment, wage rates, benefit levels (including gradually increasing the
retirement age), inflation, and other relevant factors. A preliminary analysis will be available
September 30, 1993 (in time to serve as an input for the 1994 budget); the final report and
recommendations will be available by the end of 1993.
2.    The Government will undertake a study of the social services now provided by enterprises which,
with the commercialization and privatization of enterprises, would in the fiuure be more
appropriately provided by local authorities (or other levels of govermnent). Recommendations
will be made covering the social services to be transferred and how, in the future, they should
be financed. The study and recommendations should be completed by end March 1994.
Note 1: "World levels' is understood to mean the border price for imports from Russia plus all domestic
processing and distribution costs. The subsidy on diesel fuel for agricultural use will be included in the
budget.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 1
Iable 1. Kazakhstan: Selected Economic Indicators, 1990-94
(Percenag.e change over am petiod one year eadier, unless otherwise specified)
1990         1991           1m            ,             lo
E.t       Progrt I/    Prgram I/
Nonal GDP (in billions of rubles)                  St            94           1,593        11,285         35,698
Real GOP                                          -0.4          -130          -14.0         -7.5           1.0
EBavge Rate (rubles per US$S. perod average)       0.6          1.75          222           967          1S03
Rebti Prices
BEd-of-perlod                                               t47.0        2.567.0        625.0          30.0
Period Avenge                                  4.2           91.0         1,381.0       926.0          104.0
Minimm Wage (end-period. rub per montih)           ...          342           900          10,000         15.500
PercentChange                                  ...           ...          163.0         1.011           55
Domest Petroleum  (excl. ansport costs. eop)       ...           70          8.400         92.00         169,349
As perent of international.prices2              ...          44.0          20.0           65            100
Budget Rvees and Grans (pcntofGDP)               32.7          25.0          18.7          19.1           19.2
eneal Govemment Revenue  (perent of GDP)          22.7          30.0          22.8           ...           ...
BudpgetBxpeadi     (perentof GDP)                 31.4          32.9          24.3          25.2          23.4
Gneal Govement Expenditures' (percn of GDP)       31.4          41.0          29.7           ...           ...
Oveall Budget Balance (defcit (-)'
a - conimiwient basis (percent of GDP)
(including grants)                              1.3          -7.9          -5.6         46.0           -4.2
(excluding grants)                             -8.7         -12.3         -6.9          -7.0           -5.6
b - cash bas (includieg guants, percent of GDP)  1.3           -7.9         .2.3           -6.1          -4.2
NBRKnetdomesticassets                             ...            32          2.147          807            ...
NBRK iabilities                                    ...          316          1,438          908
a.rtent Account Balance
(in millions of USS)                         -2,370        -1,300        -2,080        -1,150        -1,220
(in percent of GDP)                           (-2-8)       (-2.5)        (-99)         (-6.4)         (-.5.)
Trade Account Balance
(in millions of USS)                         -9.790        -3,160        -1,670        -1,070        -1,190
(in percent of GDP)                          (-11.3)       (-6.0)        (-6.9)        (-6.1)         (.4.9)
Souces: Goskomstat. Minity of Economy, National Sate Bank of the Republic of Kaakhs    and IMF smff estimates.
I Program figur refer to the STF propamn agreed with te BP
2 Inteaonal pries enterng the calculations were converted into domestic crrency using the exchange rates shown above.
3 Excudg opertons of the Pension Pund.
4   cling operations of the Pension Fund.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
KAZAKISTAN - REHABILITATION LOAN
Goods Which Would Not Be Financed
1.           Notwithstanding other provisions of the Loan agreement, no withdrawal from the loan
account shall be made in respect of:
(a)    Expenditures for goods to be supplied under a contract which a national or international
fimancing institution or any other financing agency shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(b)    Expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or for luxury
consumption; and
(e)    Expenditures for items in the following groups or sub-groups of the United Nations
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3:
Group             Sub-group         Description
112                                 Alcoholic beverages
121                                 Tobacco, unnanufactured, tobacco refuse
122                                 Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                                 Radioactive and associated materials
667                                 Pearls, precious and semi-precious
stones, unworked or worked
718               718.1             Nuclear reactors and parts thereof, fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated for
nuclear reactors
728               728.43            Tobacco processing machinery
897               897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
metals (except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971                                 Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
and concentrates)
(e)    goods procured under barter arrangements;
(f)    goods supplied from the territory of countries other than World Bank member countries
and Taiwan (China).



Annex 4
Page 1 of 5
KAZAKHSTAN - REHABILITATION LOAN
Goods to Be Financed
under the Pre-Identified Imprs Component (PIC)
1. Energy
1.           The Uzen field is the largest currently producing oil field in Kazakhstan. Its cumulative
production since inception of production in 1965, is nearly two billion barrels of oil. Althlugh it is well
into its terminal decline curve, the field still produces nearly 100,000 barrels of oil per day, thus making
a significant contribution to the country's national income.
2.           The field, however, is very badly in need of repair, both in its surface facilities and in
its down-hole production equipment. Very little of this equipment is nanufactured within Kazakhstan,
and must be purchased abroad with foreign exchange. Much of the existing equipment is of Soviet design
and manufacture, with specifications which are often substandard to those in use elsewhere. To purchase
substitute parts from non-Soviet source requires not only access to hard currency, but access to
procurement expertise as well, in the detailing of the required western specifications.
3.           The required parts are selected flow lines, tubing strings, valves, and pumps; plus
specialized hoisting equipment (workover rigs) which are needed to install these parts. These proposed
purchases represent damage control measures only, to be utilized to keep the field producing while the
processing for the full field rehabilitation program is underway.
4.           Benefits. Under existing conditions, the Uzen oil-field producdon decline will accelerate,
exceeding the minimum economic production threshold within the space of less than two years. Much
of this accelerated production decline may be quickly reversed through the selective replacement of faulty
downhole pumps, valves and tubing in wells which have previously demonstrated a capacity for high rates
of sustained production. The replacement or repair of selected aging surface facilities, to allow the
produced oil to be delivered to the point of sale without loss due to line rupture is also required if
significant improvements in the level of production are to be realized.
2. Aricultwe
5.           More than 50% of the critical imports listed for agriculture are for herbicides and
pesticides, with the greater portion of herbicides being for use against weeds in wheat fields, with the
remainder used for other cereals. Use of agricultural chemicals are widespread with around 10-15 million
hectares anmnally treated with herbicides and pesticides, down from a mid-1980's high of 20 million
hectares. While the range of crops produced in Kazakhstan is quite diverse, cereals dominate the
culdtivated area (60-70%) with wheat representing 60-65% of the cereal area. Pesticides are needed for
use agamnst locusts and other pests affecting the production of cotton, fruits and vegetables. Without
foreign exchange assistance to procure these chemicals, crop production may fall significantly in 1994.
Veterinary medicine included in the list are for the treatment of worms and other internal diseases, and



Annex 4
Page 2 of 5
for spraying animals (mainly sheep) against ticks which affect the wool and general health of the sheep.
6.           The country also requires other imports for food processing:
(i)    disinfectants for the cleaning of physical infrastructure, equipment and other processing
facilities to protect against diseases;
(ii)   aluminum cans and sulphide paper for the packaging of cereals and milk powder as baby
food. While milk production is adequate, the severe shortage of packaging materials has
already caused a shortage of baby food available in the mnarket;
(iii)  animal fat and palm oil is needed to produce soap thereby avoiding a 50 percent fall in
the production of soap next year. While it will be necessary in the longer term to
examine the possibility of collecting and processing animal fat locally, without this
import, it is expected that the already low level of soap production will fall by 50%
during the next year; and
(iv) spare parts to replace worn out sections of poultry processing equipment, various
agricultural equipment including cutters for fodder production, tractor attachments,
cultivation machinery and equipment, farm tractors and other farm related vehicles,
equipment for the food industry (refrigerated transport, technical equipment in milk, meat
and wool processing) and pumps and other parts required for irrigation equipment.
Already, the severe shortage of spare parts renders many equipment inoperative; if the
country does not import spare parts, more equipments will be forced out of production
quite soon, affecting production at all levels.
7.           Benefts. Acquiring the identified critical imports will prevent severe decreases in
production, as well as social and economic disruptions. Available supplies of herbicides and pesticides
will sustain the production of wheat and other cereals, fruits and vegetables will fall significantly,
maintaining both CIS exports and food for domestic needs. Adequate supplies of veterinary medicine will
avoid increased mortality rates for animals, thus keeping meat and wool production stable. The lack of
disinfectants and the reduced availability of soap could result in health problems. The lack of baby food
would result in nutritional problems. Without spares, many aspects of production will significantly
reduce, with some areas coming to a complete halt.
3. Trnsport
8.           Road Passenger Transport. Although local passenger transport is a stated priority for
both local and the republican governments, it suffers from a serious shortage in transport capacity, which
is rapidly escalating as an increasing number of buses are taken out of service due to the lack of spare
parts or because they have become permanently disabled. While the World Bank is currently working
on a proposed Urban Transport operation with the authorities, this is to focus on the three largest cities -
Almaty, Karaganda and Shitnkent and does not provide support to the rest of the country. A spare parts
component has therefore been included in the proposed Loan to assist sustain the fleet in the remainder
of the country outside of the three largest cities. The critical imports are targeted to salvage the existing



Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
fleet of Hungarian made Ikarus buses from deteriorating beyond repair. These buses are considered the
most mnodem part of Kazakhstan's bus fleet and provide an essential part of public transport capacity.
9.           Benefits. Transport is an essential requirement for improvement of ope. -ons in every
segment of the economy. At present, the transport system is severely disrupted, with considerable
damaging effects to the economy as a whole. On the other hand, the foreign exchange requirements
included represent less than 10% of the regularly required annual repair and maintenance needs. Thus,
only the most critical items have been included. These will not be sufficient to clear the already
substantial backlog of maintenance and overhaul which has built up over last several years. With these
critical imports, a further buildup of backlog cannot be avoided, but at least a serious breakdown of the
system can be averted. The benefits derived from these items are significant and the payback can be
expected in less than one year.
4. Health
10.          The shortages of essential drugs, vaccines and equipment are the most pressing problems
facing the health sector. Already the situation is barely tolerable, and a further deterioration will result
in much suffering, with the loss of confidence in both the health care systemn and the Government. The
rehabilitation Loan will be used to pay for essential drugs for about $4 million and urgently needed
medical equipment for about $1 million. The drugs are basic, essential drugs like: anaesthetic, analgesic,
hormones, anti-TB, antiparasitic, anti-asthma, and phannaceutical chemicals for syrups and intravenous
solutions. Instead of supplying intravenous solutions and syrups, the money will be used to buy
pharmaceutical grade raw materials, since the solutions can be made at both oblast and hospital pharmacy
levels. The supply of raw materials will produce between two and three times as many liters of solutions
as would ready-made preparations. All medicines are on WHO's model list of essential drugs. While
the analgesic drugs are important symptomatic drugs, the anti-TB drugs and the intravenous drugs are
critical in treatment and often life-saving.
11.          The drugs and raw materials will be procured either from UNICEF or through
international competitive bidding. It is recognized that the regular suppliers will have an advantage, since
their products are already been registered in the former Soviet Union and their labels conform to local
requirements. The drugs will be supplies to the Ministry of Health's drug orgamiation "Pharmatsia" and
distributed from its Central Medical Stores to oblast stores and from there to hospitals, clinics and
pharmacies. The drugs are best suited for primary health care, except for the anaesthetic drug. The Bank
financed drugs will be priced as all other drugs. A special committee will determine retail prices in line
with procurement price and handling. It is recognized that the Ministry of Health may not be able to pass
on the full cost of drugs prior to the introduction of an insurance scheme, and thus some targeted subsidy
may be required for special groups. Any government subsidy is to be transparent and should appear
clearly in the budget. Out-patient patients and future private patients will continue to pay for drugs, but
in-patients, invalids, students and pensioners will still be exempted.
12.          The list of urgently needed equipment are all basic for primary and secondary health care,
including oral health. They are taken from UNICEF's catalogue (1990) and are all of good quality and
low-price. The Government wishes to procure these from UNIPAC, since they are unable to procure at
lower prices from their usual suppliers. The equipment will come to "Medtekhnica" and be distributed
to prfimay and secondary health care facilities according to need. The price to the institutions have not



Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
yet been determined, as the organization is reluctant to operate with the current high market price for
drugs. The equipment is very much needed and should contribute to a more efficient operation of a large
number of health facilities.
13.          Benefits. The proposed support for vital drugs, vaccines, and other medical items, along
with other donors' contributions and the national procurement, should contribute to an amelioration of
the threatening drug emergency and may also aid in preventing a collapse of the health care system.
Most importantly, the improved availability of vital drugs and vaccines will prevent diseases and save
lives, including those of infants, small children and pregnant women. The proposed support should also
prevent a situation where the government would be forced to appeal for emergency airlifts of drugs.
Indirect benefits include lower pressure on the health care system and its providers, and time to formulate
a new drug policy and develop improved systems for both financing, procurement, distribution, and the
more rational use of drugs and medical equipment.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
Table A3.1: Sectoral Allocation of
the PreIdentified Imports Component (PIC)
Sector             Type of Goods                    US$ mlion
Energy             Uzen Oil-field                         30.0
Agriculture        Herbicides-Pesticides                   30.8
Veterinary Medicine                    8.2
Food Industry      Raw Material-Packaging Material        8.0
Transport          Bus Spare Parts                         4.0
Health             Drugs and Equipment                     5.0
TOTAL                                                      86.0



Annex 5
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF KAZASTAN
REHABILITATION LOAN
IMPILEMENTATION ARRNGEMENTS
1.           The Project lmDlementation Unit
1.           The Project linplementation Unit (PIU), established under the authority of the Ministry
of Economy, will be responsible for the overall implementation of the Rehabilitation Loan and the related
reporting and accounting activities. Given the wide scope and importance of its assigned fimctions, the
PIU will be given the authority and stature to deal directly and effectively with the Bank, govenmment
ministries and offices as well as the NBRK, commercial and correspondent banks and project
beneficiaries. It will also be provided with adequate office space for its staff and facilities for file storage,
copying, teleconununications (telephone, telex, and facsimile), infomation systems (computers and
software), transport and adequate staff (see below on organization). It will be required to provide
extensive support to sectoral administrations, guidance in procurement procedures new to the country's
procurement agencies and other aspects of project implementation. The following is a summary of the
main responsibilides of the PIU, which should be read with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines,
Disbursement Handbook, and Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing.
2.           Overall project implementation responsibilities of the PIU will include the following:
(a)   to coordinate the activities of concemed ministries, other public entities, trading
companies, commercial banks, and NBRK, in order to ensure a consistent and timely
implementation of the Loan;
(b)   to advise the purchasing agencies in all aspects of procurement for the goods purchased
through the Loan;
(c)   to establish and maintain project accounts, prepare all financial reports;
(d)   to administer the Special Account;
(e)   to prepare the withdrawal applications to be dispatched to the World Bank;
(f)   to collect and compile customs certificates for the FXC; maintain files containing all
required documentation regarding both components;
(g)   to provide other management and administration services as may be necessary for the
successful implementation of the Loan; and
(e)   to prepare the Project Completion Report.
3.           The PIU shall comprise a full time Manager who shall have overall responsibility for the
project. He is assisted by a Financial Manager who is responsible for project finance and accounting and



Annex 5
Page 2 of 7
a Procurmne  Manager who is in charge of advising on all procurement procedures and monitors their
implementation. The managerial group will be assisted by a minimum of 5 professional staff (including
consultants) as needed to ensure timely decisions and project execution.
1.           ProcAurement
4.           Pre-ldentified IvA=  Comnent (PM. For each sector, the Government will appoint
one entity, acceptable to the Bank, in charge of (i) purchasing eligible goods for and on behalf of the
Government, following Bank procurement procedures; and (ii) ensuring the sale and distribution of such
goods, as instructed by the Government. The PIU will advise the said entities in all procurement matts.
S.           For procurement to be conducted according to International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures under the PIC, the PIU will provide adequate advice and monitor the following activities by
importing agencies:
(a)   advertising in local and international professional and press media and advising foreign
delegations of World Bank member countries, including CIS countries who have become
members of the World Bank), and Taiwan (China);
(b)   preparation of bidding documents using the Sample Bidding Documents issued by the
Bank for the procurement of goods issued by the Bank, based on technical specifications
prepared by the relevant technical agencies;
(C)    distribution/sale of bidding documents to prospective bidders;
(d)   inviting bids from suppliers in eligible countries;
(e)   conducting the bid opening process and the evaluation of bids;
(f)    when designated to do so, preparing contracts; and,
(g)   when required, arranging and witnessing pre-shipment inspections (PSI).
6.           For non-ICB procurement under the PIC, the PIU would provide advice to procurement
agencies and monitor that they are following the appropriate procedures specified in the Loan Agreement,
including:
(a)   soliciting written quotations from a list of potential suppliers in eligible countries;
(b)   soliciting quotation on sole-source basis and negotiating with suppliers for spare parts or
other proprietary items; and,
(c)    placing purchase orders and contracting with selected suppliers.
7.           In the area of contract administration services under the PIC, the PIU will closely
cootdinate with importing agencies in:



Annex S
Page 3 of 7
(a)   collect documentation, such as inspection certificates, certificates of origin/manufacturer,
manufacturers'/suppliers' guarantees, bills of lading, beneficiary insurance certificates,
and manufacturers' invoices;
(b)   forward documentation to the clearing agent; and
(c)    handle insurance claims.
8.          In addition, the PIU will review proposals under the PIC for the purchase of imported
goods to ensure that they comply with the agreed "pre-identified list", that funds are available in the Loan
account to cover their costs and that the local currency equivalents have been deposited by the importers
in the borrower's account in the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan (NBRK) (see below).
9.           Foreign Exchange Component (FXC). For goods to be procured through ICB under the
FXC, the PIU would provide advice to commercial firms in the following areas:
(a)   advertisirg in local and international professional and press media and advising foreign
delegat: is of World Bank member countries, including CIS countries who have become
members of the World Bank), and Taiwan (China);
(b)   preparing bidding documents using the Sample Bidding Documents issued by the Bank
for the procurement of goods issued by the Bank;
(c)    distributing/selling of bidding documents to prospective bidders;
(d)   inviting bids from suppliers in eligible countries;
(e)   if required, conducting the bid opening process and the evaluation of bids;
(f)    when required, arranging pre-shipment inspections (PSI).
10.         In this, the PIU would not be concerned with the items being imported or take any
measure restricting their import, apart from ensunng that the FXC imports do not include noneligible
items.
11.          The PIU will not be involved in the procurement of goods through normal commercial
practices under the FXC.
12.          Procurement Advisers. In view of the lack of knowledge of the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines and procedures amongst the trading companies and enterprises in Kazakstan on the one hand,
and the need to assure fast disbursements of the proposed Loan on the other hand, it was decided to seek
the assistance of procurement advisers posted within the PIU, who would advise the PIIJ on Bank
procurement policies, provide standard bidding documents approved by the Bank based on existing sample
bidding documents, tram their counterparts in all aspects of the selection of suppliers, awarding of
contacts, and monitoring and mintning records of procurement activities, so as to make them self-



Annex S
Page 4 of 7
sufficient with regards to procurement under subsequent Bank Loans. The advisers will also be expected
to provide input to the Country Procurement Assessment Report scheduled for FY94.
III.         Disbursement
13.          The PIU will be responsible for the preparation of withdrawal applications and the
collection of all supporting documentation. Disbursement will start once the Loan becomes cffective.
The Disbursement Handbook, which outlines disbursement matters for World Bank Loans, provides
additional infonnation on the procedures and should be read in conjunction with this section.
14.          Pre-Identified Imports Component (PIC). Contracts financed under this component will
include payment terms and the PIU will have to ascertain, before approving the contracts, that these
payment terms are in line with World Bank disbursement procedures. The following disbursement
procedures (or any combination thereof) are acceptable for this component:
(a)    procedure of special commitments for larger letters of credits (a special
commitment is an irrevocable agreement to reimburse commercial banks for
payments made (or to be made) under the cover of letter of credit. The special
commitment is issued by the World Bank at the request of the PIU and is in
favor of the banks of the suppliers);
(b)   payments of LC's through the special accounts: the paying banks will notify the
PIU's of their readiness to pay the suppliers and the PIU will give order to the
special account depositary Bank to transfer necessary funds to the banks of the
suppliers; and
(c)   in the case where no LC have been used, direct payments to the suppliers by the
PIU through the special account or directly by the Bank (payment terms will have
to follow World Bank requirements).
15.          Special Account. To facilitate the disbursement of funds, a Special Account (SA) will
be opened in a foreign commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank. The SA will be maintained in
a fully convertible and stable currency. The SA will be used only for the PIC. The SA will be in the
name of the Borrower and will be administered by authorized representatives of the Borrower (preferably
staff at the PIU). Two signatures will be required to make any transaction from the account.
16.          The SA will be replenished on the basis of withdrawal applications prepared by the PIU.
The PIU will submit to the World Bank monthly (or more frequently, if necessary) requests to replenish
the SA; these requests will be accompanied by full documentation for all contracts.
17.          The PIU will ascertain that adequate provisions have been made in the accounts of the
Borrower's budget to record the sales of foreign exchange to importers under the PIU against payment
of the equivalent local currency amount, valued at the official rate. The PIU will obtain summary
statements of these transactions from the Ministry of Finance and make them available to World Bank
supervision missions and external auditors.



Annex 5
Page 5 of 7
18.          Forein Exchange Component (FXCQ. Under the FXC, the PIU will
for contracts below US$1 million,
(a)    collect with the Customs Department of the Ministry of Finance, customs certificates
reflecting the imports into Kazakhstan of eligible goods and verify their eligibility. The
PIU ascertai.- hat the said imports where not financed by other loans and grants or
obtained through barter arrangements;
(b)   prepare withdrawal applications requesting the reimbursement of the amount of imports
reflected in the customs certificates, based on SOEs established under the standard Bank
format. The SOEs will summuize key information related to the said customs
certificates including number of the cerificate, conract amount, description of the goods,
country of origin and date of customs clearance. The SOEs will be accompanied by a
statement from the relevant authority indicating that the said imports where not financed
by other loans and grants or obtained through barter arrangements;
for contracts larger than US$1 million (through ICB)
(a)    collect full documentation regarding each individual transaction;
(b)    prepare withdrawal applications requesting the reimbursement of the said imports,
accompanied by fill documentation;
Furthermore, the PIU will obtain from NBRK statements of their monthly sales and purchases of foreig
exchange on the Foreign Currency Exchange of the Republic of Kazkhstan, or any successor thereof as
agreed with the Bank, and forward them to the Bank. The net amount of these sales will determine the
Monthly Eligible Amount, seting for each month (except during the period of retroactive financing) the
maximum amount of eligible amounts imports that the Bank will reimburse. Any positive difference
between the Monthly Eligible Amount of a given month and the amount of eligible imports of that month
for which reimbursement has been requested from the Bank can be carried forward.
19.          The PIU will ascertain that adequate provisions have been made in the account of the
Borrower's budget to record the sales of the proceeds of disbursements under the FXC by the Ministry
of Finance to the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan at the official exchange rate. The PIU
will obtain summary statements of these transactions from the Ministry of Finance and make them
available to World Bank supervision missions and external auditors.
IV.          Reporting. Accounting and Auditing.
Information System
20.          The PIU would establish and maintain a Management Informaion System (MIS) covering
aUl procurement financed by the Loan, as follows:



Annex 5
Page 6 of 7
(a)    under the PIC, the records would include information received on all procurement
transactions, including identity of the user, kind of goods purchased, contract value,
identification of the bidders and winning supplier, key dates for the bidding process, and
subsequent fulfillment of the contract as well as statements from the Ministry of Finance
accounting for the counterpart funds resulting from the sales of goods procured under the
PIC to end-users.
(b)   for the FXC, customs certificates, NBRK statements of sales and purchases of foreign
exchange on the auction market, statements from the Ministry of Finance accounting for
the counterpart funds resulting form the sales of the proceeds of the FXC.
21.          The above information will allow the PIU to monitor Loan implementation and will also
provide the basis for the PIU to prepare the Project Completion Report required after the Loan has been
disbursed and closed.
Accounting
22.          The PIU would establish an appropriate accounting system according to generally accepted
standards, in order to provide information on receipt and use of funds, in line with the terms of the Loan
Agreement. The system would ensure timely and accurate accounting of all transactions under the Loan,
and clear presentation of the financial information. It should enable identification of the use of al funds
by components and categories of goods imported. The accounting should reflect the movements of the
receipts and payments through the Special Account, with balances agreed with monthly financial
statements from the holding commercial bank and with periodic statements from the World Bank. The
system should enable identification of the use of funds for the PIC by categories of goods imported by
the sector ministries and autonomous public entities. The disbursements on behalf of the sector ministries
under the PIC and FXC components would be consolidated monthly by the PIU.
23.          The Special Account which will be established under the Loan is intended to assist the
Borrower with cash flow and to enable early and more effective project implementation and
disbursements. The Borrower will ensure that all the necessary arrangements for proper accounting of
receipts and payments (and replenishment) are complete before the start of the Special Account's
operations.
Financial Reporting
24.          Financial reporting for the Loan would follow the specific requirements of the Loan.
It would be comprised of a statement of receipts and payments for the reporting period since the
beginning of the program. For the PIC the reporting would be in accordance with the disbursements
classified and reported by the expenditure categories agreed with the Borrower and spelled out in the legal
documents. For the FXC under which disbursements are made subject to a negative list, a summary
statement of receipts and payments indicatng that items under the negative list are not included should
be prepared. A separate report for the Special Account would need to be provided under standard Bank
format. A Project Completion Report will be submitted to the Bank by the PIU promptly after the
completion of the program that in any event nor later than six months after the Loan closing date.



Armex S
Page 7 of 7
Auditng
25.          The accounts, fincial statenents and reports on the Loan (including the special account)
will be audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by independent auditors
acceptable to the World Bank, i.e. (i) impartial and independent from the entity to be audited; (ii) well
established and reputable; (iii) experienced in the type of assignment to be undertaken; and (iv) able to
fulfil the terms of reference required within the specified timetable. In the absence of any satisfactory
alternative, the audit of the Loan will be carried out by an international accounting/ auditing firm,
recruited at the expense of the Borrower.
26.          The audit would cover a review of the supporting documentation including customs
documentation. The audit report is to be submitted to the World Bank by the Government within six
months of the end of the reporting period, i.e., the fiscal year end or the date of the final disbursement
in case the Loan is disbursed in less than 12 months.
Finane and Disbursement Adviser
27.          In view of the country's lack of familiarity with international accounting and payment
practices, the provision of an external finance and disbursement advisor will enable the PIU to:
(a)    maintain all project accounts in accordance with internationally accepted accounting
procedures.
(b)   arrange payment of goods purchased under PIC;
(c)    prepare withdrawal applications in the Bank's format; and
(d)   establish the Project's financial reports in the required format.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSrAN
REHABILITATION LOAN
TE FOREIGN EXCHANGE SYST'2M
28.             Kazakhstan has so far remained within the ruble area, though its exchange rates and
exchange system deviated from those prevailing in Russia. While Russia introduced in January 1992 a
depreciated market exchange rate of around rub 100 to the dollar, the Kazakh banking system as a
whole-and the Government-continued for several months to apply the previous commercial exchange
rate of around rub 1.7 to the U.S. dollar. Subsequently, while applying this rate (or similarly appreciated
rates) for purposes of Republican Hard Currency Fund transactions, the Government adopted the mnarket
exchange rate for purposes of foreign currency surrender requirements introduced in April 1992. The
appreciated special commercial exchange rate (of around rub 50 per U.S. dollar)-used by Russia during
early 1992 for purposes of foreign currency surrender--was never adopted in Kazakhstan.
29.             On July 1, 1992, Kazakhstan moved with the Russian Federation to adopt a unified
exchange rate system. From this date, the official, market rate of exchange has been defined as the
exchange rate of the ruble against the U S. dollar as ascertained by the CBR on the basis of the Moscow
interbank foreig currency exchange. The mnarket rate of exchange is applied for all official purposes,
including for foreign exchange surrendered to the NBRK and to the banking system, for official external
debt service payments, purchases of foreign currency from the Republican Hard Currency Fund, and for
accounting purposes by state enterprises. 6
30.             A second exchange rate also emerges from foreign currency auction held at the Foreign
Currency Exchange of the Republic of Kazakhstan under the National Bank." Subsequent to the first
auction on June 17, 1992, auctions have been held on a weekly basis. The rate of exchange established
through the auction has typically been more depreciated than that established in the corresponding
Moscow auctions.8 Since Russian residents are free to sell foreign currency in Almaty, arbitrage
between the two auctions might have been expected to lead to a convergence of the two rates. Remaining
6   The NBRK publishes the exchange rate for the Russian ruble for 25 cufrencies and the ECU that are quoted by the
CBR on tfie basis of the intermational cross rate relationship between the U.S. dollar and the curencies concemed. The NBRK
is informed twice-weekdy of the exchange rates ascertained by the CDR (on Tuesdays and Thursdays), and the market rate,
based on these communications, is effective from the start of business the following day.
7   Participaton in the aucdon is limited to the NBRK and authorized banks. The rate of exchange on the auction is
independent of the official exchange rate, being set at a level which matches bids with the amount of currency offered for sale.
A single fixed rate is applied to all tanusactions conducted at the auction, the buying and selling rates being the same.
Purchuses are subject to a 0.3 percent commission payable to the auction, and to a I percent commission payable to the
purchasing bank. Residents seeking to sell or purchase foreign currecy on the auction (via authorized banks) are required to
present documentaion establishing compliance with prevailing foreign exchange reglations. Foreign currency purchased on the
auction and not used witin two months must be re-auctioned. Transactions are limited to the spot exchange of U.S. dollars.
8 In the period June 1992-Januay 1993, the Alnaty rate was 7.5 percemnt more depreciated, on average, than that on
Moscow ucidons, wih the margin exceedig 13 percent in the months of Deember 1992 and January 1993.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
divergences are believed to reflect costs arising from the use of the interstate banking system. Sales on
the Almaty exchange during the second half of 1992 were equivalent to only 8 percent of estimated
foreign currency export earnings, possibly reflecting imposition of taxes on foreign export proceeds which
encouraged barter tade and the nonrepatriation of foreign currency earnings. Sales peaked at around
US$12 million during the month of November 1992, subseqw-mly falling to around US$3 million during
January 1993 (see Table AS.1). This decline reflected, in par the cessation of foreign currency sales
by the NBRK.
31.          A third exchange rate emerges from the approved foreign exchange operations of
authorized banks with resident enterprises and individuals. This rate is market determined, except that
the spread between buying and selling rates must not exceed 10 percent. The interbank market is
relatively undeveloped, reflecting the low level of foreign exchange sales to the banking system. Banks
may obtain ,icenses to operate foreign exchange bureaus. Foreign exchange purchased at the bureaus may
be sold only for purposes of business and tourist travel, and is subject to the same 10 percent maximum
spread between buying and selling rates.
(Source: IMF: Bakkround Paper and Statistical Appendix, Staff Report on the 1993 Article IV
Consultation, April 9, 1993)



Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
Table AS. 1: Kazakhstan: Foreign Exchange Marlet Developments. 1992-93
(Rubles ser _.S. dollar)
Divergence           Foreign currency
Market exchange rate 1/                           frtm Moscow              sales in
Daily           End-           Almaty              auction             Aansty auction
average        period           auction             rate                (in millions
Period                 rate            rate           rate 2/           (Percent) 3/          of U.S. dollars)
January               110.0            110.0             ...
Febsary               104.8            90.0              ...                  ...
March                  92.3            100.0             ...                  ...               ...
April                 100.0            100.0             ...                  ...               ...
May                    95.3            85.0              ...                  ...               ...
June                   88.5            100.0           144.9                 12.0              0.8
July                  138.3            161.2           157.4                  3.9              2.5
August                167.9           205.0            164.0                  1.5              3.5
Setmber               217.4           254.0            246.1                  9.6              7.0
Otober                344.7           398.0            362.6                  2.1             10.8
November              423.5           447.0            444.5                  3.3             11.8
December              414.6           414.5            475.6                 13.9              8.7
M93
January               461.7            572.0           546.6                 13.7              5.3
February              572.0           593.0            719.0                 24.5
March                 658.7           684.0            784.0                 18.4              2.5
April                 756.3           823.0            870.0                  7.1              1.0
may                   911.0           1024.0             ...                  ...               ...
June                 1080.0           1060.0             ...                  ...
July                 1025.0           987.0          16004/                 51 4/              n.a.
Source: Data provided by the National Bank of the Republie of Kazakfstan.
I As determined by the Central Bank of Russia (CBR). The offricia rate of exchange in Kazakhstan has been pegged to the CBR
narket rate since July 1992.
2  Average auction exchange rate, weighted by currency turover.
3  Average percentage depreciation of the exchange rate established on the A1naty auction relative to that established in
contemporaneous Moscow auctions. Divergences with  each mornh are weighted by Aimaty auction aurency urnover. For the
period since July 1992, the deviation is equivalent to that between the ALnaty auction rate and the official exchange rate of
Kazakhstan.
4  On luy 13, 1993.



Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKISTAN
REHABILfTATION LOAN
KEY PROCESSING  VEKNTS
Time taken to prepare:               14 months
Project prepared by:                Government with the assistance of IBRD staff
and consultants'
Pre-Appraisal:                      June 12-30, 1992
Loan Committee:                     October 9. 1992
Appraisal:                          October 19-27, 1992
Post-Appraisal:                     July, 7-17, 1993
Negotiations:                       August 11-12, 1993
Board Presentation:                 September 16, 1993
Expected Effectiveness:             October 15, 1993
Closing Date:                       December 31, 1994
9 This report is based on the findings of the World Bank missions which visited Kazakhstan in April
1992, June 1992, October 1992, February 1993 and July 1993 assisted the Govermment in identification
and preparation of the project, and concurrently appraised it.  Mission members included:
Messrs./Mmes. Funck, Toureille (Task Managers); Chu (Deputy Task Manager); Guerrero, LUoyd, and
Holsen (Economists); Andrews (Mining); Somel, Voegele, and Russell (Agriculture); Subbarao (Social
Sector); Linder and Yuksel (Procurement); Prefontaine and Renkewitz (Disbursement); and Lauridsen
(Health Sector). Mr. Eduardo Abbott has served as counsel for Kaakhstan since June 1992. Additional
contributors include: Messrs./Mmes. Mock and Garcia-Garcia (Agricuture); Engelhard, Tirmazi
(Procurement); Mills (Social Sector); Lorch (Privaization and Private Sector Development); Saba (Private
Sector Development); Polizatto (Financial Sector); Garvey (Environment); and Le Vourc'h (Accounting).
Mr. Kadir T. Yurikoglu and Mr. Russell J. Cheetham are the managing Division Chief and Department
Director, respectively, for the operation.



Annex 8
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKIHAN
REHABILTATION LOAN
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. STATFMEN1T OF BANK LOANS.
As of June 30, 1993, Bank lending to the Republic of Kazakhstan had not yet connenced.'0
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS.
As of June 30, 1993, Kazakhstan was not yet formally menber of IFC, although it applied for
membership on January 23, 1992."
'OA Technical Assistance Loan in an amount of US$38 million was approved by the Board on
August 3, 1993.
"A first IFC project, the ABN-AMRO Bank WKazakhstanJ in an amount of US$2 million, is
scheduled for Board presentation on September 16, 1993.



IBRD 2370QE
-RAUSK                    .                                                                                                   KA?tNAAKH5ANSkAYA
*;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T cwy.,b,A                                              T.                                           -    ', R U S S I A  N
R U  S S I A  N                                                 ,x'T    j                                                *-aprN∞i F E D E R A  T I   O N
t~~~~~~~ E D E R                                                 URAY TY I       '0 N;>
*   ,<_l  _  4 ( ' T . A>A;ATAx Ty tf. 
-o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
-AKA  oN     CLHI(KENTh DAMU - srom5
a                          MANGSTANSAYA ,;/\>'eCt  
AZERBAUAN                 'N.If s>                                                         l                            A,-K RG ZTA,IMN   /       oi      *      ,   
'J                                                                4-  w a     ,.
TQk  9   no / j>'>'              /                       KAZAKHSTAN
s \ t f ro a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ROADS
{q                        ^               7Dvshonbe  T A J I K I S T A N    t-                         tF tstATtOtitALAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BIAT APIAL
100UOA IRSK                                                                                                                                                      A    MC
Als-     iIArYCREU UC IS \                 J      2*               ,                 t7sLErDa
talosteleRs OF IRAN t ,                                                                                                  -¢Nßw - O B . tNIERNAST tBOUNDARIES
0   100     ttES20   300      40            o-                                 AFGHANISTAN   7          <SSF         NI   
_ 00                                                                                                                                                    OCIRA 992IA



