Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15812
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
REHABILITATION LOAN
(LOAN 3649-KZ)
June 26, 1996
Country Operations I (EC3C1)
Country Department III (EC3)
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office(ECA)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Tenge [national currency adopted November 19931
1 Tenge = 100 Tyins
Tenge per USS
Period    Period Average    End of Period
1993          ---               6
1994          36               54
1995          61               64
June 21, 1996      67              --
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CMEA           Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
FSU            Former Soviet Union
FXC            Foreign Exchange Market Component
G + NFS        Goods plus Non-Factor Services
GOK           Government of Kazakstan
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IPF           Investment Privatization Fund
MPP            Mass Privatization Program
MSRP           Memorandum on Structural Reform Policies
MUV            Index of Unit Value of Manufactured Exports
NBK            National Bank of the Republic of Kazakstan
PIC            Pre-Identified Imports Component
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
SAL            Structural Adjustment Loan
SSP            Small Scale Privatization
STF            Structural Transformation Facility
USD            United States Dollar



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Contents
Preface ............................                                                                            i
Evaluation Summary ............................                                                                ii
Project Implementation Assessment .... ..............................  1
A. Project Origin and Objectives ..........................1
B. Achievement of Objectives .........................                                                 2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ................ 7
D. Project Sustainability ........................................... 7
E. Bank Performance ...........................................  8
F. Borrower Performance ........................................... 8
G. Assessment of Outcome ......................................... 9
H. Future Operations ...........................................   10
I. Key Lessons Learned  ..........................................   10
Statistical Tables  ................................................                                          13
Annexes
Mission's Aide Memoire  ........................................  A. 1
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR   .................................  A.3
Map IBRD 28007
Vice President:                            Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Director:                                  Yukon Huang, EC3
Division Chief:                            Kadir T. Yurukoglu, EC3C1
Staff:                                     John Holsen, EC3C1
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiUhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
REHABILIATION LOAN
(Loan 3649-KZ)
PREFACE
This is the Implomentation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rehabilitation Loan to Kazakstan,
for which loan 3649-KZ in the amount of US$180 million equivalent was approved on September 17,
1993, and made effective on December 22, 1993.
This loan was closed on July 31, 1995, compared to the original closing date of December 31,
1994. As this was a Rehabilitation Loan, rather than a Structural Adjustment Loan, the disbursements
were not tranched. Final disbursement took place on August 22, 1995, at which time a balance of
US$5,698 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared in the Country Operations I (Azerbaijan, Kazakstan, Kyrgyz Republic,
Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan) Division of Country Department III of the Europe & Central
Asia Regional Office. It was prepared by John A. Holson, and was reviewed by Kadir T. Yurukoglu,
EC3C1 Division Chief; by Marc Blanc, Project Adviser, Country Department III; and by Constantine
Michalopoulos, Senior Adviser, Country Department III. The borrower provided comments that are
included as an annex to this ICR.
As supervision of the Rehabilitation Loan was merged with preparation of the successor Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL I), which was approved in FY95, preparation of this ICR was begun during
missions related to this SAL. It was completed during a mission in May 1996. The report is based upon
material In the project file and discussions held with Borrower staff involved in project implementation.
T'he Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by reviewing the draft ICR and by preparing its
own evaluation of the project's preparation and implementation.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION wEPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
REHABILITATION LOAN
(Loan 3649-KZ)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Rehabilitation Loan was designed to support the Government's program of macroeconomic
and structural reforms that was intended to facilitate Kazakstan's transition from being part of a large
command economy to being an independent market economy increasingly integrated into the world
economy. This program was initiated at a difficult time, when Kazakstan was severely handicapped by
the disruption of its traditional trading relations with the CMEA and FSU, and was trying to recover from
the elimination of transfers from the Soviet Union (which in the earlier period had amounted to close to
10 percent of GDP). The economic situation in Kazakstan was further complicated by the breakdown
of the Ruble Zone and the introduction of the Kazak tenge in November 1993. In addition, although the
general direction was understood, the details of the path that would lead from a command economy to
a market economy were by no means clear.
Project Objectives
2.    At the macroeconomic level, the primary objective of the Rehabilitation Loan was to support the
program to stabilize the economy, including bringing inflation under control and renewing growth. At
the structural level, the objective was to support the implementation of policy and institutional reforms
that were intended to promote both an early supply response and the development of a competitive market
economy. The Government's "Memorandum on Structural Reform Policies' outlined specific measures
to be taken in five areas. They were: (1) price, subsidy and trade policies, (2) privatization and reform
of state enterprises, (3) developing a competitive private sector, (4) financial sector reform, and (5) social
protection.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    Macroeconomic Trends. The macroeconomic program adopted in mid-1993 proved to be
exceedingly optimistic with respect to the targets for both real output and the control of inflation. The
initial targets greatly underestimated the difficulties involved in the transition from a command to a
market economy. The program assumed a decline in real GDP of 7.5 percent in 1993, followed by a
recovery of 1 percent in 1994. Instead, real GDP fell by 15.7 percent in 1993 and by another 25 percent
in 1994. The program had assumed that inflation would be held to 926 percent in 1993, while in 1994
the rate would fall to 104 percent. Instead, prices went up by 1237 percent in 1993 and inflation
accelerated to 2071 percent in 1994. The response of Kazakstan's economic policy makers to these
developments was a renewed effort at stabilization in 1995. As a result of tight fiscal and monetary
policies, the increase in retail prices between 1994 and 1995 was limited to 176 percent. Within 1995
(i.e., between December 1994 and December 1995), the increase in retail prices was held to only 60
percent. There was less success, however, with stabilizing the real economy. Real output dropped by
an additional 8.9 percent in 1995, bringing the reported level to only 44 percent of its 1991 level.
However, because the growing shadow economy has escaped the official GDP estimates, this figure



iii
probably somewhat understates the level of output in 1995. It seems reasonable to conclude that output
in 1995 was roughly half of the level of 1990. The 5-year decline in real output now seems to be ending.
Data for the first quarter of 1996 indicate that real GDP was one percent above the same period of the
previous year.
4.    Structural Reform. During 1994 good progress was made in implementing structural reforms
related to price and trade liberalization, small scale privatization, and financial sector reforms. However,
achievements were limited in the areas of privatization and restructuring larger enterprises, in developing
competitive markets, and in reforming the system of social protection. In 1995, however, the pace of
structural reform accelerated in those areas where it had been weaker during the previous year.
(a)    Price, subsidy and trade policies: By October 1994, when bread prices were liberalized,
the authorities had virtually completed the elimination of direct administrative pricing and
related consumer subsidies. A foreign exchange market was functioning and most
restrictions on imports had been removed. By April 1994 the number of products under
export quotas had been reduced from 34 to 7.
(b)    Small scale privatization (SSP) got off to a relatively rapid start in 1994. About 2,900
establishments had been sold by the end of the year. By the end of 1995 a total of over
1 1,000 had been sold. By this time the privatization of small scale retail trade, public
catering and service establishments had been substantially completed.  The mass
privatization program (MPP), covering medium-sized firms, became operational in April
1994 - by which time 97 percent of the citizens had received their privatization coupons
and 25 percent of these coupons had been invested in Investment Privatization Funds
(IPFs). Under the MPP there were 22 auctions, at which shares of a total of 1700
enterprises were offered for sale. By February 1996 the authorities had offered for
privatization share packages in almost all the enterprises eligible for mass privatization.
(c)    Despite the formal ending of most forms of direct government management and control,
competitive markets are developing only slowly. Between June 1993 and June 1994,
many holding companies were created which, in fact, took over many of the functions
and powers of the old industrial branch ministries. There were 81 such holding
companies.  They functioned as cartels, engaging in cross-subsidization, market
segmentation, and vertical integration. Finding themselves in a very new and uncertain
environment, it is perhaps not surprising that managers sought comfort in holding
companies that provided an environment which had many similarities with the previous
system. And, since there was no more than an embryonic market, it is hardly surprising
that managers sought assurance regarding both sources of supply for their inputs and
markets for their outputs through vertical integration. But the problems created were also
soon recognized. The need to break up monopolistic holding companies, and to create
more competitive markets, has been recognized and progress is now being made. An
April 1995 decree identified 77 of the 81 holdings for reorganization. Two are to be
reorganized as state-owned enterprises, but most are being dismantled.
(d)    Although it remains an area of continuing concern, the Kazakstan authorities have made
good progress in strengthening the commercial banking system. At the beginning of the
reform program the central bank tightened its enforcement of prudential rules, closing
14 banks in 1993 and 22 banks in 1994. Credit auctions were expanded, with access



iv
limited to banks in good prudential standing. Some state banks were restructured and
partially privatized. Since April 1995 banks have been required to classify loans;
changes in the tax code are expected to result in proper provisions for doubtful loans.
Banking sector reforms are continuing (and are being supported by a Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan).
(e)    Strengthening of social services and the social protection system has been constrained by
the tight budgetary situation. However, in September 1995 the level of unemployment
benefits was significantly improved in recognition of the importance this would have in
connection with future enterprise restructuring and down-sizing. So far the costs have
been financed by cutting back on some other activities which had been previously
undertaken by the Employment Fund. A major reform of the old-age and survivors
pension system was approved by Parliament in June 1996. In the case of health care, a
new three-tier system has been adopted which includes a guaranteed benefit funded by
budget resources, an additional entitlement financed by an earmarked payroll tax (which
goes to a compulsory medical insurance fund), and a third tier of services which are to
be bought voluntarily.
Summary of Findings. Future Operations. and Key Lessons Learned
5.    The success of the Rehabilitation Loan in supporting structural reforms must be classified as
"substantial" and be considered encouraging. Even though there were some delays, and there are some
things that have not yet been done, the authorities have made impressive progress in implementing the
reforms outlined in the August 13, 1993, "Memorandum on Structural Reform Policies". The Bank
recognizes that most reforms cannot be "done with a pen", but require building new institutions as well
as dismantling old ones. And successful reform will, in many cases, also require a change in the mind
set and attitudes of enterprise managers and government officials. These processes -- involving both
institutional and cultural changes -- will require a number of years. But the progress being made is
encouraging and merits continued Bank support.
6.    Understanding that the transition process will take time, and recognizing the determination the
Kazak political leadership and policy makers have shown, the Bank has continued its support for
economic reform in Kazakstan. The Rehabilitation Loan was followed with the First Structural
Adjustment Loan, and with loans for Finance and Enterprise Development and for Social Protection. A
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan was approved on June 25, 1996. Bank staff have started preparation
of a Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL ll), which is scheduled to be ready for Board consideration
in March 1997.
7.    Rather than anything new and startling, the Bank's experience with the Rehabilitation Loan to
Kazakstan has served to confirm the lessons which have been learned earlier with other adjustment
operations and also lessons which are being learned as the Bank seeks to support the transition process
in the former command economies. The two most important lessons from this operations are:
(1) The transition from a command to a competitive and growing market economy is more complex and
will take longer, than many assumed initially. This is especially true in the case of countries such as
Kazakstan which in the past have had very little contact with Western market economies.  (2)
Fundamental to the success of any adjustment operation is the borrower's commitment to the program.
A core team of national officials with whom Bank staff can work, and whose reform efforts can be
supported by Bank lending, is essential if the Bank's assistance is going to be effective.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
REHABILITATION LOAN
(LOAN 3649-KZ)
Project Implementation Assessment
A. Project Origin and Objectives
1.    The Rehabilitation Loan was designed to support the Government's program of macroeconomic
and structural reforms that was intended to facilitate the transition from being part of a large command
economy to an independent market economy increasingly integrated into the world economy. This
program was initiated at a difficult time, when Kazakstan was severely handicapped by the disruption of
its traditional trading relations with the CMEA and FSU, and was trying to recover from the elimination
of transfers from the Soviet Union (which in the earlier period had amounted to close to 10 percent of
Kazakstan's GDP). In addition, although the general direction was understood, the details of the path
that would lead from a command economy to a market economy were by no means clear.
2.    At the same time as the Rehabilitation Loan was being prepared, IMF staff were working on a
program which would permit a drawing under the Systemic Transformation Facility. An STF drawing
was approved by the Fund Board on July 23, 1993. This economic program provided a short-term
macroeconomic framework for the Bank's Rehabilitation Loan. In turn, the Bank's loan provided quickly
disbursing balance of payments support which made a necessary contribution to the macroeconomic
program.
3.    The Rehabilitation Loan is one in a series of operations which are intended to support Kazakstan's
transition from a command to a market economy. A few weeks before the September 17, 1993, Board
meeting at which the Rehabilitation Loan was approved, the Executive Directors had approved a
Technical Assistance Loan for Kazakstan. Under the latter loan the Bank has provided technical support
for privatization and enterprise reform, for financial sector reform, and for social sector reform. Other
closely related loans, all approved in FY95, were the Financial and Enterprise Development Loan, the
Social Protection Loan, and the first Structural Adjustment Loan. A Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
was approved on June 15, 1996. Preparatory work has begun for the Second Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL Il); it is expected that SAL II will be ready for Board consideration in March 1997. The
Rehabilitation Loan is the first of these operations to be fully disbursed and closed. But, in the following
discussion of economic reform in Kazakstan, this Implementation Completion Report deals with a process
which is on-going, which has been supported by a number of Bank operations, and which the Bank is
continuing to support.
4.    At the macroeconomic level, the primary objective of the Rehabilitation Loan was to support the
program to stabilize the economy, including bringing inflation under control and renewing growth. The
loan provided quickly disbursing foreign exchange during a period when this support was badly needed.
The need for quickly disbursing external financing was particularly great in 1994, when the current
account deficit reached 5.9 percent of GDP and there was a need to build up foreign exchange reserves
after the Ruble Area broke apart and Kazakstan established its own national currency. At the structural
level, the objective was to support the implementation of policy and institutional reforms that were
intended to promote both an early supply response and the development of a competitive market



2
economy. The Government's "Memorandum on Structural Reform Policies" outlined specific measures
to be taken in five areas. They were:
1.    Price, subsidy and trade policies.
2.    Privatization and reform of state enterprises.
3.    Developing a competitive private sector.
4.    Financial sector reform.
5.    Social protection.
B. Achievement of Objectives
5.    Macroeconomic Objectives. The macroeconomic program adopted in mid-1993 proved to be
exceedingly ambitious with respect to the targets for both real output and the control of inflation. The
program assumed a decline in real GDP of 7.5 percent in 1993, followed by a recovery of 1 percent in
1994. Instead, real GDP fell by 15.7 percent in 1993 and by another 25 percent in 1994. (See Table 1.)
The program had assumed that inflation would be held to 926 percent in 1993, while in 1994 the rate
would fall to 104 percent. Instead, prices went up by 1237 percent in 1993 and inflation accelerated to
2071 percent in 1994. (These inflation rates are based on the index of retail prices and represent the
percent increase over the prior year.)
6.    It is clear that the initial targets were optimistic and greatly underestimated the difficulties
involved in the transition from a command to a market economy. In addition, the economic situation in
Kazakstan was further complicated by the breakdown of the Ruble Zone and the introduction of the Kazak
tenge in November 1993. This added to the already serious problems of interrepublican payments. The
internal economy also suffered from growing payments problems -- between enterprises, to banks, and
for taxes owed the government. In the spring of 1994, an attempt was made to "clear" these growing
payments arrears. After a "netting out" process involving the claims and obligations of enterprises, banks
and the government, credit was expanded to pay the obligations of those enterprises that at the end of the
netting out process were in a liability position. This clearance of arrears process added significantly to
monetary expansion and inflationary pressures during 1994.
7.    The response of Kazakstan's economic policy makers to the problems of 1994 was a renewed
effort at stabilization. As a result of tight fiscal and monetary policies, the increase in retail prices
between 1994 and 1995 was limited to 176 percent. Within 1995 (i.e., between December 1994 and
December 1995), the increase in retail prices was held to only 60 percent. There was less success,
however, with stabilizing the real economy. Real output dropped by an additional 8.9 percent in 1995,
bringing the reported level to only 44 percent of its 1991 level. However, because the growing shadow
economy has escaped the official GDP estimates, this figure probably somewhat understates the level of
output in 1995. But it seems reasonable to conclude that output in 1995 was roughly half of the level
of 1990. Data for the first quarter of 1996 indicate that real GDP is no longer declining, but in fact was
one percent above the same period of the previous year.
8.    The major trends in the Kazak economy between 1993 and 1995 are summarized on the
accompanying Table 1. One indicator of the Government's fiscal effort is the decline in the real level
of government expenditures -- which in 1995 were, in real terms, only 42 percent of their 1993 level.
In part because of the very tight liquidity situation, however, the decline in revenues was somewhat
greater. Although the tenge appreciated by 171 percent between 1993 and 1995, exports have been
recovering and the increase in imports has been limited by both tight credit and the trend in the real level



Republic of Kazakstan: Implementation Completion Report 3
of economic activity. The reduction and subsequent elimination of export taxes and other restrictions
(quotas and licenses) has made possible the recovery of traditional exports despite the appreciation of the
real exchange rate. As a share of GDP, the current account deficit has declined dramatically (due to the
Table 1: Kazakstan: Selected Economic Indicators. 1990-1995
1990   1991   1992   1993   19s4   1996
Trend in Real GDP
Index 1990=100                              100.0  88.2   78.7   64.7   48.5  44.1
% change from prior year                           -11.8%  -13.0%  -15.7%  -26.1%  -8.9
GDP Deflator 1% change between years)          --      90%   1780%  1174%  2210%  156%
Retail prices 1% change between years)         --      91%   1381%  1237%  2071%  176%
General Government Finances (% of GDP)
Receipts                                      --     --      --   40.1%  24.1%  22.5%
Expenditures                                                 --   40.8%  30.7%  25.2%
Deficit                                       --     --      --   -0.7%  -6.6%  -2.7%
General Govt Finances (Index Real 1993  100)
Receipts                                      --     --      --    100    45.0  38.3
Expenditures                                  --     --      --    100    56.4  42.1
Balance of Payments (million US$)
Exports (G+NFS)                               --     --      --   3449   3308   6253
Imports (G+NFS)                               --     --      --   4244   4110   5380
Resource Balance                              --     --      --   -795   -802   -127
Current Account Balance                       --     --      --   -759   -757   -218
Capital Inflow (net)                          --     --      --    1125    se9    329
lof which direct foreign investment)          --     --      --    473    820   e6o
Increase in Net Foreign Assets   [+I       -  --     --      --    368    211    111
Current Balance as Percent of GDP              --   --        --    7.9%    5.9%    1.2%
Gross NBK Foreign Reserves (stock)
Million US$ [including gold]                  --     --      --    640    1236   1660
In months imports (G+NFS)                     --     --      --    1.8    3.2    3.2
Exchange Rate (annual average)
Tenge per US                                  --     --      --    2.8    36.1   61.4
Index Real X-Rate (1993 - 100)                --     ..      ..    100    179    271
From Monetary Survey
Growth in Broad Money (%, Dec-Dec)            --     --      --    690%   717%    98%
Ratio, Government Credit to GDP               --     --      --   -0.8%    1.7%   2.4%
Ratio, Rest of Economy Credit to GDP          --     --      --    32.7%   13.6%   8.1%
Ratio, Broad Money to GDP                     --     --      *-    14.1%   6.7%    7.6%
Sources: Goskometat, Ministry of Economy, National Bank of Kazaketan. and IMF staff estimates. The figures for
general government finances include the social protection funds and the Road Fund. Ratio indicators for money and
credit were calculated using the average of start-year and end-year stocks divided by annual GDP. The index of the real
exchange rate has been calculated using the GDP deflator for Kazakstan and the MUV for world prices.



4
appreciation of the tenge as well as the reduced deficit in dollars). Starting from zero at the end of 1992,
Kazalcstan has built up its gross foreign reserves (including domestically produced gold) to $1.66 billion
at the end of 1995, equivalent to over three months imports.
9.    Reflecting the fiscal and monetary discipline enforced in 1995, the growth in the money supply
during the year was held to 98 percent - compared to increases of about 700 percent during the two
preceding years. Inflation had lead to sharp increases in the velocity of money prior to 1993. In the
Soviet Union the money supply had traditionally been about 50 percent of GDP, but the monetary
overhang that developed in the late 1980s increased this figure to about 70 percent. The drop to 14
percent in 1993 thus already represented a massive increase in the velocity of money. Velocity doubled
again between 1993 and 1994, but then slowed slightly in 1995. The tightness of credit policy is
reflected in the ratio of credit to GDP. Credit to the "rest of the economy" fell from 33 percent of GDP
in 1993 to
14 percent in 1994 and then to only 8 percent in 1995. The level of banking system credit to the "rest
of the economy" declined even in nominal terms during 1995. Tight credit and high real interest rates
have contributed to the continuing problems of payments arrears, and arrears have in some ways become
a substitute for money and banking system credit. The establishment of financial discipline, an increasing
supply of credit for working capital and investment, and the moderation of real interest rates are all
needed if the real economy is going to recover and function efficiently.
10.   Structural Reform Objectives. When compared with the objectives set out in the "Memorandum
on Structural Reform Policies", good progress was made during 1994 in implementing structural reforms
related to price and trade liberalization, small scale privatization, and financial sector reforms. During
this year achievements were comparatively limited in the areas of privatization and restructuring of larger
enterprises, in developing competitive markets, and in reforming the system of social protection.
However, in 1995 the pace of structural reform accelerated in those areas where it had been slower
during the previous year. Paragraphs 11-20 describe the progress that has been made in the structural
reforms discussed in the government's "Memorandum on Structural Reform Policies" (MSRP). Annex
Table 5, on "Key Indicators for Project Implementation", summarizes the performance with respect to
the specific measures in the "Plan of Action" which accompanied the MSRP.
11.   By October 1994, when bread prices were liberalized, the authorities had virtually completed the
elimination of direct administrative pricing and related consumer subsidies. A foreign exchange market
was functioning and most restrictions on imports had been removed. By April 1994 the number of
products under export quotas had been reduced from 34 to 7. In the case of those products still subject
to quotas, 30 percent of the quotas were auctioned (while the remainder continued to be assigned to state
trading companies). Regarding price, subsidy and trade policies, all of specific measures proposed for
1994 were in fact implemented during that year.
12.   Small scale privatization (SSP) got off to a relatively rapid start in 1994.  About 2,900
establishments had been sold by the end of the year. By the end of 1995 a total of over 11,000 had been
sold. By this time the privatization of small scale retail trade, public catering and service establishments
had been substantially completed. The mass privatization program (MPP), covering medium-sized firms,
did not become operational until April 1994 -- by which time 97 percent of the citizens had received their
privatization coupons and 25 percent of these coupons had been invested in Investment Privatization
Funds (IPFs). Under the MPP there were 22 auctions, at which shares of a total of 1700 enterprises were
offered for sale. By February 1996 the authorities had offered for privatization share packages in almost
all the enterprises eligible for mass privatization. The final coupon auction was held of January 30, 1996,



Republic of Kazakstan: Implementation Completion Report 5
by which time all of the coupons collected by the IPFs had been redeemed. The specific SSP and MPP
objectives outlined in the MSRP have now been accomplished, but in most cases this was done in 1995
rather than in 1994.
13.   In addition to the SSP and the MPP, 180 of the largest enterprises (each having more than 5,000
employees) have been identified for case-by-case privatization. This part of the privatization program
has moved relatively slowly. In most cases, the government has adopted an approach of contracting
management to the private sector rather than immediate privatization. As of early 1996, only 5 of these
enterprises had been sold. Another 44 were under management contracts with private sector groups
(including 12 foreign management groups). In 1996, the Government is initiating "Stage Three" of its
privatization program. This will include sales of state-owned shares in enterprises that at present are only
partially privatized as well as continued implementation of the case-by-case program for larger state-
owned enterprises.
14.   Enterprise restructuring, including down-sizing and liquidation of enterprises that are not proving
to be financially viable, has gone slowly. With output at about half of the 1990 level, and with liquidity
extremely tight, they has been an understandable reluctance to take present financial difficulties as a clear
indication of non-viability in the longer term. Analysis of profitability has been complicated by the fact
that price signals have by no means been clear; in addition to the major changes in the real exchange rate,
relative prices have moved as administrative controls and subsidies were eliminated and also in response
to changes in the degree of monopolistic price setting. In addition, the limited benefits available to those
who became unemployed created a general reluctance to discharge workers. Moreover, the likely
effectiveness of government action in enterprise restructuring is questioned by many, especially given the
limited concern with micro level economic efficiency that existed under the command economy and the
political reluctance of public authorities to down-size and liquidate. However, the August 1993 'Plan
of Action" accompanying the Rehabilitation Loan called for the authorities to "develop an approach to
adjustment assistance ... [which would] condition financial assistance to large enterprises on the
preparation and implementation of satisfactory restructuring plans". But it was not until March 1995 that
the Rehabilitation Trust was created to implement this objective for a limited number of the larger loss-
making enterprises. For most firms it is anticipated that the needed restructuring will take place as a
result of the combination of privatization and credit restrictions by commercial banks.
15.   Despite the formal ending of most forms of direct government management and control,
competitive markets are developing only slowly. There was an unanticipated set back during the period
loan implementation was beginning when numerous holding companies were created which, in fact, took
over many of the functions and powers of the old industrial branch ministries. There were 81 such
holding companies. They functioned as cartels, engaging in cross-subsidization, market segmentation,
and vertical integration. Finding themselves in a very new and uncertain environment, it is perhaps not
surprising that managers sought comfort in holding companies that provided an environment which had
many similarities with the previous system. And, since there was no more than an embryonic market,
it is hardly surprising that managers sought assurance regarding both sources of supply for their inputs
and markets for their outputs through vertical integration. But the problems created were also soon
recognized. For example, in 1994 a few holding companies controlled practically the entire agricultural
marketing chain, from farm gate through food processing to the retail outlets. This, in combination with
the liberalization of farm input prices, lead to a shift in the terms of trade against farmers, and added
greatly to the serious problems being faced by the agricultural sector.



6
16.   The need to break up monopolistic holding companies, and to create more competitive markets,
was soon recognized and progress is now being made. An April 1995 decree identified 77 of the 81
holdings for reorganization. Two are to be reorganized as state-owned enterprises, but most are being
dismantled. In agriculture and food processing, grain elevators are being auctioned, as are flour and feed
mills and macaroni factories.
17.   In addition to privatization (including demonopolization prior to privatization), other measures
are helping to create more efficient and competitive markets. A commodities exchange is now
functioning. Arrangements, however, for a securities exchange are not yet completed. Early in 1995
the first part of the Civil Code, focusing on property and contractual rights, was adopted. This has been
followed by legislation to strengthen the framework for secured lending and land registration. Although
the legal framework for bankruptcy now exists, so far few creditors appear to have availed themselves
of these procedures. Nonetheless, in November 1995 the country's largest steel mill was declared
bankrupt and the Government has initiated insolvency procedures against a number of other insolvent
enterprises.
18.   Although it remains an area of continuing concern, the Kazakstan authorities have made good
progress in strengthening the commercial banking system. The specific objectives outlined for 1994 in
the MSRP were all accomplished within that year. At the beginning of the reform program the central
bank tightened its enforcement of prudential rules, closing 14 banks in 1993 and 22 banks in 1994.
Credit auctions were expanded, with access limited to banks in good prudential standing. Some state
banks were restructured and partially privatized. However, the some of the problems in the banking
system soon became apparent, and the central bank had to intervene when both the savings bank
(Sberbank) and the construction bank (Kredsozbank) experienced financial distress. Since April 1995
banks have been required to classify loans; changes in the tax code are expected to result in proper
provisions for doubtful loans. Banking sector reforms are continuing (and are being supported by a
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan). However, there can hardly be a financially sound banking system
until real interest rates have come down to more realistic levels and the enterprises that are the clients
of the commercial banks are themselves in better financial condition.
19.   Strengthening of social services and the social protection system has been constrained by the tight
budgetary situation. However, in September 1995 the level of unemployment benefits was significantly
improved in recognition of the importance this would have in connection with future enterprise
restructuring and down-sizing. So far the costs have been financed by cutting back on some other
activities which had been previously undertaken by the Employment Fund. A major reform of the old-
age and survivors pension system (including a politically controversial three-year increase in the
retirement age) was approved by Parliament in June 1996. In the case of health care, a new three-tier
system has been adopted which includes a guaranteed benefit funded by budget resources, an additional
entitlement financed by an earmarked payroll tax (which goes to a compulsory medical insurance fund),
and a third tier of services which are to be bought voluntarily.
20.   One important concern has been the maintenance of adequate services as commercialized and
privatized enterprises divest themselves of the pre-school and health facilities which they had traditionally
supported. Although such divestiture has been going on in an ad hoc fashion, in May 1996 a program
was adopted to rationalize this process. Pilot programs, supported by the Bank's Social Protection
Project, are already underway in two oblasts. The housing sector is an area where a clear strategy has
not yet been developed, and there is much concern about the social consequences of passing all housing
and utility costs on to the occupants. Although the flats in multi-family buildings are presumed to be



Republic of Kazakstan: Implementation Completion Report 7
privatized, in practice the enterprises and municipal authorities that previously provided this housing often
are the only entities that exist to provide (usually inadequately) for the maintenance of these building.
There remains the need to establish structures to manage multi-family buildings with privatized flats and
also to require the new owners to cover the full costs of operation and maintenance of (with a suitable
safety net for the poorer residents).
21.   Summary, The success of the Rehabilitation Loan in supporting structural reforms must be
classified as "substantial" and be considered encouraging. Even though there were some delays, the
authorities have made impressive progress in implementing the reforms outlined in the August 13, 1993,
"Memorandum on Structural Reform Policies". The Bank recognizes that most reforms cannot be "done
with a pen", but require building new institutions as well as dismantling old ones. And successful reform
will, in many cases, also require a change in the mind set and attitudes of enterprise managers and
government officials. These processes - involving both institutional and cultural changes - will require
a number of years. But the progress being made is encouraging and merits continued Bank support.
22.   The desired impact of the loan on the balance of payments, on the budget, and on the availability
of some pre-identified imports, were accomplished simply by the disbursement of the loan. The sale of
the foreign exchange component in the auction market made foreign exchange available to importers and
also generated counterpart funds which helped finance the budget. The agricultural sector was the main
beneficiary of the pre-identified imports component, with $39 million out of a total of $43 million being
used for that sector. While at the time of appraisal it had been anticipated that $94 million would be used
for the foreign exchange component, and $86 million would be used for the pre-identified imports, in the
course of implementation $43 million was reallocated from the latter to the former. This contributed to
the objective of the more rapid utilization of the resources being provided by the Bank.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
23.   Looked at in terms of achievement of the economic reform objectives, the implementation record
is discussed above. Looked at in terms of the speed and smoothness of implementation following Board
approval, the few difficulties that did arise are discussed below under "Bank Performance" and "Borrower
Performance". The problems that did arise were resolved without great delay. They were, for the most
part, simply the consequence of the inexperience of the Borrower in dealing with the Bank -- and
probably also the inexperience of the Bank in dealing with the Borrower.
24.   One must also note the difficult and changing environment in which economic policies were being
designed and implemented. In the summer of 1993, at the time the STF agreement with the IMF was
being approved and the Rehabilitation Loan was being negotiated, it was still generally assumed that
Kazakstan would continue to be a member of the Ruble Zone. But events quickly demonstrated that this
was not a practical course of action. On November 15, 1993, Kazakstan left the ruble zone and
introduced its own national currency. It is hardly surprising that, in the final months of 1993 and the
early months of 1994, the economic authorities were heavily occupied with the immediate problems
related to their newly achieved monetary independence. It is much to the credit of the authorities that
they continued their efforts at longer-term structural reforms during this difficult step in the transition.
D. Project Sustainability
25.   Under the heading of "sustainability" the basic concern is the sustainability of Kazakstan's
economic reform program as a whole. It is too early to give a final and definite answer to this question.



8
There have been both "winners" and "losers" as a result of the stabilization and reform efforts. Some
of the initial "winners" may now have a vested interest in delaying further reforms, since the development
of more open and competitive markets would undermine their present positions. Given the decline in
economic output and the growth in economic insecurity, there no doubt are many losers who are unhappy
and worried. But at the moment they are not a vocal group. And the authorities have demonstrated a
strong commitment to continuing reform.
26.   The sustainability of the economic reform process will in large measure depend upon its success
in more effectively meeting the needs of the whole population. More particularly, the sustainability of
the efforts at structural reform will depend in large part upon whether the authorities are now successful
in stabilizing output and then bringing about the renewal of economic growth. Recent economic data,
which indicate that real GDP during the first quarter of 1996 was one percent above the level of the same
period of the previous year, offer hope that this is the case. If output and incomes are recovering, it will
be much easier to complete the enterprise restructuring, and to mobilize the budget resources needed for
social and economic infrastructure and for a more adequate social safety net. This will require a carefully
balanced program so as not to lose the hard won gains of bringing inflation under relative control. And
it must be kept in mind that some major adjustments in relative prices are not yet completed (particularly
for housing and public utility services to households), and that these adjustments in relative prices will
probably require some increases in the average level of prices.
E. Bank Performance
27.   The Bank's overall performance in connection with the Rehabilitation Loan was fully
"satisfactory' and consistent with the Bank's desire to provide experienced staff who could make
substantial contributions to the policy dialogue and the design of an effective project. During the
preparation stage Bank staff cooperated with the Fund as well as with the Kazakstan authorities in helping
work out the economic reform program. Although there was a substantial time lag between the beginning
of project preparation in June 1992 and the post-appraisal in July 1993, the project moved quickly after
the 1MF Board approved a Structural Transformation Facility agreement on July 23, 1993.
28.   During the implementation stage the Bank demonstrated the flexibility that was needed to permit
timely disbursement of the loan. By mid-May 1994, less than four months after the loan had become
effective, all of the $94 million in the foreign exchange component had been exhausted. However, only
about $31 million out of the $86 million for pre-identified imports had been committed. In these
circumstances $43 million was reallocated from the pre-identified imports component to the foreign
exchange component (which reduced the pre-identified imports component from 48 percent to 24 percent
of the total).
F. Borrower Performance
29.   The Borrower's overall performance in connection with the Rehabilitation Loan was certainly
"satisfactory".  As indicated above (section B), the structural reform program  outlined in the
"Memorandum on Structural Reform Policies" has generally been implemented, although in some cases
more slowly than originally planned. During the preparation of the project, there was excellent
cooperation between the authorities and Bank staff. Given the newness of the whole process of transition
from a command to a market economy, no one -- in the Government, in the Bank, or elsewhere -- had
answers to all the difficult questions that arose. There was a generally good policy dialogue between the



Republic of Kazakstan: Implementation Completion Report 9
authorities and Bank staff, and the latter were able to be helpful in the design of the program of structural
reforms which is outlined in the resulting policy memorandum.
30.   There were, however, some initial problems in project implementation. At the start the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) had been inadequately staffed, and there was substantial turnover in the initial
months. These problems were overcome with the recruitment of new national staff and the extension of
the duties undertaken by the Crown Agent advisors. There were also delays in providing the PIU with
the necessary administrative support. After these initial difficulties had been overcome, the PIU
functioned effectively. Given the lack of experience on the part of the national officials, the role of the
PIU's expatriate advisers was absolutely crucial to the timely implementation of the project.
31.   Two problems arose with the Pre-identified Imports Component (PIC) of the Rehabilitation Loan,
one relating to counterpart deposits and the other relating to procurement. The sectoral ministries initially
sought to avoid depositing counterpart for imports financed under the Rehabilitation Loan, thus in effect
getting an unauthorized increase in their budgetary appropriation. This problem was resolved when the
revised budget was approved by Parliament in May 1994 and the financing of pre-identified imports was
effectively brought into the budget framework. Even before the loan had become effective, it was clear
that there would be problems in reconciling the Bank's procurement rules with Kazakstan's regulations
on the importation of agricultural chemicals. Under the latter only registered products could be imported,
and for most products only a single brand name was registered for the particular product. Testing
requirements made the registration process a lengthy one; consequently, in order not to delay the import
of agricultural chemicals needed for the spring planting season, the Bank agreed to sole source
procurement in a limited number of cases. However, given the fact that Kazakstan was a new borrower,
the proportion of PIC procurement that was subject to international competitive bidding was relatively
high.
32.   This introductory experience with international competitive bidding was both useful and
successful. The prices obtained were better than had been anticipated by the end users, thus allowing
somewhat larger quantities to be imported with the same financing. Before this experience with
procurement of critical imports under the Rehabilitation Loan, some national officials thought that
following the Bank's standard procurement procedures would only complicate matters and would not
result in better prices than had previously been obtained by the state trading organizations. Subsequently,
however, the concerned officials acknowledged the substantial benefits that had resulted from international
competitive bidding.
G. Assessment of Outcome
33.   When looked at in terms of the implementation of specific structural reforms on the timetable set
forth in the Government's "Memorandum on Structural Reform Policies", the outcome of the project
should be considered "satisfactory". While there were delays and problems in some areas, when one
recognizes the complexity of the process, it must be concluded that good progress has been made towards
the broad structural reform objectives. The disbursements from the Rehabilitation Loan provided
additional resources at a very difficult time, as well as signaling the support of the international
community for the country's reform efforts. The targets fixed in 1993 for stabilizing output and prices
have proved to be too optimistic and 1994 was a difficult year. In 1995 significant progress was made
in bringing inflation under control, but real output continued to decline. Recent figures on real output
are more encouraging, since GDP for the first quarter of 1996 is estimated at one percent above the level
of the same period of the previous year.



10
34.   The Rehabilitation Loan is the first Bank loan to Kazakstan that has been "closed". Except for
the Technical Assistance Loan that was signed and became effective on the same dates as the
Rehabilitation Loan, it is the first Bank loan to Kazakstan. The preparation and implementation of the
loan provided valuable experience for both the Bank and the Borrower which are yielding benefits in the
subsequent working relationships. A particularly important "outcome" was the development of an
effective policy dialogue, through which Bank staff could share their experience with what had worked
(and what had failed) in other countries, and as a result of which the Bank staff could better understand
the "local" factors that strongly influenced what would be both desirable and feasible in Kazakstan.
H. Future Operations
35.   The Bank recognizes that the transition from a command economy to a competitive market
economy, and the integration of the Kazakstan economy into the world economy, are processes that will
necessarily take some time. In comparison with Central Europe, the countries of Central Asia are
historically as well as geographically far more removed from the Western market economies. It is going
to take time to develop the institutions and the attitudes that are needed in a modern market economy.
At the public sector level, the problem is not that of abolishing the role of the state, but rather one of
changing the role of the state. In addition to the recognized concerns with macroeconomic management,
provision of adequate economic and social infrastructure, and basic social protection, it is necessary for
the state to create a regulatory and incentive framework which motivates enterprise managers to
efficiently produce and market the goods and services wanted by the community. This means getting
beyond the initial period in which the most profitable activities often have been collecting "rents" from
monopoly power and the ability to influence the decisions of public officials.
36.   Understanding that the transition process with take time, and recognizing the determination the
Kazak political leadership and policy makers have shown, the Bank has continued its support for
economic reform in Kazakstan. The Rehabilitation Loan was followed with the First Structural
Adjustment Loan, and with loans for Finance and Enterprise Development and for Social Protection. A
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan was approved on June 25, 1996. Bank staff have started preparation
of a Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II), which is scheduled to be ready for Board consideration
in March 1997.
37.   It is anticipated that SAL II will be the Bank's last general adjustment loan for Kazakstan. Future
lending will be focused more on specific sectors and to an increasing extent upon specific investment
projects. Institution building and strengthening sector policies will, however, play a major role in these
lending operations. In addition to basic infrastructure and social services provided by the public sector,
continued support for enterprise restructuring, for capital markets development, and for post-privatization
assistance to privatized enterprises are all areas in which Bank support could prove useful.
I. Key Lessons Learned
38.   Rather than anything new and startling, the Bank's experience with the Rehabilitation Loan to
Kazakstan has served to confirm the lessons which have been learned earlier with other adjustment
operations and also lessons which are being learned as the Bank seeks to support the transition process
in the former command economies. Ranging from the more general to the particular, the key lessons
from the Rehabilitation Loan are:



Republic of Kazakstan: Implementation Completion Report 11
(a)    The transition from a command to a competitive and growing market economy is more
complex and will take longer, than many assumed initially. This is especially true in the
case of countries such as Kazakstan which in the past have had very little contact with
Western market economies.
(b)    Fundamental to the success of any adjustment operation is the borrower's commitment
to the program. A core team of national officials with whom Bank staff can work, and
whose reform efforts can be supported by Bank lending, is essential if the Bank's
assistance is going to be effective.
(c)    The Bank's contribution is in project design, and sharing the lessons of experience, as
much as in providing financial resources.  However, recognizing that "transition
economics" is more of an art than a science, Bank staff must avoid "text book" solutions
and be able to adapt their recommendations to the particular situation.
(d)    Expatriate advisers have a strong and essential role in the Project Implementation Unit,
at least until the borrower has gained more experience in working with the Bank. As
well as being advisers, the expatriate staff must be prepared to take on both training and
operating responsibilities.
(e)    Attention must be given to seeing that the PIU has adequate physical facilities and
operating budget, as well as appropriate national and expatriate staff. The Bank should
be satisfied that, between the government budget and Bank-financed technical assistance,
all the essential requirements are fulfilled.
(f)    The Pre-Identified Imports Component (PIC) of the Rehabilitation Loan complicated
implementation, but probably had no substantive effect on the composition of imports;
from the standpoint of the government agency using PIC resources, the constraint on
imports was the agency's budget appropriation rather than foreign exchange. The
principal benefit of having a PIC component (rather than using all of the resources for
the FXC) was the exposure of government officials to the Bank's procurement procedures
and to the advantages of international competitive bidding.






Republic of Kazakstan: Implementation Completion Report 13
Statistical Tables
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     * Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     * Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     * Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    * Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions
* Standard Tables 6, 7 and 9 are not included because they are not
applicable to this Rehabilitation Loan. Table 11 is not included because
there have been no instances of non-compliance with Operational Manual
Statements.



Page 14
Table 1: Sumnary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of obiectives             Substantial         Partial      N.gigibe        Not ADolk
Macro policies                          t]                                F 2 -2
Sector policies                            ]             [                IZ 
Financial objectives                      W               E                2                n
Institutional development               5]                                   ]            [2
Physical objectives                     [                 El              [ 
Poverty reduction                        2               [                E               [
Gender issues                           [                 L                 2              [  ]
Other social objectives                 [2                                 2              [2
Environmental objectives                [2               [                 3 
Public sector management                                  E]                              [2
Private sector development              [                [2               [  
Other (specify)                         [2               [2                32
B.   Prolect sustainability                  Likely                  Unilkely                 Uncerbin
C.   Bank Performance                     Suiiafnetory             Satisfactov               .D,flbt
Identification                          [2                                                   2
Preparation assistance                  [                          32
Appraisal                                [                                                 [2
Supervision                             [                                                  [ 2
Highly
D.  Borrower Performance                  Satifactory              SauUafs                    Defkbnt
Preparation                             [2                                                [
Implementation                          [                                                 [2
Covenant compliance                                              [2                        2
Hlghly                                             Hbhiv
E.  Asmsement of outcome                  Sdigdatoryy                      Unatiuf L lr     Ur
[2                               [2               [2



Page 15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan                                    Purpose                Year of approval     Status
At same time as Rehabilitation Loan:
Technical Assistance Loan            Privatzation and enterprise  FY94          Under
reform; financial sector; social           implementation
sector; insttutional support.
Following operations:
Structural Adjustment Loan I          Continue support for         FY95          Under
reform programs                            implementation
Finance & Enterprise Development     Enterprise restructuring;    FY95           Under
payments system and other                  Implementation
banking system improvement.
Social Protection                    Safety net for workers       FY95           Under
effected by restructuring;                 Implementation
divestiture of social assets.
Financial Sector Adjustment          Reform and strengthen        FY96           Approved by Board
financial sector                           on June 25, 1996
Structural Adjustment Loan II        Continue support for    expected FY97       Planned Board date
reform programs                            in March 1997
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                                Date Planned         Actual Date
Identification (IEPS)                                    ---              April 1992
Preparation                                                               June 1992
Appraisal                                                                 October 1992
Post-Appraisal                                           ---              July 1993
Negotiations                                                              August 1993
Letter of development policy                             ---              August 1993
Board presentation                                       ---              September 1993
Signing                                                  ---              October 1993
Effectveness                                         October 1993         December 1993
Project complebon                                    December 1994        July 1995
Loan closing                                         December 1994        July 1995
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY94                  FY95                 FY96
Appraisal estimate                         150,000                30,000                   - -
Actual                                     116,890                62,920                  190
Actual as % of estimate                     77.90%              210.00%                    - -
Date of final disbursement             August 4, 1995 [for US$190,056]



Page 16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
A. Price, Subsidy and Trade Policies
The "Plan of Action" accompanying the "Memorandum on Structural Reform Policies' (MSRP) called for (1)
reductions in subsidies in the 1994 budget, (2) elimination of price controls on fodder, (3) raising petroleum
product prices to border prices, (4) termination of central bank credits at preferential rates and inclusion of any
continuing interest rate subsidies in the budget, (5) reduction of number of commodities under export quotas, (6)
a uniform import tariff of 15 percent on non-CIS imports, and (7) state procuarement to fulfill bilateral trade
agreements at freely negotiated or market prices. With the exception of the uniform import tariff on non-CIS
imports, these policies have been implemented. In the case of the tariff on non-CIS imports, Kazakstan has
joined a customs union with Russia and Belarus and has, with some exceptions, adopted the common external
tariff of this group of countries.
B. Privatization and Reform of State Enterprises
The "Plan of Action" called for (1) offering all enterprises engaged in retail and wholesale trade, and related
trucking and distribution activities, for sale by the end of 1994, (2) distribution of coupons for mass privatization
by the end of 1993, (3) mass privatization of enterprises accounting for 70% of the total assets of non-agricultural
medium and large enterprises by March 1995, (4) preparation of legislation on governance of enterprises
expected to remain in public sector, (5) case by case privatization of 10 large enterprises by March 1994 and a
second 10 by March 1995, (6) design of an approach to adjustment assistance linked to preparation of
satisfactory restructuring plans, and (7) inclusion of all forms of direct Government financial assistance to
individual enterprises in the budget. The targets for privatization were not met in 1994, but were generally met
in 1995. (Available data on medium and large enterprises relate to number of enterprises rather than to the
proportion of total asset value.) An exception is the case-by-case privatization; for the largest enterprises the
government has changed its policy from immediate privatization to one of giving management contracts to
private interests (which are given an option to purchase stock in the firm at a future time). With the exception
of what is being done through the Rehabilitation Trust for a limited number of firms, the implementation of
enterprise restructuring has been left to the new private owners who are operating in an environment of
tight credit.
C. Developing a Competitive Market
In addition to the measures included under "Price, Subsidy and Trade Policies", the "Plan of Action' called for
(1) strengthening anti-monopoly legislation and administration, (2) a review of obstacles facing entrepreneurs,
(3) reforms in tax law and administration, and (4) preparation of a new law on foreign investment. While these
measures have been implemented, the creation of a great many "holding companies" that acted in many ways
like the old industrial branch ministries worked in the opposite direction; more recent steps are leading to the
dismantling of these holding companies and thus to the creation of more competitive industrial and commercial
structures. Although the initial specific objectives in this area have been fulfilled, the development of competitive
markets will require substantial further institutional development.
D. Financial Sector Reform
The "Plan of Action" called for (1) increasing the proportion of NBK credit passing through the auction market,
(2) strengthening the licensing requirements and regulatory framework for commercial banks, (3) completion of
an audit of the NBK and diagnostic studies of ten major banks, and (4) completion of studies on term lending
facilities and on restructuring the commercial banking system. These objectives were accomplished. [The
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan approved in June 1996 is supporting continuing financial sector reforms.]
E. Social Protection
The "Plan of Acton" called for (1) analyses and recommendations regarding reform of the social protection
system and (2) preparation of recommendations on the social services provided by enterprises which would be
more appropriately provided by local authorities. These recommendations were to be ready, respectively, by
the end of 1993 and March 1994. Although the preparation of recommendations was delayed beyond the original
target dates, they have since been completed and implementation is beginning. Reforms in the Employment
Fund were introduced in September 1995 and reforms in the pension system were approved by Parliament in June
1996. A national policy regarding divestiture of enterprise social assets related to educaton and health was
announced in May 1996, with implementation beginning in the second half of this year.



Page 17
Table GA: Project Costs
(USS mlions)
Aporaisal Estimate                            Actual
Local        Foreign       Total             Local       Foreign     Total
Foreign exchange component        - -           94.0       94.0                 - -       137.0      137.0
Pre-identified imports            - -           86.0       86.0                 - -        43.0       43.0
of which:
Energy                           --           30.0        30.0                 --         --        --
Agriculture                      - -           39.0       39.0                            39.0       39.0
Food industry                    --             8.0        8.0                 --         --        --
Transportabtion                  - -            4.0        4.0                             3.9        3.9
Health                           --            5.0         5.0                 --          0.1       0.1
Total                             --           180.0       180.0                --         180.0     180.0
Table 8B: Project Financing
(USS millions)
ADoraisal Estimate                            Actual
Local       Foreign        Total             Local       Foreign    Total
1. IBRD                           --           180.0      180.0                 --        180.0      180.0
2. Cofinancing                    --          --          --                    --         --         --
3. Other external sources         - -         - -         --                    --         --         - -
4. Domestic contribution          - -         --          - -                   - -        - -        - -
Total                          --          180.0       180.0                 --        180.0      180.0
Note: Kazakstan received parallel financing from Japan equivalent to US$75 million, from Austria equivalent to US$5 million,
and from Sweden equivalent to US$3 million.
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Section and Covenant:                                                      Compliance Status:
Borrower to open and maintain, in dollars, a Special Account on terms and  In compliance. Account opened
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.                                       on March 3,1994.
Borrower to furnish Bank, no later than six months aftr end of each fiscal  In compliance. Reports for years
year, audited reports on the records and accounts of the project.         ending December 31 submittd
prior to following June 30.
Borrower to furnish Bank copy of agreement between Ministry of Finance and  In compliance. Protocol dated
National Bank of Kazakstan (NBK) defining role of latter with respect to   February 14, 1994, has been
foreign exchange component of loan.                                        provided .



Pap 18
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(costs in USS thousands)
Planned               Revised               Actual
Stop of Project Cycle                         weeks         USS       week        USS       week        USS
Preparation                                      n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.      n.a.      106.2
Appraisal                                        n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.      41.7
Negoatons to Board                                n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.m.      23.7
Supervision                                      n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.      n.a.      119.1
Compbtion                                       10.0        42.3          7       35.2         3        17.1
TOTAL                                            n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.     307.8
Table 13: Bank Resources; Missions
Performance Ratino rb1
Number    Days in       Type    Imple-       Develop.  Types of
Stage of Project Cycle          Date       Persons      Field     Staff [a]   mentation  Objectives Problems [c]
Identification                   Apr 92        2          21        E, F         --         --         --
Preparation                      Feb93         4          14        E,E,E,F    --           --         --
Apprai l                         Jul93         4          10        E. E, L,P    --         --         --
Sup rvision                      Nov 93        3           5        E, P, P      2          2          M
Mar 94       1           13         C           2          2         M
May 94       1          12          E           2          2         M
[a) C=Country Officer; E=Economist; F=Financial Sector Specialist; L=Lawyer; P=Procurement Specialist
[b] I =Minor Problems; 2=Moderate Problems; 3=Major Problems
[c] M=Project Management



ANNEX - Page A. 1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
REHABILITATION LOAN (3649-KZ)
COMPLETION MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank mission, consisting of John A. Holsen, visited Almaty from May 20 to June 5,
1996, in order (i) to finalize the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report for the
Rehabilitation Loan approved by the Bank in September 1993, and (ii) to begin discussions on a possible
Second Structural Adjustment Loan. During his visit Mr. Holsen met with Deputy Prime Minister
Sobolev and with officials from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, National Bank of
Kazakstan, and Eximbank. The mission liaised closely with Mr. David Pearce, World Bank Resident
Representative in Kazakstan, who also participated in some of the mission's meetings. The mission
wishes to thank all officials met for their cooperation.
2.    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rehabilitation Loan. This report will provide
the Bank's Management and Executive Directors an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Rehabilitation
Loan. Except for the Technical Assistance Loan, which had been approved a few weeks earlier, this was
the first Bank loan to Kazakstan (and it is the first Bank loan to be "closed" and thus to require an
Implementation Completion Report). In addition to the Bank staff's evaluation, the ICR will include an
evaluation from the Government's point of view; this portion of the ICR is being prepared in the Ministry
of Finance by the Committee for the Utilization of Foreign Capital.
3.    A draft of the Bank staff evaluation has been given to the Committee for the Utilization of
Foreign Capital. The Committee has been invited to comment on that draft before it is circulated within
the Bank. It has been agreed that any comments will be sent in time for them to be received at Bank
headquarters on or before June 14. It was also agreed that the evaluation from the Government's point
of view, which is being prepared by the Committee, would be sent to Bank headquarters so it will be
received no later than June 14. The Government's evaluation will be included in the ICR without editing
by Bank staff.
4.    It may be noted that, in its "Assessment of Outcome' section, the staff draft of the ICR concludes
as follows: "When looked at in terms of the implementation of specific structural reforms on the
timetable set forth in the Government's 'Memorandum on Structural Reform Policies', the outcome of
the project should be considered 'satisfactory'. While there were delays and problems in some areas,
when one recognizes the complexity of the process, it must be concluded that good progress is being
made towards the broad structural reform objectives."
5.    Initial Discussions on a Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II). Given the progress with
structural reforms, the Bank is now able to consider a Second Structural Adjustment Loan to Kazakstan.
During the present visit the mission discussed the general policy areas in which specific 'plans of action"
might be prepared. The implementation of these plans would then be supported by SAL II. As a result
of these discussions, several areas have been identified which are logical and highly desirable
continuations of the structural and economic management reforms already under way. These areas are:
(1) enterprise reform and the third stage of the privatization program; (2) divestiture of enterprise social
assets; housing and communal services; (3) administrative and budgetary reforms; (4) budgeting for



ANNEX - Page A.2
infrastructure and other public sector capital expenditures; (5) the management of domestic and external
borrowing; and (6) the organization, management and regulation of public utilities. These policy areas
are described in more detail in the attachment to this memorandum. Should the Kazak officials concerned
have further thoughts regarding any of these policy-areas, or wish to suggest other areas in which policy
reforms might be supported by SAL II, they are asked to discuss them with the Bank's Resident
Representative.
6.    The next step in the process of preparing SAL II will be to discuss the suggested policy areas at
Bank headquarters, and to consider whether the preparation of satisfactory plans of action in these areas,
or perhaps in several but not necessarily all of these areas, would provide an adequate basis for SAL II
(assuming, of course, continued reasonably satisfactory progress in other aspects of the reform program).
The Bank would plan on sending a pre-appraisal mission in September to discuss the specifics of what
might be included in the plans of action. If there are no unexpected delays, appraisal could take place
in late November, negotiations could be completed in January 1997 and SAL II could be presented to the
Executive Directors in March 1997.
Almaty, Kazakstan
4 June 1996



ANNEX - Page A.3
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN - REHABILITATION LOAN (3649-KZ)
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
1.    Introduction. A Rehabilitation Loan in an amount of 180 million USD was allocated by the
World Bank in support of the Macroeconomic Stabilization and Structural Reform program of the
Republic of Kazakstan, described in the "Memorandum of Structural Reform Policies' (MSRP). The
MSRP was signed by the First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakstan. An "Action Plan
for Implementation of Structural Reforms" was attached to the MSRP, and in the course of
implementation of this plan the Government has undertaken the responsibility to guide a process of market
oriented reforms in five sectors: price, trade and subsidies policies; privatization and reform of the state
enterprises, development of the competitive private sector, financial sector reform, and people's social
protection.
2.    The objectives of the Rehabilitation Loan are:
(a)   to support the Government of the Republic of Kazakstan to implement the reform
program outlined in the MSRP; and
(b)   to ease the shortage of foreign exchange needed to finance imports of critical inputs, raw
materials and spare parts in key sectors of the economy, to support the foreign exchange
market and to allow the private sector access to the foreign exchange market.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
3.    Implementation of the Economic Reform Program. In general the Loan objectives have been
achieved due to the Government's determination to be in line with the reforms policy and open dialogue
with the World Bank. The anti-crisis program was elaborated in the Republic, and implementation of
this program resulted in considerable improvement in the macroeconomic situation. Thus, in 1995, the
average monthly growth of the tenge-per-US$ exchange rate was 1.5 percent, while in the first half of
1994 the exchange rare had increased about six fold. Inflation in 1995 was 154 percent compared to
1253 percent in 1994.
4.    A considerable deceleration in the decline of gross domestic product (GDP) and industrial
production was achieved. In nine months of 1995 the value of GDP in current prices was 722 billion
tenge. The structure of GDP in current prices can be shown as follows:
manufacture of goods                    42%
performance of services                 47%
taxes (indirect taxes less subsidies)    11 %
5.    The State budget status has improved and the budget deficit became manageable.
6.    The Republic faces now a period of transition, which has the following main features:
privatization of the state ownership, creation of the market institutions and formation of the relevant



ANNEX - Page A.4
legislation. These components of the transition to a market economy are closely linked and depend on
each other. The appropriate legislative basis can not be established overnight using the standards accepted
in the developed countries. Therefore its establishment and development was performed on an
evolutionary basis: from simple to complex -- with the maximum consideration for the internal features
of the economy of Kazakstan.
7.    In 1995 small scale and mass privatizations were mainly completed; agricultural privatization,
dismantling of monopolistic industry is being carried out. From the start of the privatization process
15,700 enterprises were privatized.
8.    Auction procedures are used for privatization of the middle and large enterprises. From January
until November (eleven months) of- 1995, 211 joint stock companies were established. Receipts from
privatization during eleven months of 1995 increased 1.8 times compared to the relevant period of the
previous year.
9.    Reform of the present tax system was implemented. It was aimed, from one side, to increase the
activity of businessmen and manufacturers to provide economic growth, strengthen the financial system,
and expand the tax base; and from the other side, to provide a reasonable level of state budget
expenditures, not allowing growth of the budget deficit and stimulation of the inflationary process. A
new Tax Code was adopted.
10.   Procedures for the sanitation and bankruptcy of insolvent enterprises were established.
11.   Since the beginning of the transition period, resources were attracted into the economy of
Kazakstan in the form of:
economic assistance from official sources  2 billion US$
export credits                          2 billion US$
direct foreign investment               2.88 billion US$
(according to Goskomstat data)
12.   At the present time, when features of stabilization and structural adjustments are irreversible, the
strategy of the World Bank and other international financial organizations and donor countries is directed
to support strengthening and improvement of the sector reforms through investment loans.
13.   Imnort ComponAnt Implementation. The Rehabilitation Loan was utilized to finance imports in
amount of 180 million USD and initially consisted of:
(a)    a foreign exchange market (FXC) component in the amount of 94 million USD to provide
access for importers to the foreign exchange auction market to finance imports in
accordance with sound commercial practices; and
(b)    a pre-identified critical imports component (PIC) in amount of 86 million USD allocated
for support and rehabilitation of the critical production sectors.
14.   Foreign exchange component: The foreign exchange component has increased the amount of
foreign currency at the market providing access of the commercial companies to import activity based
on the market practices and not on administrative decisions. As compared to the initial allocation, 43



ANNEX - Page A.5
million USD were transferred from the PIC to the FXC in order to provide support for the newly
introduced national currency. Thus the FXC amounted to 137 million USD.
15.   Financing of the expansion of the auction market and non-inflationary financing of the budget was
provided through FXC. Signing of the agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of
Kazakstan and the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakstan (NBK) provided for the automatic sale
of these proceeds at the official rate of the NBK, and allowed reimbursement up to the net monthly sales
of foreign exchange by the NBK on the auction market. The amounts reimbursed were paid to the
account of the Ministry of Finance at the NBK and became available for further interventions on the
auction market. Goods imported under the FXC were those not included in the negative list of the Bank,
and were not financed through other loans.
16.   Pre-Identified Import Component (PIC): Initially 86 million USD were allocated to PIC. Late
in the course of project implementation 43 million USD, initially allocated for the energy sector, food
processing industry, and Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakstan (for drugs, vaccines, and raw
materials for manufacture of medicines) were reallocated to the FXC since the Ministry of Finance was
in doubt concerning deposit of counterpart by these sectors of the economy, and due to difficulties in the
balance of payments and the introduction of the new currency. The final value of the PIC amounted to
43 million USD.
17.   In spite of the difficulty in appraisal of the influence of the Loan on imports, it provided resources
to support industry in the difficult period of transition and to ease the reform process. For example, 70
percent of the population in Kazakstan depends on public transport; change for worse in transportation
services would affect all aspects of life of the urban population. Under the PlC, 3.54 million USD was
allocated to finance 10 percent of one year's need for spare parts for the existing stock of the existing
stock of "Ikarus" buses. This permitted a decrease in the number of buses removed from service due to
the absence of spare parts, and also to prolong duration of their service after repairs.
18.   Procurement of pesticides, herbicides, and veterinary medicines was financed out of the loan
proceeds for a total amount of 38.83 million USD, which had a significant importance for support of the
food production, and decrease in the loss of agriculture production due to diseases and pests.
Performance of the Bank
19.   The Bank had a key role in elaboration of the Government's reform program, taking part in the
design of this project. The Bank assisted the Government in implementation of the reforms by the
allocation of financial aid.
20.   The Bank helped in the adoption of the Privatization Program in April 1993, the implementation
of which was started in July 1993.
21.   With Bank assistance, a Law on Commercial Banks was prepared. It was adopted in April 1993
at the last Parliament session.
22.   A draft of the new Law on Foreign Investment was prepared with the help of the Bank.
23.   Upon Bank advice regular prices on oil products were increased twice, and this has shifted on
to consumers the burden of price increases for oil imported from Russia.



ANNEX - Page A.6
24.   In the process of loan implementation, the Bank provided prompt assistance with
recommendations and advice. Bank supervision missions have been making analyses of the reform
implementations, and the results of these analyses were submitted to the Government in the form of
memoranda.
Perfornunce of the Borrower
25.   By the middle of 1993 an essential progress in elaborating and beginning implementation of a
sound reform program was achieved in Kazakstan. Rapid privatization was a key element in this
program. Liberalization of prices for most of the goods and services was a turning point in the reforms.
26.   Successful implementation of the reforms was possible due to the Government's determination
to stick to its initial objectives and maintain a considerable dialogue with the Bank.
27.   A strict procedure for repayment of funds by procurement organizations was elaborated. The
Ministry of Finance followed this procedure in order to avoid hidden subsidies. In particular, by request
of the Ministry of Finance, proceeds allocated under the PIC for procurement of goods for the energy
sector and food industry were transferred to the FXC after appraisal by the Ministry of Finance of the
possibility of funds reimbursement in these sectors.
28.   In spite of the fact that initially Kazakstan was not aware of Bank procedures and regulations, the
Government has relied upon the Bank's assistance and has worked in close cooperation with the Bank
specialists and with the procurement, finance and disbursement advisors financed out of the Technical
Assistance Loan proceeds.
29.   With the help of the Finance and Disbursement Advisor, records and accounts were maintained
which adequately reflected the expenditure of the loan proceeds in accordance with consistently
m.aintained sound accounting practices, and this was reflected in the audit reports submitted to the Bank.
30.   Details of the Borrower's performance in the course of implementation, describing problems and
difficulties encountered by the Borrower and lessons for the future, are shown in the following part of
this report, which provides information on operational aspects of implementation.
Actual Situation at Project Launch Workshop (October 1993)
31.   As this was the first World Bank loan to Kazakstan, and the PIU was not yet adequately staffed
to commence implementation, the arrival of the procurement consultants to commence an advisory
contract was most timely. Little implementation work had been started and the advisors were able to
assess the situation, and to commence work with the beneficiaries in an effort to achieve the maximum
amount of progress in the shortest possible time. Much time and effort was required to establish "good
working practices' with the PIU when none of the staff had any realistic Western commercial experience.
Process and Progress of Implementation
32.   As a result of the lack of staff within the PIU, and as time was of the essence, it was considered
essential for the advisors to initially act independently of the PIU staff, in order to prepare the necessary
documentation for international bidding and to finalize the Lists of Goods to be imported under the
Critical Import List, with each of the beneficiary organizations, and to obtain the no-objection of the Bank



ANNEX - Page A.7
to the finalized requirements of each end-user. This was no easy task, with difficulties being experienced
within the Ministry of Agriculture, and in the Ministry of Health, in the defining of their requirements,
and then understanding the procedures (that internally were undergoing change) with regard to
registration, and to the acceptability of supplies from certain sources. None of the beneficiaries had
experience with Bank procedures, nor in most cases of any exposure to normal Western commercial
practices. It was thus necessary in the best overall interests of the GOK to minimize the amount of
practical training of PIU and other Ministry staff, and to concentrate on the objective of securing the
specified goods, through international competitive tendering, in the shortest possible time.
33.   There was considerable dialogue between the Loan Task Manager and the Government's
Procurement Advisors, and with the support of the Bank staff, progress was achieved, with some of the
end-users.
34.   During the course of implementation, and to suit the rapidly changing economic situation within
the country, the GOK had revised their thoughts as to the size and composition of the scope of the critical
imports component, and decisions were taken to amend components by requesting Bank approval to
transfer funding from the PIC to the FXC component in order to provide support for the newly
introduced national currency. As a result, the components for food industry, for Uzen oil fields, and for
the drugs and equipment portions of the health sector allocation, were re-allocated. Thus the components
that did proceed were the procurement of pesticides and veterinary medicines for the Ministry of
Agriculture, the spare parts for Ikarus buses under the transport sector, and the spare parts for medical
equipment for the health sector.
Milestones Achieved
35.   In January 1994 tender documents were issued for the procurement of pesticides with a potential
value of 30 million USD. As a result of the evaluation and recommendations, 21 contracts were awarded
to international firms from nine countries for the supply of approved pesticides for the 1994 growing
season. Deliveries were made from Europe and from Japan, and both road and rail transportation were
used as a means of transporting the goods into the country. As a result of savings achieved over budget,
additional quantities of product were able to be procured, through additional competitive tendering.
36.   On June 16, 1994, tender documents were issued for the procurement of veterinary medicines.
As a result of the evaluations and recommendations, 21 contracts were awarded to international firms
from seven countries for the supply of approved veterinary medicines. Road and rail transportation were
used to deliver the goods to Kazakstan.
37.   On June 20, 1994, tender documents were issued for the procurement of Ikarus bus spares under
the Ministry of Transport allocation. Following evaluation and recommendations, four contracts were
awarded to international firms.
38.   On February 24, 1994, the first tranche of the foreign exchange component was released after
submission of 36 million USD of customs receipts had been cleared by the World Bank. On March 31,
1994, the second tranche of the foreign exchange component was released after submission of 58 million
USD of customs receipts had been cleared by the World Bank.



ANNEX - Page A.8
HMndrances to Implementation
39.   The lack of staff in the PIU to be able to work with the consultants, and the lack of English
language skills amongst the PIU staff, were the major hindrances to rapid progress being achieved in the
early months after the Loan became effective.
40.   The complexity of the World Bank procurement and disbursement procedures was never fully
understood by either the PIU staff or by the representatives of the beneficiaries.
41.   The Government's economic strategy was, through necessity, being modified to take cognisance
of the rapidly changing situation in the country. Thus policy matters were given greater priority in Loan
implementation matters amongst the end-users.
42.   There was a steady turnover of staff in many of the government institutions including the PIU,
and continuity of contact for day to day training, and the normal processing of loan documentation,
became a significant issue. Staff allocated to be responsible for the documentation became a significant
issue. Staff were allocated to be responsible for the implementation of large sums of money for their
ministries or organizations, but were quite unsuited to the task, and in consequence were generally not
prepared to take the responsibility for the compiling and processing of documentation.
43.   There was a lack of understanding at the highest levels of government, of the level of attention
that was necessary to be paid to implementation, especially to procedural matters: the roles of the various
entities involved in implementation were never clearly defined and clarified to all of the parties involved.
44.   The lack of training opportunities and facilities for key national staff who were to be involved
in the loan implementation was a reason for much of the work on the loan procurement being undertaken
by the consultants rather than the PIU or end-user staff who had little or no commercial exposure of any
kind, let alone of a kind necessary to assist meaningfully with day-to-day loan implementation matters.
45.   The lack of funding to enable the PIU to operate on a day-to-day basis was a significant
hinderance, and meant that initially there were no international communications available within the
office, and thus time delays occurred whilst communications were sent and received through external
sources, and funded by an additional allocation from the Technical Assistance Loan to the advisor's
contract.
46.   The lack of "dedicated" staff in both the PIU and the end-user organizations meant that
implementation work had to compete with other duties as assigned by the respective authorities within
the GOK.
Overall Review
47.   Implementation of the two components of the loan were achieved within two years and the amount
of the loan was fully disbursed. Critical imports in the agricultural and transport sectors were made, and
the foreign exchange component was critical in providing support to the newly established national
currency (the tenge) that was introduced in November 1993.
48.   Mistakes were made, and delays did occur, but as this was the first loan to be implemented in
Kazakstan, it was inevitable that problems would be encountered.



ANNEX - Page A.9
Lams     for the Future
49.    Any PIU must be fully staffed and equipped and be allocated operational expenses either from
within the loan, or from the government's own budgetary resources, before the loan is declared effective.
50.    The end-users/beneficiaries must be fully aware of their responsibilities and be ready to participate
fully in the implementation of their portions/allocations. They must designate sufficient "dedicated" staff
for the work to be undertaken, in conjunction with the PIU staff and their advisors.
m:\la\a-koeap.-8509\6icr-pcr\kaziczO4.doc Juno 27, 1996  10:06 am
JAHoIm:nwbwedmn/jcatrinidad






IBRD 28007
50                                             60'                                                                                                                                          To
R   Nf. ROPAVLOVSK  T.              To O0r-k
F E D  E R A  T I O  N                                    ^5                  _                                                                                 oanv
I S 
A,ioMn      '          ATYRA r Chk, -.'-
T.e                                   K _toUSTANK                                                                                                     Z KTAN
|   4    Kovv                                                  T ZLODA o                                                            -    
,                                                   >          - DZHAMSU,                         *                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ROD
AZERBAIJAN~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Ti KISTAN                                                                                                                      --- RAIyH/KNws-/ LROADS
T. 0-b.,g>                                                                            
'FLAL  _tS-Kt                                                     4s                      n    w         T A J I Li  S T A N                                           NATIONAL CANI TAI
50~   ISLAMICREPUBLIC                                                              -           )             .                                                            OBLAST CAPITALS
Kr^OMETERT OF IRAN                                                                                                                                                                                 NGOUA
0 100 200 Soo 400 500 <, r G v t > 1 OALAST BOUNDARIES
100o             200          S002        400                *0                                               AFGHANISTAN          70&/    
A~~~             ATY~~~IZAO












