Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
RESTRUCTURING STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  03/29/2011 
Report No.:  AC5896
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Gabon 
Project ID:  P070232 
Project Name:  Gabon: Strengthening Capacity for Managing National Parks and 
Biodiversity 
Task Team Leader:  Carole Megevand 
Estimated Appraisal Date: September 8, 
2005 
Estimated Board Date: March 29, 2006 
Managing Unit:  AFTEN 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Forestry (65%);Central government administration (20%);General agriculture, 
fishing and forestry sector (11%);Sub-national government administration (4%) 
Theme:  Environmental policies and institutions (40%);Biodiversity (40%);Other 
environment and natural resources management (20%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
10.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
3.60 
 
Foreign Multilateral Institutions (unidentified) 
27.10
30.70 
Environmental Category: A - Full Assessment 
Repeater [] 
 
 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
As part of the restructuring of the project, it is proposed to simplify and re-align the 
Project Development Objective with the one indicated in the Grant Agreement. The PDO 
originally in the GEF PAD read as follows: Biodiversity is protected and managed in a 
sustainable way and contributes to the diversification of the national economy, through 
strengthened capacities of parks and wildlife authorities. Since the contribution to the 
diversification of the national economy is difficult to measure during the life of the 
Project, the following language is proposed: The Project Development  Objective is to (i) 
enhance the conservation of biodiversity in selected National Parks and buffer zones and 
(ii) strengthen the management capacity of selected conservation-related entities in 
Gabon.  
 
The Global Environmental Objective is "Biodiversity conservation in the Congo basin is 
enhanced". The Congo basin constitutes the world's second largest tropical forest. With 
Page  2
forest covering 85% of its territory Gabon accounts for approximately 15% of the Congo 
Basin rainforest. It encompasses three of the world's glob ally important eco-regions and 
it has a particularly high level of biodiversity and endemism. Enhancing the conservation 
of biodiversity in Gabon will make a significant contribution to bi odiversity conservation 
in the Congo basin and at the global level.   
 
3. Project Description 
While the four components will remain as approved in the initial project design approved 
in March 2006, some activities have been adjusted to better reflect the priorities for 
conservation in Gabon as well as align with the national capacities to implement the 
project. The four components now read:  
 
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening of the ANPN  
 
Component 2: Enhanced knowledge on critical natural habitats for the expansion of the 
Network of the National Parks.  
 
Component 3: Support to selected National Parks  
 
Component 4: Improved wildlife management, monitoring and law enforcement in the 
periphery of the National Parks.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Under Component 2, extensive biological inventories and socio-economic survey will be 
conducted in the following three pre-identified sites and will be followed by extensive 
public consultations and legal reviews:  
 
-
Won
ga Wongué-Evaro Complex (approx. 690,000 hectares)  
 
-
Mayumba-Mayombe Complex (approx. 250,000 hectares)  
 
-
Mondah Forest (5,000 hectares)  
 
Consultations and legal reviews will also be conducted in the Gamba complex.  
 
Under the Component 3, the project provides direct support to three national parks: 
Loango, Mukalaba and Mayumba, with an integrated approach to enhance biodiversity 
conservation and promo the participatory management of buffer zones.  
 
Under Component 4, the project supports wildlife management in buffer zones of the 
three national parks as well as two other parks (Lopé and Bateke).   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Mohamed Arbi Ben-Achour (AFTCS) 
Mr Emeran Serge M. Menang Evouna (AFTEN) 
 
Page  3
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
X
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
As the project's overarching objective is biodiversity conservation and sustainable 
development, and it has positive impacts on the Environment (OP/BP 4.01),Natural 
Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) and Forests (OP/BP 4.36). As far as the Indigenous Peoples (OP 
4.10) and the Involuntary Resettlement (OP-4.12) are concerned, the GEF project has 
paid so far a particular attention to promote participatory preparation of Management 
plans of the National Parks under the Component 3 (cf. under Components 2 and 4, 
activities on the ground have not started yet).  
 
During the preparation of the project, the Government has conducted a Sectoral 
Environmental and Social Assessment (SESA), and then elaborated a comprehensive 
Social and Environmental Management Plan, as well as other safeguards instruments 
(Resettlement Policy Framework and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan). However, 
these documents were elaborated for the broader PSFE (Programme Sectoriel Forets 
Environnement), under which the Project was included. Though very comprehensive and 
covering all aspects of forest management and conservation, it appeared during the first 
phase of the project implementation that these instruments needed to be complemented 
with operational guidance to properly address the GEF-funded activities.  
 
Therefore during the mid-term review, it was agreed to develop specific guidance on 
how to apply these safeguard instruments at the Project level, specifically those related to 
OP 4.10 and OP 4.12). A time bound action plan was prepared in light of the different 
adjustments proposed for the restructuring, and adopted by the Government, to ensure 
that all GEF-funded activities will be adequately covered by the relevant safeguard 
instruments. This action plan provides the needed guidance to the ANPN and related 
Governmental bodies on how to properly address social dimensions of the Project 
activities.  
 
Additionally, during the mid-term, it was also agreed upon to recruit a social 
development specialist to properly monitor the compliance of the project with the Bank 
Page  4
policies (as of the end of December 2010, the recruitment process was on going and 
expected to be completed by the end of January 2011). Moreover, training activities have 
been planned over the next few months to build capacity of the Governmental staff and 
other stakeholders involved in the Project (International and Local NGOs) and ensure that 
all applicable safeguard instruments will be implemented and enforced and disclosure 
and reporting done accordingly.  
 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01): The project's objective is biodiversity 
conservation in and around National Parks. As such, the project is not expected to 
generate any adverse impacts on the environment. On the contrary activities undertaken 
by the project are designed to reduce already risks on environment by: (i) strengthening 
the surveillance efforts in and around the National Parks, and thus reducing illegal 
activities (such as illegal logging and poaching), which in the long run can undermine the 
biodiversity wealth, (ii) supporting environmental law enforcement in the buffer zones in 
order to promote environmental compliance of productive activities undertaken in buffer 
zones and limit pressures on environmental integrity of the parks.  
 
The effort surveillance within the three targeted National Parks have been substantially 
increased though the recruitment of 40 additional eco-guards, who were fully trained and 
equipped during the first phase of the project. This enhancement of the surveillance effort 
will be pursued during the second phase of the project with the Brigades Mobiles that are 
now set up in the buffer zones of the three targeted National Parks as well as the Lope 
and Bateke National Parks.  
 
Additionally during the mid-term review, it was decided to extend the activities under 
Component 4 and strengthen environmental law enforcement in the buffer zones in order 
to promote environmental compliance of activities undertaken in buffer zones and limit 
pressures on environmental integrity of the parks. As such, Environmental audits will be 
conducted in a minimum of 5 extractive companies operating in the buffer zones. This 
activity will immensely limit the potential environmental risks associated with extractive 
industries around the National Parks and buffer zones.  
 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04): The project has therefore a positive impact on natural 
habitats and biological diversity at national level.  
 
The project supports conservation of important areas of natural habitat in three National 
Parks, representative of Gabon's ecological diversity (Component 3). The project also 
helps enhance knowledge on biodiversity wealth of critical sites with high potential for 
future protection status (Component 2). It also contributes to limit the pressure from 
illegal logging activities on natural habitats through the creation of the Mobile Brigades 
in buffer zones of National Parks; additionally it will promote sustainable hunting 
activities that are undertaken with care, and that do not undermine the genetic pool of 
vulnerable species, through protocols with local communities (Component 4). 
Additionally, the project builds the long-term capacity of the National entity in charge of 
National Parks (the ANPN).  
 
Page  5
Forests (OP/BP 4.36): The GEF intervention will help protect large areas of undisturbed 
natural forests in forested National Parks namely Moukalaba-Doudou and Loango. It also 
aims to promote forest conservation by supporting wildlife management in production 
zones peripheral to these parks and to Lope and Bateke national parks. The project will 
not finance logging operations and will not finance activities that logging companies are 
required to undertake by law. By reducing the hunting pressure in production zones the 
project will conserve wildlife biodiversity in production forests. Indirectly the project will 
prevent forest degradation that results from extirpation of animal species which are 
important tree seed dispersers. By helping enforce sustainable forest management plans 
in production forests, the project will help move towards independent certification of 
forest concessions.  
 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10). This policy applied because there are so-called 
pygmy groups (with various local names and languages, and still referred to as pygmies 
even by themselves, or as #first inhabitants# in Gabonese parlance) in protected areas and 
their buffer zones in Gabon. There are an estimated 10,000 indigenous people in Gabon, 
i.e. 4% of the rural population. Such groups have not been reported in the three targeted 
National Parks that will be directly supported by the GEF project (Component 3,) or in 
the pre-identified sites for the future potential protection status (Component 2). However, 
they have been reported in other areas where the project also has field activities, namely 
the buffer zone of the Lope and Bateke National Parks (Component 4).  
 
The project subscribes fully to the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) 
adopted by the Government of Gabon for the entire Forests and Environment Sector 
Program (PSFE), which provides comprehensive compensation measures to establish 
equal legal, technical, financial, organizational and cultural opportunities, and commits 
the government to not removing these peoples from the forests they have historically 
occupied.  
 
The Social Development Specialist under recruitment by the ANPN will have the 
responsibility to ensure that special attention is paid to the specific needs and interests to 
guarantee that the project (and specifically under its Component 4) fosters full respect for 
their dignity, human rights, and cultural uniqueness and ensure that indigenous people do 
not suffer adverse effects from the project and receive culturally compatible social and 
economic benefits.  
 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12): The Law on the National Parks, adopted on 
August 27, 2007, recognizes the traditional rights of these people and provides the 
ground for an effective and timely implementation of the mitigation strategies outlined in 
the Resettlement Policy Framework prepared for the PSFE.  
 
Under the Component 3 and during the first phase of the project, as part of the 
preparation of the Management plans, socio-economic surveys have been conducted in 
the National Parks of Moukalaba-Doudou and Loango and report that about 376 persons 
live within the limits of the Parks, while about 23,894 persons live in the buffer zones 
(According to the estimation of draft management plan available: In Loango, 92 persons 
Page  6
live within the limits of the Parks, while about 776 persons live in the buffer zones / In 
Moukalaba-Doudou : 284 persons live within the limits of the Parks, while about 23,118 
persons live in the buffer zones).  During the second phase of the project, consultation 
will be initiated for the Mauymba Park and further consultation will be conducted in 
Loango and Moukalaba-Doud two Parks and the buffer zones. Additionally a strong 
emphasis has been put to formally establish the Comites Consultatifs de Gestion Locale 
(CCGL) for these three Parks, as provisioned in the Law on National Parks. These 
committees are to be the platform to discuss the potential impacts of the National Parks 
on local population, and specifically the risks of being economically and #to a lower 
extend- physically displaced. This Committee will review the Management Plans before 
their formal approval. In case of potential risks for physical or economic displacement 
related to the Management of the National Parks, a detailed Resettlement Action Plan 
should be prepared as part of the Management Plan and openly discussed with the CCGL 
committee.   
 
Under the Component 2, in parallel to the biological inventories in the pre-identified site 
with high potential for future protection status, socio-economic surveys are conducted 
and will also report on the potential risks of physical (very unlikely with the low 
demographic densities in these areas) and economic displacement. If such risks are 
reported, a detailed Resettlement Action Plan will be prepared by the ANPN and 
submitted to the Bank for approval and ensure that no displacement displacement occur 
without full mitigation in the form of both transitional and long-term arrangements 
whereby the incomes, livelihood strategies and living standards of affected people will be 
at least maintained if not actually improved through employment, training, financial 
support and other mitigation measures.  
 
Under Component 4, extensive consultation with local communities will be undertaken 
to raise awareness of the long-term benefits from sustainable hunting practices and to 
establish collaborative mechanism for wildlife management. One of the intended 
outcomes of the collaborative mechanism for wildlife management is a clearer definition 
of user rights leading to stronger local ownership of the bushmeat resources and 
improved sustainable management of protein sources for local populations. In parallel, 
the increased surveillance of the mobile Brigades will reduce the potential conflicts of the 
traditional users with the commercial poachers, who often come from outside of the zone, 
practicing intensive poaching which results in a noticeable impoverishment of the 
wildlife resources which threatens long term protein supply for the local population. For 
Indigenous peoples,  the Government has subscribed to the notion that they should be still 
allowed to use natural resources of the National Parks for subsistence.  
 
The Social Development Specialist, currently under recruitment, will be responsible to 
ensure that whenever needed, a proper RAP will be prepared by the project and that the 
consultation on the RAP is properly conducted. She/He will also make sure that the RAPs 
are disclosed in Libreville and in the office of the Forest Administration and the National 
Park Agency closest to the affected areas as soon as they are prepared.   
 
Page  7
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Environmental impacts, indirect and long-term, are expected to be positive. On the social 
side, one could anticipate potential long term adverse impacts of the project on the 
livelihood of the indigenous and rural people living in or near the national parks or the 
buffer zones if potential limitations in access to resources are not properly offset and/or 
compensated. The very participatory approach taken by the project is likely to 
significantly reduce these risks.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
The only project alternative is to not implement the project, which would likely lead to 
the degradation of unique biodiversity and natural habitats of the Congo basin.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
During the preparation phase, a Sectoral Environmental and Social Assessment (SESA) 
for the whole PSFE program, under which the GEF project was included, was conducted 
in 2002 and updated in 2005: a comprehensive Social and Environmental Management 
Plan, as well as other safeguards instruments (Resettlement Policy Framework and 
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan) were subsequently elaborated. These plans and 
frameworks were presented and discussed during the appraisal mission and the final 
SESA report was disclosed 120 days before the Board presentation. The SESA, IPDP and 
the Resettlement Policy Framework and the Process Framework have been disclosed in-
country on 06/23/2005 and in the Infoshop on 08/31/2005 and 9/2/2005 as listed below.  
 
As indicated above, though very comprehensive and covering all aspects of forest 
management and conservation, these instruments needed further clarification to provide 
operational guidance to properly address the GEF-funded activities. While all the 
activities implemented so far under the project are in full compliance with the 
instruments (specifically the IPDP and the RFP), as well as with the National Law on 
National Parks, which is quite explicit in terms of IP rights and access to resources, it was 
clear that the project would benefit from more operational guidance. This exercise was 
done before and during the mid-term review: the ANPN has then adopted a time bound 
action plan prepared in light of the different adjustments proposed for the restructuring to 
ensure that all GEF-funded activities will be adequately covered by the relevant 
safeguard instruments.  
 
During the mid-term review it was also decided to reinforce the ANPN's capacity to 
properly address safeguard policy issues, by (i) recruiting a social development specialist 
to properly monitor the compliance of the project with the Bank policies (on-going) and 
(ii) organizing a training session to build capacity of the Governmental staff and other 
stakeholders involved in the Project (International and Local NGOs).   
 
Page  8
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
During the preparation of the project, there has been full participation of project 
beneficiaries and stakeholders. A GEF Stakeholder Participation Plan was drawn up, 
which highlights the capabilities, roles and interests of the stakeholders in the project. 
This has been achieved through an extensive consultation process with local 
communities, administrative authorities and the private sector (oil/gas companies, tour 
operators, and logging companies) for the development of the Loango-Mukalaba 
complex zoning and management plan. The results of a week-long workshop organized 
in January 2005 by the CNPN (National Committee for National Parks) to develop the 
National Park System Management Plan also served as an important baseline for project 
design.  
 
During the implementation, despite slow rate of implementation, the project always 
benefitted from participation of many stakeholders. At the National Park level, much 
attention was given to consultation, sensitization and participation of the local population. 
This will be enhanced during the second phase of the project, specifically through the 
establishment of the CCGL Committees. Under the re-zoning process of Gamba 
(Component 2), a second edition of the extensive consultation process with local 
communities, administrative authorities and the private sector (oil/gas companies, tour 
operators, and logging companie) is planned for the re-zoning process of the Loango-
Mukalaba complex (or Gamba complex) and management plan: a large forum is planned 
for second quarter of 2011.  
 
Stakeholder benefits. Given the rarity of employment opportunities and the low human 
population densities in rural Gabon, well-functioning National Parks are likely to have a 
positive economic impact in terms of stimulating the local economy and providing some 
employment (cf. through eco-tourism). The GEF project aims to establish the building 
blocks for the future eco-tourism development and the expected economic impact may be 
only after the completion of the project. However, meanwhile the project directly 
supports local development activities, with groups of women and fishermen in the buffer 
zones of the Parks. This will be amplified during the second phase of the project. In 
addition, as indicated above, bushmeat exploitation in Gabon currently is characterized 
by unregulated access and virtually no consideration of traditional user rights: one of the 
objectives of the Component 4 is to adjust the balance of power to the benefit of the local 
population.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
08/25/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
06/23/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
09/02/2005 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
09/07/2005 
 
Page  9
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
08/25/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
06/23/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
08/31/2005 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
08/25/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
06/23/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
08/31/2005 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats 
 
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of 
critical natural habitats? 
No 
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other 
(non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures 
acceptable to the Bank? 
No 
OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples 
 
Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework (as 
appropriate) been prepared in consultation with affected Indigenous Peoples? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed 
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit or Sector Manager? 
Yes 
Page  10
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.36 - Forests 
 
Has the sector-wide analysis of policy and institutional issues and constraints 
been carried out? 
Yes 
Does the project design include satisfactory measures to overcome these 
constraints? 
Yes 
Does the project finance commercial harvesting, and if so, does it include 
provisions for certification system? 
No 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Carole Megevand 
03/29/2011 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Emeran Serge M. Menang Evouna 
03/29/2011 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Mohamed Arbi Ben-Achour 
03/29/2011 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Ms Alexandra C. Bezeredi 
03/29/2011 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough 
03/29/2011 
Comments:   
