The World Bank                                           1818 H Street N.W.              (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT    Washington, D.C. 20433          Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                    U.S.A.                          Cable Address: INDEVAS




                                                                                  CONFORMED COPY

                                                                                            May 17, 2011

        H.E. Magloire Ngambia
        Minister of Economy, Trade, Industry and Tourism
        Ministry of Planning and Development Programming
        BP 747
        Libreville, Gabonese Republic


        Excellency:

           Gabon: Strengthening Capacity for Managing National Parks and Biodiversity Project
                                        (Grant No. TF056592)
              Amendment to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement

               We refer to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement (the Agreement)
        for the above-referenced project (the Project), dated June 14, 2006, between the Gabonese
        Republic (the Recipient) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
        Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of
        grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the
        GEF.

               Further to your letter dated January 24, 2011 in which the restructuring of the Project is
        requested in order to facilitate its implementation, the Bank proposes the following amendments
        to the Agreement:

            1. Paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced by the
               following:

                               “(b)       “ANPN? or “Agence Nationale des Parcs
                               Nationaux? means the Recipient’s agency to be established in
                               accordance to Section 5.01(b) of this Agreement to be in
                               charge of the Project in accordance with Section 1 of Schedule
                               4 to this Agreement, as the same agency as may be
                               restructured and or modified with the prior agreement of the
                               Bank;?

            2. Paragraph (c) of Section 1.02 of the Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced by the following:

                               “(b)       “Protected Areas Monitoring and Evaluation
                               Tracking Tool? and “PAMETT? mean the monitoring system,
                               acceptable to the Bank, developed to monitor the Project
                               activities and outcomes and referred to in Part 4.5 of Schedule
                               2 and Paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;?
H.E. Magloire Ngambia                        -2-                                   May 17, 2011


   3. Paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of the Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced by the
      following:

                    “(b)      The Recipient may, for the purposes of Parts A and
                    C of the Project, open and maintain in FCFA a designated
                    deposit account (A Designated Account), and for the purposes
                    of Parts B and D of the Project, open and maintain in FCFA a
                    designated deposit account (B Designated Account), both in a
                    commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
                    Bank including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
                    or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each
                    Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
                    provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.?

   4. Section 2.03 of the Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced by the following:

                    “Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2013 or such
                    later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
                    notify the Recipient of such later date;?

   5. Paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of the Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced by the following:

                    “(a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of
                    the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to
                    this end, shall carry out the Project, through the ANPN, with
                    due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                    appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and social
                    practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental
                    factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                    facilities, services and other resources required for the
                    Project;?

   6. Paragraph (a) of Section 3.03 of the Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced by the following:

                    “(a)      prepare, through ANPN, on the basis of guidelines
                    acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than
                    six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
                    agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a
                    plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and?

   7. The term “quarter? is hereby added after the terms “45 days after each subsequent? and before
      the terms “, and shall cover such.? in the last line of paragraph (b) of Section 4.02 of the
      Agreement.

   8. Schedule 1 (Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to the Agreement is
      hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced by Annex 1 to this letter.

   9. Schedule 2 (Description of the Project) to the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and
      replaced by Annex 2 to this letter.

   10. Paragraph B.2 of Section III of Schedule 3 (Procurement) to the Agreement is hereby deleted
       and replaced by the following:
H.E. Magloire Ngambia                          -3-                                  May 17, 2011


                           “2.   Selection of NGOs

                                         Services to assist the ANPN to coordinate
                                 the Project activities may be contracted with NGOs
                                 in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.16
                                 and 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines.?

      11. Subsection (c) of Section IV of Schedule 3 (Procurement) to the Agreement is hereby deleted
          and replaced by the following:

                      i. “(c) each contract for civil works estimated to cost the
                         equivalent of US$200,000 or more;?

      12. Schedule 4 (Implementation Program) to the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and
          replaced by the Annex 3 to this letter.

      13. Each reference to the term “ANPN Special Account? in Schedule 5 (Special Accounts) to the
          Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced by the term “A Designated Account?; and each
          reference to the term “MEFEPEPN Special Account? in Schedule 5 (Special Accounts) to the
          Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced by the term “B Designated Account?.

        All other provisions of the Agreement, except as amended herein, shall remain in full
force and effect.

        Please indicate your acknowledgement of, and agreement with, the foregoing
amendments to the Agreement on behalf of the Recipient by countersigning and dating the two
original copies of this letter and returning one countersigned original to us. The amendments to
the Agreement shall become effective as of the date of countersignature of this letter.


                                            Sincerely,


                                   By: /s/ Mary Barton-Dock
                                   Country Director for Gabon
                                         Africa Region



ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED:

GABONESE REPUBLIC


By:      /s/ Magloire Ngambia

Title:     Minister of Economy, Trade, Industry and Tourism

Date:      June 15, 2011
H.E. Magloire Ngambia                          -4-                                   May 17, 2011


                                                                                       ANNEX 1


                                         SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant

1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of
the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                               Amount of the
                                        GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated      % of
                                                (Expressed in           Expenditures
       Category                                    Dollars)            to be Financed

(1) Works under Parts:
(a) A(1) and C(4) of the Project                         740,000                   100%
(b) D(3) of the project                                        0                   100%

(2) Goods, Vehicles and equipment:
(a) Under Part A(2) and C(2) of the Project              966,467                   100%
(b) Under Part D(2) of the Project                       262,071                   100%

(3) Studies and Consultants Services:
(a) Under Parts A(3), C(1), and C(3) of the Project     3,990,608                  100%
(b) Under Parts B and D of the Project                  1,293,889                  100%

(4) Training:
(a) Under Parts A(4) and C(5)                            243,361                   100%
(b) Under Part D(2) of the project                        50,000                   100%

(5) Incremental Operating Costs for:
(a) management of Parts A and C of the Project          1,740,564                  100%
(b) management of Parts B and D of the Project            713,040                  100%

            TOTAL                                      10,000,000

2.      For the purposes of this Schedule, the term:

         (a)     “Training? means expenditures incurred by ANPN for the Project related to study
tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and meetings, including costs of training materials,
space and equipment rental, travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers; and

        (b)     “Incremental Operating Costs? means the reasonable expenditures incurred by
the ANPN for staff travel costs, local transportation, communications, consumables, audits
(including environmental audits), but excluding civil servants’ salaries, which expenditures would
not have been incurred absent the Project.
H.E. Magloire Ngambia                         -5-                                   May 17, 2011


3.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made: (i)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of the Agreement; (ii) until and
unless the Recipient has issued a tax-exemption decision for all expenditures to be funded out of
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; and (iii) in respect of Part C, in connection with the
Mayumba National Park, until an environmental impact assessment, including an environmental
management plan for the off-shore oil fields which pre-existed the establishment of the Mayumba
National Park, has been carried out and forwarded to the Bank, all satisfactory to the Bank.

4.       The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) works not
exceeding US$200,000 equivalent per contract; (b) goods, vehicles and equipment estimated to
cost less than US$150,000 per contract; (c) services of individual consultants not exceeding
US$25,000 per contract and consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 per contract; (d)
Training; and (e) Incremental Operating Costs all under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Recipient.

5.       If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount of the GEF Trust Fund
Grant was used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust
Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used.
H.E. Magloire Ngambia                          -6-                                    May 17, 2011


                                                                                        ANNEX 2


                                         SCHEDULE 2

                                   Description of the Project

        The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to (i) enhance the conservation of
biodiversity in selected national parks (and associated buffer zones) in the Recipient’s territory;
and (ii) strengthen the management capacity of selected conservation-related entities of the
Recipient.

       The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the
Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Institutional Strengthening of ANPN:

1.      [Intentionally omitted.]

2.      Procurement of equipment and materials (including, vehicles and software) for ANPN.

3.      Provision of:

       (a)    technical advisory services to support key functions of the ANPN, including:
information technology management, financial and administrative management, park
management, communication and consultation, and

       (b)     technical advisory services for the development of a sustainable financial
mechanism to support long-term efforts to conserve biological diversity in Gabon.

4.      Provision of training to ANPN staff, including park management officers.

5.     Support to ANPN for day-to-day management of the Project, including the development
and implementation of a PAMETT.

Part B: Enhanced knowledge creation on critical natural habitats for the expansion of the
Network of the National Parks:

         Provision technical assistance (including, through studies, surveys, consultation
workshops with relevant stakeholders) to assess biological wealth, review the socio-economic
situation and review the legal environment and framework in pre-identified sites (e.g., Wongo-
Wongué-Evaro, Mayumba-Mayombe, Mondah Forest and the Gamba complex).

Part C: Support to the Selected National Parks (Loango, Moukalaba-Doudou and Mayumba)
H.E. Magloire Ngambia                           -7-                                    May 17, 2011


1.       Provision of technical advisory services to develop and implement a management plan
for selected national parks.

2.      Procurement of goods and equipment for the monitoring and surveillance of selected
national parks.

3.      Provision of technical advisory services to:

        (a)     develop stakeholders’ consultation and participation mechanisms, including the
local population and the private sector in the management of selected national parks; and

        (b)      promote and implement effective monitoring and enforcement mechanisms,
including patrol-based monitoring and conservation related research.

4.      Construction and rehabilitation of infrastructures for operational facilities of selected
national parks.

5.      Training of staff and ecoguards of selected national parks.

Part D: Improved wildlife management, monitoring and law enforcement in the periphery of the
National Parks.

1.      Provision of technical advisory services and studies to improve wildlife management in
selected national parks.

2.       monitoring of wildlife of selected national parks through mobile field units, including
training, the acquisition of equipment and vehicles for such mobile field units, and carrying out of
environmental audit missions.

3.      [Intentionally omitted.]

                                              * * *

        The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2012
H.E. Magloire Ngambia                            -8-                                   May 17, 2011



                                                                                         ANNEX 3


                                          SCHEDULE 4

                                    Implementation Program

1.       The Recipient shall maintain the ANPN, throughout the implementation period of the
Project, with such responsibilities, functions, staff and resources, satisfactory to the Bank, to be
responsible for the overall implementation and management of the Project, including evaluation
and monitoring, financial management, procurement and social and environmental safeguards.

2.      The Recipient shall cause ANPN to contract and maintain contractual relationships with
respectively WCS and WWF for the purpose of implementing Parts B, C and D of the Project.

3.      The Recipient shall:

         (a)     jointly with ANPN, adopt and thereafter comply with a PIP, satisfactory to the
Bank which shall include, inter alia: (i) the detailed description of the Project; (ii) the
administrative and financial procedures, including accounting, financial reporting and auditing
procedures applicable to the Project; (iii) the Procurement Plan and procedures for procurement
consistent with the provisions of this Agreement; (iv) the ESIA including the EMP; (v) the RPF;
(vi) the IPDP; (vii) terms of reference for all technical advisory services, training and studies to
be implemented under the Project; and (viii) procedures for the monitoring, supervision and
reporting, including a PAMETT; and

         (b)    not amend, delete, suspend or abrogate or waive any provision of the PIP without
the prior approval of the Bank.

4.      The Recipient shall, by June 30, 2006:

       (a)      cause ANPN to prepare and adopt training plans satisfactory to the Bank for
ANPN staff under Parts A(3), A(4), C(5) and D(2) and thereafter implement such plans in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank;

        (b)     cause ANPN to prepare a plan and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank for
contracting eco-guards under a three-year contract, including training and equipment of such eco-
guards; and

        (c)    after the expiration of such three-year contract, the Recipient shall include all
such eco-guards in the payroll of the ANPN.

5.      The Recipient shall not authorize any mining and/or oil development activity in any part
of any national protected area and any national park included in the NPN, unless such mining
and/or oil development has been subjected to a prior environmental impact assessment, and that
any impact of such oil and/or mining development shall have been compensated through adequate
H.E. Magloire Ngambia                           -9-                                    May 17, 2011


environmental and social mitigation measures including but not limited to the establishment of
planned new protected areas and implementation of social development plans as appropriate,
consistent with the EMP, RFP and IPDP, all satisfactory to the Bank.

6.        The Recipient shall not implement any Project activity that may impact the livelihood of
communities living in areas covered by the NPN including buffer zones. If any of such activities
may impact on such communities’ livelihood or result in resettlement, the Recipient shall, prior to
commencing any planned activity in the area inhabited by such communities, implement
mitigation measures defined in the ESIA including EMP, RPF, RAP and/or IPDP as appropriate,
all satisfactory to the Bank.

7.      The Recipient shall, by October 30 of each year, throughout the Project implementation
period, and commencing on October 30, 2006, provide the Bank with draft budget allocations and
work plans for the ANPN and the MEFEPEPN (if applicable) and by the following March 30 of
each year throughout the Project Implementation period, commencing March 30, 2007, provide
the Bank with the final budget allocations and work plans.

8.      The Recipient shall:

        (a)      maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;

        (b)      prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the
Bank, on or about December 31, 2011, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved
in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and

         (c)    review with the Bank, by April 30, 2012, or such later date as the Bank shall
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views
on                                            the                                            matter.
