                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank

                               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                    Report No: 59701-GA




                               RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                         ON A

                  PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                 OF
    THE STRENGTHENING CAPACITY FOR MANAGING NATIONAL PARKS AND
                        BIODIVERSITY PROJECT

             GEF GRANT TF056592 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION

                           APPROVED ON MARCH 29, 2006

                                        TO THE

                                GABONESE REPUBLIC



                                    APRIL 12, 2011




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANPN     Agence Nationale des Parcs Nationaux (National Agency of National Parks)
ECOFAC   Ecosystèmes Forestiers d’Afrique Centrale (Forest Ecosystems of Central Africa)
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
GEF      Global Environment Facility
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MEF      Ministry of Forests
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NGO      Non Governmental Organization
NP       National Park
PAMETT   Protected Area Monitoring and Evaluation Tracking Tool
PDO      Project Development Objective
PIM      Project Implementation Manual
PSFE     Forest and Environment Sector Program
WCS      Wildlife Conservation Society
WWF      World Wildlife Fund




           Regional Vice President:       Obiageli Ezekwesili
           Acting Country Director:       Mary Kathryn Hollifield
          Sector Manager / Director:      Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough
                 Task Team Leader:        Carole Megevand
                                    GABON
            STRENGTHENING CAPACITY FOR MANAGING NATIONAL PARKS AND
                             BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
                                    P070232
                                  CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                               Page
A. SUMMARY ......................................................................................................................................... 1
B. PROJECT STATUS............................................................................................................................ 1
C. PROPOSED CHANGES .................................................................................................................... 2
D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY .............................................................................................................. 12
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING............................................................. 15
ANNEX 2: TWO-YEAR WORK PLAN ................................................................................................. 21
ANNEX 3: PROCUREMENT PLAN ...................................................................................................... 41
                                 Gabon: Strengthening Capacity for Managing
                                   National Parks and Biodiversity Project
                                               Restructuring
Restructuring Type: Level one
Last modified on date : 04/12/2011

1. Basic Information
Project ID & Name                                P070232: GA-Strengthening Cap. for Manag. NP&B
Country                                          Gabon
Task Team Leader                                 Carole Megevand
Sector Manager/Director                          Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough
Acting Country Director                          Mary Kathryn Hollifield
Original Board Approval Date                     03/29/2006
Original Closing Date:                           06/30/2012
Current Closing Date                             06/30/2012
Proposed Closing Date [if applicable]            06/30/2013
EA Category                                      A-Full Assessment
Revised EA Category                              A-Full Assessment-Full Assessment
EA Completion Date                               07/15/2004
Revised EA Completion Date


2. Revised Financing Plan (US$m)
Source                                           Original                      Revised
 BORR                                            3.60                          3.60
 GEFU                                            10.00                         10.00
 ZMUL                                            27.10                         27.10
 Total                                           40.70                         40.70


3. Borrower
Organization                            Department                       Location
 Government of Gabon                                                     Gabon


4. Implementing Agency
Organization                             Department                    Location
 National Agency for National Parks                                    Gabon


5. Disbursement Estimates (US$m)

Actual amount disbursed as of 03/31/2011   4.12
Fiscal Year                         Annual                               Cumulative
2011 (remaining)                    0.98                                 5.10
2012                                3.60                                 8.70
2013                                1.30                                 10.00
                                    Total                                10.00


                                                     i
6. Policy Exceptions and Safeguard Policies
Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?                                     N


Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? If yes, please select from the           N
checklist below and update ISDS accordingly before submitting the package.

Safeguard Policy                                                                Last Rating         Proposed
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)                                              S                   -
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04)                                                      S                   -
Forestry (OP 4.36)                                                              S                   -
Pest Management (OP 4.09)
Physical Cultural Resources (OP 4.11)
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                    S                   -
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12)                                              S                   -
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50)
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)



7a. Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Original/Current Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
The Global Environmental Objective is: Biodiversity conservation in the Congo basin is enhanced. The Project
Development Objective is: Biodiversity is protected and managed in a sustainable way and contributes to the
diversification of the national economy, through strengthened capacities of parks and wildlife authorities


7b. Revised Project Development Objectives/Outcomes [if applicable]

The revised Project Development Objective is to (i) enhance the conservation of biodiversity in selected National
Parks and buffer zones and (ii) strengthen the management capacity of selected conservation-related entities in
Gabon.




                                                     ii
               GABON: STRENGTHENING CAPACITY FOR MANAGING

                  NATIONAL PARKS AND BIODIVERSITY PROJECT

                                 RESTRUCTURING PAPER


A. SUMMARY

1.       This Restructuring Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors for a level one
restructuring of the Strengthening Capacity for Managing National Parks and Biodiversity Project
(P070232) in Gabon. The Gabonese Republic sent a formal request for the restructuring of the
project on September 2, 2010 and then submitted to the World Bank a full package for the
restructuring on January 24, 2011 (including a detailed action plan, a budget and a procurement
plan).

2.      Based on the outcomes of the Mid-Term Review of May 2010, the restructuring proposes
to better align the project activities to: (i) the priorities in the conservation area in Gabon,
including some emerging needs that had not been identified during the preparation of the project
as well as: (ii) the existing institutional capacities. These adjustments will also imply some
resource reallocations amongst the different Categories of Expenditures as well as a 12-month
extension of the closing date.

3.     Additionally, it proposes to align the formulation of the Project Development Objectives
(PDO) as described in the PAD with those negotiated and agreed upon by the Bank and the
Recipient in the Grant Agreement (see section C on Proposed Changes)1.

B. PROJECT STATUS

4.       The Project was approved on March 29, 2006 and became effective on December 27,
2007 because of administrative and other procedural requirements under Gabonese laws which
were not fulfilled quickly. The project was rated "Unsatisfactory" during the nine months
preceding the mid-term review (MTR), due to the slow implementation pace and hence low
disbursement rate (only 23 percent at the mid-term implementation review which took place
thirty months after effectiveness). Since the MTR, major improvements are noticeable and the
project is now rated “Moderately Satisfactory” and it is expected that the proposed restructuring
will allow for the Project to be fully considered “Satisfactory”.

5.       Despite the late effectiveness and slow disbursement rate, progress was made in
implementing Components 1 and 3, with an increase in the capacities of both the ANPN
Headquarters and the decentralized ANPN offices in the three targeted National Parks (see Table
1 below). At the time of the MTR, about US$1.4 million was disbursed for Components 1 and 3,
representing more than 60 percent of the total disbursement. However, at the MTR, the progress
made to strengthen ANPN capacities had not yet translated in terms of increase of the
effectiveness of the management of the three National Parks (cf. one of the four original Outcome
Indicators “1 million hectares of key national parks with increased management effectiveness (as
measured by the PAMETT/WWF site level tracking tool”).

1
  Previously the PDO in the legal agreement was not consistent with the PDO in the PAD. This
restructuring addresses this issue.
                                               1
6.      Under Components 2 and 4, only a few activities had been launched at the moment of the
MTR and no real progress could be reported on the two outcome indicators related to these
components, i.e., “Identification of 1 additional million of areas suitable for protection status and
formal gazettment” and “increase in wildlife management effectiveness in 5 million hectares of
production areas”.

 Major progress made during the 1st phase of project implementation under Components 1 &3.
 Component1: Institutional Strengthening of the ANPN
      - ANPN staff is in place, trained and operational
      - Equipment (vehicles, surveillance boat, IT equipments and software) has been acquired
      - FM system is in place and operational

 Component 3: Support to National Parks
     - forty eco-guards have been recruited, trained, equipped and are now operational in surveillance
     activities;
     - Management plans have been prepared for the Loango and the Moukalaba-Doudou National Parks
     - Management effectiveness has been assessed for each National Parks
     - Extensive consultation with local communities in and around the National Parks and support to
     some pilot activities with local communities.

7.      The major weaknesses that hindered the satisfactory execution of the project were
discussed during the MTR in May 2010 and they are presented below:
            - at the institutional level: (i) the lack of continuity in staff in charge of this project,
                that resulted in a poor commitment of the national entities to the Project; (ii) the
                complex institutional framework, with a poorly elaborated Project
                Implementation Manual; (ii) limited knowledge and understanding of the project
                from the Implementing agency staff; and (iii) the lack of knowledge and/or
                understanding of the World Bank procedures.
            - at the technical level: (i) the description of some activities in the project
                document was initially too vague; (ii) the original arrangements for monitoring
                and evaluation (M&E) were not properly defined, and as such the proposed M&E
                system was inefficient; and (iii) changes occurred in priorities for conservation in
                Gabon.
            - at the political level: the political situation, with the death of the President in June
                2009 and the subsequent electoral campaign, also hampered project
                implementation.

8.       Since the May 2010 MTR of the project, the Government has however shown a great
level of ownership of the project and has actively been involved in the restructuring process. As a
result the disbursement level has increased and many contracts are under finalization which will
lead to further disbursements. Priority actions decided during the mid-term review have all been
implemented in a satisfactory manner.


C. PROPOSED CHANGES

9.      Project’s Development Objective (PDO): It is proposed to simplify the PDO and the
following language is proposed: “The Project Development Objective is to (i) enhance the
conservation of biodiversity in selected National Parks and buffer zones; and (ii) strengthen the
management capacity of selected conservation- related entities in Gabon”.

                                                   2
10.    Results/indicators (See Annex 1). Some of the indicators defined in the original Project
document were not appropriately aligned with the PDO and the activities of the project, either
because they were found to be overly ambitious or difficult to monitor.

11.     During the MTR, it was decided to adjust the indicators and a strong emphasis was put on
the identification and use of SMART indicators (Specific, Measurable, Attributable, Realistic and
Targeted indicators) that could adequately monitor progress made. A one-day learning session
was delivered to the project team and the proposed changes shall contribute to: (i) clarify the
linkages between agreed activities and outcomes; and (ii) better delineate the scope of project
impacts.

12.         The redefined Key Performance Indicators (KPI) are now:
      (i)      Hectares of land with high potential for protection where a biological survey is
               completed.
      (ii)     Increase in management effectiveness in three National Parks (700,000 hectares) , as
               per the GEF Tracking Tool on Protected Area Management (Protected Areas
               Monitoring and Evaluation Tracking Tool – PAMETT)
      (iii)    Increased surveillance efforts in the three key National Parks and buffer zones
      (iv)     Number of community members sensitized about the biodiversity conservation in
               three National parks (including % of which is female).

13.    The revised results framework, as well as the adjusted arrangements for results
monitoring, can be found in Annex 1. The process for hiring an M&E Specialist is currently
underway to ensure effective implementation of the proposed arrangements.

14.      As part of the Monitoring and Evaluation of the project, the ANPN has confirmed its
interest to prepare, no later than June 30, 2012, a report presenting the results of the M&E
activities, the progress achieved in the carrying out of the project and the mitigation measures
recommended to ensure the achievement of the Project Development Objective during the
remaining period of implementation.

15.     Components. The four components will remain as approved in the initial project design.
However some activities have been adjusted to better reflect the priorities for conservation in
Gabon as well as align with the national capacities to implement the project. A two-year work
plan has been prepared by the counterpart (See Annex 2).

16.         Component 1: Institutional Strengthening of the ANPN

  Original Project (2006)                     Status of                             Proposed
                                           Implementation                     Restructured project
New building for the new        DROPPED – very early in the             DROPPED – the Gabonese
Headquarters for the ANPN       implementation of the project, this     Authorities    assess   different
                                activity has been dropped as it was     options to move the ANPN HQ
                                not considered as a priority (this      but do not want to use GEF
                                decision has been sanctioned in Aide-   resources on civil works to build
                                Memoire).                               the headquarters.

Acquisition of equipment of     PARTIALLY COMPLETED                     Additional equipments will be
the ANPN Headquarters           Most of the equipment (vehicles,        acquired, including:
                                boat,     information  technology       - one additional vehicle
                                hardware and software...) have          - GIS equipments and software
                                already been acquired.

                                                   3
Capacity Building of the      PARTIALLY COMPLETED                      Capacity building will continue
ANPN central team             - Training sessions have been            with a specific focus on Fiduciary
                              delivered (FM, Procurement, M&E)         and M&E (training + TA).
                              - FM Technical Assistance has been       Moreover         an     additional
                              recruited                                accountant will be recruited.

                                                                       Additional short-term technical
                                                                       expertise will be recruited to
                                                                       support the implementation of
                                                                       project activities.

Establishment of              PARTIALLY COMPLETED                      The software TOMPRO needs to
administrative systems (FM    The software TOMPRO is in place          be expanded to cover all financial
and HR)                       and operational.                         resources managed by the ANPN
                                                                       (national resources and project-
                                                                       based resources)

                                                                       Legal review of the status of the
                              ANPN organization chart has been         ANPN staff. Finalization of the
                              prepared and contracts have been         contracting process for all the
                              signed for the eco-guards.               staff. Regularization of the
                                                                       situation with the CNSS (national
                                                                       Social Security system)

Preparation of a              NOT YET INITIATED – however,             Preparation of a Communication
Communication strategy        sensitization/ awareness activities at   strategy, including an action plan.
                              the National Parks have already been
                              launched during the first phase of the
                              Project (under Component 3).

Study on Sustainable          NOT YET INITIATED                        Complementarily with the work
Financing Mechanism for the                                            already done under the ECOFAC
Network of the National                                                project for the establishment of a
Parks                                                                  Foundation, the project will
                                                                       support:
                                                                       - Additional studies on legal and
                                                                       financial aspects
                                                                       - Consultation on the Foundation

17.    Component 2: Original Project 2006: Expanding Gabon’s protected area coverage.
Proposed change: Enhanced knowledge on critical natural habitats for the expansion of the
Network of the National Parks.

The proposed change reflects the changes in the national priorities in terms of conservation in
Gabon. While it seemed accurate during the preparation phase to conduct a nation-wide survey on
biological wealth, the Gabonese Authorities indicated during the Mid-Term Review that, with the
support of other international partners that conducted targeted surveys, they acquired the required
data on the sites where future protected areas could be established, in order to achieve the
objective of 1 million hectare increase in the surface area of protected area coverage.

18.      The challenge today is to enhance knowledge on biological wealth and the socio-
economic situation of these potential sites: this critical knowledge will then be used in the process
of creating protected areas. Component 2 of the project will intervene in four sites but will focus
activities in three pre-identified sites, where extensive biological inventories and socio-economic
survey will be conducted, followed by extensive public consultations and legal reviews:
                                                  4
        -    “Wonga Wongué-Evaro” Complex (approx. 690,000 hectares)
        -    “Mayumba-Mayombe” Complex (approx. 250,000 hectares)
        -    Mondah Forest (5,000 hectares)

19.      In the Gamba Complex (approx. 1.5 million hectares), biological and socio-economic
surveys have already been conducted in close coordination with the WWF and the project is
expected to conduct extensive consultations and support an in-depth legal review: there is indeed
currently huge overlapping of areas under different (and contradictory) legal status and the ANPN
is willing to get legal guidance on how this situation could be legally clarified.

    Original Project (2006)                  Status of             Proposed
                                         Implementation            Restructured project
Conduct a biological and socio-     DROPPED – the              -
economic evaluation covering the    activities as stated in
entire country.                     the PAD were too
                                    vague and unlikely to
                                    respond to the country’s
                                    needs.
Identify potential site to be       DROPPED – over the         -
established under Protected Areas   first two years of the
status.                             project implementation,
                                    this identification was
                                    done without the GEF
                                    resources.
                                                               NEW- Wonga Wongué-Evaro complex
                                                               - Conduct biological inventories
                                                               - Conduct socio-economic surveys
                                                               - Conduct a feasibility study for the
                                                               establishment of a biological corridor
                                                               with the Pongara NP.
                                                               NEW- “Mayumba-Mayumbe” complex
                                                               - Conduct biological inventories
                                                               - Conduct socio-economic surveys
                                                               - Conduct a legal study for the “Greater
                                                               Mayumba Conservation Area”, in
                                                               conjunction with the Conkouati-Douli
                                                               NP in Rep. Congo
                                                               NEW- Mondah Forests
                                                               - Conduct of bibliographic survey of
                                                               biological and socio-economic data for
                                                               this area and identify gaps.
                                                               - Conduct complementary biological and
                                                               socio-economic field surveys
                                                               - Conduct a legal review to convert this
                                                               site from its current status “Forêt
                                                               Classée” in the status of “National
                                                               Parks”
                                                               NEW- “Gamba PAs” complex
                                                               - Conduct extensive consultation on the
                                                               proposed zoning plan for the Gamba PA
                                                               complex
                                                               - Conduct of legal review to clarify the
                                                               status of the different areas inside the
                                                               Complex.
                                                               NEW – Creation of a database on

                                                 5
                                                            Biodiversity (as a Component of the
                                                            Gabon Forestry Atlas elaborated by the
                                                            World Resources Institute.


20.     Component 3: Support to selected National Parks. Good progress has been made so far
under this Component. The ANPN has significantly strengthened its capacities in two of the three
key National Parks (Loango and Moukalaba-Doudou), which has significantly improved its
monitoring and surveillance capacities: 40 additional eco-guards, trained and fully equipped are
now operational. Additionally, with the support of international NGOs, the ANPN has drafted
management plans in a participatory manner for these two parks and started the consultative
process with the local population to prepare for implementation of these management plans.

21.       Before the Mid-Term Review, the Management Effectiveness in the three National Parks
was assessed with the “Protected Areas Monitoring and Evaluation Tracking Tool” (PAMETT).
It is planned that this assessment will be renewed on a yearly basis for the three National Parks.

22.      It is worth noting that no activities were launched in the Mayumba National Parks,
because of a provision in the Grant Agreement stipulating: “…/…no withdrawals shall be made:
.../… and (iii) in respect of Part C, in connection with the Mayumba National Park, until an
environmental impact assessment, including an environmental management plan for the off-shore
oil fields which pre-existed the establishment of the Mayumba National Park, has been carried
out and forwarded to the Bank, all satisfactory to the Bank.” (Schedule 1, para. 3.of the Grant
Agreement).

23.      The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report, including an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) was forwarded to the World Bank team after the Mid-Term Review.
However, in order to fully satisfy the above-condition, the Bank team has requested additional
documentation to complement the EIA report: this documentation mainly focuses on the
implementation of mitigation measures proposed in the EMP, to prevent oil spills from the
offshore offloading facility and promote consultation and collaboration between the offshore oil-
field facility operator, the ANPN and local communities. It consists of:
             - The National Emergency Plan on Oil Spills
             - The Oil Spill Emergency Plan prepared by the offshore oil field operator
             - The Communication Plan between the operator, the government entities and the
                 local authorities in case of oil spills.

24.      This documentation was forwarded to the Bank in December 2010 and considered
satisfactory. As such, the financing condition for the National Park of Mayumba is completed and
the activities planned under the Component 3 are being launched (the ANPN is currently
finalizing the negotiation process with the NGOs in charge of supporting the management of the
Mayumba National Park).

   Original Project (2006)                   Status of                       Proposed
                                         Implementation                 Restructured project
Approval of a Management         PARTIALLY COMPLETED              Management plans are finalized
Plans for three national Parks   Management plans have been       for the NPs of Loagno and
                                 drafted for the NPs of Loango    Moukalaba-Doudou and
                                 and Moukalaba-Doudou.            Management plan will be
                                                                  prepared for the NP of Mayumba.

                                                                  Extensive consultation will be

                                                6
                                                                        conducted on the Management
                                                                        plans.
 Improvement of the                  PARTIALLY COMPLETED                Additional training will be
 Surveillance in the National        Eco-guards (40) have been          provided to the eco-guards.
 Parks                               recruited, trained, equipped.
                                     Some surveillance operations       Surveillance operations will be
                                     have already been organized        amplified and a monitoring
                                                                        system “Patrol-based monitoring”
                                                                        will be set up.

                                                                        Eco-guards will also be trained on
                                                                        techniques to monitor “large
                                                                        Mammals” indicators.

 Acquisition of equipment            PARTIALLY COMPLETED                Equipments will be acquired for
                                     Most of the equipments have        NP of Mayumba.
                                     been acquired for the NP of
                                     Loango and MD.                     Additional equipments could also
                                     No equipments have been            be acquired in the other parks.
                                     acquired in Mayumba.

 Building of Infrastructure in the   JUST INITIATED -                   Preparation of the design plans for
 national Parks                      This activity has just recently    the buildings in the Parks
                                     been launched with the
                                     recruitment of an architecture     Construction of the different
                                     firm to design the plans for the   buildings in the Parks.
                                     Infrastructure in the NPs.

 Extensive consultation with         PARTIALLY COMPLETED                Consultations will continue and
 local communities in and            Over the past two years, regular   be formalized under the creation
 around the National Parks and       consultations were conducted       of the “Comités Consultatif de
 support to some pilot activities    with local population inside and   Gestion Locale” in the three
 with local communities.             outside the NPs of Loango and      Parks.
                                     Moukalaba-Doudou.
                                                                        Additional Income generation
                                     Some pilots supporting income      activities will be implemented
                                     generation activities were         with the local communities,
                                     implemented.


25.      Component 4: Original Project 2006: Wildlife management outside National Parks.
Proposed change: Improved wildlife management, monitoring and law enforcement in the
periphery of the National Parks. Very few activities have been initiated so far under this
Component: acquisition of equipment, constitution of eco-guards teams for the three selected sites
(Iboundji, Lekoni and Tchibanga); however, no field activities have been launched.

26.       The changes proposed under this Component aim to better reflect the variety of activities
that are needed in the buffer zones. The ANPN still wants to set up, in coordination with the
Ministry of Forests, the Mobile Brigades, as initially planned under the project, in order to fight
illegal poaching activities in the respective buffer zone of the National Parks.

27.      In addition, ANPN is aiming at strengthening environmental law enforcement in the
buffer zones in order to promote environmental compliance of activities undertaken in buffer
zones and limit pressures on environmental integrity of the parks. Thus, the ANPN, in
coordination with the Ministries in charge of Environment, Forests, Mining & Oil, intends to
                                                      7
conduct Environmental Audits in ten extractive concessions (logging, mining, oil), and help
develop remediation plans as necessary. While in the original Grant Agreement (Schedule 2, Part
D, para.3), rehabilitation of field facilities was indicated as an activity under this Component, this
was not confirmed as a priority during the Mid-Term Review and thus dropped in the restructured
project.


      Original Project (2006)                     Status of                        Proposed
                                             Implementation                 Restructured project
 Training, equipping and             PARTIALLY COMPLETED             Staff to be trained and deployed.
 deploying mobile units              Equipments have been acquired
 operating out of Tchibanga,         and the staff identified        Missions to be conducted
 Iboundji and Lekoni.                                                according to a work program for
                                                                     the next two years.

 Extensive consultation with the     NOT YET INITIATED               Consultations to be held as part of
 private sector operators                                            the missions of the Mobile
 (logging, oil) local communities                                    Brigades.
 and politico-administrative
 authorities for the
 implementation of collaborative
 mechanisms for wildlife
 management.

 Support to efficient day-to-day     DROPPED                         The ANPN is now entirely
 management of the project,                                          responsible for the day-to-day
 implementation of monitoring                                        management of the project, which
 and evaluation tracking tool and                                    includes the implementation of
 implementation of the project’s                                     monitoring and evaluation
 social and environmental                                            tracking tool and implementation
 management plan, all for                                            of the project’s social and
 activities under the                                                environmental management plan
 responsibility of the Ministry of                                   of all the project activities.
 Forests.

                                                                     NEW
                                                                     Environmental audit mission (and
                                                                     monitoring) of five extractive
                                                                     companies operating in the buffer
                                                                     zones will be conducted by an
                                                                     Inter-Ministerial team (ANPN,
                                                                     Min. Environment, Forests,
                                                                     Mining & Oil …).



28.      Safeguards. The environmental category of the project will remain unchanged. Category
A will be maintained and no new safeguard policy is triggered. The Integrated Safeguards Data
Sheet (ISDS) has been updated and disclosed.

29.       During the MTR, a road map was prepared to clearly define the activities to be conducted
by the ANPN and its partners to properly address the social and environmental dimensions of the
Project, in line with the Safeguards instruments elaborated during the preparation phase of the
Project (Environmental Management Plan, the Resettlement Policy Framework and the Indigenous
Peoples Development Plan).
                                                    8
30.      Additionally, field visits in the three National Parks and trainings have been planned
during the first semester of 2011 for both Government staff and technical partners involved in the
National parks Management (international and local NGOs) to build skills and disseminate
knowledge on WB Safeguards Policies (specifically on OP. 4.10 and OP. 4.12). A Social
Development Specialist is being recruited by the ANPN.

31.     Institutional arrangements. A decision was made during the Preparation of the Project in
2005-06 that the project implementation would not require the creation of a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) but would rather be mainstreamed in two existing national entities, one
of them being the newly created Agence Nationale des Parcs Nationaux (Law on National Parks,
adopted on August 27, 2007), the other one being the Ministry in charge of Forests (MEF).
Moreover, under the original PAD, it was proposed that the GEF operation be “implemented by
two agencies, within an overarching framework of the PSFE: the Agence Nationale des Parcs
Nationaux (ANPN) and the Ministry of Forests” (para 45). Moreover it was indicated that “Annual
budgets and work plans would be prepared jointly by the two implementing agencies …/… and
approved by the PSFE Steering Committee” (para 48).

32.      During the MTR, the Gabonese Authorities strongly argued to keep a mainstreamed
approach for this project, they acknowledge the need to simplify the whole implementation
arrangements and align with the Memorandum of Understanding signed between ANPN and MEF
last March 2010.

33.       Accordingly, the following adjustments have been agreed upon, in view of simplifying
the institutional arrangements for project implementation and monitoring:

     (i)     The ANPN will have the full responsibility for the implementation of the project and
             will coordinate with MEF on specific technical aspects. As such, the ANPN will be
             fully responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the four components of the
             project, including the fiduciary and the Monitoring and Evaluation aspects. At the
             technical level, the ANPN will coordinate with the MEF and any other entities
             (including Ministries in charge of Environment and Mining & Oil) in the course of
             the project implementation.

     (ii)    The Project Implementation Manual (PIM) has been revised accordingly and now
             clearly spells out roles and responsibilities in the project implementation.

     (iii)   Experts have been recruited to strengthen ANPN’s capacities to implement the
             project, both at the technical and fiduciary levels.
                        - Accountants (3) for the National Parks to ensure a proper financial
                          management of the project resources at the Park level (salaries of the
                          ecoguards, operating costs for the field missions …);
                        - An Implementation Specialist to help the ANPN over the July 2010 –
                          May 2011 period and make sure the project gets back on track. Major
                          tasks of this Specialist are to ensure that: (a) the activities planned under
                          the restructured project are promptly launched, implemented and
                          monitored; and (b) the ANPN staff is trained on WB procedures and
                          project implementation and monitoring.

             Additionally, the following experts have also been recruited:


                                                  9
                      - At the fiduciary level: (i) one Accountant; (ii) one deputy Procurement
                        Specialist; and (iii) on Expert on Human Resources and Labor laws.
                      - At the technical level, in order to directly support the implementation of
                        the Project activities: (i) one GIS specialist; (ii) one social
                        development/Anthropologist specialist (contract currently under
                        negotiation); (iii) on Environmental Management Specialist (contract
                        currently under negotiation); and (iv) a Lawyer (contract currently under
                        negotiation).
                      - At M&E level: an international M&E specialist has been recruited to
                        support the establishment of an M&E unit within the ANPN.
                        Additionally the ANPN has recently launched the recruitment process for
                        a national M&E specialist (Terms of references validated).

            While the ANPN had indicated that recruitment of additional technical experts
            (fisheries, forestry …) would be necessary, it was agreed that, because of potential
            absorptive capacity limitations of the ANPN, these recruitments would be launched
            later.

    (iv)    The partnerships with the NGOs have been confirmed and strengthened. The
            contracts with the international NGOs, WWF and WCS under the Components 2, 3
            and 4, have been renewed and new partnerships have been established with local
            NGOs under the Component 3 to promote sensitization and local development
            activities around the three National Parks.

    (v)     A two-year work plan has been prepared by the ANPN in close coordination with the
            other entities that clearly defines the activities to be implemented under each
            Component (See Annex 2). The budget and procurement plans have been revised
            accordingly.

35.      Financial management. During the first Phase of the project, the financial management of
the project was shared between the ANPN and the Ministry of Forestry. In line with the Mid-
Term Review recommendations, the ANPN will now be fully responsible for the financial
management of the Project. Accordingly the restructured project will put particular emphasis on
institutional capacity development within the ANPN Financial Management team. Moreover, the
Financial Management system (software TOMPRO) set up during the first phase of the project
will be expanded to cover all financial resources managed by the ANPN (national resources and
project-based resources). During the latest Financial Management Supervision mission that was
conducted in November 2010, it was acknowledged that the capacity has been substantially
enhanced and the FM is now rated Moderately Satisfactory and the Risk Moderate.

36.     Procurement. Based on the revised action plan, the ANPN team has revised the
Procurement Plan for the next two years, (see Annex 3). This Procurement Plan will be regularly
reviewed and updated as needed (at least during each World Bank Supervision mission). Under
the proposed restructured project, the general procurement arrangements would be the same as
the arrangements under the Original Project; however, the updated "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit" published by the Bank in May 2004, and as revised in
October 2006 and May 2010, will apply to all contracts financed under the restructured Project.
Procurement of consultants' services shall be governed by the "Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. During the restructuring project mission, a rapid


                                               10
procurement capacity assessment of the ANPN was carried out and did not reveal any significant
anomaly and the overall project risk for procurement is rated Moderate.

37.     It is worth noting that procurement and financial management capacities have been
substantially improved over the past few months as indicated in the financial management
assessment report dated November 2010 and the procurement assessment dated December 2010.
As a result of these adjustments, the disbursement rate has improved and is now 41 percent as of
March 31, 2011. It is expected that the disbursements will regularly increase now the new
contracts with the NGOs have been signed (payment on a quarterly basis) the field activities
under the Components 2 and 4 have been launched.

38.      Financing and Project Costs. The proposed reallocation of the GEF resources is presented
in the following table.

  Project Costs (US$m.)
  Components/Activities                                          Current                Proposed
                                                                 (PAD 2006)             (change %)
  Component 1.
  Institutional Strengthening of the ANPN                            1,832,878          2,137,000
  no change                                                                             (+14.2%)

  Component 2.
  Original Project 2006: Expanding Gabon’s protected                 1,121,568
  area coverage.

  Proposed change: Enhanced knowledge on critical                                       1,083,000
  natural habitats for the expansion of the Network of                                  (-3.6%)
  the National Parks

  Component 3.
  Support to selected National Parks                                 5,218,012          5,544,000
  no change                                                                             (+5.9%)

  Component 4
  Original Project 2006: Wildlife management outside                 1,817,547
  national parks.

  Proposed change: Improved wildlife management and                                     1,236,000
  law enforcement in the periphery of the National                                      (-47,0%)
  parks.

  Total                                                              10,000,0052        10,000,000


Financing Plan
GEF Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY               2008         2009       2010                         2011           2012       2013
Annual            0.6         0.5        1.5                          2.5            3.6         1.3
Cumulative        0.6         1.1        2.6                          5.1            8.7        10.0

2 Figures in the Annex 5 (Project Cost) in the PAD do not add up to US$10 million.
                                                   11
                  Effectiveness date: December 27, 2007            First disbursement: May 21, 2008
                  As of March 31, 2011, the disbursement rate of the project is 41.3 %.
                  Expected closing date: June 30, 2013


39.     Disbursement arrangements. During the first Phase of the Project, two Dedicated
Accounts were opened: one for each of the implementing agencies (ANPN and Ministry of
Forests). While the ANPN has now been established as the only implementing entity, it was
agreed to maintain the two Dedicated Accounts that would both be managed by the ANPN
Financial Management Team. Furthermore, there is no change in the linkage between each
designated account and its respective categories as specified in the Disbursement Letter dated
April 11, 2008.

40.       Reallocations. The original Grant Agreement distinguished categories of expenditures
that fall under the responsibility of the ANPN (Component 1 and 3) and the Ministry in charge of
Forests (Component 2 and 4) respectively. As above, it was agreed to keep the same categories of
expenditures but the following reallocation of proceeds is proposed.

       Category of Expenditure                             Allocation (expressed in USD)
                                                  Current            Disbursed            Revised
(1) Works under Parts:
(a) A(1) and C(4) of the Project                         533,000                  0             740,000
(b) D(3) of the Project                                  104,000                  0                   0

 (2) Goods, Vehicles and equipment:
(a) Under Part A(2) and C(2)                          1,316,000            459,820              966,467
(b) Under Part D(2)                                     609,000            260,298              262,071

(3) Studies and Consultants Services:
(a)Under Parts A(3), C(1), And C(3)                   3,535,000           1,267,811            3,990,608
(b)Under Parts B and D of the Project                 1,707,000             803,390            1,293,889

 (4) Training:
(a) Under Parts A(4) and C(5)                            310,000              4,549             243,361
 (b)Under Part D(2)                                      140,000                  0              50,000

 (5) Incremental Operating Costs for:
(a) Under Parts A and C                               1,356,000            739,230             1,740,564
(b) Under Parts B and D                                 390,000            199,583               713,040

Total                                               10,000,000             4,116,210         10,000,000
Nota: All the expenditures are 100 percent financed with the project resources.

41.     Closing date. As part of their request for the restructuring of the Project, the Government
Authorities have requested a 12 month extension of the closing date, which would extend the
closing date to June 30, 2013. This would leave enough time to fully implement the 2-year work
program prepared by the ANPN and provide some flexibility, in case of delays.

42.      Implementation schedule. Following the Mid-Term Review, the ANPN team, in close
coordination with the World Bank team and the other governmental entities involved in the
project, has prepared a revised action plan for the next two years. (see Annex 2).



                                                    12
D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

43.     Economic and financial analysis. As mentioned in the original PAD, the benefits from
the project are difficult to assess - in monetary terms- as there are mostly environmental benefits
and biodiversity conservation. The PAD however attempted to estimate the potential benefits
from eco-tourism that could derive from the project activities (National Park management and
creation of Protected Areas). Though the eco-touristic potential remains huge in Gabon, it has not
materialized yet (because of the political transition over the past few years). The new
Government has confirmed its willingness to strategize its approach to develop eco-tourism; it
considers the Project as a pillar for such an approach as it builds the foundation for such an eco-
tourism in three of its key National Parks.

44.      Social. During the preparation of the project, the Government has elaborated a
comprehensive Social Management Plan, as well as other safeguards instruments (Resettlement
Policy Framework and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan). These documents were elaborated
for the broader PSFE “Programme Sectoriel Forêts Environnement”, under which the Project was
included. Though very comprehensive and covering all aspects of forest management and
conservation, it appeared during project implementation that these instruments needed to be
complemented with operational guidance to properly address the GEF-funded activities.

45.     Therefore during the Mid-Term Review, it was agreed to develop specific guidance on
how to apply these safeguard instruments at the Project level. Additionally as part of the revision
of the Project Implementation Manual, the section on World Bank Safeguards Policies has been
adjusted. A time bound action plan was prepared in light of the different adjustments proposed
for the restructuring, and adopted by the Government, to ensure that all GEF-funded activities
will be adequately covered by the relevant safeguard instruments. This action plan provides the
needed guidance to the ANPN and related Governmental bodies on how to properly address
social dimensions of the Project activities. Training activities will be implemented and provided
to Governmental staff and other stakeholders involved in the Project (International and Local
NGOs) to build capacity and ensure that all applicable safeguard instruments will be implemented
and enforced and disclosure and reporting done accordingly.

46.      Environment. The Project supports activities that aim to reduce pressure on the
environment in and around the National Parks. In the three key National Parks covered by the
Project (PN Loango, PN Moukalaba-Doudou, and PN Mayumba), Management Plans are under
preparation (the two first ones are only in draft while the preparation of the latter one will be
shortly launched): a special attention is given to the Management Plans that need to properly
reflect how the environmental and social dimensions will be covered. In particular, it is expected
that these Management Plans include a satisfactory Environmental and Social Management Plan
(ESMP).

47.     Exceptions to Bank Policy. The proposed changes do not require any exception to Bank
policy.

48.      Risks. The overall risk rating of the Project remains between Modest (M) and Substantial
(S), mainly due to the weak capacity of the ANPN, in charge of the implementation of the
Project.

o      Weak Capacity of the ANPN. This Agency was created in 2007 and the major
improvements achieved so far in terms of capacity building are the results of the implementation

                                                13
of Project, as well as of the EU support (through ECOFAC). However, weaknesses in terms of
planning and monitoring remain and could have negative impacts on the Project. The proposed
restructuring of the Project aims at simplifying and streamlining the activities for the second
phase of the Project. Additionally, a technical assistance has been recruited on a 10-month period
(Implementation specialist) to help the ANPN with the launching of the activities and to
strengthen its capacities both at the central and decentralized levels. Supervision by the Bank
team has also been reinforced with the recruitment of a local consultant based in Gabon.

o        Lack of Coordination amongst the different agencies. During the first phase of the
Project, the Project was implemented by both the ANPN and the Ministry of Forests without
effective coordination as planned under the initial project design. Roles, responsibilities and
collaboration modalities were not clearly defined which led to significant bottlenecks for the
Project implementation. As part of the Mid-Term Review process, coordination has been better
defined between the ANPN taking the lead on the overall Project and the other entities. For the
activities to be implemented by the Ministry in charge of Forests, they will be governed by a
Memorandum of Understanding that was signed in March 2010 between the ANPN and the
Ministry. Additionally the Project Implementation Manual, currently under revision, which
clarifies roles and responsibilities, should help in enhancing the coordination between the
different entities.

o       Environmental Management in the Mayumba Park. An Environmental Impact
Assessment for the off-shore oil fields which pre-existed the establishment of the Mayumba
National Park, along with an Environmental Management Plan, have been prepared and
submitted to the Bank in July 2010. The Bank has reviewed the EIA as well as the
complementary documentation to help operationalize the Environmental Management Plan, and
have judged them satisfactory. The mitigation measures reflected in the EMP inter alia include
the decommissioning of a pre-existing oil offloading facility from the area. However, the risk
remains high that the EMP is not properly implemented and that the mitigation measures (such as
the decommissioning of the offloading facility) are not taken as requested by the Government.




                                               14
                                              ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING
                                 GABON: STRENGTHENING CAPACITY FOR MANAGING NATIONAL PARKS AND BIODIVERSITY

Project Development Objective (PDO):
Biodiversity is protected and managed in a sustainable way and contributes to the diversification of the national economy, through strengthened capacities of parks
and wildlife authorities

Revised Project Development Objective:
The Project Development Objective is to (i) enhance the conservation of biodiversity in selected National Parks and buffer zones and (ii) strengthen the management
capacity of selected conservation-related entities in Gabon.
                                              D=Dropped                                  Cumulative Target Values**                                   Responsibility
                                       Core




                                              C=Continue   Unit of           Baseline                                                Data Source/
  PDO Level Results Indicators*                                                                                        Frequency                        for Data
                                              N= New       Measure            2010          2011           2012                      Methodology
                                                                                                                                                       Collection
                                              R=Revised
Indicator One: 1 million hectares of          Dropped
areas suitable for protection status
identified and proposed for formal
gazettement

Indicator One: Hectares of land for           New          Ha         Zero               600,000       900,000        Annual        Biological       ANPN (with
protection where a biological survey                                                                                                inventories      support from Int.
is completed.                                                                                                                                        NGOs)

Indicator Two: Increase in                    Revised      PAMET      Loango: 57%        Loango: 60%   Loango: 65%    Annual        PAMETT :         ANPN (with the
management effectiveness in three                          T score    Mayumba: 58%       Mayumba:      Mayumba:                     Tracking tool    support of Int. &
National Parks (700,000 hectares) ,                        (GEF       Moukalaba-         60%           65%                                           Local NGOs)
as per the GEF Protected Area                              tracking   Doudou: 50%        Moukalaba-    Moukalaba-
Management Tracking Tool                                   tool)                         Doudou: 60%   Doudou: 65%
(PAMETT)




                                                                                    15
Indicator Three: 5 million hectares           Dropped
of production landscapes in buffer
zones with increased wildlife
management measured by indicators
of surveillance efforts and levels of
wildlife off-take, by Year 5
Indicator Three: Increased                    New              Person-    300                  500              700              Monthly         Reports from      ANPN (with the
surveillance efforts in the three key                          days per                                                                          the three         support of Int. &
National Parks and buffer zones                                month                                                                             National Parks    Local NGOs)
                                                               (mean                                                                             Conservateurs
                                                               value on                                                                          and the Mobile
                                                               a year                                                                            Brigades
                                                               period)3
Indicator Four: Doubling of                   Dropped
employment (number of jobs, total
salaries) and ecotourism (number of
visitors, annual revenues)
Indicator Four: Number of                X    New              Number     Not applicable       2000 (50% of     4000             Annual          Reports from      ANPN (with the
community members sensitized about                                                             women)           (cumulative)                     the NGOs and      support of Int. &
the biodiversity conservation in three                                                                          (50% of                          the National      Local NGOs).
National parks , % of which is                                                                                  women)                           Parks             This includes:
female.                                                                                                                                          Conservateurs     direct
                                                                                                                                                                   beneficiaries of
                                                                                                                                                                   development
                                                                                                                                                                   projects in buffer
                                                                                                                                                                   zones,
                                                                                                                                                                   participants to
                                                                                                                                                                   the Consultative
                                                                                                                                                                   process of the
                                                                                                                                                                   Management
                                                                                                                                                                   plan and
                                                                                                                                                                   Sensitization

      3
       The surveillance efforts in the three national Parks and their buffer zones are estimated in Person-days per month (mean value over the past 12 months). This value
      covers the three National Parks and their Buffer zones. At Mid-Term Review (May 2010), the surveillance teams were in place in the National Parks(cf. the project
      helped recruit 40 additional ecoguards in the three key Parks) and equipped, however largely untapped as the surveillance efficiency was only 50% (number of
      persons-days of mission out of total number of available person-days).




                                                                                       16
                                                                                                                                                campaign on
                                                                                                                                                Biodiversity and
                                                                                                                                                Conservation.

                                                                       INTERMEDIATE RESULTS

Intermediate Result (Component One: Strengthened institutional capacities of the ANPN at the national level.

Revised Intermediate Result (Component One): no change.

Intermediate Result indicator One:       Dropped
ANPN headquarters is established ad
equipped by end of Yr 1 and 100% of
core senior staff (8) recruited by the
end of Yr1.
Intermediate Result indicator One:       New              Yes/No Yes
ANPN headquarters is established
and equipped.
Intermediate Result indicator Two:       Dropped
Systems for finance and human
resources management; monitoring
and evaluation; communication;
ecotourism development; and
sustainable funding are operational
Intermediate Result indicator Two:       New              Yes/No FM system: Yes          FM system: Yes FM system: Yes       Annual   Mission   WB team
Systems for finance and human                                        HR system: No       HR system: No HR system: Yes                 report
resources management; monitoring                                     M&E syst.: No       M&E syst.: No      M&E syst.: Yes
and evaluation are established.
Intermediate Result (Component Two): Identification of possible additional protected areas (1 million hectares)

Revised Intermediate Result (Component Two): Biological and socio-economic surveys conducted in three sites (Wongua-Wongué-Evaro, Mondah Forest, Mayumba-
Mayombe)
Intermediate Result indicator One: %         Dropped
of the targeted surface area surveyed
and identified for possible protection
status, including local consultation




                                                                                    17
Intermediate Result indicator One:        New           Nb         Zero              One              Three          Annual       Biological     ANPN (with the
Number of sites with high                                                            (Mayombe)        (Mayombe,                   inventory      support from Int.
biodiversity potential covered by                                                                     Wonga-                      reports        NGOs)
biological inventory                                                                                  Wongué,
                                                                                                      Mondah)
Intermediate Result indicator Two:        New           Yes/No No                    -                Yes            End of the   Biodiversity   ANPN (with the
National database on biodiversity is                                                                                 project      Database       support from Int.
created                                                                                                                                          NGO)
Intermediate Result (Component Three): Strengthened management of Loango, Mukalaba and Mayumba national parks


Revised Intermediate Result (Component Three): Strengthened management of Loango, Moukalaba-Doudou and Mayumba National Parks


Intermediate Result indicator One:        Revised       Nb         0                2 (Loango +       3 (+Mayumba)    Annual      Managt         ANPN (with the
Loango, Mouakalaba and Mayumba                                                      Moukalaba)                                    Plans          support of the
management plan finalized, through a                                                                                                             NGOs)
participatory process.
Intermediate Result indicator Two: %      Dropped
of staff operational, infrastructure in
place.
Intermediate Result indicator Two:        New           Yes/No     Loango: No       Loango: Yes       Loango: Yes     -           Field          WB team
Quarters for Park Rangers built and                                Mayumba: No      Mayumba: No       Mayumba: Yes                mission
operational                                                        Moukalaba-       Moukalaba-        Moukalaba-
                                                                   Doudou: No       Doudou: No        Doudou: Yes
Intermediate Result indicator Three:      Dropped
% of infractions per man-day patrol
decreases compared with baseline at
start of project.
Intermediate Result indicator Three:      Dropped
% of infractions per man-day of
patrol decreases compared with
baseline at start of project
Intermediate Result indicator Three:      New           Person-    300              400               500             Monthly     Reports        ANPN (with the
Increased surveillance efforts in the                   days per                                                                  from the       support of Int. &
three key National Parks.                               month                                                                     three NPs      Local NGOs)
                                                        (mean                                                                     and the




                                                                              18
                                                              on a                                                                                Mobile
                                                              year                                                                                Brigades
                                                              period) 4
Intermediate Result indicator Four:           Dropped
Parks totally exempt of industrial
extractive activities (logging, mining,
fishing, etc)
Intermediate Result indicator Five:           Dropped
Abundance indices of key biological
indicators remain stable or increases
compared with baseline measure at
the start of the project
(baseline,/mid/end)
Intermediate Result indicator Six:            Dropped
Increase in employment, revenues
and other socio-economic benefits
from different sources including park
activities, eco-tourism, other non-
extractive uses.
Intermediate Result indicator Seven:          Dropped
% increase in community
participation as measured by
attendance at public meetings and
numbers of participative
collaboration agreements
Intermediate Result indicator Four:           New             Nb          Zero               1 (Loango)          3 (+Moulalaba      Annual        Minutes of     ANPN (with
Number of consultative Committees                                                                                and Mayumba)                     the meeting    support from the
created in the National Parks                                                                                                                                    NGOs)
(including the first meeting)




      4
        The surveillance efforts in the three national Parks are estimated in Person-days per month (mean value over the past 12 months). This value covers the three
      National Parks. At Mid-Term Review (May 2010), the surveillance teams were in place in the National Parks (cf. the project helped recruit 40 additional ecoguards in
      the three key Parks) and equipped, however largely untapped as the surveillance efficiency was only 50% (number of persons-days of mission out of total number of
      available person-days).




                                                                                      19
Intermediate Result (Component Four): Strengthened wildlife management in production and rural landscapes in the periphery of the national parks

Revised Intermediate Result (Component Four): Strengthened wildlife management and law enforcement in the periphery of the national parks
Intermediate Result indicator One:            Revised          Nb          Zero                15                  15                  Annual       Activity        ANPN (with the
Number of trained and equipped staff                                                                                                                Report          support of the
in mobile brigades                                                                                                                                                  NGOs)
Intermediate Result indicator Two: %          Dropped
of intervention zone (5 million
hectares) free of commercial hinting
activities, with wildlife related
measures of forest management plans
effectively implemented and
enforced.
Intermediate Result indicator Two:            New              Person-     Zero                100                 200                 Annual       Activity        ANPN (with the
Increased surveillance efforts in                              days per                                                                             Report          support of the
National Park buffer zones.                                    month                                                                                                NGOs)
                                                               (mean
                                                               on a
                                                               year
                                                               period)5
Intermediate Result indicator Three:          Dropped
Number of wildlife management
agreements with private operators
and local communities and
authorities
Intermediate Result indicator Three:          New              Nb          Zero                5                   5                   Annual       Activity        ANPN, in close
Number of Environmental Audits                                                                                                                      Report          coordination
conducted by the Gabonese                                                                                                                                           with other
Administration                                                                                                                                                      Administrations
                                                                                                                                                                    (Forests,
                                                                                                                                                                    Oil/Mining,
                                                                                                                                                                    Environment).
                               *Please indicate whether the indicator is a Core Sector Indicator (see further http://coreindicators)

      5
       The surveillance efforts in the buffer zones are estimated in Person-days per month (mean value over the past 12 months). This value reflects the surveillance efforts
      deployed by the Mobile Brigades that will be set up in Iboundji, Lekoni and Tchibanga. None of them were operational during the Mid-Term Review.




                                                                                        20
                                                 Annex 2: Two-year Work Plan
               (prepared by the ANPN and transmitted as part of the restructuring request from the Government)

Composante 1

Objectif     Renforcer l'ANPN par la mise en place d'une organisation efficace des directions du Secrétariat Exécutif
1.1
Résultat     Le Secrétariat Exécutif de l'ANPN est équipé et organisé pour mettre en œuvre le projet GEF-PARCS
attendu

                                                              Mois
Activités                            1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
1.1.1 Assistance technique
internationale pour la mise en
œuvre du projet GEF-PARCS
1.1.2 Equipement du siège de
l'ANPN (informatique, bureautique,
logiciels
1.1.3 Mise en place d’un système
informatique efficace (Intranet,
réseau, entretiens parc
informatique)
1.1.4 Assistance à la passation de
marché




                                                                  21
Objectif 1.2      Mettre en place une gestion efficace du réseau des parcs nationaux du Gabon par le renforcement de la Direction
                  Technique
Résultat          Le réseau des parcs nationaux du Gabon est géré par une Direction Technique qui dispose des moyens adéquats et des
attendu           capacités technique nécessaires à la :
                    (i) gestion d’une base de données (SIG, archivage…) ;
                    (ii) gestion des relations avec les opérateurs économiques (entreprises extractives en périphérie des parcs, opérateurs
                         touristiques…) ;
                    (iii)gestion des relations avec les populations et communautés locales ;
                    (iv) gestion des activités illégales (foresterie illégale, braconnage, pêche illégale…)
                    (v) l’analyse et l’élaboration des textes règlementaire adéquats.

                                                             Mois
Activités                            1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
1.2.1 Assistance base de donnée-
SIG (expert géomatique)
1.2.2 Assistance en Etudes
d’impact environnemental (expert
EIE)
1.2.3 Assistance relation
communautés locales (expert
sociologue/Anthropologue)
1.2.4 Assistance expertise
juridiques
1.2.5 Assistance expertise pêche
1.2.6 Assistance expertise
tourisme
1.2.7 Assistance expertise gestion
faune
1.2.8 Assistance expertise




                                                                    22
aménagement forestier
1.2.9 Acquisition des équipements
roulant et naviguant
1.2.10 Acquisition d’équipements
techniques (GPS…)




                                    23
Objectif 1.3     Mettre en place une gestion administrative et financière efficace de l’ANPN en renforçant la Direction Administrative et
                 Financière pour la mise en place de systèmes comptable et de gestion des ressources humaines adéquats
Résultats        La Direction Administrative et Financière a un système efficace, adéquate à la dimension et aux activités de l’ANPN et
attendus         en conformité à la règlementation en vigueur avec entre autre :
                   (i) un système comptable multi-bailleurs informatisé ;
                   (ii) une gestion informatisée des payes ;
                   (iii)l’élaboration de contrats pour l’ensemble du personnel et inscription à la Caisse Nationale de Sécurité Sociale

                                                                       Mois
Activités                            1 2 3 4 5        6 7    8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
1.3.1 Assistance au service
comptable de l’ANPN projet
GEF-PARCS
1.3.2 Assistance à la mise en
conformité l’ANPN en ce qui
concerne les impôts et le droit du
travail (Consultant droit du
travail)
1.3.3 Opérationnaliser le logiciel
comptable
1.3.4 Opérationnaliser le logiciel
de gestion des payes




                                                                   24
Objectif 1.4    Mettre en place les bases nécessaires à la mise en place d'une communication efficace pour l'ANPN par le renforcement
                de la Direction de la Communication
Résultats       L'ANPN met en œuvre une stratégie de communication complète avec notamment :
attendus        (i) la mise en œuvre d'un plan de communication sur le plan national ;
                (ii) l'entretien et la mise à jour d'un site Internet complet ;
                (iii) l'élaboration et la diffusion de sujet audiovisuels.

                                                                      Mois
Activités                         1 2 3 4 5         6 7     8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
1.4.1 Elaborer une stratégie de
communication nationale
1.4.2 Former une cellule audio-
vidéo à l'ANPN (acquisition de
matériel Audio-vidéo
+formation)
1.4.3 Mettre en place un site
internet pour l'ANPN




                                                                 25
Objectif 1.5    Mettre en place un mécanisme de financement durable adéquat pour le réseau des parcs nationaux du Gabon
Résultats       Le réseau des parcs nationaux du Gabon dispose d’un mécanisme de financement durable :
attendus            (i)    La large consultation et la participation nécessaire au montage d’une fondation à été réalisée ;
                    (ii)   Les études complémentaires nécessaires au montage de la fondation ont été réalisées.

                                                                       Mois
Activités                          1 2 3 4 5         6 7     8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
1.5.1 Mettre en place un large
processus d’information/
consultation ainsi qu’un groupe
de travail pour le montage d’une
fondation
1.5.2 Réaliser les études
adéquates pour le montage de la
fondation pour le financement
des parcs nationaux




                                                                  26
Composante 2
Objectif 2.1    Mettre en place un outil adéquat pour la planification du réseau d'aires protégées au Gabon et le classement de nouveaux
                espaces
Résultats       Le Gabon dispose des outils de base pour la planification de son réseau d'aires protégées :
attendus          (i) Une base de données biodiversité couplée aux bases de données existante (permis forestiers, miniers...) est
                       disponible ;
                  (ii) Deux nouvelles aires protégées sont proposées pour un nouveau classement ;
                  (iii)Un nouveau statut est proposé pour la forêt classée de la Mondah.

                                                                     Mois
Activités                        1   2   3   4   5   6 7    8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
2.1.1 Elaborer une base de
données géoréférencées sur les
principaux grands mammifères,
habitats et plantes endémiques
pour le Gabon
2.1.2 Réaliser les études
socioéconomiques et
biologiques nécessaires pour
réaliser des proposition de
classement pour deux aires
protégées (Evaro-Wonga-
Wongué et monts Mayombe)
2.1.3 Réaliser les études
nécessaires pour proposer une
nouvelle délimitation et un
nouveau statut pour la forêt
classée de la Mondah




                                                                  27
Objectif 2.2   Mettre en place un plan d'affectation des terres pour le complexe des aires protégées de Gamba cohérent (pas de
               superposition de zones ayant des modes d’utilisation des terres incompatibles), précis (géoréférencé), compris, accepté
               par toutes les parties prenantes au processus et basé sur des textes règlementaires
Résultats      Il n'existe pas de superposition de mode d'utilisation des terres non compatibles dans le complexe des aires protégées de
attendus       Gamba :
                  (i) les limites des parcs nationaux de Loango et de Moukalaba-Doudou sont revues en prenant en considération les
                       populations, les activités extractives minières et les zone de haute biodiversité
                  (ii) Déclassement des anciennes réserves ayant subit des superpositions (avec proposition de reclassement d’une
                       nouvelle aire protégée)
                  (iii)Un système d’information géographique complet est disponible pour le complexe des aires protégées de Gamba.

                                                                     Mois
Activités                          1 2 3 4 5        6 7    8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
2.2.1 Assistance a l’ANPN pour
la coordination du développement
du complexe de Gamba
(consultant individuel)
2.2.2 Mettre en place un
processus participatif de
concertation sur le rezonage du
complexe de Gamba
2.2.3 Réaliser une série d'études
socio-économique, cartographie
participative des villages du
complexe et de la ville de Gamba
2.2.4 Réaliser une série
d'études/inventaires biologiques
sur des zones ayant des potentiels
forts en biodiversité et sur des
zones ayant des forts potentiels




                                                                 28
pour d’autres activités (minier…)
2.2.5 Réalisation d’une
cartographie complète du
complexe de Gamba reprenant
toutes les informations utiles
disponibles
2.2.6 Réalisation et adoption de
textes règlementaires nécessaires
à l’officialisation du rezonage du
complexe de Gamba (décrets de
classement, déclassements,
décrets d’application de la loi sur
les PN…)




                                      29
Composante 3
Objectif 3.1 Mettre en place les infrastructures de base pour les parcs nationaux de Loango, Moukalaba-Doudou et Mayumba
Résultats    Les parcs nationaux de Loango, Moukalaba-Doudou et Mayumba disposent des infrastructures de base, équipées en
attendus     mobilier, nécessaire au bon fonctionnement des activités :
              (i) Réhabilitation des brigades d’Iguéla, de Sette-Cama (Loango) et de Mourindi (Moukalaba-Doudou) ;
              (i) Construction des quartiers généraux du parc national de Mayumba.

                                                                   Mois
Activités                          1 2 3 4 5      6 7    8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
3.1.1 Recrutement du bureau
étude pour l’élaboration des
projets et le suivi des travaux
3.1.2 Réalisation des
réhabilitations et constructions
3.1.3 Equipement des bases vie
des parcs nationaux (mobilier,
installation Internet)




                                                              30
Objectif 3.2      Mettre en place une gestion exemplaire du parc national de Loango
Résultats         Le parc national de Loango a une organisation et un fonctionnement adapté et conforme aux standards internationaux :
attendus           (i) Le parc est organisé conformément au plan cadre de gestion avec un conservateur, conservateur adjoint,
                        assistance comptable et équipe d’écogardes ;
                   (ii) Il est équipé de manière adéquate en termes de moyens roulant, naviguant, équipements de terrain et équipements
                        informatiques ;
                   (iii)Il possède des documents de planification (plan de gestion et plan de travail annuel, règlement intérieur…) et a un
                        fonctionnement régulier conformément aux documents de planifications ;
                   (iv) Les populations, communautés, autorités et associations locales sont informées, participent et sont consultés dans
                        la gestion du parc, notamment à travers le montage du CCGL.

                                                                        Mois
Activités                           1 2 3 4 5         6 7     8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
3.2.1 Acquisition d’équipement
écogardes (tenue, GPS, camping)
3.2.2 Acquisition d’équipements
roulant et naviguant
3.2.3 Acquisition d’équipements
informatiques
3.2.4 Assistance comptable au
conservateur
3.2.5 Assistance internationale à
la gestion du PNL (pour la partie
nord et sud du parc)
3.2.6 Assistance nationale à la
gestion du PNL
3.2.7 Formation des écogardes du
parc
3.2.8 Mise en œuvre des missions




                                                                    31
de surveillance
3.2.9 Montage du comité
consultatif de gestion local
(consultation, organisation des
réunions…)
3.2.10 Validation du plan
d’aménagement/gestion du parc
3.2.11 Réalisation d’un inventaire
des grands mammifères du parc




                                     32
Objectif 3.3      Mettre en place une gestion exemplaire du parc national de Moukalaba-Doudou
Résultats         Le parc national de Moukalaba-Doudou a une organisation et un fonctionnement adapté et conforme aux standards
attendus          internationaux :
                    (i) Le parc est organisé conformément au plan cadre de gestion avec un conservateur, conservateur adjoint,
                         assistance comptable et équipe d’écogardes ;
                    (ii) Il est équipé de manière adéquate en termes de moyens roulant, naviguant, équipements de terrain et équipements
                         informatiques ;
                    (iii)Il possède des documents de planification (plan de gestion et plan de travail annuel, règlement intérieur…) et a un
                         fonctionnement régulier conformément aux documents de planifications ;
                    (iv) Les populations, communautés, autorités et associations locales sont informées, participent et sont consultés dans
                         la gestion du parc, notamment à travers le montage du CCGL.

                                                                        Mois
Activités                           1 2 3 4 5          6 7    8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
3.3.1 Acquisition d’équipements
éco-gardes (tenue, GPS, camping)
3.3.2 Acquisition d’équipements
roulant et naviguant
3.3.3 Acquisition d’équipements
informatiques
3.3.4 Assistance comptable au
conservateur
3.3.5 Assistance internationale à
la gestion du PNMD
3.3.6 Assistance nationale à la
gestion du PNMD
3.3.7 Formation des éco-gardes
du parc
3.3.8 Mise en œuvre des missions
de surveillance




                                                                    33
3.3.9 Montage du comité
consultatif de gestion local
(consultation, organisation des
réunions…)
3.3.10 Validation du plan
d’aménagement/gestion du parc
3.3.11 Réalisation d’un inventaire
des grands mammifères du parc




                                     34
Objectif 3.4      Mettre en place une gestion exemplaire du parc national Marin de Mayumba
Résultats          Le parc national marin de Mayumba a une organisation et un fonctionnement adapté et conforme aux standards
attendus                internationaux en terme de gestion des aires protégés marine :
                   (i) Le parc est organisé conformément au plan cadre de gestion avec un conservateur, conservateur adjoint,
                        assistance comptable et équipe d’écogardes ;
                   (ii) Il est équipé de manière adéquate en termes de moyens roulant, naviguant, équipements de terrain et équipements
                        informatiques ;
                   (iii)Il possède des documents de planification (plan de gestion et plan de travail annuel, règlement intérieur…) et a un
                        fonctionnement régulier conformément aux documents de planifications ;
                   (iv) Les populations, communautés et autorités locales sont informées, participent et sont consultés dans la gestion du
                        parc, notamment à travers le montage du CCGL ;
                   (v) Les entreprises extractives présentes à l’intérieur et en zone périphérique participent activement à la gestion.

                                                                        Mois
Activités                           1 2 3 4 5         6 7     8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
3.4.1 Acquisition d’équipement
écogardes (tenue, GPS, camping)
3.4.2 Acquisition d’équipements
roulant et naviguant
3.4.3 Acquisition d’équipements
informatiques
3.4.4 Assistance comptable au
conservateur
3.4.5 Assistance nationale à la
gestion du PNM
3.4.6 Assistance internationale à
la gestion
3.4.7 Formation des écogardes du
parc
3.4.8 Mise en œuvre des missions




                                                                    35
de surveillance
3.4.9 Montage du comité
consultatif de gestion local
(consultation, réunions…)
3.4.10 Validation du plan
d’aménagement/gestion du parc
3.4.11 Participer au processus de
mise en place d’une aire protégée
transfrontalière avec le parc de
Conkouati-Douli au Congo
3.4.12 Réalisation d’un inventaire
des grands mammifères du parc

Composante 4
Objectif 4.1 Assurer un système de surveillance et de contrôle efficace des activités extractives illégales en périphérie de trois parcs
             nationaux au Gabon
Résultats    La surveillance en zones périphérique de trois parcs nationaux (Moukalaba-Doudou, Lopé et Plateaux Batéké) est assurée
attendus     de manière organisé et collaboratives entre la DGEF et l'ANPN

                                                                       Mois
Activités                        1 2 3 4 5            6 7    8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
4.1.1 Assistance technique à la
mise en œuvre et au suivi de
l’activité
4.1.2 Mise en œuvre des missions
conjointes de surveillance en
périphérie du Parc national de
Moukalaba-Doudou
4.1.2 Mise en œuvre des missions
conjointes de surveillance en



                                                                   36
périphérie du Parc national d la
Lopé
4.1.2 Mise en œuvre des missions
conjointes de surveillance en
périphérie du Parc national des
plateaux Batéké




                                   37
Objectif 4.2     Mettre en place un processus de mise en conformité des entreprises ayant des activités extractives légales en périphérie
                 des parcs nationaux
Résultats        Les entreprises extractives (foresterie, activités minières et pétrolières) en périphérie des parcs nationaux travaillent en
attendus         conformités avec la règlementation environnementale en vigueur qui tient compte de la présence d'aires protégées :
                   (i) L’ANPN dispose d’une base de données à jour des entreprises extractives ayant des activités en périphérie des
                        parcs nationaux ;
                   (ii) Au moins dix entreprises extractives ayant des activités en périphérie des parcs nationaux ont fait l’objet d’un
                        audit environnemental réalisé en collaboration avec la Direction Générale de l’Environnement.

                                                                         Mois
Activités                           1 2 3 4 5          6 7     8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
4.2.1 Mettre en place une Base de
données des entreprises
extractives travaillant en
périphérie des parcs nationaux
notamment dans le complexe de
Gamba
4.2.2 Organiser en collaboration
avec la Direction générale de
l’environnement des Audits
environnementaux sur les
activités des entreprises en
périphérie des parcs nationaux




                                                                     38
                                                                                                                                          Annex 3: Procurement Plan
                                      (prepared by the ANPN and transmitted as part of the restructuring request from the Government)


                                                                                                                                   PLAN DE PASSATION DES MARCHES DE TRAVAUX

Don GEF: TF 056592-GA
                                                                                                                                                                                       Projet DAO, y compris spécs Avis Particu-
                                                                                                                DONNEES DE BASE                                                                                                    Période d'appel d'offres       Evaluation des Offres            Mis au Point du Contrat                         Exécution du Marché
                                                                                                                                                                                         et quantités, projet Avis      lier
                                                                                                                                 Au Forfait                                               Prép &                                                                    Date
                                                                                                                   Montant                     Métho-de    Pré ou Post    Revue a                                                  Date de                                                Montant du        Date          Date
                                                                            Nbre   Montant Estimatif en F                         (Fft) ou                                              Soumission Date de Non-                                  Clôture et      Soumission Date de Non-                                                  Récep-tion     Récep-tion      Coût
     N°     DESIGNATION/DESCRIPTION                  Suivi        N° A.O.
                                                                            lots           CFA
                                                                                                                Estimatif en $
                                                                                                                                 Quantités
                                                                                                                                              Passa-tion    Qualifi-     priori ou a
                                                                                                                                                                                        par Agence      objec-tion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Presse natio-   l'Appel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ouver-ture       Rap-port    objec-tion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Marché en $EU Attribution du Signature du
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          provi-soire    définitive      final
                                                                                                                     EU                        Marché        cation      poste-riori                                    nale       d'offres                                                  '000         Marché        Marché
                                                                                                                                    (Qt)                                                    d'Ex                                                                d'Evalu-ation
           Durée normale des étapes                                                                                                                                                        4-7 s        1-1.5 s        1.5-2 s      1.5-2 s         6-8 s          12 s         1.5-3 s                       1s             1.5-3 s


                                                   Prévu                                      370,000,000             740,000
Nu         COMPOSANTES 3                                   Réel                                             0                0
           Réhabilitation des Bâtiments du PN de   Prévu             1       2                  145,000,000            290,000      Fft         AON           Post       Postériori      15/04/11      22/04/11        29/04/11       02/05/11       01/06/11       08/06/11      15/06/11                     22/06/11        29/06/11       11/11/11      10/11/12
     1     Loango                                          Réel
           Construction des Bâtiments du PN de     Prévu             2       1                  150,000,000            300,000      Fft         AON           Post       Postériori      26/04/11      03/05/11        10/05/11       17/05/11       16/06/11     23/06/11      30/06/11                       07/07/11        14/07/11       26/11/11      25/11/12
     2     Mayumba                                         Réel
           Réhabilitation des Bâtiments du PN de   Prévu             3       2                   75,000,000            150,000      Fft         AON           Post       Postériori      15/04/11         22/04/11     29/04/11       02/05/11       01/06/11       08/06/11      15/06/11                     22/06/11        29/06/11       11/11/11      10/11/12
     3     Moukalaba-Doudou                                Réel
                                                           Prévu                       370,000,000                740,000
                        Coût Total
                                                           Réalisé                                                                                         SO = Sans Objet                                           PM = Pour Mémoire




                                                                                                                                                                                39
                                                                                                                                   PLAN DE PASSATION DES MARCHES DE FOURNITURES

Don GEF: TF 056592-GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Projet DAO, y compris spécs et
                                                                                                                      DONNEES DE BASE                                                                                                      Avis Parti-culier      Période d'appel d'offres         Evaluation des Offres                Mis au Point du Contrat                    Exécution du Marché
                                                                                                                                                                                                     quantités, projet Avis Particulier
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Date
                                                                                                                                          Au Forfait                     Pré ou Post                     Prép &                                                    Date de                                                       Montant du   Date Attribu- Date Signa-      Ouver-ture                    Récep-tion
                                                                                              Montant Estimatif en    Montant Estimatif                Métho-de Passa-               Revue a priori                     Date de Non-                                             Clôture et      Soumission Date de Non-                                                                    Arrivée
 N°        DESIGNATION/DESCRIPTION                              Suivi     N° A.O.   N° lot
                                                                                                     XAF                  en$ EU
                                                                                                                                        (Fft) ou Quan-
                                                                                                                                                        tion Marché
                                                                                                                                                                          Qualifi-
                                                                                                                                                                                     ou a poste-riori
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Soumission par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         objec-tion       Presse natio-nale
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l'Appel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ouver-ture        Rapport    objection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Marché en       tion du      ture du         Lettre de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Fourni-tures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              des
                                                                                                                                          tités (Qt)                       cation                      Agence d'Ex                                                 d'offres                                                       $EU '000      Marché       Marché            crédit                     Fourni-tures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 d'Evaluation
               Durée normale des étapes                                                                                                                                                                   4-7 s            1-1.5 s              1.5-2 s               6-8 s           2-12 s          1.5-3 s         1-1.5 s                     1s          1.5-3 s
                                                              Prévu                                     60,000,000             120,000
               COMPOSANTES 1                                       Réel                                 25,588,984              51,178
                                                              Prévu                   1                  25,000,000              50,000      Qté           AON              Post          Priori           07/01/11      10/01/11              13/01/11           13/01/11        12/02/11        15/02/11        18/02/11                        19/02/11        20/02/11      N.A            21/04/11        21/04/11
  1   Acquisition d'un véhicule tolé hard-Top pour le siège        Réel                                  25,588,984              51,178                                                                                  30/12/11         14/01 e t 20/01/2011    14/01/11        14/02/11        15/02/11                                                                      N.A

                                                              Prévu                  1-2                 15,000,000              30,000      Qté           AON              Post          Priori           18/02/11          21/02/11                24/02/11         24/02/11        26/03/11        29/03/11        01/04/11                    02/04/11        05/04/11      N.A            04/06/11        04/06/11
      Acquisition de matériels informatiques et de
  2   bureautique pour le siège de l'ANPN                          Réel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N.A
      Mise en place ou installation du système                Prévu                   1                  15,000,000              30,000      Qté             CF             Post        Posteriori         29/03/11         SO                    SO             SO              SO              SO              SO                               12/04/11        16/04/11      N.A            16/05/11        16/05/11
      informatique(installation Serveurs,
  3   intranet,etc.)                                               Réel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N.A

                                                              Prévu                                      15,000,000              30,000      Qté             CF             Post        Posteriori         01/04/11         SO                    SO             SO              SO              SO              SO                               15/04/11        19/04/11      N.A            19/05/11        19/05/11
      Acquisition du matériel audiovisuel pour la
  4   Communication                                                Réel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N.A
                                                              Prévu                   1                  10,000,000              20,000      Qté             CF             Post        Posteriori         09/04/11         SO                    SO             SO              SO              SO              SO                               23/04/11        28/04/11      N.A            28/05/11        28/05/11

  5   Acquisition des logiciels de cartographie                    Réel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N.A

      Acquisition d'Equipements techniques(boussole, gps, Prévu                       1                  10,000,000              20,000      Qté        CF/Avenant          Post        Posteriori         16/04/11         SO                    SO             SO              SO              SO              SO                               30/04/11        03/05/11      N.A            02/06/11        02/06/11
  6   THURAYA…)                                                Réel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N.A



               COMPOSANTES 3                                  Prévu                                   173,000,000              346,000
                                                                   Réel                                 59,453,784             118,908
                                                              Prévu                   1                 28,500,000               57,000      Qté           AON              Post        posteriori         07/04/11      10/04/11              13/04/11               13/04/11        13/05/11        15/05/11        18/05/11     25/05/11       28/05/11        01/06/11      N.A            31/07/11        31/07/11
      Acquisition de matériels flottants ou pirogues
  1   motorisées pour les 3PN                                      Réel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N.A
      Equipements Mobiliers de bureau du PN de
      Moukalaba -Doudou                                       Prévu                   1                  8,333,333               16,667      Qté             CF             Post        Posteriori         15/04/11         SO                    SO                  SO               SO              SO        SO                               29/04/11        02/05/11      N.A            01/06/11        01/06/11

  2                                                                Réel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N.A
      Equipements Mobiliers de bureau du PN de
      Mayumba                                                 Prévu                   1                  8,333,333               16,667      Qté             CF             Post        Posteriori         15/04/11         SO                    SO                  SO               SO              SO        SO                               29/04/11        02/05/11      N.A            01/06/11        01/06/11
  3                                                                Réel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N.A
      Equipements Mobiliers de bureau du PN de
      Mayumba                                                 Prévu                   1                  8,333,333               16,667      Qté             CF             Post        Posteriori         15/04/11         SO                    SO                  SO               SO              SO        SO                               29/04/11        02/05/11      N.A            01/06/11        01/06/11
  4                                                                Réel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N.A
      Acquisition uniformes et chaussures pour les            Prévu                   1                 17,250,000               34,500      Qté             CF             Post        Posteriori         05/11/10         SO                    SO                  SO               SO            SO          SO                               19/11/10        22/11/10                    22/12/10        22/12/10
  5   conservateurs et écogardes des 3 PN                          Réel                                  9,864,800               19,730                   Gré à Gré                                                                                                                                02/12/10                                                                                  09/02/11        09/02/11

                                                              Prévu                   1                 10,000,000               20,000      Qté          Avenant           Post          Priori           15/12/10          18/12/10             SO                  SO               SO              SO        SO                               13/02/11        16/02/11      N.A            18/03/11        18/03/11
      Acquisition d'un (1) Groupe Electrogène pour le PN
  6   de MAYUMBA                                                   Réel                                 10,000,000               20,000                                                                                  11/01/11                                                                                    SO
                                                              Prévu                  1-2                30,000,000               60,000      Qté           AON              Post          priori           18/02/11      21/02/11              24/02/11           24/02/11        26/03/11        29/03/11        01/04/11                        02/04/11        03/04/11      N.A            02/06/11        02/06/11
  7   Acquisition de matériels informatiques des 3 PN              Réel                                                                                                                                    18/02/11
      Installation et cablage Réseau Internet sur les 3PN     Prévu                   1                 15,000,000               30,000      Qté             CF             Post        Posteriori         15/04/11         SO                    SO                  SO               SO              SO        SO                               29/04/11        02/05/11      N.A            01/06/11        01/06/11
  8   (VSAT)                                                       Réel
      Acquisition de GPS et appareils photos numériques       Prévu                   1                 12,500,000               25,000      Qté             CF             Post        Posteriori         25/12/10         SO                    SO              27/12/10        06/01/11             SO        SO                               08/01/11        11/01/11      N.A           10/02/11        10/02/11
  9   pour les 3 PN                                                Réel                                 14,000,000               28,000                                                                                                                                           07/01/11                                                                        13/01/11                   01/02/11        01/02/11
                                                         Prévu                        1                  7,250,000               14,500      Qté            CF              Post        Posteriori         30/04/11         SO                    SO                  SO               SO              SO        SO                               14/05/11        17/05/11      N.A            16/06/11        16/06/11
 10   Aquisition des Equipements de camping pour les 3PN      Réel
                                                         Prévu                                           7,500,000               15,000      Qté            CF              Post        Posteriori         30/04/11         SO                    SO             SO              SO              SO              SO                               14/05/11        17/05/11      N.A            16/06/11        16/06/11
 11   Equipements spécialisés                                 Réel
      Acquisition d'un(1) véhicule 4x4 pour le PN de     Prévu                       1-2                25,000,000               50,000      Qté           AON              Post          Priori           07/01/11      10/01/11              13/01/11         13/01/11          12/02/11        15/02/11        18/02/11                        19/02/11        20/02/11      N.A            21/04/11        21/04/11
 12   Mayumba                                                 Réel                                      25,588,984               51,178                                                                                  30/12/11         14/01 e t 20/01/2011  14/01/11          14/02/11        15/02/11
      Acquisition de quatre (4) QUADS pour le PN de      Prévu                        1                 20,000,000               40,000      Qté            CF              Post        Posteriori         10/04/11         SO                     SO          SO                SO              SO              SO                               24/04/11        27/04/11      N.A            27/05/11        27/05/11
 13   Mayumba                                                 Réel                                                                    0



                                                                       Prévu                 233,000,000                       466,000                                                                                                                                                                                            #REF!
                        Coût Total
                                                                      Réalisé                 85,042,768                       170,086               SO = Sans Objet                                                                      PM = Pour Mémoire                                                                       #REF!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N.A = Non Applicable




                                                                                                                                                                                         40
                                                                                                                              PLAN DE PASSATION DES MARCHES DE SERVICES DE CONSULTANTS

Don GEF: TF 056592-GA
                                                                                                                                      Préparation              Demande de                              Propositions de      Évaluation des Propositions Techniques (T) et
                                                                              DONNEES DE BASE                                                                                    Liste Restreinte                                                                                 Projet de Contrat       Mise au point du Marché
                                                                                                                                      Demande de               Manifestation                             Consultants        Financières (F) et Autorisation Négociations (N)
                                                                                                                Marché
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Date
                                                                                                                   au    Revue a                                                                                                                                   Date                                 Montant
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Date     Date   Date No- Ouvertur Préparati
                                                                                                        Métho Forfait      Priori            Date                                                                                                                 Soum.                                    du       Date      Date
                                                                                           Montant                                  Prép &           Date       Période      Date              Date de Soumissi Soumissi objection      e        on       Date           Date Non-
                                                                     Montant estimatif                  de de (Fft) ou   (Pri) ou            Non-                                   Date Non-                                                                    Contrat                                Contrat   Attribu-   Signa-
     Description des Activités et Marchés*          Suivi    N° DP                       estimatif en $                            Soumissi          Publicati avant liste Soumissi           l'Invitatio  on et     on     Rapp. Propositi Rapport Negociati             objec-
                                                                        en F CFA                        Sélecti    au         a             objectio                                objection                                                                    négocié                                négocié   tion du     ture
                                                                                              EU                                      on             on        restreinte     on                   n      Ouvertur Rapport   Eval      ons    Eval (T) & ons (N)           tion
                                                                                                          on    Temps-   Posterio              n                                                                                                                    et                                  en $ EU   Marché     Contrat
                                                                                                                                                                                                            eT        T       (T)   Financièr    (F)
                                                                                                                 Passé   ri (Post)                                                                                                                               paraphé                                  '000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        es
                                                                                                                  (TP)
                                                                                                                                     3-6 s      1-2 s     1-1.5 s        2s                 1-2 s      4-6 s      5-12 s    2-3 s     0.5-2 s      2s        1- 2 s      2s        1-2 s      1-2 s                 1s        1-3 s
           Durée normale des étapes
              Liste des Contrats


Numéro                                              Prévu                  353,000,000        706,000
                    COMPOSANTES 1
d'activité
                                                     Réel                  119,700,000        239,400
             Assistance technique
   1.1.1     internationale pour la mise en     Prévu                       47,500,000         95,000    CI      Fft       Priori     SO         SO       SO             SO       SO         SO         SO            SO     SO         SO         SO         SO       20/12/10   20/12/10 23/12/10               25/12/10   1/1/2011
             œuvre du projet GEF-PARCS            Réel                    47,550,000         95,100                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15/10/10
             Recrutement d'un Assistant à la    Prévu                       14,000,000         28,000    CI      Fft     Posteriori 21/01/11   24/01/11    25/01/11    SO         SO        SO          SO       SO        08/02/11   11/02/11   13/02/11   14/02/11   17/02/11   17/02/11 20/02/11               22/02/11   01/03/11
   1.1.4
             Passation des Marchés                Réel                      11,900,000         23,800                                          06/12/10    14/12/10             27/12/10
             Recrutement d'un expert pour la    Prévu                       20,000,000         40,000    CI      Fft     Posteriori 24/12/10   27/12/10    28/12/10    SO      SO        SO             SO       SO        11/01/11   14/01/11   16/01/11   17/01/11   20/01/11   20/01/11 23/01/11               25/01/11 01/02/11
   1.2.1
             mise en place d'une cellule SIG      Réel                               0                                                         06/12/10    14/12/10             27/12/10
             Assistance technique Etude         Prévu                       20,000,000         40,000    CI      Fft      Posteri   24/12/10   27/12/10    28/12/10 SO         SO        SO             SO       SO        11/01/11   14/01/11   16/01/11   17/01/11   20/01/11   20/01/11 23/01/11               25/01/11 01/02/11
   1.2.2
             d'impact environnemental             Réel                      10,500,000         21,000                                          08/12/10    14/12/10             27/12/10
             Recrutement d'un expert            Prévu                       20,000,000         40,000    CI      Fft     Posteriori 24/12/10   27/12/10    28/12/10    SO         SO        SO          SO       SO        11/01/11   14/01/11   16/01/11   17/01/11   20/01/11   20/01/11 23/01/11               25/01/11   01/02/11
   1.2.3
             antropologue                         Réel                      20,750,000         41,500                                          06/12/10    14/12/10             27/12/10
                                                Prévu                       20,000,000         40,000    CI      Fft     Posteriori 21/01/11   24/01/11    25/01/11    SO         SO        SO          SO       SO        08/02/11   11/02/11   13/02/11   14/02/11   17/02/11   17/02/11 20/02/11               22/02/11   01/03/11
   1.2.4
             Recrutement d'un expert juridique    Réel                                                                                         06/12/10    14/12/10             27/12/10
                                                Prévu                        6,000,000         12,000    CI      Fft      Posteri   23/05/11   26/05/11    27/05/11    SO         SO        SO          SO       SO        10/06/11   13/06/11   15/06/11   16/06/11   19/06/11   19/06/11 22/06/11               24/06/11   01/07/11
   1.2.5
             Recrutement d'un expert Peche        Réel                               0
             Recrutement d'un expert en         Prévu                        6,000,000         12,000    CI      Fft     Posteriori 23/05/11   26/05/11    27/05/11      SO       SO         SO         SO       SO        10/06/11   13/06/11   15/06/11   16/06/11   19/06/11   19/06/11 22/06/11               24/06/11   01/07/11
   1.2.6
             tourisme                             Réel                               0
             Recrutement d'un expert en gestion Prévu                        6,000,000         12,000    CI      Fft     Posteriori 23/05/11   26/05/11    27/05/11      SO       SO         SO         SO       SO        10/06/11   13/06/11   15/06/11   16/06/11   19/06/11   19/06/11 22/06/11               24/06/11   01/07/11
   1.2.7
             de la faune                          Réel                               0
             Recrutement d'un expert en         Prévu                        6,000,000         12,000    CI      Fft     Posteriori 23/05/11   26/05/11    27/05/11      SO       SO         SO         SO       SO        10/06/11   13/06/11   15/06/11   16/06/11   19/06/11   19/06/11 22/06/11               24/06/11   01/07/11
   1.2.8
             amenagement forestier                Réel                               0
             Recrutement d'un Comptable pour Prévu                          15,000,000         30,000    CI      Fft     Posteriori 21/01/11   24/01/11    25/01/11      SO       SO         SO         SO       SO        08/02/11   11/02/11   13/02/11   14/02/11   17/02/11   17/02/11 20/02/11               22/02/11   01/03/11
   1.3.1
             le GEF
             Recrutement d'une assistance         Réel                      15,300,000         30,000                                          06/12/10    14/12/10             27/12/10
             technique règlementation du droit  Prévu                       14,000,000         28,000    CI      Fft     Posteriori 21/01/11   24/01/11    25/01/11      SO       SO         SO         SO       SO        08/02/11   11/02/11   13/02/11   14/02/11   17/02/11   17/02/11 20/02/11               22/02/11   01/03/11
   1.3.2
             du travail
             Recrutement d'une assistance         Réel                      16,200,000         28,000                                          08/12/10    14/12/10             27/12/10
             technique pour la mise en place Prévu                          25,000,000         50,000    CI      Fft       Priori     SO         SO        01/09/10      SO       SO         SO         SO       SO                                                                                                          01/02/11
   1.4.1
             du système de suivi-évaluation       Réel                               0                                                                     30/07/10                                 30/07 ET 5/08 06/09/10 6 ET 8/10/10
             Recrutement d'une assistance
   1.4.2     technique locale pour l'appui à Prévu                          15,000,000         30,000    CI      Fft     Posteriori 01/04/11   04/04/11    15/04/11    29/04/11 06/05/11     SO       13/05/11 27/05/11 03/06/11 10/06/11        17/06/11   24/06/11   01/07/11   08/07/11   15/07/11             18/07/11   01/06/11
             la mise en place du système de           Réel                                                                                                 30/07/10
             Etudes stratégie nationale de          Prévu                   50,000,000        100,000   QC       Fft     Posteriori 05/04/11   08/04/11    19/04/11    03/05/11 10/05/11     SO       17/05/11   31/05/11 07/06/11    14/06/11   21/06/11   28/06/11   05/07/11   12/07/11   19/07/11             22/07/11   01/06/11
   1.5.1
             communication                            Réel                           0
             Assistance technique formation         Prévu                   15,000,000         30,000   QC       Fft     Posteriori 02/05/11   05/05/11    16/05/11    30/05/11 06/06/11   09/06/11   13/06/11   27/06/11 04/07/11    11/07/11   18/07/11   25/07/11   01/08/11   08/08/11   15/08/11             18/08/11   01/06/11
   1.5.2
             d'une cellule audio-vidéo                Réel                           0
             Assistance technique mise en           Prévu                   25,000,000         50,000   QC       Fft     Posteriori 26/03/11   29/03/11    09/04/11    23/04/11 30/04/11   03/05/11   07/05/11    21/05/11 28/05/11   04/06/11   11/06/11   18/06/11   25/06/11   02/07/11   09/07/11             12/07/11   01/06/11
   1.5.3
             place d'un site Internet pour l'ANPN     Réel                           0                                                                     17/02/11             25/02/11     SO       25/02/11   25/02/11
             Recrutement d'un facilitateur          Prévu                    7,500,000         15,000   ED       Fft     Posteriori 01/04/11   04/04/11    15/04/11    29/04/11 06/05/11   09/05/11   13/05/11    27/05/11 03/06/11   10/06/11   17/06/11   24/06/11   01/07/11   08/07/11   15/07/11             18/07/11   01/06/11
   1.6.1
             pour le fond fiduciaire
             Recrutement d'un                         Réel
             Coordonnateur pour le fond             Prévu                   30,000,000         60,000    CI      Fft       Priori   07/04/11   10/04/11    21/04/11    05/05/11 12/05/11   15/05/11   19/05/11   02/06/11 09/06/11    16/06/11   23/06/11   30/06/11   07/07/11   14/07/11   21/07/11             24/07/11   01/06/11
   1.6.1
             fiduciaire                              Réel
             Recrutement du consortium
             d'appui à la mise en place du          Prévu                   52,500,000        105,000   QC       Fft     Posteriori 10/04/11   13/04/11    24/04/11    08/05/11 15/05/11   18/05/11   22/05/11   05/06/11 12/06/11    19/06/11   26/06/11   03/07/11   10/07/11   17/07/11   24/07/11             27/07/11   01/06/11
   1.6.2
             fond fiduciaire                          Réel
                                                    Prévu                   28,500,000         57,000SMC/QC      Fft     Posteriori 01/04/11   04/04/11    15/04/11    29/04/11 06/05/11     SO       13/05/11   27/05/11 03/06/11    10/06/11   17/06/11   24/06/11   01/07/11   08/07/11   15/07/11             18/07/11   01/06/11
    1.7
             Audits comptable et financier            Réel                           0




                                                                                                                                                          41
Numéro                                               Prévu          90,000,000    180,000
                    COMPOSANTES 2
d'activité                                              Réel                 0          0
             Etudes pour nouvelle délimitation       Prévu          10,000,000     20,000    CI   Fft   Posteriori     SO         SO        06/01/11    SO        SO         SO         SO       SO         SO         SO           SO         SO         SO       27/01/11   03/02/11   10/02/11   01/08/11
  2.1.3      et un nouveau statut pour la forêt
             Assistancetechnique coordination
             classée de la Mondah                      Réel                  0
             du développement du complexe de         Prévu          30,000,000     60,000    CI   Fft   Posteriori     SO         SO        06/01/11    SO        SO         SO         SO       SO         SO         SO           SO         SO         SO       27/01/11   03/02/11   10/02/11   01/03/11
  2.2.1
             Gamba                                     Réel                  0
             Etudes techniques (biologiques et       Prévu          50,000,000    100,000    QC   Fft   Posteriori 18/06/11     21/06/11    02/07/11   16/07/11 23/07/11   26/07/11   30/07/11   13/08/11 20/08/11     27/08/11   03/09/11   10/09/11   17/09/11   24/09/11   01/10/11   04/10/11   01/06/11
  2.2.3      socio-économiques) pour le Re-
             zonnage du complexe de GAMBA              Réel                  0                                                                                                                            21/10/10
             Recrutement d'un facilitateur           Prévu          15,000,000      30000    ED   Fft   Posteriori 05/04/11     08/04/11    19/04/11   03/05/11 10/05/11     SO       17/05/11   31/05/11 07/06/11     14/06/11   21/06/11   28/06/11   05/07/11   12/07/11   19/07/11   22/07/11   01/06/11
             pour le rezonnage du complexe             Réel

Numéro                                                             686,000,000   1,372,000
                     COMPOSANTES 3
d'activité                                                         640,336,724   1,280,673
             Recrutement du bureau étude pour
  3.1.1      l’élaboration des projets et le suivi   Prévu          50,000,000    100,000 SFQC    Fft     Priori     12/07/10   16/07/10    30/07/10 06/08/10 13/08/10       SO       13/09/10   20/09/10   27/09/10   04/10/10   11/10/10   18/10/10   25/10/10   01/11/10   08/11/10   07/01/00   01/02/11
             des travaux                               Réel                  0                                                              30/07/10
             Recrutement d'un(1) comptable           Prévu          10,000,000     20,000   CI    Fft     Priori       SO         SO        15/10/10 SO         SO           SO         SO       SO         SO         SO           SO         SO         SO       30/11/10   07/12/10   14/12/10   01/02/11
  3.2.4
             pour le PN de Loango                      Réel         11,754,000     23,508                                                   21/10/10
             Recrutement d'un(1) comptable           Prévu          10,000,000     20,000   CI    Fft     Priori       SO         SO        15/10/10 SO         SO           SO         SO       SO         SO         SO           SO         SO         SO       30/11/10   07/12/10   14/12/10   01/02/11
  3.3.4
             pour le PN de Moukalaba Doudou            Réel         11,101,000     22,202                                                   21/10/10
             Recrutement d'un(1) comptable           Prévu          10,000,000     20,000   CI    Fft     Priori       SO         SO        15/10/10 29/10/10   SO           SO         SO       SO         SO         SO           SO         SO         SO       30/11/10   07/12/10   14/12/10   01/02/11
  3.4.4
             pour le PN de Mayumba                     Réel         11,430,000     22,860                                                   21/10/10
             Contrat ONG Nationale pour              Prévu          37,500,000     75,000 ED      Fft     Priori       SO         SO       SO           SO      SO           SO         SO       SO         SO         SO           SO         SO         SO       27/01/11   03/02/11   10/02/11   01/02/11
  3.2.6
             Loango (Ibonga)                           Réel         38,362,224     76,724
             Contrat ONG Nationale pour              Prévu          37,500,000     75,000 ED      Fft     Priori       SO         SO       SO           SO        SO         SO         SO       SO         SO         SO           SO         SO         SO       27/01/11   03/02/11   10/02/11   01/02/11
  3.3.6
             Moukalaba-Doudou(PROGRAM)                 Réel         36,548,000     73,096
             Contrat ONG Nationale pour              Prévu          30,000,000     60,000 ED      Fft     Priori       SO         SO       SO           SO        SO         SO         SO       SO         SO         SO           SO         SO         SO       30/11/10   07/12/10   14/12/10   01/02/11
  3.4.5
             Mayumba(ASF)                              Réel         29,880,000     59,760
             Contrat d'assistance WWFsur             Prévu         160,000,000    320,000 ED      Fft     Priori       SO         SO       SO           SO        SO         SO         SO       SO         SO         SO           SO         SO         SO       30/10/10   06/11/10   13/11/10   01/02/11
  3.2.5
             Loango Sud                                Réel        160,115,500    320,231
             Contrat d'assistance WCSsur             Prévu         173,500,000    347,000 ED      Fft     Priori       SO         SO       SO           SO        SO         SO         SO       SO         SO         SO           SO         SO         SO       30/11/10   07/12/10   14/12/10   01/02/11
3.2.5 bis
             Loango Nord                               Réel        173,605,500    347,211
             Contrat d'assistance WWFsur             Prévu     7   167,500,000    335,000 ED      Fft     Priori       SO         SO       SO           SO        SO         SO         SO       SO         SO         SO           SO         SO         SO       30/11/10   07/12/10   14/12/10   01/02/11
  3.3.5
             Moukalaba-Doudou                          Réel        167,540,500    335,081
  3.4.6      Contrat d'assistance WCS                Prévu         208,235,000    416,470 ED      Fft     Priori       SO         SO        20/02/11    SO        SO         SO         SO       SO
             Réalisation
             Mayumba d’un inventaire des               Réel        190,560,500    381,121
             grands mammifères du parc de            Prévu          35,000,000     70,000 QC/ED   Fft   Posteriori 18/06/11     21/06/11    02/07/11   16/07/11 23/07/11   26/07/11   30/07/11   13/08/11 20/08/11     27/08/11   03/09/11   10/09/11   17/09/11   24/09/11   01/10/11   04/10/11   01/06/11
 3.2.11
             Réalisation d’un inventaire des
             Loango                                    Réel                  0
             grands mammifères du parc de            Prévu          35,000,000     70,000 QC/ED   Fft   Posteriori 18/06/11     21/06/11    02/07/11   16/07/11 23/07/11   26/07/11   30/07/11   13/08/11 20/08/11     27/08/11   03/09/11   10/09/11   17/09/11   24/09/11   01/10/11   04/10/11   01/06/11
 3.3.11
             Réalisation d’un inventaire des
             Moukalaba-Doudou                          Réel                  0
             grands mammifères du parc de            Prévu          35,000,000     70,000 QC/ED   Fft   Posteriori 18/06/11     21/06/11    02/07/11   16/07/11 23/07/11   26/07/11   30/07/11   13/08/11 20/08/11     27/08/11   03/09/11   10/09/11   17/09/11   24/09/11   01/10/11   04/10/11   01/06/11
 3.4.12
             Mayumba                                   Réel                  0




                                                                                                                                           42
