                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR16270



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (TF-56592 - P070232)



                                      ON A

                GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY GRANT
                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.0 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF GABON

                                      FOR A

   STRENGTHENING CAPACITY FOR MANAGING NATIONAL PARKS AND
                    BIODIVERSITY PROJECT



                                December 26, 2013




Environment, Natural Resources, Water and
Disaster Risk Management Unit
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department, AFCC1
Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective June 2013)

                        Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                          US$ 1.00 = 500 CFAF

                             FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1-December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD       Agence Française de Développement (French Development Agency)
AfDB      African Development Bank
ANPN      Agence Nationale des Parcs Nationaux (National Parks Agency)
CBFP      Congo Basin Forest Partnership
CCGL      Comité Consultatif de Gestion Locale
CNPN      Conseil National des Parcs Nationaux (National Council for National Parks)
COMIFAC   Conférence des Ministres en Charge des Forêts d’Afrique Centrale
          (Central African Conference of Forest Ministers)
CPFP      Congo Basin Forest Partnership
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DFC       Direction de la Faune et de la Chasse (Wildlife and Hunting Directorate)
DGE       Directorate General for Environment
DPL       Development Policy Loan
EC        European Commission
ENEF      Ecole Nationale des Eaux et Forêts (National Forestry School)
ESI       Environmental Sustainability Index
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization
FFEM      Fonds Français pour l’Environnement Mondial
FMR       Financial Management Report
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GEO       Global Environment Objective
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICT       Information and Communication Tool
I-PRSP    Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ISDS      Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
KPI       Key Performance Indicator
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MEFPEPN   Ministry of Forest, Fisheries and Environment
METT      Monitoring and Evaluation Tracking Tool
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
OP        Operational Programs
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PFE      Projet Forêt et Environnement (Forestry project)
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PFSE     Forest and Environment Sector Program
SMF      Sustainable Forest Management
SNBG     State-owned Timber Trade Company
SP       Strategic Priorities
TA       Technical Assistance
TCM      Technical Management Committees
TRIDOM   Tri-national Dja-Odzala-Minkébé
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
WCS      World Conservation Society
WSSD     World Summit on Sustainable Development
WWF      World Wildlife Fund for Nature




                      Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                   Country Director: Gregor Binkert
                     Sector Manager: Benoît Bosquet
                Project Team Leader: Salimata Follea
                   ICR Team Leader : Remi Kini
                            REPUBLIC OF GABON
   Strengthening Capacity for Managing National Parks and Biodiversity Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 10
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 23
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 32
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 34
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 38
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 42
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 45
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 46
  Anex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............. 55
  Annex 4. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 57
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Gabon: Strengthening
                                                                          Capacity for Managing
Country:                Gabon                   Project Name:
                                                                          National Parks and
                                                                          Biodiversity
Project ID:             P070232                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-56592
ICR Date:               12/23/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          MIN. OF FORESTRY
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 & ENVIRONMENT
                                                                          OF GABON
Original Total
                        USD 10.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 9.64M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 10.00M
Environmental Category: A                       Global Focal Area: B
Implementing Agencies:
 National Agency for National Parks
 Agence Nationale des Parcs Nationaux
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/26/2001     Effectiveness:          05/15/2007           12/27/2007
Appraisal:            09/08/2005     Restructuring(s):                            04/12/2011
Approval:             03/29/2006     Mid-term Review:        05/17/2010
                                     Closing:                06/30/2012           06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome              Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                   Ratings
                             Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:                    Satisfactory
                           Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:



                                                i
Overall Bank                                        Overall Borrower
                          Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                        Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      20                  20
Forestry                                                               65                  65
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       11                  11
Sub-national government administration                                  4                     4


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                                           40                  40
Environmental policies and institutions                                40                  40
Other environment and natural resources management                     20                  20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                          Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:          Gregor Binkert                        Ali Mahmoud Khadr
Sector Manager:            Benoit Bosquet                        Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Project Team Leader:       Salimata D. Follea                    Laurent Debroux
ICR Team Leader:           Remi Kini
ICR Primary Author:        Remi Kini




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The Global Environmental Objective is: Biodiversity conservation in the Congo basin is
enhanced.

  The Project Development Objective is : Biodiversity is protected and managed in a
sustainable way and contributes to the diversification of the national economy, through
strenghtened capacities of parks and wildlife authorities

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
The revised Global Environment Objective is (i) to enhance the conservation of
biodiversity in selected National Parks and buffer zones; and (ii) to strengthen the
management capacity of selected conservation-realted entities in Gabon.

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from          Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval            Target        Completion or
                                              documents)           Values        Target Years
                Hectares (ha) of land with high potential for protection where a biological survey
Indicator 1 :
                is completed
Value
(quantitative or 0                          900000                             945000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/08/2005                    06/30/2013                         06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Increase in management effectiveness in 3 national parks (700,000 ha) as per
Indicator 2 :
                 GEF Protected Area Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool (PAMETT)
                                                                               Loango: 75%
Value            Loango: 57%
                                                                               Mayumba: 65.56%
(quantitative or Mayumba: 50%               65%
                                                                               Moukalaba-
Qualitative)     Moukalaba-Doudou: 58%
                                                                               Doudou: 71.91%
Date achieved 09/08/2005                    06/30/2013                         06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Increased surveillance effort (person/day per month) in the three key national
Indicator 3 :
                 parks and buffer zones
Value
(quantitative or 300                        700                                748
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/08/2005                    06/30/2013                         06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %


                                               iii
achievement)
                Number of community members sensitized about biodiversity conservation in the
Indicator 4 :
                three national parks (of which x% are women)
Value
                                                                            4,412 (Women:
(quantitative or 0                        4,000
                                                                            45%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/08/2005                  06/30/2013                        06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                            Formally
                                         Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                          Revised
                                           approval                        Completion or
                                                         Target Values
                                          documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Strengthening of ANPA: ANPN headquarters is established and equipped
Value
(quantitative or No                          Yes                             Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/08/2005                     06/30/2013                      06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Systems for finance and human resources management, monitoring and
Indicator 2 :
                 evaluation are established.
Value
(quantitative or 0                           Yes                             Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/08/2005                     06/30/2013                      06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Biological and socioeconomic surveys conducted in three sites and national
Indicator 3 :
                 database on biodiversity is created.
Value
(quantitative or 0                           Yes                             Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/08/2005                     06/30/2013                      06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Strengthened management of Loango, Moukalaba-Doudou and Mayumba
Indicator 4 :
                 National Parks.
Value
                 0                           3                               3
(quantitative or


                                               iv
Qualitative)
Date achieved      09/08/2005                 06/30/2013                         06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      Quarters for park rangers built and operational in 3 parks.
Value
(quantitative or   0                          3                                  2
Qualitative)
Date achieved      09/08/2005                 06/30/2013                         06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Mayumba quarters not rehabilitated due to funds shortfall.
achievement)
                   Increased surveillance efforts (person-day per month) in the three key national
Indicator 6 :
                   parks.
Value
(quantitative or   300                        500                                581
Qualitative)
Date achieved      09/08/2005                 06/30/2013                         06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :      Number of consultative committees for local management created
Value
(quantitative or   0                          3                                  3
Qualitative)
Date achieved      09/08/2005                 06/30/2013                         06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Strengthened wildlife management and law enforcement in the periphery of
Indicator 8 :
                   national parks (Number of trained and equipped staff in mobile brigades)
Value
                                                                              15 (5 per mobile
(quantitative or 0                          15
                                                                              brigade in 3 parks)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/08/2005                    06/30/2013                        06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Increased surveillance efforts (person-day per month) in buffer zones of national
Indicator 9 :
                 parks.
Value
(quantitative or 0                          204                               200
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/08/2005                    06/30/2013                        06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


                                                    v
                 Number of environmental audits conducted by Gabonese administration
Indicator 10 :
                 (extractive industries operating in buffer zones)
Value
(quantitative or 0                       5                               5
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/08/2005                 06/30/2013                      06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            GEO                        IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1     10/02/2006     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                0.00
                                                    Moderately
  2     12/18/2007     Moderately Satisfactory                                         0.00
                                                  Unsatisfactory
                                                    Moderately
  3     05/23/2008     Moderately Satisfactory                                         0.59
                                                  Unsatisfactory
  4     11/23/2008     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 1.10
  5     12/10/2008     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 1.10
                            Moderately              Moderately
  6     03/09/2009                                                                     1.10
                          Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
  7     07/21/2009        Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                       1.10
  8     04/08/2010        Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                       2.18
  9     02/09/2011     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 3.65
 10     08/02/2011         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        5.26
 11     02/23/2012         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        6.90
 12     07/09/2012         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        7.93
 13     03/20/2013         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        9.16


H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                           Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                 Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              GEO Change GEO      IP       in USD
                                          millions
                                                      The GEO were revised to: (i)
                                                      enhance the conservation of
                                                      biodiversity in selected National
 04/12/2011       Y        MS    MS            4.35
                                                      Parks and buffer zones and (ii)
                                                      strengthen the management
                                                      capacity of selected



                                              vi
                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                 Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              GEO Change GEO      IP       in USD
                                          millions
                                                      conservation related entities in
                                                      Gabon.


If GEO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original GEO/Targets                Moderately Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised GEO/Targets        Moderately Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                   Moderately Satisfactory


I. Disbursement Profile




                                            vii
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design
1.      Gabon has a relatively small (estimated at 1.5 million inhabitants in 2009) and
highly urbanized (86 percent) population. It is a resource-rich country. Gabon is well
endowed with forest resources (which cover 85 percent of its land area) and is the
second-largest timber producer after Cameroon. The Strengthening Capacity for
Managing National Parks and Biodiversity project was prepared when Gabon was the
fourth-largest petroleum producer in Africa. However, the fluctuation of oil prices and a
declining trend in oil production presented major economic challenges for the country at
that time. These conditions further raised the profile of the non-oil sector in the
Government development agenda.

2.      The project was designed in the context of Gabon’s Interim PRSP and prospective
economic development study “Gabon 2025”. The priorities of the Government as
reflected in these documents were: (i) to improve efficiency in the use of public resources
to increase the quantity and quality of basic services, and (ii) to improve the business
environment for private-sector-led investment in the non-oil sectors of the economy. The
2005 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was articulated around these two priorities with
the specific goals of (i) strengthening the management of public resources (both natural
and financial), and (ii) improving the investment climate to foster sustainable private
sector non-oil growth. The promotion of private sector investments in non-oil sector
targeted non only the sustainable development of the timber industry, but also fisheries
and Gabon’s biodiversity wealth.
Importance of Gabon’s Biodiversity for the Global Environment
3.      Gabon contains three terrestrial ecoregions, which are defined by the World
Wildlife Fund (WWF) as the world’s most outstanding examples of each major habitat
type: the Congolian Coastal Forest, the Northwestern Congolian Lowland Forests, and
the Western Congolian Forest-Savanna Mosaic. In addition, there are significant stands
of Central African mangroves along the coast and patches of Congolian-Zairean swamp
forests in the northeast. Furthermore, several significant freshwater systems are to be
found within the country, as well as 850 km of coastline and highly productive marine
systems. In recognition of the ecological integrity of these ecosystems Gabon recently
was placed 12th out of 146 countries evaluated (and first in Africa) in the 2005
Environmental Sustainability Index (ESI), which was announced in January 2005 at the
World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.               This unique combination of
exceptionally abundant and diverse natural resources presents a favorable context for
implementing a sustainable development strategy that improves the welfare of Gabonese
population and enhances the provision of global environmental benefits.




                                            1
1.1 Context at Appraisal
4.      Threats to Non-oil Natural Resources: The project was appraised when the
country’s non-oil natural resource sector was facing numerous degradation threats that
reduced its potential to contribute to economic growth and poverty reduction efforts. The
forest subsector, which was the country’s largest employer, was making a sub-optimal
contribution to the economy due to a range of factors including (i) inappropriate pricing
and taxation policies leading to low rates of revenue collection, (ii) insufficient local
value-added activities, and (iii) inadequate forest law enforcement. Uncontrolled marine
and inland fishing were depleting the resource base with little contribution to public
revenues. Biodiversity resources were under severe and increasing threats due to the
persistence of unregulated logging activities, increased commercial poaching of wildlife,
and ineffective systems for biodiversity conservation.

5.      Positive National Policy Development: In order to address the above-mentioned
threats to the natural resource base, the Government of Gabon started the implementation
of targeted reforms, particularly, in the forest sub-sector. A new Forest Code adopted in
2001 required all forests from public estates to adopt sustainable management plans by
December 2005. A new forest policy and a new forest taxation system were enacted to
support the implementation of this Code.

6.      Upon his return from the World Summit on Sustainable Development held in
Johannesburg in 2002, the late president Omar Bongo Odimba instructed his Government
to create a network of 13 national parks covering 10.6 percent (28,371 square kilometers,
km2) of the country’s land area. An inter-ministerial committee was established to
oversee the effective management of this network of protected areas.

7.      In May 2004, the Government adopted a Letter of Sector Policy, which set out the
governance and policy reform agenda for increasing the contribution of natural resources
to economic diversification and to poverty reduction. The Letter of Policy emphasized
greater transparency and law enforcement for forest, biodiversity, and fisheries. This
Letter of Policy aimed to provide a collaborative framework for the preparation of
Gabon’s Forest and Environment Sector Program (PSFE).

8.      The long-term objective of this multi-donor program was to help the country to
diversify its economy through the sustainable management of its forest, fisheries, and
biodiversity resources, thereby reducing its oil dependency. The PSFE objectives were
articulated around five components:

Component 1: Sustainable forest management, including wildlife and biodiversity
management in production landscapes.



                                           2
Component 2: Fisheries and coastal zone management.
Component 3: Development of the national parks network.
Component 4: Valorization of other environmental goods and services.
Component 5: Institutional strengthening, research, and training.
9.     Catalytic Role of the World Bank and GEF: The World Bank and the GEF were
already major players in forest sector reforms in Central Africa and played a key role in
coordinating the donors’ priorities (French cooperation, the European Commission, the
U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), the African Development Bank
(ADB), and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP)) during preparation of
the PSFE. The Bank and the GEF also helped leverage support from international
conservation nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to support implementation of this
sectorwide program.

10.     The Strengthening Capacity for Managing National Parks and Biodiversity
Project was consistent with the national priorities expressed in the Letter of Policy and
the PSFE. It supported component 3 (development of national parks) and component 1
(wildlife management in production landscapes) of the PSFE. It also aimed to
complement an IBRD loan in support of components 1 (forest), 2 (fisheries), 4
(environment), and 5 (institutional capacity building) of the PSFE. Given the PSFE’s
emphasis on policy reforms, this IBRD operation was packaged as a development policy
loan (DPL). Both the GEF and IBRD operations fit within the framework of the overall
PSFE program—they are mutually reinforcing and complement other donor investments
in the sectorwide program.

11.     The project also aimed to lay the foundation for ecotourism development, thereby
seeking to create jobs and revenue-generating activities in rural areas. Finally, it sought to
strengthen the capabilities of government agencies to manage protected areas effectively.
These objectives were consistent with the CAS’s two pillars of strengthened natural and
financial resource management, and private-sector-led non-oil growth. This contribution
to the higher-level objectives of the CAS provided the rationale for the Bank’s assistance.

12.      Regional and Global environment focus: The project was also aligned with
priorities at the regional level as it builds on the unprecedented political commitment
expressed in the Yaoundé Declaration on Conservation and Sustainable Management of
Forests, signed by the heads of state of six Central African nations including Gabon. The
project also was consistent with the framework of the Congo Basin Forest Partnership
(CBFP) launched by the United States and South Africa at the Johannesburg World
Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD) in 2002 and supported by 29 public and




                                              3
private partners. The CBFP focused on 11 landscapes of high biodiversity value, five of
which are within Gabon.
13.     From the global environmental perspective, this addressed the objectives of the
GEF’s Operational Programs (OP) 1: “Forest ecosystems”; and OP 2: “Coastal, marine,
and fresh water systems.” It was consistent with the objectives of the two OPs by
supporting threat-remediation activities at selected protected sites of high global
significance, and by promoting the broad-based participation of local communities in site
management activities. It facilitated the adoption of management practices that would
mainstream biodiversity into production landscapes. It also contributed to the GEF’s
Biodiversity Strategic Priority (SP) #1: “Catalyzing Sustainability of Protected Areas,” as
well as SP #2: “Mainstreaming Biodiversity Conservation in Production Systems.” These
contributions to the goals of the GEF’s operational programs justified its support.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

14.     The project’s original Global Environment Objective (GEO) was: “Biodiversity
conservation in the Congo Basin is enhanced”. This GEO was to be measured using one
indicator linked to the CAS objective of economic diversification, and three indicators
related to the expansion and effective management of protected areas. These key
indicators were:

   •   Effective implementation of the Gabon National Parks Agency’s (ANPN’s)
       management plans for key national parks—leading to socioeconomic benefits
       such as employment generation and ecotourism—by year five (CAS).
   •   One million hectares of areas suitable for biodiversity protection status identified
       and proposed for formal gazettement by year five.
   •   One million hectares of key national parks with 80 percent increase in the
       management effectiveness score (as measured by the Protected Area Management
       Effectiveness Tracking Tool)—leading to biodiversity conservation, employment
       generation, and ecotourism development—by year five.
   •   Five million hectares of production landscapes in buffer zones with increased
       wildlife management effectiveness—as measured by indicators of surveillance
       efforts and levels of wildlife offtake—by year five.
15.     In addition to the GEO, the project had a Development Objective stated as
follows: “Biodiversity is protected and managed in a sustainable way and contributes to
the diversification of the national economy, through strengthened capacities of parks and
wildlife authorities”.

1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification



                                            4
16.      Following completion of the midterm review (MTR) in May 2010, the
Government of Gabon and the World Bank agreed to a level-one restructuring of the
project. The revised GEO is as follows: “The Project Development Objective is to (i)
enhance the conservation of biodiversity in selected National Parks and buffer zones; and
(ii) strengthen the management capacity of selected conservation- related entities in
Gabon”.

17.     The project restructuring aimed to better align the formulation of the development
objectives, as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), with those agreed by the
Bank and the Recipient and included in the Grant Agreement. The restructuring was also
said to respond to emerging biodiversity conservation needs in Gabon, and to the
operational capacity of the implementing agencies. Finally, some of the original
performance indicators were found to be too ambitious and not adequately aligned with
the project objectives, and therefore needed to be readjusted. The revised key
performance indicators were:
   •   Number of hectares of land with high potential for protection where a biological
       survey has been completed.
   •   Increase in management effectiveness in the three national parks (700,000
       hectares), as per the GEF’s Protected Areas Monitoring and Evaluation Tracking
       Tool (PAMETT).
   •   Increase in surveillance efforts in the three national parks and buffer zones.
   •   Number of community members (including percentage of women) sensitized to
       biodiversity conservation in the three national parks.
18.     The scope of these changes affected noticeably the original development objective
in three areas. First, a key activity supported by one of the original performance
indicators was to identify one million hectares suitable for biodiversity conservation and
to propose these areas for formal gazettement by project year five. The revised indicator
related only to completing a biological survey in areas (measured in hectares) with high
biodiversity potential for protection. The project no longer planned to support the
creation of additional conservation areas (see revised indicator 1 above).

19.     The second area where these changes had an impact is the adoption of an
integrated and participatory biodiversity conservation approach involving management
interventions in national parks and in production landscapes. The aim was to help the
private sector, including logging, oil and mining companies, to integrate biodiversity
conservation safeguards into their activities. The adoption of collaborative wildlife
management agreements with local communities was also an important activity of this




                                            5
integrated approach. The targeted area to be covered by this integrated conservation
approach was 5 million hectares of buffer zones.
20.     The restructured activity deals only with enhanced wildlife law enforcement in
the buffer zones of the three targeted national parks. The associated intermediate result
indicator would be measured by the number of environmental audits conducted in
logging concession sites. However, the benefits (increased local ownership and
stewardship of wildlife, sustainable supply of animal protein to local communities,
reduced conflicts, a higher level of corporate social responsibility of extractive industry
companies, etc.) of the integrated landscape conservation approach were lost or reduced
significantly in this new design.

21.     The last area where the restructuring of the project affected its original ambition is
the development objective. Although the new design maintained the phrase “project
development objective”, the original PDO was dropped altogether. The restructured
project has only a GEO (mislabeled PDO in the Project Restructuring Paper).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
22.    The project has three main categories of beneficiaries. The first group consists of
the two public agencies whose technical and institutional capabilities were strengthened
by the project: the newly created National Parks Agency (ANPN) and the Ministry of
Forests, Fisheries and Environment (MEFPEPN). The core capacity areas covered are
biodiversity and protected area management (law enforcement, formulation and
implementation of management plans, and so on), financial management, procurement,
monitoring and evaluation, and personnel management.

23.     The second category consists of private extractive industry companies (timber,
oil/gas, minerals). These companies are required by law to ensure the sustainable
management of non-timber forest products (especially wildlife in forest concessions), but
most of them (especially the domestic ones) lacked the capacity to comply with this
requirement effectively. The project would help them adopt good practices for integrating
wildlife and biodiversity conservation into their operations.

24.     The third category consists of the communities living in the buffer zones of the
targeted national parks. These communities were a major beneficiary group targeted in
the original design of the project. The expected benefits accruing to these communities in
the original design included employment and income generated by private sector eco-
tourism-related activities.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
25.    The design of the original project included four components, as follows.



                                              6
Component 1: Institutional strengthening of the ANPN. This agency was created shortly
before the project effectiveness. The main objective of this component was to help the
newly created institution execute its mandate of national park management and
biodiversity conservation as efficiently and effectively as possible. Key activities
included:
    • Selection and training of a core of key staff (eight senior staff).
    • Establishment of administrative, financial, and human resource management
       structures.
    • Establishment of capacities to coordinate conservation, law enforcement, and
       monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities.
    • Establishment of an effective communications/public awareness strategy.
    • Implementation of the ANPN’s replication plan.
    • Definition of a sustainable funding strategy and establishment of a foundation or
       other sustainable funding mechanisms.
    • Construction and equipping of the ANPN’s head office in Libreville.
    • Support of the project’s day-to-day management, implementation of the M&E
       tracking tool, and implementation of the project’s social and environmental
       management plan—all for activities under the responsibility of the ANPN.
Component 2: Expanding Gabon’s protected area coverage. Gabon has committed to
protecting 4 million hectares by the year 2010, that is, 1 million hectares more than its
current coverage. This component is designed to help Gabon move toward this goal.
Inputs include:

   •   The training and equipping of protected area assessment survey teams.
   •   The implementation of a nationwide survey of sites to identify and prioritize areas
       with potential for protected area status.
   •   Extensive consultation with local stakeholders.
Component 3: Direct support to selected national parks. Taking into account other
donors’ interventions, direct GEF support within the parks is limited to Loango,
Mukalaba, and Mayumba National Parks. The GEF support for production landscapes
surrounding protected areas (component 4) covers these three parks plus Lopé and Batéké.

Key inputs include support to:
   • Establishment of key park infrastructure, including headquarters and guard posts.
   • Training and equipping staff to carry out effective park management and law
       enforcement.
   • Developing a long-term ecological and patrol-based monitoring program.
   • Activities aimed at improving the sustainability of onshore and offshore fishing.


                                            7
   •   Development of ecotourism and other revenue-generating activities with private
       operators.
   •   Implementation of the project’s social and environmental management plans.
   •   Development of participatory management structures with local populations.
Component 4: Wildlife management in production landscapes. This component aims to
mainstream biodiversity in production landscapes (logging concessions, community
forests). It targets the buffer zones of Loango, Mukalaba, Mayumba, Lopé, and Batéké
national parks. Key inputs include support to:

   •   Training, equipping, and deploying mobile units operating out of Tchibanga,
       Iboundji, and Lekoni.
   •   Extensive consultation with private sector operators (logging, oil), local
       communities, and politico-administrative authorities for the implementation of
       collaborative mechanisms for wildlife management
   •   Efficient day-to-day management of the project, implementation of the M&E
       tracking tool, and implementation of the project’s social and environmental
       management plans—all for activities under the responsibility of the Ministry of
       Forests.

1.6 Revised Components
26.    Although the Project Restructuring Paper (paragraph 15, page 3) states that “the
four components will remain as approved in the initial project design”, it acknowledges
that components 2 and 4 were changed. The Paper provides justification for these
changes.

27.     Component 2. Original: “Expanding Gabon’s protected area coverage.” Revised:
“Enhanced knowledge on critical natural habitats for the expansion of the network of
national parks.” This change is said to reflect new national priorities in biodiversity
expressed by the Gabonese authorities at the MTR of the project. The authorities
mentioned that other international partners would conduct biological surveys in targeted
areas where future national parks could be established. The total area covered by these
surveys would equal the original target of 1 million hectares. The Government priority is
to enhance the knowledge of the total biological wealth and the socioeconomic conditions
prevailing in and around these potential conservation sites.


28.    Component 4. Original “Wildlife management outside national Parks.” Revised:
“Improved wildlife management, monitoring and law enforcement in the periphery of the
national parks.” The change is said to “reflect the variety of activities that are needed in
the buffer zones.” In reality, two main activities are conducted under this revised


                                             8
component: (i) increased law enforcement (as envisaged in the original design); and (ii)
the conduct of environmental audits in five extractive industry concessions (logging,
mining, and oil), and development of remediation plans, as necessary.

29.     The environmental audits are geared toward ensuring the enforcement of the
regulations pertaining to environmental impact assessment. Their aim was to ensure that
private sector investments in the buffer zones comply with such regulations, as opposed
to the original goal of working with the logging and other extractive industry companies
to mainstream biodiversity conservation practices in their concession areas. The
rehabilitation of conservation field facilities that was mentioned in the Grant Agreement
was also dropped.

1.7 Other significant changes
30.    In addition to the changes described above, adjustments were made in the
following areas:
    • Scope: The construction of the ANPN headquarters office in Libreville was
       cancelled early in the project implementation stage. The Project Restructuring
       Paper stated that this infrastructure was not seen as a high priority.
    • Institutional arrangements. To reduce transaction and coordination costs, a
       streamlined and simplified institutional arrangement for implementation was
       adopted. The responsibility of the Ministry of Forests for implementation of
       project components 2 and 4 (and associated activities) was transferred to the
       ANPN, which was now responsible for implementation of the entire project.
    • Reallocation of project costs. The details of the reallocation are included in the
       table below: The budget allocated to component 1 (institutional strengthening)
       and component 3 (support to selected national parks) increased by 16.6 percent
       and 6.2 percent, respectively. The budget for [revised] component 2 (enhanced
       knowledge on critical natural habitats for the expansion of the network of national
       parks) and [revised] component 4 (improved wildlife management and law
       enforcement in the periphery of national parks) decreased respectively by 3.4
       percent and 32 percent.
                                    Project costs (US$m)
Components/Activities                               Allocation at       Reallocation at
                                                    appraisal           restructuring
Component 1: Institutional strengthening of ANPN    1,832,878           2,137,000
                                                                        (+16.6%)
Component 2:
Appraisal: Expanding Gabon’s protect ted area
                                                    1,121,568
coverage



                                                9
Restructuring: Enhanced knowledge on critical                                1,083,000 (-3.4%)
natural habitats for the expansion of the network of
national parks
Component 3: Support to selected national parks               5,218,012      5,544,000 (+6.2%)
Component 4:
Appraisal: Wildlife management outside national 1,817,547
parks
Restructuring: Improved wildlife management and                              1,236,000 (-32%)
law enforcement in the periphery of national parks

Total                                                         10,000005 1    10,000,000


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
31.    Collaborative approach and lessons learned and applied: The project was
prepared within the framework of the sectorwide multidonor PSFE. The preparation of
this program was based on thematic studies and national action plans developed by
multidisciplinary working groups on forests, biodiversity, the environment, and tourism
(funded by the GEF-UNDP). Component 2, “expanding Gabon’s protected area
coverage,” was built on the results of the three-year biological and socioeconomic
evaluation conducted by the Government with assistance from the World Conservation
Society (WCS) in 13 newly created national parks and their buffer zones.

32.    Preparation of the project also integrated the lessons learned from two previous
Bank operations. Drawing from the Forestry and Environment Project (closed in
FY2003), the project strengthened involvement of the private sector and nongovernment
stakeholders, and emphasized building the capacity of the decentralized national park
management units. That partners must coordinate closely from the outset was a lesson
learned from the implementation of the Regional Environmental Information
Management Program.

33.     The project also applied lessons learned from other donor projects. The European
Commission−funded Forest Ecosystems Project demonstrated how charismatic “flagship”
species ought to be the cornerstone of any successful ecotourism endeavor in Central
Africa. The CBFP (USAID and South Africa) was the first to introduce the landscape



1
    Figures in Project Restructuring Paper do not add up to US$10 million.



                                                      10
approach to biodiversity conservation in Central Africa through innovative alliances
involving community-based conservation and partnerships with the private sector. The
WWF’s Minkéké project in Gabon successfully used this approach in pursuing
conservation goals in logging companies’ concession areas. Component 4, “wildlife
management outside national parks,” also uses the same approach.

Project Design
34.      Project design fits the country-driven collaborative and multi-donor framework:
The project was designed with the framework of the sectorwide multi-donor PSFE. It
complemented an IBRD Development Policy Loan (DPL) in support of components 1
(forest management), 2 (fisheries management), 4 (environmental services), and 5
(institutional capacity strengthening) of the PSFE. Both the project and the DPL
complemented the interventions of other donors (the African Development Bank [ADB],
Agence Française de Développement [AFD], European Commission, the United Nations
Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization [UNESCO], USAID).

35.     The objective was highly relevant as it responded to the Government of Gabon’s
need to fill the capacity gap for the effective management of the newly created network
of national parks, and to lay the foundation for a more diversified economy. The number
and sequencing of components were appropriate and covered the basic elements of
capacity strengthening (manpower, equipment, training, learning by doing) while
contributing to the expansion of the national park network. The pursuit of the innovative
landscape approach to mainstream biodiversity conservation into production landscapes
through a tripartite partnership among local communities, extractive industry companies,
and the national park agency added significant value to the project.

36.     Ambitious project objectives: Overall, the design of the project does not appear to
be complex. That said, in retrospect, to (i) conduct a nationwide survey of sites to identify
and prioritize areas with potential for protected areas, (ii) define a sustainable financing
strategy and establishing a foundation (or other sustainable financial mechanism), and
(iii) generate revenue from ecotourism in a country that does not have any established
experience with national park management and meaningful ecotourism management
seem to be too ambitious as objectives.

37.     NGO technical assistance incorporated into project deign: The appraisal of the
project determined that Government institutions’ lack of adequate operational capacity
for national park and biodiversity management would constitute a major implementation
risk. Consequently, it was agreed that, while the newly created ANPN was acquiring the
requisite operational capacity, the technical assistance services of international
conservation NGOs, namely the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) for conservation and the


                                             11
World Conservation Society (WCS) would be contracted to help implement parts of
components 2, 3 and 4 of the project. These NGOs were to assume a key role in the early
years of project implementation. These two NGOs had vast experience in conservation
work (including investments) in Gabon prior to the project.

Government Commitment
38.    The Government showed strong commitment and leadership as exemplified by
the range of policy development and reforms undertaken during the preparation and
appraisal of the project (see sub-section 1.1). Also, the commitment to create a national
park agency and to adopt a framework law for national parks management was a sign the
Government’s strong leadership. Finally, the participatory approach, involving local
communities, local authorities, and the private sector (oil/gas and logging companies,
tours operators), showed a strong commitment of the Government to initiate a new policy
and business model for sustainable development, especially for biodiversity conservation.

Assessment of Risks
39.     The overall assessment of the major risks affecting implementation and outcomes
was adequate, but some risk factors could have benefited from further attention by
strengthening the proposed mitigation measures (table in Section C5 of PAD).
Risk factors where more robust mitigation measures would have added value are:
       •   Project development objective
           − Lack of coordination among PSFE donors in the area of biodiversity
              conservation generates overlaps and divergence in project approaches,
              and fails to bridge critical funding gaps. More robust mitigation measure:
              to modify project scope if any donor (s) does not cooperate (instead of
              “All donors agreed to work within the overarching PSFE framework”).
           − Contracted NGOs fail to build capacity of public institutions. More robust
              mitigation measure: to introduce clear indicators (or proxy thereof) and
              accountability mechanisms for measuring transferred knowledge (instead
              of “[…] All activities will be planned, carried out and monitored jointly by
              DFC/ANPN and their NGO partner following the principle of co-
              management” […]).
           − Failure to develop ecotourism, which undermines Government and local
              communities’ commitment to biodiversity conservation. To bring about
              the enabling conditions described in the risk column seems to be beyond
              the project’s means (policy reform is not part of project).
       •   Components
           − Threats to biodiversity due to the government allocation of logging or
              mining and/or oil exploration/production rights. More robust mitigation
              measure: to add the option of creating biodiversity-offsets. Allowing for


                                           12
               exploitation to take place provided a new and equivalent area is set aside
               as a national park or other type of protected area would be a reasonable
               mitigation option because the direct economic benefits of extractive
               industries and associated lobbing are likely to prevail over conservation
               concerns.

2.2 Implementation
40.     Capacity constraints of implementation agencies: Weaknesses in the skill level of
the some of the original staff and a lack of understanding of World Bank procedures
(especially of those for procurement and financial management) resulted in frequent
changes of the teams of both implementing agencies (ANPN and the Ministry of Forests,
Fisheries and Environment--MEFPEPN). During the first 18 months, the project was
managed by three different teams in the ANPN and two in the Ministry of Forests. These
technical shortcomings and the instability of the implementing agencies had an adverse
effect on the implementation progress, especially during the first year and half of the
project life.

41.    Ineffective implementation arrangement: The Gabonese institutional framework
for managing forests and protected areas evolved rapidly during the preparation and
appraisal of the project. An important change was the creation of a national agency for
national parks (i.e., the ANPN). This agency was located in the President’s Office,
whereas other protected areas were managed by the Ministry of Forests. This Ministry
was also responsible for biodiversity and wildlife outside of national parks. In order to
ensure the effective management of biodiversity inside and outside national parks, it was
thought that the both ANPN and MEFPEPN should be entrusted with project
implementation.

42.     This institutional arrangement, however, increased transaction and coordination
costs between ANPN and MEFPEPN, thereby slowing down the pace of implementation.
The adverse operational effects of this arrangement were aggravated by the lack of clarity
in the description of roles and responsibilities of each implementing agency in the project
implementation manual. At the MTR it was decided to entrust the ANPN with full
responsibility for managing the project, and to retain the important contribution of the
MEFPEPN through a signed memorandum of understanding (MoU).

43.    Effects of the political transition: To some extent the passing away of the
president in June 2009, and the subsequent political campaign, followed by elections
were also detrimental to the pace of project implementation.




                                            13
44.    Due to all these reasons, the project was rated “unsatisfactory” during the 9
months prior to the May 2010 MTR (the disbursement rate was only 23 percent). The
MTR thoroughly reviewed the causes of the slow progress of implementation. The Bank
and the Government agreed to restructure the project in order to improve its performance.
The Board approved the restructured project in April 2011.

45.     An implementation specialist (international consultant) was hired to further
accelerate the pace of project execution. A few months after the restructuring of the
project, the implementation pace increased, and the project rating improved to
“moderately satisfactory.” This rating was maintained until the closing of the project.

46.    An unfulfilled multi-donor sectorwide intervention and co-financing framework:
The project was conceived within the framework of the multi-donor PFSE, and was to
complement or be complemented by donor interventions. In fact, the project was to
receive $13.15 million in co-financing from other donors including the European
Commission, UNESCO, WCS, WWF, and USAID. 2 This amount was allocated to
component 1 ($5.85 million), component 3 ($2.25 million), and component 4 ($3.1
million).

47.      Unfortunately, this co-financing did not materialize. The effect of this lack of
external co-financing on the project achievements is unclear because the scope of the
activities of three (1, 2, and 4) of the four original components of the project changed
before or at the restructuring of the project. The reasons for this lack of co-financing
remain unclear because neither the implementation support aide memoires nor the MTR
mentioned the co-financing identified at appraisal. During the ICR mission, WCS and
WWF mentioned that they contributed financial resources to the activities of the three
national parks targeted by the project. However, the amount of this contribution and the
specific activities supported were not acknowledged and confirmed in project financial
management reporting system and in the Government completion report.

48.     Technical assistance by NGO and consultants: The award of technical assistance
(TA) contracts to WWF and WCS was one of the conditions for project effectiveness.
These two NGOs had detailed terms of reference covering conservation management
(including planning and evaluation), research, and on-the-job training of ANPN and
MEFPEPN staff, communication and administrative management. These NGOs planned,
carried out and monitored their respective activities jointly with the Government agencies.



2
  See PAD annexes 4 (for detailed project description), 5 (for summary of currently secured external
funding), and 15 (for incremental cost analysis).



                                                    14
They reported either to the ANPN (for components 1 and 3) or to the Ministry of Forests
and National Parks (for components 2 and 4). Fiduciary responsibility rested with the
NGOs the activities mentioned in their terms of reference.

49.    As expected, the two international NGOs played a key role in the project
implementation, especially from project effectiveness until the MTR. During this period,
they procured and managed some of the project equipment, managed most of the field
operations (e.g., payment of per diems to field missions, allocation of transport
equipment, etc.).

50.     In addition to the NGOs, the implementing agencies also received technical
support from two international consultants for an extended period of time after the MTR.
These include a so-called implementation specialist and a monitoring and evaluation
specialist. A local extended term consultant was also hired to assist the implementing
agencies in the coordination of day-to-day activities and the implementation of tasks
requiring specialized technical skills.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Design
51.     Appraisal stage: The METT, a recommended tool for monitoring and evaluating
the performance of conservation projects was retained as the main means for monitoring
and evaluating the conservation outcomes of the three targeted national parks. While the
features of the METT were appropriately designed to capture the conservation outcomes
within the national parks, the overall design of the project M&E system had some
shortcomings that may have reduced the effectiveness of the project result framework.

52.    Unclear and Weak Articulation of the Project-Level M&E: The description of
the M&E system included in the PAD was mainly devoted to the arrangements, methods,
and tools that the project would put in place to ensure that the M&E function would be
performed effectively during the implementation of the project. While this description
provided a useful conceptual framework for establishing a good result monitoring and
evaluation system, it also had weaknesses.

53.    In particular, the PAD (annex 3) provides very little information on the key
operational elements of the project M&E system. It states that a “detailed M&E program
will be established at the start of the project.” It also mentions that “the monitoring
strategy developed at the beginning of the program will determine (a) the nature (level of
analysis) of the information transferred, and (b) the procedures for transferring
information to the national level”.




                                           15
54.     This description does not include the specific activities, key actors and
responsibilities, and resources necessary to implement the project-level M&E system
successfully. This lack of operational clarity made it difficult for the implementing
agencies to monitor and evaluate project performance effectively right from the start of
the project implementation.

55.     Shortcomings in the Selection of Indicators: Some of the results and outcome
indicators of the PAD were not appropriately aligned with the PDO and the GEO. The
statements of the PDO in the Results Framework and Monitoring (annex 3) and in the
Project Description (section B2) are different, as are the outcome indicators used to
measure the achievement of the PDO.

56.     Some indicators of the PAD (for example, systems of finance and human resource
management, M&E, communication, ecotourism development, and sustainable funding)
could have benefited from further elaboration to increase their measurability and degree
of pertinence. Some of the performance indicators of the restructured project that do not
exhibit a strong causal link with the expected development outcomes include: (i)
increased surveillance efforts in the three key national parks and buffer zones;(ii) number
of community members sensitized to biodiversity conservation in the three national
parks; (iii) number of sites with high biodiversity potential covered by biological
inventory; and (iv) number of environmental audits conducted by the Gabonese
administration (Project Restructuring Paper, annex 1).

57.     Weak alignment of PDO with project components and activities: Based on the
content of the planned project activities, the stated PDO of contributing to the
diversification of the national economy through strengthened capacities of parks and
wildlife authorities does not seem achievable. The ecotourism activities supported by the
project consisted in assessing the ecotourism potential of the targeted national parks, and
developing mechanisms for capturing a share of the associated revenue that would result
to support conservation activities. Undertaking these activities was dependent on the
elaboration and adoption of national legislation for ecotourism development in national
parks. However, the activities leading to the adoption of such legislation were not
contained under any of the project components. Therefore, the economic diversification
outcome expected from ecotourism development could not be achieved by the project.

58.     Shortcomings in the Results Framework at the project restructuring stage: The
Level-1 restructuring of the project resulted in changes in the name of some project
components and in the scope of activities. The names of all four components as stated in
section C (Proposed Changes, page 2) are different from those mentioned in the table of
results framework and monitoring (annex 1); and the latter are different from those



                                            16
presented in the financing and project costs table (page 11). 1 and 2 mentioned on page
The Project Restructuring Paper did not articulate clearly the objective of each the
component (although the activities are described). In fact for component 1, the Paper
only mentioned the name and a list of indicators (page 3).

59.     The pertinence of some of the revised performance indicators appeared weak
because of the insufficient clarity of the objectives of the restructured components. For
example, it is unclear how increasing the surveillance efforts from 300 person-days per
month to 700 person-days would suffice to ensure the protection and integrity of
biodiversity in the three national parks and their buffer zones. While raising local
communities’ awareness to biodiversity conservation is certainly appropriate, it is unclear
why 2000 females and 2000 males would be the target numbers of local community
members to be sensitized about biodiversity conservation in the three national parks.
These two key performance indicators might be appropriate; however, the evidence base
supporting this pertinence was lacking. Finally, merely conducting five environmental
audits would not necessarily yield desirable and effective results unless they were
satisfactorily conducted by qualified auditors, and their recommendations were
implemented.

Implementation
60.    The lack of specificity in the description of the M&E system in the PAD and the
technical capacity constraints of the implementing agencies made the establishment of
the project M&E system a challenging task. Unfortunately, the Bank implementation
support Teams were not able to correct for the lack of clarity in the design of the M&E
system at the lending stage and to provide timely assistance to the Government
implementing agencies.

61.     The aide memoire of the first implementation support mission (February
15−March 11, 2008) encouraged ANPN to use the M&E section of the project
implementation manual as a guide for putting in place its M&E system. Five months later
(August 2008) ANPN expressed the need to have an international expert help put in place
the agency’s M&E system. Although the Bank approved this request and suggested key
tasks for the terms of reference for the international expert, the aide memoires of the next
two missions (June 2008 and November 2008) continued to urge ANPN to draw from the
implementation manual and put in place its M&E system. 3




3
    The November mission offered to provide M&E technical support to ANPN in the coming weeks.




                                                  17
62.     Meanwhile, the February 2010 mission determined that the project did not have
an M&E system (at least not a viable one), and advised the implementing agencies to take
stock of the project achievements and to put in place an M&E system. The project M&E
officer was hired at the time of the MTR (that is, 30 months after project effectiveness).
The M&E officer for ANPN was hired a year later. The international M&E expert was
hired at the end of 2011, that is, more than 3 years after ANPN first expressed the need to
have one.

63.     These events show that although the Bank teams were aware of and, in fact,
emphasized the importance of an effective M&E system in achieving and measuring
results on the ground, the level of their support to the implementing agencies was not
adequate. The teams’ repeated advice to set up an M&E system seemed unproductive,
and this wasted valuable time at the beginning of the project. The M&E system of the
project was put in place only after the MTR. Also, good practice would be to apply the
METT tool before or immediately after projects become effective so that it would capture
the baseline biodiversity conservation status adequately. However, the initial application
of the METT to the three targeted national parks only took place two years after the
project was declared effective.

64.     A more proactive stance from the Bank could have permitted the implementing
agencies to put in place an effective M&E system at the beginning of the project’s
activities. This would have helped to track the performance of the project components
more effectively, and to take appropriate corrective actions, especially during the first
half of the project life.

Utilization
65.     Three years after the beginning of the project, the extended missions of an
international consultant helped the project-level M&E officers to enact an effective M&E
system at the project level and within the ANPN. This helped improve the quality of
implementation noticeably, through better monitoring of activities and timely corrective
actions. Data and information from the project-level M&E were used to improve the
annual planning of the Action Plan derived from the restructured project. The information
generated by the project’s M&E system also helped to tailor the technical assistance
provided by the conservation NGOs to the needs of each national park and the associated
buffer zone.

66.    It also helped to establish benchmarks for assessing the performance and
contribution of the NGO service providers. Finally, the M&E data and information
helped to reduce the inefficiency associated with frequent over-commitment of funds to
planned activities. The introduction of information and communication (ICT) tools, GPS,


                                            18
and adapted software into ANPN’s M&E system helped to generate data and information
that significantly increased the efficiency of conservation actions and law enforcement
within and outside the targeted national parks. Overall, the METT tool was used
appropriately to assess the conservation outcomes in the targeted parks.

67.    The M&E system of ANPN, which was derived from the project’s system, seems
to be operating satisfactorily. But its full potential and effectiveness will only be known
when all the relevant field staff are trained to use the software effectively. The M&E
software was acquired in May 2013, and the relevant staff in the ANPN office in
Libreville was trained in June 2013. The training of the field staff in the national parks
was yet to be conducted at the time of the ICR mission (four months after the project
closed).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Environmental and Social Safeguards
Appraisal stage
68.     The Task Team acknowledged in the appraisal-stage ISDS and in the Safeguards
Annex of the PAD that the project would not generate adverse environmental and social
effects that are irreversible. Rather than selecting a safeguard category consistent with
this profile, the Team adopted the safeguard category “A” and the associated instruments
that were developed by the sector-wide PSFE. Perhaps this choice was due to the fact that
the project envisaged expansion of Gabon’s national parks network through the creation
of new protected areas (original component 2). In any case, the A category set the stage
for an unnecessarily high burden of environmental and social mitigation work during
implementation.

69.     While the Safeguards Annex described the mitigation measures that needed to be
implemented, it did not provide a clear indication of how and who would implement
these measures. The PAD (Section D5) mentioned that implementation of the social
safeguards instruments would be “monitored in the context of the IBRD Natural
Resources DPL,” without indicating how this would be done effectively since the
implementation schedule of the DPL and that of the project were different. This lack of
specific implementation arrangements and accountability lines further increased the
safeguards risks during the implementation phase.

Management of the Safeguard Issues
70.     The aide-memoire of the MTR mentioned that no environmental and social
mitigation measure was implemented due to the slow progress of project execution. The
aide-memoire also stated that no financial resources were allocated for safeguard


                                            19
mitigation measures. The MTR helped to initiate and prioritize corrective actions in this
area. A recommended training session in Bank environmental and social safeguard
policies was delivered to the project staff by a Bank technical team in May 2011.

71.     Environmental safeguards. The restructured project introduced environmental
audits of extractive industries (forest and mining concessions, and oil exploration and
exploitation) in the buffer zones of the national parks under project component 4. This
multisectoral undertaking was led by the Directorate General for Environment (DGE),
and included ANPN and the ministries of forests, mining, and hydrocarbons.
Conservation NGOs were also involved in the process. The disappointing quality of the
first audit reports led to a search for a more effective means of conducting these
environmental audits. At the time of project closing, no viable technical solution had yet
been found. Coordination issues and the weak technical capacity of the DGE seem to be
the main causes of this failure.

72.     Social safeguards issues. The restructuring of the project following the MTR
offered a good opportunity to readjust the environment and social safeguard category of
the project (from A to B) to reflect the level of its actual potential environmental and
social effects. This readjustment was necessary for two reasons. First, the potentially high
social safeguard risks perceived to be associated with the creation of new national parks
under the original design of the project were removed because the restructured project
dropped this activity (see section 1.6). The failure to adjust the environment category
created expectations for the scope and depth of the mitigation measures to be
implemented.

73.     Second, the national parks law adopted after the effectiveness of the project
included mechanisms that seemed to provide a reasonable assurance about the traditional
use rights of local populations. One such mechanism is the the Comités Consultatifs de
Gestion Local (CCGL), a consultative platform that includes local populations, local
authorities, local NGOs, and the private sector (extractive industry). The CCGL
constitutes the main mechanism for negotiating and securing the co-management
arrangement rights and responsibilities under the park management plan.

74.    Mitigation of the social safeguards risks: The compliance with social safeguards
followed a two-pronged approach. For the areas identified as suitable for inclusion in
future national parks, socioeconomic studies (including the recording of human
settlements) were commissioned. The results of these studies were supposed to help to
minimize the disruption of local livelihoods in the delineation of the boundaries of future
national parks.




                                            20
75.     For the three parks supported by the project, it was reported that no physical
resettlement of the households living within these protected areas took place. Nonetheless,
the Bank recommended preparation of a resettlement policy framework for all the
affected peoples within and outside these national parks, and the integration of the policy
frameworks into the management plan of each national park. According to the original
implementation schedule, the management plans of the targeted national parks were to be
adopted by year 3. This would have allowed for time to assess their effectiveness on the
ground and to make adjustments, where necessary (including safeguard aspects).
However, these management plans had not been adopted by the close of the project.

76.     In the meantime, the project chose to rely on the CCGL for assuring compliance
with social safeguards. There two reasons why the CCGL are not likely to be an
effective mechanism for mitigating the potential social safeguards risks associated with
project activities. First, the CCGL is a multi-stakeholder consultative rather than a
deliberative body, and the balance of bargaining power may not favor local communities.

77.     Second, the national parks law and the forestry code do recognize the traditional
rights of local populations to use the natural resources of national parks and their buffer
zones, but these rights can only be negotiated in the context of the CCGL and secured in
a local land-use contract (contrat de gestion de terroir villageois), subject to ANPN’s
approval. No local land-use contract between ANPN and the local communities was
ready by the time the project closed. Therefore, there was no opportunity for the Task
Teams to assess the potential of this instrument to address Bank safeguards policies
adequately and effectively.

78.    Because the objective function of the CCGL platform (a key instrument of the
park management plan) is to ensure the effective conservation of biodiversity, the extent
to which local populations’ social and economic interests are maximized in the land-use
contract would vary and would tend to be constrained by the conservation objective.

79.     Although the Task Teams maintained the original environment category at the
restructuring stage, the selection and implementation of the safeguard measures did not
correspond to the requirements of this “A” category. In fact, these measures did not even
meet the mitigation requirements for a category “B” (which should have been the
appropriate environment category) project. The main shortcomings in the implementation
of the social safeguards are summarized below:

   •   Although the MTR acknowledged that there was no capacity and no budget for
       implementing environmental and social safeguard measures, the planned
       safeguards training did not take place until one year later (May 2011);



                                            21
   •   A guide for the so-called simplified templates for the Resettlement Action Plan
       and for the Indigenous People Development Plan was developed without a clear
       assignment of responsibilities for developing and implementing these instruments;
   •   The Task Teams strongly advised the implementing agency (ANPN) to prepare
       and use the Process Framework as an input to the formulation of the management
       plan of each targeted national park, but little follow-up action and oversight was
       provided;
   •   In the end, the project chose to rely on untested Government mechanisms (i.e.,
       CCGL) for the management of social safeguard risks.
80.     These shortcomings would mean that residual social safeguard risks of unknown
magnitude could be associated with the implementation of the park management plans
approved after the closing of the project. The need to monitor the potential
socioeconomic risks associated with the implementation of the national park management
plans, and to mitigate any adverse impact on local communities (or members thereof)
promptly and effectively was discussed with the Government during the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) mission.

Financial Management
81.     Throughout the implementation period, the performance of the project’s financial
management function improved from unsatisfactory to moderately satisfactory. The weak
financial management performance impacted negatively on the disbursement rate which
remained low for an extended period of time at the beginning of the project
implementation. The main shortcomings included late and unreliable withdrawal
applications, delayed transfer of funds to field offices of the national parks, late payment
of service providers, and ineligible expenses.

82.     The quality of internal controls improved and the financial management risk level
decreased from “substantial” to “moderate” following the MTR. The contributing factors
to these improvements included strong support from Bank supervision missions and
timely remedial actions, which led to the replacement of the financial management
specialist. The effective use of the TOMPRO software, the training sessions provided by
Bank technical teams, and the external consultant helped to improve the quality of
financial management. The quality and timeliness of financial management reports and
withdrawal applications also improved subsequently.

Procurement
83.     The local procurement specialists’ limited knowledge of Bank procedures
contributed to some of the implementation delays at the beginning of the project.
Ineffective internal control, erratic publication of bidding outcomes, and poor


                                            22
recordkeeping were the main weaknesses of the procurement at that time. The moving of
the first procurement specialists to new jobs also affected the pace of the procurement
early in the implementation phase. The situation improved noticeably with the
recruitment of new procurement staff. The level of skills of the procurement staff was
adequate. Overall, the procurement function conformed to the Bank’s procurement
guidelines, and the Bank supervision missions did not uncover any issue in this area. The
overall rating of procurement was “satisfactory.”

2.5 Postcompletion Operation/Next Phase
84.     The creation of a network of 13 national parks in 2002 provided Gabon with its
first-ever national parks. This project, designed barely three years after the creation of
these national parks, helped the country to lay a strong foundation of the institutional and
technical capabilities necessary to manage these parks effectively. No follow-up
operation is envisaged at this stage.

85.    In the absence of a direct follow-up operation, a new GEF project dealing with the
management and conservation of critical wetland ecosystems is under preparation. In
addition to capacity-building investments, this project will support the sustainable
management of three critical ecosystems, including one of the national parks that
received financing from the closed project. ANPN, which managed the closed project,
will manage two of the three sites of the new project.

86.     These two sites are national parks that include critical wetlands. This will not only
strengthen the capacity established by the closed project, but it will also provide the Bank
with the opportunity to follow up on the implementation of the national park management
plans prepared under the closed project. The Bank implementation support will
strengthen the execution of these plans, and help to make necessary adjustments that
would benefit the implementation of the management plans of the other national parks.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: the objectives of the project retain High Overall Relevance.
87.     The project’s objective, design, and implementation remain highly relevant for
Gabon’s current development challenges and priorities. The Government’s economic
development vision, the 2009 Plan Stratégique Gabon Emergent (PSGE), emphasizes
economic diversification and non-oil economic growth, as does the Growth and Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper supported by the 2005 CAS. As part of its economic
diversification agenda, Gabon gives high priority to the sustainable management of
natural resources including forests, fisheries, biodiversity, mining, and agriculture—



                                             23
which are all part of the “Gabon Vert” pillar of the PSGE. This priority is consistent with
the GEF’S Biodiversity Strategic Priorities, and with the objectives of the GEF’s
Operational Programs on forest ecosystems (OP 1) and coastal, marine, and fresh water
ecosystems (OP 2).

88.     The 2012 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS FY2012−16) of the World Bank
Group (WBG) will provide support to Gabon’s PSGE through two strategic themes: (i)
competitiveness and employment, and (ii) vulnerability and resilience. Under the latter,
the WBG will continue to assist the Government in diversifying the economy while
taking steps to ensure that renewable natural resources are protected and sustainably
managed. This outcome will be achieved by building on the achievements of the Natural
Resource Management Development Policy Loan through transparent reforms in the
natural resource sector. An important element of these reforms is the future Congo Basin
regional REDD+ mechanism which presents a tremendous opportunity to generate
substantial resources from the sustainable management of Gabon’s forests. This
mechanism could help biodiversity conservation and finance, thereby providing
additional funds to Gabon’s national parks and protected areas.

89.     Under the competitiveness and employment theme, the WBG will build on the
ecotourism development efforts started by the Government during the preparation of the
project in 2004. In particular, a value chain will be promoted to guide and contribute to
growth in the ecotourism industry. Assistance to the industry will include a matching
grant scheme for technical learning at the firm level. The effective management of the
national parks that received project support would constitute an important lever for the
competiveness and growth of the ecotourism industry.

90.     The core theme of capacity building of Government agencies responsible for
biodiversity and national park management responds to the CPS’s need for addressing the
long-term foundations of growth including improved governance, strengthened public
sector capacity, and enhanced quality of human capital. In particular, the capacity that the
project helped to create will help to implement the transparent and sustainable natural
resource management practices that are supported by the Government PSGE and the CPS
of the WBG.

91.     Similarly, the collaboration between public agencies and the private sector
operating in the buffer zones of the national parks sets the stage for increased public-
private partnerships (PPPs) currently promoted for non-oil, natural-resource-based
economic diversification. Finally, the Consultative Committees for Local Management
put in place by the project could serve as a community-based safeguard and governance
model for the implementation of the REDD+ mechanisms.



                                            24
3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives
Rating: Satisfactory
92.     The PDO, as stated in the Project Restructuring Paper, was to “(i) enhance the
conservation of biodiversity in selected national parks and buffer zones, and (ii) to
strengthen the management capacity of selected conservation-related entities in Gabon.”
The achievement of this objective was measured through four key performance indicators
(KPIs).

93.    Based on the assessment of the extent to which these indicators (including the
intermediate indicators) are achieved (as shown below), the overall achievement of the
GEOs is satisfactory.

Achievement of Key Performance Indicators (see annex 2 for outputs per component)
94.     KPI 1: Hectares of land with high potential for protection where a biological
survey is completed. Gabon’s unique combination of exceptionally abundant and diverse
natural resources presents a favorable context for implementing a sustainable
development strategy that not only contributes to the diversification and sustained growth
of its economy, but also benefits the global community. In this regard, the creation of 13
national parks in August 2002 was seen as the first phase in the expansion of Gabon’s
network of national parks. Given budget constraints, the creation of the next set of
national parks should focus on areas with the highest conservation values to ensure the
highest possible returns on conservation investments, and to yield cost-effective
conservation outcomes.

95.     A biological survey and socioeconomic studies were conducted in pre-identified
areas to establish the basis for conservation priority setting. Three areas covering a total
area of 945,000 hectares were pre-identified and surveyed (biological and socioeconomic
surveys): (i) the Wongué-Evaro Complex (approximately 690,000 hectares), (ii) the
Mayumba-Mayombe Complex (approximately 250,000 hectares), and (iii) the Mondah
Forest (5,000 hectares).

96.    KPI 2: Increase in management effectiveness in three national parks (700,000
hectares), as per the GEF Tracking Tool for Protected Area Management (Protected
Areas Monitoring and Evaluation Tracking Tool—PAMETT). This tool was used to track
and report progress taking the year 2010 as baseline. Table 1 shows that the targets were
exceeded for all national parks.

Evolution of PAMETT scores in the three targeted national parks




                                            25
                       Baseline 2010   Target June 2013   Score in 2011    Score in 2013
                          (MTR)
Loango                     57%               65%             60.67%           75.00%
Moukalaba-Doudou           58%               65%             61.63%           71.91%
Mayumba                    50%               65%             60.47%           65.56%


97.      KPI 3: Increased surveillance efforts in the three key national parks and buffer
zones. Conservation and wildlife law enforcement were seen as crucial investments for
reducing the threats facing the three targeted national parks and their buffer zones. To
assure effective enforcement, the project supported the creation of joint ANPN-Ministry
of Forest mobile brigades in these national parks. The NGOs helped to implement a
system of law enforcement monitoring to record, evaluate, and plan wildlife law
enforcement efforts. This system helped to ensure the effectiveness and accountability of
law enforcement personnel. The targeted level of surveillance effort was set to 700
man/days. The law enforcement monitoring determined that the level of surveillance
efforts increased from 300 man/days in 2010 to 748 man/days in 2013, thereby exceeding
the target.

98.     KPI 4: Number of community members (organized by gender) sensitized to
biodiversity conservation in the three national parks. The project recognized the
importance of local communities’ participation as a crucial condition for the success of
conservation activities within the parks and in their buffer areas. To lay the foundation
for the genuine and active participation of these communities in conservation efforts, the
project conducted awareness-raising and sensitization campaigns in the relevant
communities. The target was 5,000 individuals sensitized or exposed to awareness-raising
events.

99.     Available performance information shows that the sensitization activities reached
5,123 individuals in 2011, and 2,656 individuals in 2012−13. It is unclear whether these
are two complementary groups of individuals, that is, a total of 7,779 individuals reached,
or if some individuals were exposed to sensitization and/or awareness-raising more than
once. In any case, the project exceeded the performance target.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Satisfactory
Cost-effectiveness
100. The project adopted a strategic (three-pronged) planning and resource allocation
approach that helped to ensure that the GEF funds were used in the most efficient and
cost-effective manner. First, this approach involved spatial strategic planning that
combined biodiversity conservation at the landscape level to enhance biodiversity



                                            26
conservation in the three terrestrial ecoregions that occur in Gabon. These included the
Congolian coastal forest, the Northwestern Congolian lowland forest, and the Western
Congolian forest-savanna mosaic (as defined in the WWF’s ecoregion definition). On this
basis, two landscapes were selected: (i) the Loango, Mukalaba, and Mayumba and their
buffer zones, and (ii) the buffer zones of Lopé and Batéké.

101. Second, a site-level assessment was conducted using four criteria: (i) biodiversity
value; (ii) ecotourism potential; (iii) potential for transborder collaborative biodiversity
conservation; and (iv) potential for rapidly achieving concrete results (for example,
because of existing structures/partners). The following priority sites emerged from this
assessment: the Gamba Complex (Loango and Moukalaba), Mayumba, Lopé, Minkébé,
and Batéké. In addition, the existence of clear demarcation between park boundaries and
production landscapes was taken into account.

102. Third, an analysis of the funding gap for each site was conducted to determine
where the GEF funds could make the highest contribution to the conservation of
biodiversity in the representative ecoregions. Following this analysis, Minkébé was
eliminated from the list because it benefited from substantial funding from other donors.

103. A decision was then made to allocate a substantial proportion of the funds to a
single landscape comprising an uninterrupted block of three national parks and their
buffer zones (that is, Loango, Moukalaba, Mayumba), and to target the zone between
Lopé national park and Batéké which would complement ongoing park management
support provided by other donors. The following characteristics of the selected sites will
ensure that the project maximizes in situ protection of biodiversity per dollar spent:

   •   The Loango, Mukalaba, and Mayumba national parks, together with their buffer
       zones, include terrestrial, coastal, and marine ecosystems with an exceptionally
       high level of biodiversity.
   •   The Loango-Mukalaba Complex and Mayumba present the highest ecotourism
       potential in Gabon, followed by Lopé and Batéké.
   •   Intervention in the Loango, Mukalaba, and Mayumba landscape will help to
       address marine pollution by offshore production, an important threat to
       biodiversity in Gabon.
   •   Mayumba and Batéké are contiguous with national parks in neighboring Congo,
       and will help to control cross-border threats to biodiversity (especially poaching),
       while fostering regional conservation efforts within the Central African Forest
       Commission (Commission des Forêts d’Afrique Centrale, COMIFAC).
   •   The high degree of habitat connectivity due to the landscape approach will
       maximize conservation effectiveness across the targeted national parks.


                                            27
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
104. The intervention met the GEO indicators and the intermediate outcome indicators
of the restructured project satisfactorily. The spatial, biophysical, and financing criteria
used in the selection of the three targeted national parks ensured that conservation
outcomes were achieved at the least cost. The project objective was and remained highly
relevant to the country’s priorities and the Bank’s assistance strategy.

105. This being said, the successful completion and satisfactory achievements of the
restructured project also have to be assessed against the original project objectives. The
original key performance indicators were:

   •   Effective implementation of the Gabon National Parks Agency’s (ANPN’s)
       management plans for key national parks—leading to socioeconomic benefits
       such as employment generation and ecotourism—by year five (CAS).
   •   One million hectares of areas suitable for biodiversity protection status identified
       and proposed for formal gazettement by year five.
   •   One million hectares of key national parks with 80 percent increase in the
       management effectiveness score (as measured by the Protected Area Management
       Effectiveness Tracking Tool)—leading to biodiversity conservation, employment
       generation, and ecotourism development—by year five.
   •   Five million hectares of production landscapes in buffer zones with increased
       wildlife management effectiveness—as measured by indicators of surveillance
       efforts and levels of wildlife offtake—by year five.
106. When the restructured project was formally approved almost three and half years
after effectiveness, little progress had been made toward meeting these performance
targets. Some progress was made in implementing Components 1 and 3, with limited
increase in the capacities of ANPN. Only a few activities had started under Components
2 and 4 and no real progress could be reported on the two outcome indicators related to
these components, i.e., “Identification of an additional one million hectares of areas
suitable for protection status and formal gazettement” and “increase in wildlife
management effectiveness in 5 million hectares of production areas”.

107. In fact, the performance of the project was rated “Unsatisfactory” during the nine
months preceding the MTR that led to the restructuring of the project. The restructured
project dropped two of the four original key performance indicators, and significantly
changed one of them. While the restructuring helped to accelerate the pace of
implementation, it also reduced the scope of the project.




                                            28
108. OPCS guidelines for rating the outcome of projects with formally revised
objectives recommend separate ratings (against original and revised objectives) weighed
in proportion to the share of actual disbursements made in the periods before and after
approval of the revised objectives. To assist in deriving these ratings, the following
method is proposed:
   •   Rate project outcome against the original project objectives and against the
       revised project objectives, respectively;
   •   Assign a value for each rating: Highly Satisfactory (HS)= 6, Satisfactory (S)= 5,
       Moderately Satisfactory (HS)       = 4, Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU)=3,
       Unsatisfactory (U)=2, Highly Unsatisfactory (HU)=1;
   •   Derive the actual total Bank/IDA disbursements before and after the date when
       the project revised objectives were formally approved;
   •   Arrive at an overall rating by weighting the two ratings by the proportion of actual
       total disbursement in each period, and rounding to the nearest whole number (1 to
       6).
109. Prior to the formal revision, the rating of the original project objective was U=2,
and the amount of the grant disbursed was US$ US$2,180,000, i.e. 23% of the total
disbursements of US$9,643,061.81: 2x0.23= 0.46. The rating of the revised project
objective was S=5 with a disbursement amount of US$7463061.81, or 77% of total grant
disbursements: 5x0.77= 3.85. Adding the respective weights of original and revised
objectives would give the rating: 0.46=3.85=4.31; rounding to the nearest whole number
gives 4 corresponding to a MS rating. Therefore, the overall outcome rating of the
project is MS.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts and Social Development
110. The project achieved significant results both in terms of enhanced national park
management capacity and biodiversity conservation. The landscape approach used and
the selection criteria for the targeted parks helped to achieve these results in a relatively
efficient manner. But this approach and the design of the project did little to secure
positive poverty and social development impacts.

111. The original design of the project envisaged employment benefits to local
communities from the development of private sector-led ecotourism (though no project
activities supported such a claim). In reality, the design of the project (before or after
restructuring) did not include any area/community development activities. The NGOs
reported two community-level investments consisting of a cassava-processing equipment
and a village bakery, both with dubious direct poverty impacts.




                                             29
112. Meanwhile, some project activities—in particular, increased law enforcement (for
example, the installation of a mobile ecoguards (i.e., park rangers) field unit supported by
a military squad at one site)—seemed to have adverse poverty and social impacts, at least
in some areas. For example, the sudden prohibition of traditional gear in subsistence
fishing areas near the Mayumba national park was said to have resulted in the short-term
loss of earnings and a fish shortage. Some villages in the vicinity of the parks were
abandoned due to persistent crop damage by elephants.

113. It is reported that in one of the villages, women refused to sell foodstuffs to the
ecoguards and told them to “to go and eat the elephants.” This anecdote is a sign of the
local populations’ increasing frustration at the deterioration of livelihoods and living
conditions. For the moment, the implementing agency does not seem to have a solution to
this problem. It is necessary to find an acceptable solution—and soon—for two reasons.
First is the issue of fairness and consideration for the needs of local communities. Second,
discord is detrimental to the development of trust in the on-the-ground relationships and
collaborative mechanisms needed to bring about biodiversity conservation and
sustainable land use and livelihoods in the three national park areas.

Institutional Change/Strengthening
114. Gabon had no experience in the management of national parks prior to the
creation of the network of 13 national parks in 2002. The project made a significant and
lasting contribution to institutional change and strengthening in this area. The creation of
the country’s agency for national parks management (ANPN) was a condition of the
project’s effectiveness, and helped to design the organizational chart and recruit key start-
up staff, including (i) the executive secretary—head of the agency, (ii) the head of the
technical department, and (iii) the head of the administrative and financial department.

115. The project also assisted the agency in the competitive recruitment of technical
specialists for these departments, including geographic information system (GIS) and
environmental impact assessment (EIA) specialists for the technical department;
procurement and accounting and financial management specialists for the headquarters
and field offices of the targeted national parks; and a labor law specialist for the
administrative and financial department. These technical specialists—who were all
consultants to the project coordination unit—are now all ANPN staff.

116. The project also helped to recruit and to train 45 ecoguards (park rangers) divided
into three mobile brigades located in the three targeted national parks. The field posts of
these three national parks led by park wardens were rehabilitated and provided office
equipment and vehicles. These ecoguards are now part of the ANPN’s field staff. Finally,
the project helped to train the staff of the Ministry of Forests (responsible for the



                                             30
management of the buffer zone), and to prepare the implementation decree of the national
parks law adopted in 2008.

Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
117. The project raised the profile of biodiversity conservation in the country’s
national parks, an achievement that will help to build a strong conservation constituency
in the public and private sectors, and hopefully in the rural areas. Despite shortcomings in
certain areas, the CCGLs provide a platform for local communities to voice their opinions
on the implementation of biodiversity conservation policies. If managed effectively and
provided with adequate technical support, they will be an invaluable tool for building a
broad rural constituency for biodiversity conservation.

118. The achievements of the project, especially the database on the fauna and flora
resulting from the inventory work in high biodiversity areas, will add value to Gabon’s
biodiversity atlas, and contribute to the operationalization of the COMIFAC’s M&E plan.
The database also contributes to the coordination and implementation of the COMIFAC’s
programs on biodiversity conservation.

119. Undoubtedly, the most important unintended benefit is the private business
interest in ecotourism generated by the effective protection of biodiversity resources in
two of the three national parks targeted by the project. This emerging ecotourism
potential is a strong testimony of the successful development outcome of the project, and
ANPN’s promising business orientation.

120. Over the past three years ANPN has been working to formalize two major tourism
investment projects. In the first project, Aman Gabon, a PPP over two phases between
Aman Luxury Green Resorts and the Gabonese Sovereign Fund (Fonds Gabonais des
Investissements Stratégiques, FGIS), will put small resorts/camps in Pongara, Loango,
Lopé, Ivindo (2 sites), and Plateau Batéké in addition to a hotel in Libreville. The first
phase includes Libreville, Pongara, and Loango and is a $85 million investment. The
second phase investment is likely to be $100 million. It is estimated that the first phase
will create 350 direct jobs. Construction will begin in March 2014 and the opening of the
first-phase hotels is planned for December 2015. Concessions are currently under
negotiation.

121. The second project relates to SFM Safari Gabon, another PPP between SFM
Africa and the CDC du Gabon, which will invest in Libreville, Pongara, and Loango in a
first phase, followed by Moukalaba, Mayumba, and Lopé. The first-phase investment is
estimated at $25 million. Three tourism concessions have been approved by ANPN’s
board and signed, guaranteeing at least revenues in the amount of about US$194,000 per



                                            31
annum, or 10 percent of turnover, whichever is greater. Construction is due to start before
the end of 2013. It is estimated that when these two projects are finalized annual revenues
in excess of $1 million will be generated for ANPN.

122. These ecotourism concessions are a welcome and crucial mechanism that will
generate revenue to support the effective management of Gabon’s network of national
parks, and to secure a sustainable source of finance for ANPN. However, it is important
to be mindful that, in order to fulfill their full revenue potential (and jobs and income
streams for local communities), ecotourism concessions must be procured, negotiated and
executed in ways that guarantee these potential benefits. In addition to the capital
necessary to build the baseline park infrastructure and to manage visitor services
effectively, entrepreneurial and organizational skills are critical for a successful
exploitation of ecotourism concessions. Finally, the effective control and management
of the potential adverse impact of visitors on the natural resource base are important
conditions for the long-term financial and economic viability ecotourism concessions.

123. The future Congo Basin regional REDD+ mechanism could also be a source of
conservation finance provided there is a global willingness to pay (e.g., through premium
price) for carbon sequestered by protected area forests harboring globally important
biodiversity resources. The exploitation of this potential source of revenue would require
even greater and broader technical skills (monitoring, reporting and verification activities,
community benefit sharing schemes, etc.) from ANPN, the Ministry of Forests and other
Gabonese institutions.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible to Low Risk.
124. The satisfactory capacity-strengthening results and the global environment
outcomes achieved by the project are lasting ones. The overall low level of risk to the
development outcome rests on solid institutional, technical, and financial foundations.

4.1. Strong institutional and technical foundations
125. ANPN, created under the project, is now a well-established and viable
organization. The agency is backed by a national park law adopted in 2008. It has a clear
mission statement 4 and a management committee representing a range of stakeholders. It
has well-established procedures for developing an annual budget and work program. The


4
  The mission statement is: “To protect, value and manage the natural and cultural resources of the national
parks in a sustainable and responsible way in order to contribute to the diversification of the national
economy.”



                                                    32
implementation is driven by an effective M&E system that the project helped to put in
place. The decentralized accounting and financial management system in the targeted
national parks has now been replicated in the remaining 10 national parks.

126. Thanks to a strong Government commitment, the core management team and
specialists (that the project helped to recruit after the creation of ANPN) expanded to
allow the institution to replicate the project approach and investments in the remaining 10
national parks (and 2 other protected areas). The number of technical departments of
ANPN increased from three (executive secretariat, technical, administrative and
financial) to five, which included a communication department and a field operations
department. The number of ecoguards for conservation and wildlife law enforcement
increased from 68 (including 45 recruited by the project) in 2010 to 324 in 2013, and the
total ANPN staff increased from 195 in 2010 to 574 in 2013. Most of the technical
specialists of the closed project coordination unit are now under ANPN’s payroll.

4.2 A robust financial viability framework
127. The size of ANPN and its work programs require substantial investments and
operating costs not just for sustaining the development outcome of the project (in the
three national parks), but the whole network of the country’s national parks. Fortunately,
the strong commitment and ownership that the Government demonstrated during the
preparation and implementation of the project are being continued through adequate
budgetary allocations to the agency.

128. The 2012 budget allocated to ANPN was CFAF 4.4 billion, equivalent to $8.8
million. In 2013, when ANPN was expected to take over the core activities and staff of
the project, the budgetary allocation doubled to $17.6 million equivalent. The budgetary
provisions for 2014 amount to $20.4 million (a 16 percent increase from the previous
year). The rapid increase in ANPN’s budgetary allocation during the past two years is
aimed to replicate—incrementally—project investments and management approaches
across the entire network of Gabon’s national parks.

129. In addition to the Government’s financial support, the leadership of ANPN
initiated decisive resource mobilization efforts, as is seen by the promising PPP
initiatives for ecotourism concessions. The process for creation of a conservation trust
fund is also well advanced. In sum, the current financial flows and the viability of future
flows seem robust enough to shield the development outcome from any financial risk.

4.3. Increased attention to social impacts
130. ANPN and the Government will need to focus greater attention on the potential
adverse socioeconomic effects of the expanding network of national parks on the


                                             33
communities living near and within these conservation areas. Including community
livelihood activities in the conservation programs of ANPN will be consistent with the
Government’s poverty reduction objective, and help to strengthen local ownership of
conservation efforts. Greater local stakeholder ownership will help to reduce monitoring
and enforcement costs, thereby contributing the greater cost-effectiveness of conservation
management.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU)
131. The design of the project had three major strengths. First, it responded to the
Government’s emerging priorities in the area of sustainable natural resource management,
especially the biodiversity conservation goals highlighted in the 2004 Letter of Sector
Policy. Second, to ensure maximum quality at entry, the Task Team drew on lessons
learned from previous or ongoing projects. In addition, the composition and skill mix of
the Task Team was adequate—it included high-level and lead specialists in key technical
areas such as forestry, conservation and natural resource law, procurement, and
environment and social safeguards. Third, the Task Team helped the Government to
develop a country-driven participatory process and multi-donor platform to mobilize co-
financing from a range of donors.

132. These strengths at the design and preparation stages, however, were
overshadowed by a range of weaknesses that emerged at the appraisal stage, and at the
restructuring stage of the project. The Moderately Unsatisfactory rating is based on these
weaknesses. Further details about these shortcomings are presented below.

133. Weaknesses of the design at appraisal stage: The original design of the project
had three major weaknesses that generated shortcomings at the implementation phase.
First and foremost, endorsing an economic diversification PDO through ecotourism
development was too ambitious and inappropriate given the content of the component
(see sub-section 2.3).

134. Second, the PAD did not provide a clear indication of how and who would
implement these safeguards mitigation measures associated with this category A project.
Also, the PAD (Section D5) relied partly on a separate operation with a different
implementation schedule and different implementation arrangement to address the
safeguard issues of this project. This lack of specific implementation arrangements and
accountability lines further increased the safeguards risks at the implementation phase.


                                           34
135. Third, the M&E framework of the project suffered from many shortcomings.
Weak indicators (low robustness, weak pertinence, lack of clear targets, and unclear
implementation arrangements) pointed to a low level of implementation readiness (see
sub-section 2.3 above for more details).

136. Weaknesses of the design at restructuring stage: The Results Framework of the
restructured project also had weaknesses in the indicators (e.g., pertinence). There was a
lack of clarity and consistency in the statement of component objectives, and in the name
of these components. Although the project activities that justified the original
environment category were dropped at restructuring, the restructuring stage ISDS failed
to adjust the environment category (from A to B). Maintaining the original A category
called for appropriate safeguard mitigation measures that were not met during the
implementation of the restructured project (see below).

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory (MS)
137. The Bank carried out 14 implementation support missions led by two different
Task Team leaders from the Bank headquarters during the six years of the project life.
Taking into account the suspension of missions during the political transition period, and
during the continental soccer tournament hosted by Gabon in 2011, this average of 2.3
implementation missions per year is adequate. Overall, the skill mix of the supervision
team members seemed adequate, although the lack of a biodiversity specialist in these
teams was a noticeable shortcoming.

138. Overall, the Bank’s supervision missions were able to identify key
implementation bottlenecks and to draw the authorities’ attention to the necessary
remedial actions. The joint Bank and Government’s aide memoires and the Bank’s
Implementation Status and Results reports (ISRs) provide detailed accounts of the key
technical and institutional problems (especially financial management and procurement)
that the project faced throughout its life, and the appropriate recommendations that the
Task Teams made to help solve these problems. The Bank Teams made important
decisions that helped to accelerate the implementation of the projects and allowed the
achievement of the GEO outcome.

139. Despite these achievements, the quality of Bank supervision was Moderately
Satisfactory. This rating is due to the fact that there were areas where the support
provided by the Bank supervision missions fell short of the required operational standards,
especially during the first 30 months or so of the life. Some of these areas are highlighted
below.


                                            35
140. Supervision of NGO service providers: The decision to contract WWF and WCS
through single source procurement to provide technical assistance to the implementing
agencies and to make the award of the contracts a condition for project effectiveness was
a major decision for the project implementation. These NGOs were given sufficient
control (at least as described in the PAD) over the financial resources necessary to fulfill
their mandate, which consisted in helping the implement and to coordinate specific
activities of the project effectively, while the capacities of the implementing agencies
were being developed (see sub-section 2.2 for details).

141. The differentiated performance of the project before and after the MTR could
provide the basis for learning from this NGO-public implementation arrangement.
Unfortunately, the implementation support records (aide memoires and ISRs) do not
make any reference to the performance of the NGOs. Evaluating and reporting on the
performance of the NGO service providers would have generated useful lessons not only
for the Bank, but also for the Government.

142. Results framework and monitoring: Bank supervision failed to remedy the
shortcoming of the result framework of the lending stage, and to provide timely technical
support for the implementation of the project M&E system. Implementation of the M&E
system only started in the third year of the effectiveness.

143. Social safeguards: The implementation of the social safeguard management plan
started during the MTR. The simplified social safeguard instruments fell short of the
Bank standards, not only for the maintained environment A category, but also for a lower
environment B category which should have been the correct category. Relying on the
Government’s own mechanisms and national park legislation created safeguard risks that
remained after the close of the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory (MS).
144. Bank performance had many strengths in terms of the project design and the
implementation support provided by the supervision Teams to the borrower, althought
there were also some shortcomings particular in terms of quality at entry. Thus, the
quality of the overall Bank performance was Moderately Satisfactory.

145.   This rating, more specifically, is based on the following shortcomings:
   •   Quality at entry of the project suffered from:
          o A disconnect between the PDO and the core project activities;



                                            36
          o Lack of clarity regarding the implementation arrangements for the
              potential adverse environmental and social impacts of this category A
              project;
          o A weak Results Framework.
   •   Supervision had weaknesses:
          o A weak Result Framework;
          o A disconnect between the potential environmental and social impacts of
              the project and the environmental and social safeguards category;
          o Delays in the implementation of the project M&E system and social
              safeguards;
          o Weak due diligence for social safeguards.

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
146. Preparation. The performance of the Government of Gabon during the
preparation was satisfactory. The preparation of the project started barely two years after
the creation of Gabon’s first set of national parks, and the Government was cognizant of
the crucial contribution that this operation would play in assuring the successful
management of these newly created protected areas. The strong Letter of Sector Policy
helped to establish inter-ministerial project preparation groups whose members worked
effectively with the Bank’s technical teams from identification to appraisal. These
multidisciplinary groups developed effective participatory processes (involving national
stakeholders and donors) that helped them contribute high-value inputs to the design and
appraisal of the project.

147. Implementation. The performance of the Government during the implementation
of the project was satisfactory. Except for the delayed effectiveness, the Government of
Gabon (including the Prime Minister’s Office) showed a strong commitment to ensuring
the project met its objectives. When the teams from the two implementing agencies had
persistent performance issues at the beginning of the project, the authorities did not
hesitate to replace them as many times as necessary.

148. In addition to these proactive measures, the Government provided timely
counterpart funds throughout the life of the project. In fact, the Government budget
financed most of the operating costs and investments of ANPN, the main implementing
agency of the project. Based on arrangements agreed during project implementation,
ANPN absorbed most of the qualified staff who are now on the Government payroll.

Implementing Agency’s or Agencies’ Performance


                                            37
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
149.    The project was implemented by two government agencies: ANPN for
components 1 and 3, and the Ministry of Forests for components 2 and 4. The
implementation delays registered at the beginning of the project were mostly due to the
weak technical and administrative capacity of these two agencies. In addition to the
limited knowledge of the Bank’s fiduciary procedures, poor coordination within and
between these agencies was detrimental to the progress of implementation in the early
years of the project.

150. The following statements illustrate these coordination issues and their operational
effects: “There also appears to be a lack of team work inside the Secretariat (ANPN)”
(ISR sequence 3, May 2008); “However, poor coordination within the ANPN team
prevented the implementation of the action plan and procurement plan, as agreed during
the June 2008 mission. Many activities, particularly in the national parks could not be
launched, as planned.” The same coordination and technical issues also resulted in a very
slow implementation pace of the components by the Ministry of Forests. This situation
led to the replacement of the technical teams of the implementing agencies (three
different teams for ANPN, and two different teams for the Ministry of Forests).

151. The implementation rearrangement introduced at the restructuring of the project,
whereby ANPN became responsible for the implementation of all the project components,
increased the implementation pace and disbursement rate noticeably. This change also
included an MoU with the Ministry of Forests to have the latter carry out agreed-upon
activities. Thanks to these new arrangements, and to increased implementation support by
the Bank’s technical teams (supplemented with external consultants), the performance of
the project improved substantially. The satisfactory implementation performance
sustained since the MTR and restructuring helped the project to achieve its development
objectives.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.
152. The performance of the Government (during the preparation and implementation
of the operation) and of the implementation agencies made a significant contribution to
the achievement of satisfactory outcomes of the project. Based on this assessment, the
overall performance is rated satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

6.1 Core Technical Capacity Versus Project Management Capacity




                                           38
153. A strong rationale for Bank assistance through a lending operation that fits well in
the country’s overall strategic development objectives and/or GEOs is a critical factor for
a successful development outcome. Other important factors for a successful outcome
include: (i) the technical capacity to execute the core activity of the project (for example,
agricultural intensification, hydropower, tertiary education, and so on); and (ii) the
capacity to manage to manage the project.

154. In the case of this project, the Task Team determined that ANPN, created at the
time of the project effectiveness, might not have the technical capacity necessary to
implement the core biodiversity conservation and national park management activities
satisfactorily. Justifiably, it was determined that two international conservation NGOs
with proven experience and knowledge of biodiversity conservation in Gabon would
assume these activities, at least during the early years of implementation.

155. But the appropriate timing, phasing, and ultimate success of these conservation-
oriented activities depended critically on the capacity of the project implementing unit to
coordinate and manage other critical activities satisfactorily. Fundamentally, a project is a
set of contracts of various types and duration linking government employees, staff of the
implementing units, short-term consultants, and diverse service providers and contractors.

156. All these depend on a higher-level contract (that is, the project, financial, or grant
agreement) that links the Bank (or other donor) to the country. This overarching contract
includes a range of covenants and clauses with which the client country has to comply for
the project implementation to proceed. Managing these contracts and processes
efficiently and satisfactorily requires specialized skills. The availability of these skills is a
critical element of project implementation readiness.

157. As shown in sections 1 and 2, the weak capacity of the various teams (that were
eventually replaced) was one of the major causes of the low disbursement rate and
implementation progress during the first half of the project life. Despite goodwill and the
high level of commitment of the managers, understaffing, lack of competent staff, poorly
trained staff, and high staff turnover all contributed to technical deficiencies, low-quality
outputs, and unnecessary implementation delays. These constraints meant that the
capacity assessment of the country’s structures responsible for implementing the project
was not carried out effectively.

158. Since the way investment projects are implemented is a major determinant of their
impact and success, evaluating potential implementation problems and assessing
implementation readiness candidly should be an important task at the appraisal stage.
Fortunately, since the approval of this project (FY07), implementation readiness has



                                               39
become a required step in project preparation. The importance of this task for Task
Teams should not be understated.

6.2 Effective Capacity Strengthening is a Long-Term Endeavor
159. The aim of the project was to strengthen the capacity of the relevant institutions of
Gabon in the areas of biodiversity conservation and national park management. The
achievement of the selected set of measurable results indicators signals a successful
outcome for the project. It is important to understand that this outcome does not mean
that Gabon’s institutions (including ANPN) have acquired all the capabilities necessary
to manage the country’s newly created network of national parks. Capacity strengthening
is a long-term and incremental process, especially in the area of environment and natural
resource management.

160. The objectives of the Gabon Forest and Environment Project (PFE), which closed
in FY03, included: (i) strengthening the monitoring and operational capacities of the
ministries of forests, environment, tourism, and national parks; (ii) providing training that
matched the needs of the private sector and the conservation objectives; and (iii) assisting
the Government in creating protected areas and maintaining their fauna and flora among
other objectives. The PFE was implemented over a nine-year period. Needless to mention,
most of these institutions were found lacking the necessary capacity for managing
national parks, and were therefore included in this project.

161. This situation is not uncommon. The 2008 IEG report evaluating the support of
the WBG to environmental sustainability concluded that it would be unrealistic to expect
a single five-year operation to be sufficient because capacity building is a long-term
process. The limited duration of Bank support is identified as one of the reasons for
uneven results in this area. The report mentioned that assistance through one or several
operations over a 10−15 year period was a major success factor in the projects for
building environmental management capacity in Brazil, Ghana, Madagascar, and Uganda.

162. This lesson was shared with the Government during the ICR mission. In addition
to allocating the adequate budgets to ANPN, the authorities were advised to pursue and
develop effective partnerships with other donors including bilateral aid agencies and
international conservation NGOs who operate in the country (and who have participated
in the project). These efforts will help to sustain the capacity development efforts.

163. An important factor to keep in mind is the cost-effectiveness or efficiency of this
long-term endeavor of conservation capacity building. While ANPN has developed a
reasonable level of capacity to define its own operational objective appropriately, and to
develop work annual programs focused on achieving these objectives, it seems that work


                                            40
remains to be done in assessing how well the agency is doing relative to its own set of
standards and to those of other more advanced agencies (for example, Kenya, Tanzania,
South Africa), especially in terms of unit cost of operations.

164. One area where efficiency issues are paramount is in the use/hiring of TA.
Technical assistance played an important role in the implementation of the project right
from the beginning. In addition to international and national NGOs, a local extended-term
consultant and a so-called international implementation consultant were hired. The
additional resources made a noticeable contribution to the successful completion of the
project.

165. But it seems that in some case cases the unit cost of TA interventions was
relatively high. The use of TA should produce benefits well in excess of the associated
cost, including the opportunity cost of the funds invested in it. Ensuring effective
coaching and transfer of technical knowledge are important elements for increasing the
cost-effectiveness of TA. These cost-reducing matters were discussed with ANPN during
the ICR mission.

6.3 Effective Inter-Agency Collaboration is Crucial for Success
166. The lack of effective collaboration between the two implementing agencies, and
between these agencies and other public institutions was one of the factors that impeded
progress during the early years of project implementation. This obstacle led to a change
in arrangement that transferred the implementation responsibility for all project
components to one of the agencies (ANPN). Even after this transfer, weak interagency
and intersectoral collaboration remained a challenge that hindered the smooth
implementation of project activities at the central level and in the field. This shortcoming
was particularly detrimental to the success of project component 4, where effective
collaboration between the ministries of forests, mining, hydrocarbons and environment
was a necessary condition for strengthening environmental aspects and mainstreaming
biodiversity conservation into private-sector-led production landscapes.

167. While weak intersectoral collaboration is a concern in many client countries, this
phenomenon emerged as a key challenge to development interventions in Gabon. This
constraint needs to be factored into the design and institutional arrangement of
investment projects, not as a given but as an opportunity to implement innovative
institutional reforms that not only enhance the developmental impact of projects, but also
increase the effectiveness of public institutions. Applying this recommendation could
have alleviated the intersectoral problems that impeded the progress of the project’s
implementation.




                                            41
168. The lessons learned from the 2005 CAS suggest that simpler project design and
clear coordination and accountabilities (preferably assigned to one ministry) should
facilitate timely project implementation. In the case of multi-sectoral project components,
high-level coordination is indispensable. In addition to these recommendations, one could
add that the sectoral composition of a high-level coordination body such as a steering
committee, and the balance of decision-making power within this committee are key
enabling factors.

169. The creation of ANPN was one of the effectiveness conditions of the project. This
was delayed due the battle for the sectoral location of this agency. From the Ministry of
Tourism to the Ministry of Forests, the agency ended up in the Office of the President.
When the composition of the project steering committee was discussed, it was
determined that since there are similarities between the composition of ANPN’s
management committee and that of the envisaged steering committee, the former would
also serve as the project steering committee.

170. The transfer of full implementation responsibility to ANPN following the
restructuring of the project, completed the concentration power within this agency.
Despite this power, it seemed that this newly created agency did not have the leverage to
mobilize the relevant line ministries who oversee powerful extractive industry sectors
(forests, hydrocarbons, mining) of the economy.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
171. The implementing agency’s comments were recorded in meetings discussing the
draft ICR during the ICR mission, and from the borrower’s draft completion report.
These comments expressed appreciation of the way the ICR accounts for the project
achievements. The head of ANPN and representatives of the Ministry of Forest
highlighted the fact that the achievements of the project go far beyond the results
indicators recorded in the ICR, to embrace a range of multifaceted technical and
institutional capacity gains. They thought that these broader project achievements ought
to be emphasized in the final version of the ICR. This concern is addressed in detail in
section 3 of the ICR.

172. The borrower and implementing agency agree that the project played a critical
role by laying a strong foundation for the effective management of national parks in
Gabon. But they thought that a follow-up operation would have helped to consolidate this
foundation and to strengthen further the technical, managerial, and financial building
blocks to support Gabon’s biodiversity conservation efforts. The necessity to adopt a
long-term perspective for capacity-building interventions is acknowledged in the Lessons


                                            42
Learned section, and in the absence of a follow-up operation, the practical and effective
steps that would help to sustain the achievements of the project were discussed with the
borrower (see “Capacity Strengthening” subsection in section 6).

173. While the borrower and implementing agency found that the ICR describes
accurately the implementation challenges encountered in the first two years of the project
effectiveness, and agree with the causes of the low implementation progress during this
period, it is their belief that some aspects of the Bank’s procurement procedures played a
role in slowing down the pace of the project’s activities.

174. The implementing agency appreciates highly the contributions that the
international conservation NGOs made to the successful implementation of the field
activities (recruitment and training of ecoguards, fauna and flora inventories, technical
oversight of field activities, and so on). In hindsight, it believes that service benchmarks
and a more accurate cost accounting could have enhanced the value and impact of this
contribution.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
175. The two international conservation NGOs—WCS and WWF—who provided TA
throughout the duration of the project provided a full account of their activities. They
filled a crucial capacity gap at the beginning of the project. During the first half of the
project their contract included procurement of goods, recruitment of field staff, execution,
or oversight of part of the activities of project components 2, 3, and 4.

176. After the MTR the NGOs relinquished the procured equipment and other durable
goods to ANPN as the agency increased its staff and technical skills. They also
transferred the management of field activities to the agency. In their new contracts, the
international NGOs joined by national NGOs focused on selected technical areas
(including handling relations with local communities) within national parks and in the
buffer zones.

177. Overall, they expressed a high degree of satisfaction with their accomplishments,
especially their contribution to: (i) the recruitment, training, and coaching of the
ecoguards mobile brigades; (ii) the preparation of the park management plans; and (iii)
the creation of the three CCGLs (consultative committees for local management). They
also believe that their contribution to a broader and deeper knowledge through the fauna
and flora inventories in areas that could be high-biodiversity national parks was a
rewarding undertaking.


                                            43
178. The NGOs stressed that their most valuable experience without any doubt was the
new business model their contracts initiated. The usual business approach followed by
NGOs is to raise funds from a donor, and use these resources to support their agenda in a
client/country. For the two international NGOs, this was the first time that they were
contracted by Government agencies in Gabon and had to report and account for the
output and use of funds. Though this business model was not immune from difficulties
(for example, late approval/validation of deliverables and payments, weak intersectoral
coordination in the field operations), they maintained that the learning experience was
extremely valuable for future operations. They believed that these accomplishments and
lessons learned should be highlighted in the ICR.




                                           44
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                         Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
          Components                                     Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                          Appraisal
                                                            millions)
 Institutional Strengthening of
                                            1.80                2.02            112
the National Parks Agency
 Expanding Gabon's protected
                                            1.20                1.08             90
area coverage
 Direct support to selected
                                            5.20                5.38            103
national parks
 Wildlife management in
                                            1.80                1.16             65
production landscapes
                                           10.00                9.64
            Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                      0.00
Price Contingencies                         0.00
             Total Project Costs
GEF Project Preparation Grant
                                            0.295               0.226           76.6
(PDF-B)
                                            0.00
     Total Financing Required




(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                         Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                       Cofinancing        (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                        millions)    millions)
 Borrower                                            3.60         3.80         105.5
 Global Environment Facility (GEF)                   10.00        10.00        100
 Foreign Multilateral Institutions
                                                     27.10       0.00         0.00
(unidentified)




                                              45
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening of the ANPN (National Agency for National
Parks)
Objective: To strengthen ANPN’s technical and managerial capacity for the effective
management of national parks and biodiversity. The performance of this component was
measured through two intermediary result indicators.
Intermediate Results Indicator One: “ANPN headquarters is established and equipped”:
ANPN headquarters is established in Libreville, and is staffed adequately”.
The project provided ANPN’s headquarters with vehicles necessary for the effective
implementation and monitoring of field operations. The project also procured office
furniture, computers and conservation-related field equipment and software (GPS devices,
computer-based systems for monitoring law enforcement efforts, etc.).
Intermediate Results Indicator Two: “Systems for finance and human resource
management; monitoring and evaluation are established”.
Human resource management: The project helped to recruit the 8 core staff (salaries paid
by Government) of ANPN shortly after the creation of the agency. Today, the agency
has about 500 employees (about a quarter of the staff is associated with externally-funded
projects). The agency has a merit-based recruitment policy. For example, following the
closing of the project, only the consultants of the project coordination unit who had a
good performance record were retained by the agency. The agency also has a staff career
development and training plan. It has a system for evaluating staff performance. The
process for staff performance evaluation takes place from November to December every
year.
Financial management: ANPN adopted the fiduciary standards, procedures and tools
used during the project implementation. These procedures and tools (e.g., internal
control processes, the effective use of the TOMPRO software, and quarterly financial
reporting) help to minimize financial management risks at the agency. ANPN also
adopted the decentralized financial management system that the project helped to put in
place in the three national parks. This system is now replicated to all the country’s
national parks.
Monitoring and evaluation: ANPN has a robust computer-based M&E system that the
project helped to put in place. The introduction of ICT tools, GPS and adapted software
for monitoring law enforcement efforts into the ANPN M&E system helped increase the
efficiency of conservation actions and law enforcement within and outside the targeted
national parks. The M&E system also includes benchmarks for assessing the performance
and contribution of NGOs and other service providers. Because the M&E system was



                                           46
put in place at the end of the project, its full effectiveness will materialize only when all
the field staff who play a major role its implementation are trained.
During the ICR mission, ANPN management reported that the agency will enhance the
effectiveness of the M&E system further by linking it to the accounting and financial
management system. This innovation would help to increase the cost-effectiveness of
park management operations.
To sum up, ANPN is a well-established, credible and adequately staffed institution with a
clear statement of mandate (see section 4). It has a strong and adequately funded annual
work program that supports its operations in all the 13 national parks.
It is impotent to mention that the project also helped to strengthen the technical and
organizational capacity of the Ministry of Forests in charge of wildlife and protected
areas (other than national parks). This Ministry made a strong contribution to the
surveillance and law enforcement efforts through the establishment of three pilot mobile
brigades of ecoguards.
Component 2: Enhanced Knowledge on Critical Natural Habitats for the Expansion
of the Network of National Parks (with WCS technical assistance)
Objective: To enhance the knowledge base on biological wealth of pre-identified sites
where future protected areas could be established. The performance of this component
was to be measured through two intermediate result indicators.
Intermediate Results Indicator One: “Number of sites with high biodiversity potential
covered by biological surveys”.
The project financed biological and socioeconomic surveys in three pre-identified sites
(where other donors had already conducted preliminary biodiversity inventories): (i) the
“Wonga Wongue-Evaro” complex (about 690,000 hectares), (ii) the “Mayumba-
Mayombe” complex (about 250,000 hectares) and (iii) the Mondah Forest (5,000
hectares).
Extensive biological inventories and socioeconomic surveys were conducted on these
sites. The combined biological and socioeconomic surveys helped (i) to determine the
distribution and magnitude of the baseline biological wealth on these sites, and (ii) to
inform policies for the effective management and sustainable use of Gabon’s biological
and genetic resources.
Key results of the survey in the Wonga Wongué-Evaro complex
Fauna survey: The complex consists of the Ogooué River and lakes system and the
eastern part of the Wonga-Wongué Presidential Wildlife Reserve. Two major fauna
surveys were conducted in this area: (i) a survey of large mammals in the entirety of the
Wonga-Wongué Reserve, and (ii) a night-time survey of crocodiles over 260 km of three



                                             47
lakes and two rivers. Due to budget constraints, indirect methods (e.g., survey in local
bush-meat markets, in villages) were used to complement the field surveys.
The results of these surveys show a high level of threat to, and a declining population for
the hippopotamus and the Nile crocodile, whereas, manatees, great apes and monkeys (C.
cephus and C. nictitans) are relatively abundant. There seems to be widespread
hunting/poaching in most of the Wonga-Wongué Presidential Reserve.
Ornithological survey: The survey uncovered 190 species of birds around the Gomé-
Dakar Lake, and in the Wonga-Wongué Presidential Wildlife Reserve. Birds species that
are known to be associated with Gabon’s wetlands and water bodies were relatively
scarce in the area.
Flora survey: The survey revealed 374 species including 10 species that are endemic to
Gabon. The main characteristic of the vegetation is the wide range of habitats observed
in a limited spatial range. These include (i) in-land forests, (ii) swamp forests (Evaro
area), (iii) flood forests, (iv) savanna moist forests, and (v) aquatic prairies. Each of these
vegetation formations includes variations depending on hydro morphology, soil types,
slope, altitude and anthropic activities.
The highest floral diversity was found in inland forests located near lake shores. The
Evaro area was found to be of high floral value due the presence of (i) the Pandanus
swamp forests which are relatively rare in the region, and (ii) mature forests which
include the largest number of endemic plant species. This area would be a good
candidate for the conservation of Gabon’s high value flora. Despite the prolonged
presence of industrial logging operations in the area, there are still some tracks of pristine
forest formations. These would also be a good candidate for conservation.
Socioeconomic survey: The socioeconomic study covered 16 villages with a total
population of 1421 permanents residents. The number of seasonal residents could be as
large as that of permanent inhabitants. The questionnaires and structured group
discussions covered 426 households. There are very few employment opportunities, and
fishing in the lakes and rivers is the main source of income for the majority of households.
The majority of famers are subsistence producers, and the overall agricultural output is
small due the small size of cropped areas.
Subsistence hunting is prevalent in the area (but some bush meat is sold in local markets).
Commercial hunting is practiced by some employees of the logging companies operating
in the area. However, there is very limited mechanized timber exploitation activity,
except along the Ogooue River. During the participatory survey, local populations,
especially women, took a keen interest in delineating the areas that of vital interest to
their livelihood activities. The presence of populations living in the Wonga-Wongue
Presidential Reserve presents a challenge to conservation managers. The lack of an




                                              48
adequate solution acceptable to all parties involved is seen as potentially destabilizing
factor for current and future conservation initiatives.
Conservation policy implications
The main finding of the biological and socioeconomic surveys is that high-value
biodiversity sites in this area overlap with areas that are important for the local economy,
and are currently used by local populations. Consequently, the types of protected areas
that the Gabonese biodiversity conservation law and regulations recommend may not be
adapted to this area. The approach proposed by this law is particularly unsuitable for the
areas around the lakes and along the rivers where high biodiversity values and economic
activities overlap strongly. A two-stage approach is recommended for the sustainable
conservation and use of the biodiversity resources in this area.
Stage 1: Short-term measures aimed to stop the unsustainable use of natural resources:
    To increase law enforcement in order to stem the poaching of keystone species,
     including, elephants, manatees, and hippopotamuses;
    To adopt a moratorium on the award of timber concession until an appropriate
     environmental impact assessment is conducted;
    To undertake additional surveys that would help to recommend appropriate land
     use plans;
    To develop and adopt participatory fisheries management plans.
Stage 2: Long-term biodiversity conservation efforts through the creation of a multiple-
use conservation area (e.g., a IUCN Protected Area Management Category V). This
multiple-use protected area would include smaller key biodiversity areas where enhanced
protection will be enforced through IUCN Categories I, II and III. This proposal is a
viable alternative to the one recommended by the Ministry of Forests. It would include
all the lakes and the inland forests of the southern part of the area. This multiple-use
conservation would cover about 385,000-400,000 hectares located within the Lower
Ogooué Ramsar site.
Key results of the Mayumba-Mayombe complex
Fauna survey: The survey covered 80.62 km of transect, 106 km of recces and 1,800
night-camera photo traps uncovered 16 species of mammals including five which are on
the IUCN Red List (of threatened species): Forest elephants, gorillas, chimpanzees, and
mandrills.
Elephant density was found to be relatively low: 0.34 individual/km2 (CI 95% 0.24-0.47).
This level of density is similar to that of other mountain forest ecosystems of Gabon. The
results of the survey show a large population size of great apes: 0.69 individual/km2 (CI
95% 0.38-1.26). The results of this survey helped to confirm the global importance of




                                            49
this area as a prime habitat for great apes at the regional workshop on great apes held in
Brazzaville, republic of Congo in May 2013.
Ornithological survey: No ornithological survey was undertaken.
Flora survey: 322 plant species were found in the complex, including two previously
unknown species. The survey identified 1,348 plant species (88 endemic to Gabon) and
sub-species representing 717 genera and 150 families in the Mayombe mountains area.
About 25-30% of all plant species of Gabon are represented in the area. The combination
of a rich vegetation and a diverse landscape of mountain crests, slopes and valleys results
in rich habitat types. The type of vegetation (sub-endemic species with very limited
distribution range) of the coastal forests of the eastern slopes of the mountains can only
be found in this area of the country (can also be found on the western slopes in the
republic of Congo).
Socioeconomic survey: The socioeconomic study covered 12 villages. The total size of
the population of each village is less than 100 inhabitants, but the size of the transient
population is much larger. Twelve meetings with 327 participants took place, based on
the results of a questionnaire filled by 289 households. The majority of the population
practice slush-and-burn subsistence farming on relatively small-size farms.
However, the role of farming as a source of household income is increasing rapidly, as is
the influx of migrants. Most of the farms are located along roadways and around the
Banio lagoon. It was the view of the local populations that farm land is increasingly
scarce. They were worried that the survey would lead to the Government taking away
their ancestral land for conservation purposes.
Subsistence hunting is practiced throughout the area. However, it appeared that urban
dwellers provide local populations with hunting equipment and ammunitions for the
though an arrangement that secures the supply of bush meat to cities.
Conservation policy implications
Currently, the impact of local economic and livelihood activities on the areas’ natural
resources is very limited. This situation provides an opportunity for the creation of a
traditional protected area (i.e., IUCN Protected Area Management Categories I or II). An
area as large as 160,000-200,000 hectares of the coastal forests could be protected
effectively, provided that sufficient precaution is taken to spare village community lands
(terroirs villageois) for agriculture and other uses. The western low altitude forests also
host a rich wildlife, and a rich and diverse flora. However, many timber concessions are
active in this area.
While recommendations derived from the biological diversity and socioeconomic surveys
of the Wonga Wongue-Evaro complex and the Mayumbe-Mayombe complex await
policy actions, the results helped to prepare the following management plans:



                                            50
    The sustainable development and multi-purpose area use plan of the “Greater
     Mayumba” area with links to the Concouati-Douli inland and marine national
     park in the Pointe-Noire area of the republic of Congo;
    The management plan of the Wonga-Wongue Presidential Reserve;
    The management plan of the Lower-Ogooue Ramsar site located in the Evaro
     wetlands.
The Mondah Forest
The Mondah National Forest (Foret classee de la Mondah) was already well-known and
relatively well-studied befoe he project; so little additional field survey was required,
though complementary but limited biological and socioeconomic field work was
conducted. Instead, the project helped to develop a sustainable management plan for the
approximately 5,000 hectares of rainforests.
The project also supported a review of the legal status of the protected area. This work
helped to transform the forest into an arboretum: the Raponda Walker Arboretum.
ANPN envisages the creation of a rain forest recreation and information center in or next
to this arboretum. ANPN established a small technical team for the management of this
protected area. The main activities of this team consist in delineating the boundaries of
this forest, anti-poaching and law enforcement, and sensitization of local communities to
the need to protect the natural resources of this forest. ANPN envisages the creation of a
rain forest recreation and information center in or next to this arboretum.
Intermediate Results Indicator 2: “A national database on biodiversity is created”.
The results of the above-mentioned biological surveys and the exploitation of existing
information derived from previous surveys and studies helped to develop distribution
maps for Gabon’s fauna and flora. These maps describe (i) the distribution of elephant
and great ape populations, and (ii) the distribution of 53 endemic plant species of
Gabon’s coastal eco-region. These maps will be integrated into the Gabon’s Forest Atlas
under preparation.
Rezoning of the Gamba complex
The Gamba complex is located along southwestern Gabon along the Atlantic coast. It
covers 12,281 km2 including a unique mosaic of habitats covering seashores, mangroves,
rainforests, savannas, lagoons and swamps with a high level of biodiversity. The complex
consists of an ensemble of overlapping protected areas, production landscapes, and
human settlements. Anthropic activities affected some parts of the protected areas
noticeably. The creation of the Loango and Moukalaba-Doudou national parks located in
this complex increased the confusion about the legal status, the allocation of uses and
boundaries of these different types of land uses.




                                           51
The project helped ANPN and the Ministry of Forests to conduct extensive consultations
with local authorities, local populations, and the private sector (timber concessions, oil
and mineral industries) about a realistic rezoning plan that takes into account economic
interests, local livelihood and conservation objective. The agreed rezoning plan provided
the basis for conducting a legal review in order to clarify the status of different sites
within the complex. The project helped to prepare decrees confirming the new boundaries
of the protected areas of the complex. These new boundaries were integrated into the
management plans of the Loango and Moukalaba-Doudou national parks.
Component 3: Support to Selected National Parks
Objective: To establish effective management of the Loango, Moukalaba-Doudou and
Mayumba National parks. The performance of the component is measured through four
Intermediate Result Indicators.
Intermediate Results Indicator One: “Loango, Moukalaba-Doudou and Mayumba
National Parks management plans are finalized through a participatory process”.
A strong technical team consisting of specialists from WCS, WWF and the US Forest
Service is helping the Government of Gabon prepare the management plans of the
network of 13 national parks. This team helped ANPN to prepare the management plans
of the Loango, Moukalaba-Doudou and Mayumba national parks. The formulation of
these plans followed a participatory process involving the Consultative Committees
(CCGL) for Local Management.
These management plans identify the key conservation values, and set out the medium
and long-term management goal and objectives (and associated resources for each park).
They included five annexes dealing with (i) conservation strategy, (ii) surveillance and
anti-poaching, (iii) zoning and planning, (iv) community participation, and (v)
ecotourism development. The draft plans were reviewed by ANPN and the CCGL of
each park before their adoption by the Conservation Committee.
Intermediate Results Indicator Two: “Quarters of park rangers built and operational”.
The project financed the rehabilitation and/or expansion of rangers’/ecoguards’ quarters
for Loango and Moukalaba-Doudou. The rehabilitation of the infrastructure for
Mayumba was not financed due to lack of funds. The operational effectiveness and
impact of the ecoguards in theses quarters increased because of the equipment procured
by the project: (i) vehicles, (i) a speed boat (Mayumba), (iii) computer hardware,
software and associated equipment, (iv) information technology equipment and software
(GPS, and other GIS equipment), etc.
Intermediate Results Indicator Three:      “Increased surveillance efforts in the three
national parks”.




                                           52
The rehabilitation of infrastructure, the provision of equipment, the creation of a
surveillance and conservation law enforcement unit in each park, and the recruitment and
training of eco-guards helped to increase the surveillance and conservation law
enforcement efforts. The target of 500 man-days per month (from a baseline figure of
300 in 2010) was exceeded by the end of the project (581 man-days per month on
average).
Intermediate Results Indicator Four: “Number of Consultative Committees created”.
The creation of a Consultative Committee for Local Management (CCGL) is a
requirement under the new National Park law of Gabon. This committee serves as a
platform for the discussions and collaboration among all the stakeholders of the creation
and management of every national park. Its membership includes representatives of local
communities (majority), local authorities, private sector (extractive industries) and ANPN.
It is expected to play an important role in accommodating the interest of local
communities by safeguarding village territories and communal land through a land co-
management arrangement. The CCGL of each of the three national parks was created
and approved by a dedicated general assembly held following the schedule below:
    Moukalaba-Doudou National Park: August3, 2012 at Tchibanga
    Loango National Park: September 21, 2012 at Gamba
    Mayumba National Park: April 20, 2012 at Mayumba.
Component 4: Improved Wildlife Management, Monitoring and Law Enforcement in
the Periphery of the National Parks
Objective: To improve wildlife management in the periphery of national parks. The
performance of this component was measured through three Intermediate Result
Indicators.
Intermediate Results Indicator One: “Number of trained and equipped staff in mobile
eco-guard brigades”.
The project helped to train 5 eco-guards in each of the 3 mobile brigade posts created at
Leconi, Iboundji and Tchibanga. These 5-member teams are part of larger brigades
equipped with: (i) vehicles, (i) a speed boat (Mayumba), (iii) computer hardware,
software and associated equipment, (iv) information technology equipment and software
(GPS, and other GIS equipment), and other types of equipment.
Intermediate Result Indicator Two: “Increased surveillance efforts in the buffer zones of
national parks”.
In addition to the eco-guards that the project helped to recruit and train, the Ministry in
charge of Environment and Forests (responsible for resource management and law
enforcement in buffer zones) created 3 mobile brigades as pilot units for controlling the




                                            53
illegal exploitation of wildlife resources in the buffer zones (these units are meant to be
replicated in all the national parks of the country).
These mobiles brigades collaborated actively with the ANPN eco-guards in the buffer
zones of the Loango, Moukalaba-Doudou and Mayumba National Parks. The targeted
level of efforts by the end of the project was 200 man-days per month from a baseline of
zero (2010). While the level of efforts increased rapidly in 2011 to an average of 290
man-days per month, this achievement was not sustained. By the end of the project, the
level of effort dropped to 127 man-days per month. Coordination and resource issues
seemed to be the main causes for the decreased efforts.
It is important to mention that these brigades also conducted very useful sensitization
work and dialogue with the private sector actors operating in the buffer zones in order to
help the latter to protect and manage wildlife in their concession areas. This work was
well appreciated by the timber concession and oil exploitation companies. This
collaboration resulted in an agreement whereby one of the timber concession companies
(CBG) is contributing resources for the control of illegal wildlife exploitation in its
operations areas.
Intermediate Results Indicator Three: “Number of environmental audits conducted by
the Gabonese administration”.
The project aimed to promote environmental compliance and enforcement in the
extractive industries (logging, mining and oil) operating in the buffer zones in order to
reduce the threat to the biophysical integrity of the national parks. This objective was
pursued through the conduct of environmental audits. These audits were performed by
collaborative technical teams including representatives of ANPN and these of the
Ministries in charge of Environment, Forests, Mining & Oil. The targeted number of
audits to be conducted was 5. All 5 were conducted by the end of the project.




                                            54
Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
         Names                                Title              Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Giuseppe Topa               Lead Specialist                    EASER    Forestry
Laurent Debroux             Sector Leader                      ECSSD    Task Manager
Francois Rantrua            Country Manager                    ECCU5    Operations
Robert A. Robelus           Consultant                         AFTA1    Safeguards
Dan Aronson                 Social Safeguards Specialist       AFTEN    Safeguards
Etienne NKoa                Sr Financial Management Spec.      AFTME    Finances
Francesco Sarno             Sr. Procurement Specialist         AFTPC    Procurement
Gilles Veuillot             Consultant                         SASDE    Legal
Mohammed A. Bekhechi        Sr. Counsel                        LEGAF    Legal
Yvette Djachechi            Sr. Social Scientist               AFTS3    Social Safeguards
Kieran Kelleher             Sr. Fisheries Specialist           ARD      Fisheries
Pacome Kossy                Consultant                         AFTS3    Operations

Supervision/ICR
Carole Megevand             Sr. Natural Resources Mgt. Spec.   LCSAR    Task Manager
Salimata Follea             Natural Resources Mgt. Spec.       AFTN1    Task Manager
Mohammed A. Bekhechi        Consultant                         AFTN2    Legal/Safeguards
Patrick Bongotha            Consultant                         AFMGA    Financial Mgt.
Yvette Laure Djachechi      Senior Social Development Spec     AFTCS    Safeguards
Ningayo Charles Donang      Senior Procurement Specialist      AFTPW    Procurement
Daria Goldstein             Senior Counsel                     LEGLE    Legal
Idriss Martinez-Deffry      Consultant                         AFTN1    Operations
Emeran Serge M. Menang
                            Senior Environmental Specialist    AFTN1 Technical
Evouna
Kouami Hounsinou Messan     Senior Procurement Specialist      AFTPW    Procurement
Etienne NKoa                Sr Financial Management Spec.      AFTME    Finances
Ernestine Ngobo-Njoke       Senior Program Assistant           AFTSW    Administrative
Virginie Vaselopoulos       Senior Program Assistant           AFTN1    Administrative
Leoncie Niyonahabonye       Office Manager                     AFTN3    Administrative
Andrianirina Michel Eric
                            Finance Officer                    CTRLA Finances
 Ranjeva
Pooshpa Muni Reddi          Program Assistant                  LEGAM    Administrative
Robert A. Robelus           Consultant                         AFTA1    Safeguards
Rick Emery Tsouck Ibounde   Senior Economist                   AFTP3    Economy
Rémi Kini                   Senior Environmental Economist     AES      ICR Task Manager




                                               55
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                            0.90                     12.27
  FY01                                            6.10                     40.82
  FY02                                            6.76                     35.21
  FY03                                            3.43                     29.87
  FY04                                           14.59                     64.50
  FY05                                           15.34                    112.68
  FY06                                           13.96                     89.77
  FY07                                            0.24                     17.26
                               Total:            61.32                    404.39
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                            7.58                     45.02
  FY08                                           11.12                     51.67
  FY09                                           12.64                     54.50
  FY10                                            9.18                     56.58
  FY11                                            5.28                     40.31
  FY12                                            5.83                     56.49
  FY13                                            6.03                     70.64
  FY14                                            5.94                     26.77
                               Total:            63.60                    402.08




                                            56
Annex 4. List of Supporting Documents
World Bank Country Documents
   1. Strengthening Capacity for Managing National Parks and Biodiversity Project:
       Project Appraisal Document. Report No. 34714-GA, March 6, 2006.
   2. GEF: Trust Fund Grant No. TF056592-GA dated June 14, 2006.
   3. Strengthening Capacity for Managing National Parks and Biodiversity Project:
       Project Restructuring Paper. Report No. 59701-GA, April 12, 2011.
   4. GEF: Amendment to GEF Trust Grant No. TF056592-GA dated June 15, 2011.
   5. Strengthening Capacity for National Parks Management and Biodiversity project:
       Integrated Safeguards Datasheet- Appraisal Stage. Report AC1668, September 8,
       2005.
   6. Strengthening Capacity for National Parks Management and Biodiversity project:
       Integrated Safeguards Datasheet- Restructuring Stage. Report AC 5896, March 29,
       2011.
   7. Natural Resource Management Policy Loan: Program Document. Report No.
       33786-GA, October 19, 2005.
   8. Natural Resources Management Development Policy Operation: Implementation
       Completion and Results Report (IBRD-73550). Report No.: ICR00001627,
       December 27, 2011.
   9. Implementation Support Aide Memoires (AM): 14 AM from February 2008 to
       June 2013.
   10. Implementation Status and Results (ISRs): 14 ISRs from October 2007 to June
       2013.
   11. Forestry and Environment Project: Implementation Completion Report. Report
       No. 24900, December 11, 2002.
   12. Country Partnership Strategy (FY2012-2016). Report No. 67343-GA, February
       23, 2012.
   13. Country Assistance Strategy (FY05-FY09). Report No. 31882-GA, May 2, 2005.
Government Project Documents
   1. Projet de Renforcement des Capacités des Parcs Nationaux et de la Biodiversité:
      Rapport de Fin de Projet. Version provisoire du 5 juin 2013.
   2. Cellule de Coordination du Programme Sectoriel Forets et Environnement : Plan
      de Développement des Peuples Autochtones. Rapport Final. Ministère de
      l’Economie Forestière, des Eaux, de la Pêche, de l’Environnement chargé de la
      Protection de la Nature. Cabinet du Ministre. Juillet 2005.
   3. Cellule de Coordination du Programme Sectoriel Forets et Environnement :
      Evaluation Environnementale et Sociale Sectorielle du PSFE. Rapport Final.
      Ministère de l’Economie Forestière, des Eaux, de la Pêche, de l’Environnement
      chargé de la Protection de la Nature. Cabinet du Ministre. Juillet 2005.


                                         57
4. Application des Politiques de Sauvegardes de la Banque mondiale dans le Cadre
    du Projet GEF-Parcs (document non daté).
5. WWF/WCS : Rapport Fina composante 4 du Projet : Appui au renforcement des
    capacités de gestion de la faune en dehors des parcs nationaux. Période de janvier
    2010 à décembre 2011.
6. ANPN : Plan de Suivi-Evaluation de l’Agence National des Parcs Nationaux.
    ANPN. Janvier 2012.
7. WWF/WCS : Projet d’Appui au Renforcement des Capacités de Gestion des
    Parcs Nationaux et de la Biodiversité. Rapport Technique Final de la période de
    novembre 2012-juin 2013. Contrat No. 18/SC/ED/2012/ANPN/WWF. Juillet
    2013.
8. WWF : Projet d’Appui au Renforcement des Capacités de Gestion des Parcs
    Nationaux et de la Biodiversité. Rapport Technique Final. Parc national de
    Loango, secteur sud. Période: juillet 2012-mars 2013. Contrat No.
    08/SC/ED/2010/ANPN/WWF. Avril 2013.
9. WWF : Rapport Technique composante 3 du projet. Période de septembre 2008 à
    août 2010. (document non daté).
10. WCS/Gabon Program: Rapport Technique Final du Contrat d’assistance à la
    composante 2 du projet. Juillet 2013.




                                       58
