Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5940-POL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTJVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SEt M-R
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$450 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND
APRIL 8, 1993
'.    1             -  r,~i,    :';  !  rr
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CEEEILNCY EOUIVALETS
Currency Unit - Zloy MZD)
Currenov Unit        1986    1987    1988      1989    1990    122          12
US$1.00  (ZI)        175    265       430    4,000   9,500    10,576       13,631
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVILTIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC      -    Advisory Committee
ASAL   -    Agnculture Sector Adjustment Loan
CEM    -    Country Economic Memorandum
CMEA   -    Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
CoM     -    Council of Ministers
DDSR   -    Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DPI    -    Direct Foreign Investment
DIS     -    Deposit nesurance Scheme
EBRD   -    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EBRP   -    Enterprise and Bank Restucturing and Privatization Program
EC      -    European Community
EFF     -    Extended Fund Facility
EPSAL  -    Enterpnse and Financial Sector Adjustmt Loan
ESW     -    Economic and Sector Work
ETP     -    Economic Transformation Program
FIDL    -    Financial Intermediaries Development Lan
GDP    -    Gross Domestic Product
ICEB    -    Ifternational Competitive Bidding
DA      -    Industrial Development Agency
IDF     -    Industrial Development and Finance
IPC     -    Interational Finance Corporation
LF      -    International Financial litution
IMF    -    International Monetary Fund
LIBOR  -    London Interbank Offered Rate
MIGA   -    Multilateral Investment Guarmtee Agency
MoF    -    Ministy of Finance
MolT    -    Ministry of Industry and Trade
MoP    -    Ministry of Privatization
MPP    -    Masis Privatization Program
MU      -    Monitoring Unit
NBP    -    National Bank of Poland
NIF     -    National Investment Fund
OECD   -    Organisation for Economic Coopration and Development
PHARE  -    Poland Hungary Assistarce for Economic Rconstuction
SB      -    Supervisory Board
SOCB   -    State-Owned Commercial Bank
SOE    -    State-Owned Enterprise
TA      -    Technical Assistance
WOD    -    Workout Department
POLAND FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REIUBUC OF POLAND
ENTERPRISE AND FNANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSrNENT WAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMtARY ......................... ,i-j
INrTRODUCrION .                                                                       1
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE SATEGY   1                    . 
A.    EconomicandPoliticalBackground .1...   1
B.  Prospects and theEExte  Eironment    ..                                    4
C.  TheBank'sCountryAssistanceStrategy..                                       7
D.    Sun..ar.                                                                15
PARTT -THEENTP1IUSE ANDTHE BANKINGSESTO...... 17
A. 'heEnterpriseSector             ..17
B.    IheBankdngSystem  .........                                             20
PART I - THIE NEf TIPAE OF TIRE REFORM PROGRAM   ...26
A. Objecives and Principles           ..26
B.    Resolution of Enterprise Debt and Bank Portflio ssues   . .29
C.    Ownership and Governance of Stat EEnteprms    ...37
D. Banking System Reform    ..38
E.  Assessment of the Fiscal Costs       ..40
PART IV - TEE PROPOSED LOAN....... 42
A. Loan Features    ..42
B.  Loan Design and Components.                                               43
C.    Monitoring ArAangeme ..s.                                               43
D.  Administrative Arangements          ..44
E.  EnvironmentaAssessmentRequirements    ..44
F. BenefitsandRisis ... 44
PART v - 2ECOzi4ENDATION.. 46
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perf,rmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Cotent,s (Cont)                         ii
ANNEXS
1. StasdclTab    ...............................................*  47
2. Republic of Poland: Letter of DevelopmentPolicy               ..........................  53
3. Supplonentay Project Dan Sheet .....................................   72
4. Enterprise Privatizaen in Poland . .. ................   ...................   73
S. Stats of Sa-Owned Commercial Bans 'nsttional Development .. ... ...........  80
6. Development of Bank Supe rvision Capabilities           ..............................   89
7. Status of Bank Group Operations          ......................................   94



REPUBLIC OF POLAND
ENTEWIRRSE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSMENT LOAN (EFSAL)
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUIMARY
Borrow.            The Republic of Poland
Amount:            US$450 million equivalent
Terms:              17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable Interest
rate.
Descripton:         The loan will supo the Govermmnt s Enterprise and Bank Restructrng
and Privatization (EBRP) Program. Ihe EBRP Program is an intgraed
attempt at: (i) dealing simultaneously with the debt ovethang of state-owned
eneprises (SOEs) and the portfolio problem in the banking system; and ($
resolving the root cause of the SOE crisis, i.e., the unclear structure of
enterprise ownership and goveace. In addition, the loan will also support a
comprehensive program to strengthen bank supervision, thus allowing more
rapid bank privatization.
Benefits
and Risls:         With respect to bes'wfl, by tackling siltaneously the enterprise ownsip
and bank portfolio problems, the EBRP Program addresses the central
constraint on the resumption of sustained growth in Poland. The program wil
accelerate the implementation of enterprise privatzation that is a key objective
of the Government's Economic Transformation Program. By addressing the
portfolio problems facing the baking system, it encourages continued
progress in achieving the core objectives of the finmcial sector reform, i.e.,
the privatization of stateowned bans and the development of a modern
financial intermediation system.
Three main risky are associated with this program. ThefJrst relates to
Poland's continued ability to stabilize the economy, particularly to maintain
fiscal balance in the coming two years. The Government demonstrated its
resolve to control the public sector deficit by tking important corrective
measures in the fall of 1992, and the 1993 budget adopted by Parliament is
based on a strong macroeconomic program agreed to with the IMF. The
second risk reslts from the sheer magnitude of the restructuring and
privatization effort and the complexity of its implementation. The scope of
the reforms planned under the program is unprecedented, snd its success will
depend heavily on the performance of commercial banks and of various
institutions that are already struggling with numerous new responsibilities.
The program tries to deal with this constraint by: (i) establishing an



ii
appropriate incentive framework for the key players, i.e., commercial banks,
enterrises and the Industrial Development Agency (IDA); and (ii) providing a
strong technical assistance effort to support strengthening of the capacities in
the Workout Departments of the commercial banks, in IDA and in the
supervision department of the National Bank of Poland. In addition, there
will be close monitoring of bank-managed enterp-ise work-outs (through the
monitoring unit in the Ministry of Finance (MoP) and of enterprise
restructurings supported through specific funding from the budget. The third
risk relates to the social sensitiviy of this operation. First, the program will
need to overcome workers' reluctance to support privatizadon and generate
backing by the trade unions. This is the objective of the Enterprise Pact,
which recently gained the support of social partners by prometing reform of
the collective bargaining process and ensuring greater participation of workers
in privatizaton. Second, the Government will need to mitigate the social
impact of large-scale enterprise restructuring. It is addressing this issue
decisively by improving its unemployment benefits and social assistance
system with support from the Bank, and by establishing under the EBRP
Program a selective budget support mechanism aimed at facilitating the
restructuring and liquidation of large or sensitive SOEs. It is also taking steps
to ensure the effective transfer of social assets currently run by the SOEs to
local authorities.
Esimated
Disbursements:      The loan would be quick-disbursing. Up to US$100 million could be used to
support a commercial Debt and Debt Service Reduction package with London
Club creditors. The remaining proceeds of the loan would be disbursed in
three tranches: US$125 million upon loan effectiveness, which is expected in
June 1993; US$100 million upon realization of second tranche conditions,
expected in late 1993 or early 1994; and the remainder (US$125 million) upon
fulfillment of third tranche conditions, expected in late 1994. A
comprehensive program review will have to be successfully completed before
third tranche release.



Report and Recommendation of the President of the
International Bank for Rectnstruction and Development
to the Executive Directors
on a Proposed Enterprise and Financal Sector
Adjustment Loan (EFSAL)
in an Amount Equivalent to US$450 Milion
to the Republic of Poland
IRODUCTION
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Enterprise and Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) to the Republic of Poland, in support of a program to restructre
and privatize large- and medium-scale enterprises and to reform the commercial banking system in
Poland. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
intest rate and would be disbursed in three tranches of US$125 million, US$100 million and
US$125 million, respectively; US$100 million would be set aside to support a Debt and Debt Serice
Reduction (DDSR) operaion.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISrANCE STRATEGY
2.    Poland rejoined ihe Bank in 1986. Since the Bank started lending to Poland in early 1990, it
has committed loans for a total of US$2.6 billion. As part of this support, the Bank also opened a
Resident Mission in Warsaw in mid-1990. A Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) entiled
*Poland - Economic Transformations at a Crossroads" was distributed to the Executive Direcors on
May 29, 1992.
A.    Economic and Poltical Balcround
3.    After two very difficult years, economic conditions in Poland improved during 1992. Despie
the uncertainty in statistical information that prevents a full assessment of the growth in private sector
acdvity, the signs of recovery are unmistkable. During the year, industrial production rose by 14.5
percent over the December 1991 level, driven by a healthy expansion of exports. Constuction
activity has also been strong as a result of private sector activity. Early estimates point to overal
growth in gross domestic product (GDP) of some 1.5 percent, despite the effects of the serious
drought, which has affected all of Central Europe and led to crop losses as high aa 25 percent of
expected production. Poland's industia recovery is in sharp contrast to the sustined declines in
output elsewhere in the Region. At the same tfme, Poland has made important progress in steering
the economy away from the hyperinflation of the late eighties. Average anmnal inflation declined



2
from almost 600 percent in 1990 to 70 percent in 1991, 43 percent in 1992 and an annualized rate of
30 percent in the second half of that year. Finally, after incurring important reserve losses in 1991,
Poland's external performance has improved considerably: a trade surplus of about US$600 million
allowed the country to strengthen its reserve position, currendy at about five months of imports.
4.    These indications of recovery are encouraging and come at a time when some signs of growth
are desperately needed in Eastern Europe. It is not clar, however, whether the upturn observed
during 1992 can be sustained. Important growth oriented structural reforms must now be
implemented while fiscal austerity also must be maitined.
5.    From the start Poland did have an advantage over other transition economies because most of
agriculture had been private, even in communist days. Outside agriculture, private sector activity has
been the main engine of transformation and growth in the economy. It first concentrated in trade and
commerce, but has more recently extended, in a substantial way, to industry and construction, where
it accounts for over a third and half of output, respectively. Overall, about half of Poland's GDP is
now produced by the private sector. This constitutes a positive response to the changes in the
incentive environment and is an indication of the potential for growth that remains to be unleashed in
the Polish economy.
6.    By cortrast, the state-owned enterprise (SOE) sector has had great difficulty adjusting to the
new economic conditions. External shocks (notably the demise of the USSR and of the Council of
Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) trading arrangements), as well as the effects of the abolition of
the complex system of subsidies, particularly on energy, played important roles in depressing
industrial production in 1990 and 1991. This decline in industrial production contributed significantly
to the fall in output during that period. Ihe effects of the recession, however, were compounded by
internal management problems in the SOEs, whose performance (as evidetzed by high unit labor
costs and low productivity and profitability) deteriorated substantially in these twc years.
7.    The picture in 1992 has been somewhat more complex. Despite the abatement of the
ression in the SOE sector as well, its overAl financial position remained weak Many enterprises
are severely constrained by the burden of the debt accumulated in the past two years as a result of the
lack of restructuring and adjustment to new market conditions. Some that are probably not
economically viable have been allowed to continue to operate for lack of a workable exit mechanism.
There is recent evidence, however, of some signs of adjustment, at least in some SOEs, which have
been able to respond to new business opportunities. While most SOEs are stranded with inappropriate
products mixes, outdated technologies and excessive payrolls, some firms have been able to control
costs, find export markets and use their resources more effectively. This improvement in short term
performance appears to be the result of a significant hardening of the budget constraint facing SOEs.
The "no bail-outs" signal from the Government was loud and clear since the summer of 1992.
Moreover, commercial banks behavior also changed significantly with banks becoming increasingly
reluctant to finance loss-makers. For many large enterprises this led to deepening crisis. For some
others, however, the hardening budget constraint led to better resource use and export performance.
8.    Directly related to the difficulties of many large entetprises, the public finance crisis remains
the single most worrying feature of the current economic situation in Poland. The crisis is structral
in nature. On the expenditure side, increasing government outlays originate mainly in the growth of
social prog. ams, the result of inadequate design and increasing claims attributable to the recession.
On the revenue side, expectations of improved tax revenues have been repeatedly frustrated, as the



3
SOE tax base has shrunk and the gcverment has been unable quickly to mobilize sufficient resources
from the expanding private sector. The result has been a steady increase in the general government
deficit and its demands on bank and non-bank financing. The public sector, which registei.ed a
suplus in 1990, was forced to rely on domestic bonrowing in 1991 to finance a deficit that amounted
to almost 4 perment of GDP. For 1992, the govemet adopted a deficit target of 5 percent of GDP,
which was considered compatible with increased progress with economic stabilization. Despite the
recovery in industrial output, however, revenues continued to lag behind expectations, and
expenditures continued to increase as a proportion of GDP. As a result, the deficit for the year
climbed to some 6.5 percent of GDP (despite the corrective measures approved in late 1992). The
larger deficit did not substantially affect inflation bec-iuse much stricter terms now constrain
commercial bank credit to the SOEs. Tbis constraint contributed to freeing domestic resources to
finance the deficit. Nevertheless, the deficit remains large, and continued recourse to domestic
financing on the scale of 1992 is not compatible with the resumption of growth.
9.    Despite the apparent end of the recession, the social situation remains relatively tense. After
rapidly increasing to 12 percent of the labor force through 1990 and 1991, unemployment stabilized
somewhat in 1992, largely as a result of the better output performance in industry. It now stands at
14.2 percent of the labor force. Unemployment could increase substantially over the coming months,
however, as a result of the paring down of activity in a number of SOEs that are expected to undergo
restructuring. This could lead to increases in the number of the poor as restructuring takes place and
to widening regional differences in the incidence of poverty, the product of the "one company town'
nature of past industrial devalopment. Maintenance of a viable social safety net is a crucial prioity
for the government.
10.   Parallel with the signs of economic recovery in 1992, there are encouraging changes on the
political front. The beginning of the democratic transition was difficult enough. While Poland was
one of the first countries to undertake the transition to democracy, the arrangements that led to the
political changes also created an unstable situation. Parliament enjoyed little public support, and the
new political class soon began to splinter, sometimes along personal lines. The Mazowiecki and
Bielecki Governments managed to engineer the systemic reforms of 1990 and to maintain reasonably
good overall macroeconomic conditions. Starting in mid-1991, however, the Bielecki Government
increasingly was unable to get Parliament to pass several important economic and political reforms.
Agreement on and execution of policies became even more difficult as a result of the political
instability that followed the October 1991 parliamentary elections. Having choseii a purely
proportional representation system without a strc-'g political tradition, Poland found itself with a
Parliament splintered among 29 parties, with no clear coalition or majority in sight.
11.   It took two governments and several months of virta political paralysis before a centist
coalition could be formed under the leadership of Premier Hanna Suchocka in July 1992, averting the
risk of a constitutional crisis. Although the coalition is far from unified on a number of very
important issues, it has so far managed to survive important tests, including a wave of strikes in the
summer of 1992 and the crucial 1993 budget discussions (see below). The Suchocka Government has
also endorsed and worked in earnest on several crucial pieces of legislation (particularly the Bankig
and Enterprise Restructuring Law, the multi-track privatization program, and the interim measures
needed to stabilize the budget) necessary to execute the reform agenda outlined above. While the
Government's fiscal stance has been very tough in extraordinarily difficult circumstances, under the
leadership of Lar Minister Jacek Kurof it has also actively pursued dialogue with the labor unions
and has shown sensitivity to social concems. Ihe challenges of the economic agenda for Poland



4
discussed In the next section can now be addressed by a governent that stands a reasonable chance
of ptoviding the needed leadership and continuity of purpose.
B.     Prospects and the External Environment
(1) A Scenario of Gradual Recovery (Base Case)
12.    Gaowth, Publfc Finances and Stabilization. Our current base-case macroeconomic projections
for Poland over the next five years, which are relatively guarded, envisage a resumption of sustained
growth, provided success in stbilization is maintained. Under this scenario, GDP growth is expected
to resume at some 2-3 percent in 1993 and accelerate gradually to reach 4-5 percent by the end of
the decade. lnitally, a modest swing in net exports and an increase in fixA  capital fomation would
provide the spur for higher growth. In subsequent years, private consumption growth would
contribute importaty to overall demand, as the economy stabilizes.
Table 1: Main Economic Indioas  (Base Case)
1994-97
1990    1991    1992'   1993b   average
(Grt Rats)
Gross Domestic Product         -11.6    -7.6       1.5     3.0      4.5
PubLio Sector Output          -19.0   -26.0   -10.0
Private Sector Output'          7.0    33.0    14.0
Priv. Consuwmtion per Capta    -16.9      7.5      1.8     1.8      4.2
Fixed Capital Formadon         -10.6    -4.5       1.0     4.0      4.8
Iflation (Average)             585.8    70.3    43.0    36.7        12.8
Unempoyment (end-of-period)      6.3    11.8    13.7    14.8
Total Exports XGNFSd            15.1   -13.6       6.3     3.5      3.2
Total Imports MGNFSd            -10.2    16.0    -2.0      4.7      3.4
Exports (USS Binr               10.9    12.8    14.0    15.5        18.0
Impos (USS BInr                  8.6    12.7    13.5    15.0        17.6
Trade Baance (USS$ BI)          2.2      0.1      0.5     0.5      0.4
Reald Exhange Rate (89-100f     80.8   126.6   130.0   130.4    128.3
(Percent of GDP)
Curret Account                   1.0    -1.1    -0.4    .0.1       -0.6
Of Which: NICA                  6.4      0.8      1.2     1.3      1.0
Change in NIR (USS Bln)         -4.4      1.3    -1.6      0.5     -0.9
Gross Reserves (Months of Impoits)   6.2  4.7      5.6     5.4      5.5
Fucal Indicators: (Pet of GDP)
Gen. Govt.: Tot. Revenues       45.8    39.8    39.6    40.0       41.7
Tot. Expenditures    43.1    43.5    46.1    45.0       43.7
Surplw/Deficit(-)     2.7    -3.7    -6.5    -5.0       -2.0
Preliminary.
b Projeced.
Includes composition effects due to privatizaton.
d Volume growth of all goods and non-fctor service trade.
* Value of tansactions in convetible curencies.
f Ttade-weighted nominal exchange rate index times Polish CPI, divided by trade-weighted
Cpl. Bas  989 = 100 (MP etodolog)
Source: Goverment authorities and World Bank estimates



S
13.   Stabilization would result from a gadual reduction in the demand for domestic credit by the
Government, as the deficit-reduction measures and the reform of spending progms put public
finances on a sustainable path. By 1994, the General Government defcit would be reduced to some
3-4 percent of GDP (from the 6.5 percent of 1992), which would be financed by about two-thirds
through domestic sources. Such a reduction of the deficit would not be feasible without substantial
progress in reforming the expenditure progrm and restoring the financial i iability of the enterprise
secr. In turn, reduced reliance on domestic financing would permit an increase in real credit to the
nongovernment sector, an increase that is expected to finance expanding private sector activity.
Fixed capital formation, historically very high in Poland in view of the inefficient allocation of
resources prevailing under the previous system, would then grow somewhat less fast than GDP after
the retooling in 1992-94. This would be the result of stronger private sector capital formation and
public investment in infrastructure, which would be more than compensated for by the expected
reduction in capital outlays in the remaining SOEs. As a result, there could be a gradual decrease in
the national savings rate, associated with a sustainable rise in per capita consumption.
14.   Increased import requirements resulting from the faster GDP growth, and resumption of full
interest payments on the (reduced) Paris Club debt, are expected to lead to a somewhat wider current
account deficit after 1993 (see Table 2). After factoring in the desirable accumulation of international
reserves and the reduced amount of amordzation of existing debt, external financing needs are
expected to decline marginally from 3 percent of GDP in 1992 to some 2.7 percent of GDP in 1994-
97. With direct foreign investment (DFI) projected conservatively to grow only modestly over the
period, most of the financing would originate from the April 1991 Paris Club agreement and from the
envisioned DDSR for the London Club, which would jointly account for about 44 percent of total
financing during 1994-97. A reasonable build-up of new lending from bilateral and other
international financial institutions (FIs) is also assumed, amounting to 1.2 percent of GDP on average
during 1994-97, or 44 percent of total financing. Litfle or no new commercial bank lending is
projected for the mid-1990s, a conservative assumption that might be somewhat pessimistic if
economic adjustment in Poland proceeds as envisaged. Concerning the former CMEA debt, a 50
percent debt reduction is also assumed, consistent with assumptions made by the Government and the
Paris Club.
15.   The economic performance envisaged under this scenario would go a long way toward maing
Poland attractive for new private lending. On the basis of these projections, total medium- and long-
term debt would drop to about US$43 billion by 1994, when the second phase of the Paris Club
Agreement is completed. By the year 2000, total debt would then rise slightly to about US$47
billion. Given Poland's assumed growth path, the debt/GDP ratio is projected to fall from 78 percent
in 1990 to 41 percent by 1995 and 30 percer' by 2000. Debt service as a share of GDP and exports
would likewise stabilize at about 3.0 and 15.2 percent, respectively, by 1995, when full Paris Club
servicing takes effect.
(2) Alternative Scenarios
16.   The scenario discussed in the previous paragrephs is one of moderate economic success.
However, the political and economic situation in Poland, albeit considerably improved, is subject to
many uncertainties. Some elements of the reform program and the international environment directly
affecting Poland could go awry in the next five years, and the Bank should make appropriate
contingency plans to deal with the downside risks. Here two alternative scenarios are presented that
could result in a serious derailing of the reform program. The first involves a combination of



6
unfavorable exctal developments, the second a deterioration In public finances and In
macroeconomic conditions brought about by inadequate domesdc policies.
Table 2: Extena Finanng (Be Case) (Peentage of GD?)
1994-97
1991    1992    1993      aeae
CunentAcounmt Deicb                      1.1     0.6      0.6       1.4
Cb ng in Goss Reserves                  -1.3     1.8      0.3       0.6
Amordzadon of Existing Debt              2.0     2.1      0.5       0.6
Fimaning Requirements                    1.8     4.5      1.3       2.6
Sources:
Direct Foreign investmaet                0.1     0.3      0.3       0.4
New Net Disbumneentt                     1.4     0.6      2.3       1.0
of which: IBRD                          0.4     0.4      1.1       0.6
IMD                             0.4     0.0      1.0      -0.1
EBRD, BIB, Others               0.6     0.2      0.3       0.5
DDSRd                                    0.0     0.0    -1.3        1.1
Incee in Arrea                           2.9     2.7      0.0       0.0
Othee'                                  -2.7     0.8    -0.0        0.0
a May not add-up because of rounding.
b  Before DDSIR.
o  Includes DDSR enha_nceet in 1993.
d  Assumes compledon of the second phase of the Pais Club Agreement and of negotatons
with commercial cts in 1993.
a  iboludes credit extended, sh&aterm debt and NEI.
Source: Govment auhrities and World Dak estimaes.
17.    Utifavorable externa developments. Export growth to the European Community  P)
markets has played an important role in helping restart the economy and cushioning the impact of the
restructuring on unemployment. The base case scenario assumes a continuation of moderate growth
in the EC (about 2.5 percent per year), together with a slight increase in Poland's market shares,
resulting in a projected growth of exports to the EC of about 5 percent per year. With the prospects
of a global European recession followed by a period of slow growth made more likely by the
protracted recession in Germany and other parts of Europe, sustaining eport growth to the EC might
become problematic even for a relatively marginal exporter such as Poland. Continued high interest
rates would also depress investment demand and adversely affect DFI flows. Und-z ts  scenario of a
negative European environment Poland's exports to the EC could contact over the next two years.
A European crisis couid thus hit the country at a time when the consequences of the restructuring of
enterprises on employment might be felt the most heavily. Slow growth in the economy because of
the lack of buoyancy in exports and weak investment performance, coupled with a rapid erosien of
confidence in the Government's program, could make maintenance of stable macroeconomic
conditions very difficult.



7
18.   Incompletefiscal adjustment. A second scenario is that of a deterioration In public finances.
At the present time, there appears to be no clear constituency calling for the use of excessively
expansionary fiscal policy to stimulate economic activity. The Goverment has in place measures to
make the 1993 budget compatible with macroeconomic stabilization and has secured an International
Monetary Fund (IMF) Stand-by Arrangement. However, many of the measures are short-term, and
the state of public finances continues to remain structurally unbalanced because of the potentially
explosive growth of social spending programs. It is thus unlikely that in the medium term stability
and growth could be secured without addressing the politically sensitive areas of social security and
health financing. While the Government is aware of these problems, it has yet to oudine a clear
strategy for reform. Continued lack of resolve could result in the repedtion of a cycle of rising
expenditures and ad-hoc deep cuts, which could become progressively more difficult to engineer and
steer through Parliament. Public confidence might thus be severely undermined, and the program
could unravel. The effect would be a quick expansion of credit aggregates and a flight from the
zloty, which would herald high inflation and an unsustainable loss in external reserves.
C.    The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(1) The Agenda for Reform
19.   The Bank's assistance strategy and cooperation with Poland is attempting to minimize the
risks of policy slippage with a heavy focus on correcting the underlying wealknesses endangering the
fiscal balance.
20.     rvs, macroeconomic policies must continue to provide a stable economic environment. In
particular, following approval of the 1993 budget by Parliament, the policy targets indicated by the
authorities in their Letter of Ihtent with the IW  should be achieved. More fundamentally, however,
guaranteeing macroeconomic stabilization over the medium term is a task that requires drastic reform
of public finances. Short-term cash management, the main tool for budget contaiment In 1991 and
1992, is not a viable long-term option and should be replaced by measures to confront and reduce the
structural budget deficit. These measures should include, in particular: Q) reform of the social safet
net and of funding of social sector expenditures; (ii) public employment reform and futher
decentralization of the state, accompanied by clear rules for intragovernmental transfers, to stimulate
fscal responsibility at the local level; and (iii) implemenation of a modem tax system.
21.   Prithermore, Poland's external position must be strengthened through the completion of an
agreement with commercial bank cred tors, a necessary condition for generating increased flows of
DFI. The recent resumption of the negotiations between the London Club and Poland on a debt
reduction agreement is a weicome step in this direction that should allow the Paris Club to complete
;ts debt reduction agreement in 1994.
22.   Second, the Government recognizes that strengthenina the supply response requires continued
improvements in the economic environment for private sector initiative, continued action on the SOE
sector and modernization of the fincial markets. In this context it will be necessary to: (I)
stimulate private sector grosth by facilitating new entry through the provision of an appropriate
economic, legal and regulatory environment; (ii) implement reforms in the structure of ownership
and goveance in the SOE sector through accelerated privatization and a clear definition of enterprise
governance for those SOEs unlikely to be privatized in the short term; and (iii) pursue the
restrucring, modernization and evenal privadzation of the banking system. The action program



8
for the latter two objectives, which is suppo -ted by the proposed EPSAL, is discussed in Part m of
this report.
23.   7hird, social safety net spending should become more effective, better targeted to the poor
and vulnerable groups and consistent with budget constraints. Thus far, Poland has made important
progress in modernizing its social safety net. At the same time, social programs already make up the
largest share of goverrnmnt spending, and reforms passed in haste in 1991 and 1992 (particularly
under the pension scheme) have inserted potentially explosive elements in the system that need to be
redressed. Subsidies from the budget for the social funds rose from 2 to 8 percent of GDP between
1990 and 1992, accounting for a large fraction of the increased government deficit over the same
period. Of most immediate concern is reform of the financing of health expenditures, a crucial piece
of legislation that, if not properly engineered, could result in unsustainable budgetary outlays, as has
happened in other former socialist countries. In addition, despite its political contentiousness, reform
of the pension system, particularly of the special pension regimes, should be pursued with
determination. Restructuring of social safety net expenditures should eventually ensure compensation
to the unemployed for the period of transition between jobs and adequate social assistance to the poor,
while remaining compatible with a sustainable public finance situation.
24.   Fourth, the potential for growth in agriculture must be strengthened by increasing the
efficiency of the distribution system and strengthening institutional support for extension and research.
The surviving state farns need to be restructured and privatized, where possible. The greatest
problems lie in the highly inefficient state monopolies that still supply private farms with most of their
inputs. Similarly, agro-processing industries are still in state hands and operate at high costs and low
levels of efficiency. Since the products of agro-industries can be imported freely, inefficiencies in
that sector are shifted backward to Poland's private farmers, thus contributing directly to depressed
rural incomes. To tackle these issues, the Government is working on a program of privatization in
these sectors, coupled with trade and price policies that provide a link with world markets conditions
while cushioning against erratic price swings. In addition, extension and research support are
inadequate, and reforms, already underway in these areas, should be accelerated.
25.   FT, the investment requirements for the modernization of Poland's infrastructure are high,
but public investment is at an all-time low. Overcoming this problem will require, over time, the
alocation of increasing amounts of resources for public capital investment, as well as greater
involvement of the private sector in areas such as telecommunications, transportation and water
supply.
(2) The Government's Action Plan
26.   The Suchocka Goverment has given strong indications that it fully shares the reform agenda
outlined above. It weathered the potentially damaging crisis of August 1992, that was precipitated by
a wave of strikes of a magnitude not seen since 1980, without compromising the fimdamental
objectives of the program. Despite the strikers' strong demands, no bailouts of factories were
engineered. Indeed, the Government has taken the offensive in generating support fom social
partners for its program of enterprise restructring and privatization, and in February 1993 it
concluded the negotiations with the major unions on SOE restructuring and privatization, as well as
on aspects of wage policy. The result is the so-called 'Enterprise Pact."



9
27.   In recent months, the Government has devoted its full attention to the preparation and the
legislative approval of its 1993 budget. In line with baseline projections that pointed to a 1993 deficit
in excess of 10 percent of GDP, the budget incorporated a series of measures to increase revenue and
to reduce expenditures that are expected to cut the fiscal imbalance to Zi 81 trillion, or 5 percent of
projected GDP. After a long and sometimes contentious discussion, Parliament approved the budget,
with only minor modifications, in mid-February. It now is the framework for this year's
macroeconomic policies.
28.   On the basis of these policy intentions, the IMF Board approved a Stand-by Arrangement
covering the period to the end of 1993. This finally ended an impasse that began with the defacto
suspension in June 1991 of a three-year EFF two months after its approval. Satisfactory performance
under an IMF-agreed program is a condition for execution of the second phase of the Paris Club debt
reduction agreement.
29.   The macroeconomic program for 1993 envisages overall growth in output of some 2-3 percent
and a decline in inflation, on a December-to-December basis, to some 33 percent. The current
account of the oalance of payments is expected to deteriorate somewhat, chiefly on account of the
effects of the drought on agricultural exports and the higher growth in imports. External reserves
might decline somewhat, depending on whether a debt reduction agreement with the London Club is
implemented before the end of the year.
30.   The policies envisaged to attain these objectives revolve around a strong publcfice
program consisting of the discussed expenditure and revenue measures. Given the expected small
negative extal financing of the budget, recourse to domestic credit would amount to Z 90 trilion
(ncluding placement of Treasury bills for Zi 15 trillion), which would allow continued growth in
credit to the non-government sector, particularly the private sector. In this framework, monetay
policy would condnue to aim at positive real interest rates. Wage policies recenty agreed by the
Government and unions within the framework of the Enterprise Pact emvisage a two-tier system of
wage negotiations and the possibility of making bonus payments out of after-tax earnings without
mcurrng the penalties of the excess wage tax. They are broadly consistent with the overall inflation
and growth objectives of the program, and would encourage workers' interest in the financial
performance of enterprises. On the exchange rate front, the current crawling peg system would be
mainained.
31.   While the policies pursued by the Government are in the right direction and address many of
the relevant priorities, the ambitious character of the reform agenda should not be underestimatd. A
key constraint on the success of the program is the institutional weakness of the Polish public sector.
Patterned after the requirements of a command economy, it is now in the midst of a reform aimed at
making it compatible with the requirements of a democratic market economy. Ihis process has
involved changes in the roles of different layers of government, as well as attempts to create a
modem civil service and address the problems of public employment. Yet, with a growing private
sector increasingly able to attract the best and brightest civil servants, implementation and institutional
capacity in the public sector are likely to remain an important issue for years to come. The
Government recognizes the importance of this problem  Administraon reform efforts (including
decentralization, civil service reform and control of expenditures) are now a mater of priority.
Coordination has been increased through the creation of a Public Administration Reform Unit in the
Council of Mrnisters, and external technical assistance is actively sougt in areas in which Polish
expertise is missing.



10
(3) Main Objectives of Bank Group Assistance
32.   Poland, the largest country in Central Europe, led the way in the reform movement toward a
democratic market economy throughout the region. The results accomplished in 1992 and the recent
agreement with the IMF give Poland a chance to recapture the leadership that it had in 1990 and lost
In 1991. The Bank's strategy in support of Poland's reform agenda must be viewed in this light.
33.   PolIy Advice. In its continued dialogue on economic issues with the Polish Govement, the
Bank has at crucial times provided important inputs into the elaboration of the economic reforms. In
the areas of privatization, bank and enterprise restructuring, agricultural policies, social sector reform
and reform of the socW safety net, the Bank has contributed practical advice as well as international
perspective, helping the Government focus its efforts and avoid pitfalls. A mix of policy analysis,
joint preparation of economic reform and financial support, together with the mobilization of
additional donor resources are the recipe our assistance program must maintain. This strategy entails
a contimned high commitment of resources on our part, in both human and fiancial terms.
34.   Past Lending. Responding to the broad-based nature of Poland's Economic Transformation
Program, the Bank lending program has aimed at achieving five basic objectives: (i) secure a stable
macroeconomic framework and further strengthen Poland's underlying creditworthiness; (i) support
enterprise reform and restructuring, privatizaon and the growth of the private sector; (ii) upgrade
the country's infrastructure in ways that would support a market economy; ov) enhance environmental
amelioration in all sectors of economic activity; and (v) support the strengthening of Poland's social
safety net to help the country address the social impact of its systemic transformation.
35.   Lending initially concentated on fast-disbursing or hybrid operations, directly supportive of
the initial reform measures (commitments in this category amounted to US$1.12 billion equivalent, or
43 percent of the total), and on fincial intermediation lines (US$520 million equivalent, or 20
percent of the total). Ihe overall program was relatively intensive in technical assistance (TA), both
through up-stream strategy papers (agriculture, health and housing) and significant TA components
embodied in the loans. A noteworthy element of the Bank's TA work (executed under ESMAP
management as part of the Bank's first energy project) was six energy subsector restucturing studies
that laid the foundation for restructring this important sector.
(4) Portfolio Management Performance
36.   A few key lessons are relevant to the design of future Bank strategy. Aeus#nent loans can be
considered to have been relatively successful, in view of the unsettled overall environment
Undoubtedly, design and negotiation have been difficult and subject to political unceait. On many
operations, however, collaboration with the authorities has continued and proved fitfdul, even during
difficult transition periods. Non-compliance with policy covenan has been very limited, and on
several occasions the Government retroactively complied with conditions that might have been missed,
an indication of the high degree of 'ownership' of the reform programs supported by those
operations. Operationally, difficulties were encountered in the setting up of the required machinery
for tanche disbursement under the Structual Adjustment Loan (SAL). An inense effort of
procedural assistance resulted in significant progress.
37.   The implemtion of inesment loans has been somewhat more problematic, and indeed the
size of the outstanding undisbursed amounts is such that high priority must be given to improved



11
project Implementation. It should be stressed that the disbursement of investment loans has not,
however, been out of line with Bank profiles. Rather, the expected quick pace of disbursement has
not entirely materialized. In retrospect, this should have been foreseen during the build-up of the
loan portfolio. Disbursements under credit lines have fallen short of our estimates, with the exception
of those specifically targeting agro-business. There are multiple reasons for the low utilization of
outtanding lines. The demand for investment financing has been depressed in view of the recession
and macroeconomic uncertainty. Bwnking intermediaries are reorganizing and have not always met
the Bank's requirements. Borrowers have been unwilling to follow Bank procurement guidelines,
tuning instead to other available credit lines with less stringent requirements. We anticipate,
however, a substantial pick-up in disbursements to finance the restructuring operati3ns that will occur
under the EFSAL policy framework. Project lending has had a slow start, hampered by a lack of
instutional capability. This has resulted in difficulties in staffing project implementation units, lack
of counterpart fuids, and complicated and changing legal requirements. Nevertheless, in a number of
key sectors (including telecommunications, transportation and employment services) project
preparation and initial execution have contibuted to significant progress in institution-building.
38.   Overall, we plan to devote substantial resources to ensure full udlization and accelerated
disbursement of the projects already committed. A counry mplemenaion review held in early 1993
provided a useful focal point for this effort. The Polish Government has established a joint
commission to accelerate the implementation of projects and to propose remedial actions. Specific
measures will include targeted supervision efforts, as weil as specific assistance in training in
procurement and disbursement procedures. Credit line provisions might be examined, on an
individual basis, to evaluate the extent to which more flexible arrangements on the Bank's part (for
instance, with respect to financing permanent working capital) might result in progress on this front.
(5) The Banks's Assistance Strategy
39.   Given the experience gained in the first phase of Bank's assistance, the objectives of the
Polish reform agenda, and expectations of the Government's ability to meet these objectives, the
Bank's assistance strategy will emphasize several complementary and mutually reinforcing objectives.
40.   First, the Bank will continue to work for better implementaion of eistng projects. This is
necessary not only to ensure that committed amounts are utilized efficiently, but also because many of
the outstanding loans support ongoing reforms that are key to Poland's agenda.
41.   Second, the Bank will strive to continue to provide donor leadership, and wiNl use economic
and sector work (ESW) as the intellectual foundation for integrating donor contributions into a
coherent country assistance strategy for Poland.
42.   Third, the Bank's lending program will be based on a four-pronged strategy:
(i)  Support for adjustment programs that comlement the IMF programs by strengthening
broad sectoral policies and sectoral performance that will lead from stabilizaion to self-
sustained growth. Efforts to implement successfully outstanding loans in support of
privatization and enterprise restructuring will be a key element. In addition, major new
initiatives will be launched, such as the present project in support of banking sector
recapitalization and enterprise work-outs (EFSAL), structural adjustment and



12
privatization in agriculture (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan, ASAL) and public
sector and public administration adjustment (Public Sector Adjustment Loan, PSAL), and
in support of a DDSR operation. Preconditions for these loans will be continued
progress on public finance reform, as we.l as mairtenance of a stable macroeconomic
envioent. In complementing fast-isbursing operations, the Bank will seet to engage
the government and to finance reforms in the crucial area of socal policy, including
unemployment beneffts, social security, and social assistance.
(ii) Continued support for reforn In those areas of econondc acdvty at will rematn the
domain of the state and where reform and institutional build-up are necessary conditions
of the success of the economic program. The Bank has supported the Government in the
areas of roads and rural infrastructure. It will build on its recent operation in the health
sector and intensify lending for reform in the social sectors, in particular in education.
(iii) Contribute to inestnent In and rehabiitation of    asture with prive sector
particpaion, recognizing that the primary role the Government can play in this area is
to establish the appropriate regulatory environment, which can then contribute to
attracting non-goverment resources. The Bank will seek ways to mobilize non-
budgetary resources through direct involvement of private sector operators, in particular
in cogeneration privatization and Telecom H. We will also provide help and resources in
establishing a viable framework for financing of local infrastructural investment.
(iv) Play an important role as an agent of adjustment through TA In the fojnmadon of
enteprise resuuring plans and lending to support the restruuring and adjusment
costs of prvatization in specific subsectors such as steel, heavy chemicals, coal,
shipyards and energy, including the downstream petroleum sector. The Bank is
considering an active role in a few of these difficult subsectors.
43.   Chice of Lendig Instrwments. Following the emphasis on adjustment lending in FY93, the
composition of the lending program is expected to shift gradually toward investment lending, as
Poland's absorptive capacity increases. Although declining in relative terms, however, adjustment
lending is still slated to play an important role. The justification is two-fold. First, on policy
grounds, the Bank is expected to continue to provide support in many of the areas outlined above, in
which the reform effort has to etend over a mnmber of years. Second, adjustment lending is also
justified on balance-of-payments grounds, particularly because of the expected increase in debt
servicing, which will follow the normalization of payments with commercial bank creditors and the
resumption of full-scale payments to the Paris Club startng mid-1994. By contrast, the Bank does
not expect to process furither line-of-credit operations in the near future, except possibly in support of
a fiscally-viable program of local government infrastrucural investment.
44.   Economic and Sector Work. Well-targeted ESW is an important means of conveying policy
advice to the Government; it is the prime vehicle through which the Bank can contribute to aid
coordination-it can do so by using the Bank's comparative advantage in strategic (sector and macro)
analysis to provide a common framework for all donors. It also serves to target and support the
Bank's lending program. Given these considerations, ESW tasks identified for the next two to three
years would concentrate in three areas: (i) structural underpinnings of the medium-term
macroeconomic framework; (i) institutional reforms in the public sector; (iii) selected sector studies.



13
45.   Medium-Tern Macroeconomic Framework. Work in this area wil aim at: directly supporting
the Government in formuladng its medium-term growth strategy; improving its effectiveness in a
number of economic management tasks; and enhancing the Bank's analytic understanding and
monitoring of the economy. Activities here wil include technical assistance to the Goverment in
support of a London Club agreement and macroeconomic assessment and modelling. A fourth CEM
for Poland (scheduled for FY94) will be used as a vehicle for evaluatng performance and analyzing
policy implementation at a time when substantial progress should be expected in privatization,
enterprise and financial sector restucturing, soci security reform and public admnistrion reorm.
The CEM would propose a medium-term growth stLategy that integrates income distribution
considerations and social security reform within a coherent macroeconomic framework. This work
would build on the planned Poverty Assessment, which would provide the basis for improved
targeting of the social safety net.
46.   Insialonal Reforns in the Public Sector. Support for the institutional reform efforts
diswussed above would be provided through studies and technical assistance. The Public
Administration Reform Review will explore options and altenaives for reform of the public
administration, assessing the Government's strategy and providing options based on international
experience. A follow-up study on local governments would be targeted at the further decentralization
of government activities. It would build on a previous report that helped considerably in shaping the
reforms and will provide the basis for possible lending at a decentralized level. TA is now being
provided through an IDF grant to support public administration reform, control of expenditures and
decentralization.
47.   Sector Studies. A number of sector studies are also planned: the Labor Market Update; the
Social Services Managemeat Study; and the Health and Housing Sector Updates. These studies would
address key issues of management and reform in the social sectors, whose importance has been
discussed above. Depending on the strength of the program and the quality of the policy dialogue,
the Bank would also envisage a market logistics/business infrastructure study; a rewiew of the water
sector and energy and environment updates, all potentially leading to lending operations.
(6) Programs of Special Emnphasis
48.   The World Bank's assistance for Poland includes important comnponents to address areas of
special operational emphasis, through both lending and ESW. As disussed, the Bank expects to
provide financial support for the solution of Poland's debt problem   Povr reducdon would be
addressed direcily in lending operations to streamline the social safety net and provide resources for
cushioning the unemployment effects of industrial restructuring. Following the Poverty Assessment,
work would be undertaken with the Polish authorities to strengthen the mechanisms for monitoring
poverty, in order to provide better targeting of benefits. Several operations and studies tackle up-
front private sector development and public seaor management. We have contributed importantly to
defining the economic, legal and regulatory framework for private sector activity and to privatizadon,
and our lending program as well as the execution of ongoing projects reflect that accomplishment
Hunan resource development would be fostered through our support for the modernization of
Poland's education and training systems, which are woefully outdated and unsuited to the needs of a
market economy.
49.   Finally, the Bank's strategy on the environment is to integrate the environmental dimension in
all projects and to ensure that project design fosters and leads to improved environmental conditions.



14
We favor reduction of ongoing pollution over "clean-up" of the bacldog of degradation. To this
extent the emphasis would be on the energy and heavy industry sectors that continue to be major
sources of ongoing pollution. All these sectors require capacity reductions, modernization of
technologies and reduced enviromnental impact. The Bank has already funded restructuring studies in
all these mentioned sectors; it would be logical to participate in the implementation stage.
(7) Role of IFC/IMIGA
50. The International Finance Cooperation (IFC) launched its first operation in early 1990 and
continues to be qc ite active in the country. Its activities have focused or supporting DFI and
development of the capital markets and on providing a range of advisory services. The IFC has
helped strcture some large privatizations by suppording joint venture activity. In addition to
providing financing on its own account, it has helped mobilize commercial financing for these
developments. It has also opened a line of credit for development of exports, which suffers (like the
Bank loans) from the weak investment climate. The IFC has also established the Polish Business
Advisory Service to assist small and medium-sized enterprises develop investment projects and secure
financing for their implementation. It has advised the Polish authorities on financial sector reforms
and was the match-maker in setting up the twinning arrangements for commercial banks under the
Financial Intermediaries Development Loan (FIDL).
51.   The IFC will continue to play an important role in the future development of private
aanufacturing and services in Poland. Many of the large state enterprises/organizations contain
activities that, if restuctured and privatized, could be viable. Such deals require a broad range of
support-fincial, legal, strategic and organizational-tat the IFC is well-placed to provide. This
capacity is another reason why we do not anticipate further Bank-financed lines of credit, leaving
scope for both IFC equity and lending.
52.   Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) also has important work, as Poland holds
significant, unexploited prospects for DFI, that have been dormant because of political uncenties.
(8) Cooperation with Other Multilateral Institutions
53.   IThe IE is providing substantial balance-of-payments support to Poland, as well as policy
advice and TA in a number of key areas of public sector reform. Collaboration between the IMF and
the World Bank has been excellent, and the two institutions have closely consulted with respect to
policy advice in areas of common interest and responsibility. The understandings relative to
structural reform policies incorporated in the Letters of Intent for the three arrangements between
Poland and the Fund have been elaborated with World Bank help and support. Staff of both
institutions have participated in joint missions on macroeconomic programming and on public sector
reform. We intend to continue this productive collaboration in the future.
54.   With respect to lending and the provision of TA, an important issue is our complementity
with other IFIs and with bilateral and multilateral donors. The Bank has coordinated closely with the
European Commission's (EC) PHARE program, the British Know How fimd and other OECD
donors. We have to continue to work very closely with these donors, which are making very useful
contributions to the Polish institution-building effort. Relations with the European Bank for
Reconstuction and Development (EBRD) are also evolving as that institution better specifies its roles
and its mandate. The EBRD began operations in Poland in April 1990, focusing initially on three



15
main areas: (i) privatization and restructuring of SOEs and banks and support for private enterprises;
(ii) banking and financial sector and promotion of financial institutions and retail banking; and (iii)
enviromental rehabilitation and environmentally-oriented energy programs and modernization and
stabilization of the energy supply. Apart from TA and financial support in the above areas, the
EBRD also envisages cofinancing with the Bank in the following areas: infastructure, such as
telecommunications, energy and transport, as well as forestry, and adjustment operations in
agriculture and the financial and enterprise sectors. Over the last 18 months, the EBRD has
committed roughly US$500 million equivalent in Poland, observing fully its mandate to lend 60
percent of its portfolio to the private sector, with the remainder going to the public sector. It is
expected that the pace of new commitments will increase, with annual commitmnents exceeding
US$500 million. At present, the only restriction on EBRD's lending to Poland is a US$200 million
ceiling on any single project in the country.
55.   Overall, the Bank and the EBRD have operated in fairly coincident areas. The Bank's
comparative advantage and the lack of adjustment lending facilities at the EBRD have contributed to
establishing a primary role for the World Bank in the design of the overall reform strategy, social
policy issues and sectoral policy reforms and restucturing. The EBRD ias concentated on
Individual, or more micro-focused, transactions in terms of both lending and the provision of TA and
policy advice. This division of roles should be satisfactory for both instiutions, and we eMpect that it
will continue in the future.
D.    Summary
(1) The Economic Program
56.   After two very difficult years, economic conditions in Poland improved in 1992. Overall
output showed a slight increase, despite the effects of the worst drought in the postwar period.
Progress in reducing inflation from the hyperinflationary levels of 1989 has continued steadily. An
expansion of exports and a further contraction of imports have led te a positive current balance and a
stengthening of the reserve position.
57.   Much progress is still required to fulfill the reform agenda that Poland has set for itself.
First, a stable macroeconomic environment must be maintained. Second, the movement of resources
away from old, low-productivity activities into new growth sectors must be accelerated. To this end,
the reform of ownership and governance of enterprises and banks must be intsified, thereby
speeding up enterprise and bank restructuring and privatizaon. Third, social spening programs
must be rationalized, ensuring adequate benefits for the unemployed and social assistance for the poor
while cutting abuses in the pension and disability systems. The mobilization of public support for
such a reform is perhaps the greatest single political challenge. Fourth, public adminon reform,
involving control of expenditure programs, decentralization, tax administraton overe5aul and
administrative reform, must replace cash management as a tool of deficit containnrent.
58.   After a period of political uncertaity, which led to a slowdown in the pace of reform in late
1991, the Suchocka Government mustered sufficient support over the last few monts to steer tough
budget measures through Parliament. It has taken the initiative to generate support from social
partners for its progr m of enterprise restructuring and privadzation. After a long parliamentary
debate, the Government secured approval of the 1993 budget, thus paving the way for a Stand-by
Arrangement with the IMP, replacing the inoperative EFF.



16
59.   Our assistance strategy is centered on a scenario that assumes good progress in implementing
dte policy agenda just discussed. GDP growth would resume in 1993 and be sustained through the
end of the decade. Reform of public finances would reduce rs-iance on domestic financing of the
deficit, which in turn would allow greater credit expansion for private sector activities. On the
external financing side, completion of the second phase of the Paris Club agreement and of a J)DSR
agreement with commercial bank creditors would allow Poland to finance a modest current account
deficit through small but increasing flows of DFI, and through a reasonable build-up of new lending,
mostly from bilateral and IFI sources. Such a scenario would not constitute a dramatic success story
in terms of growth and increases in living standards, but it would put Poland on a sustainable growth
path in the latter part of the decade and would make it one of the first countries of the region to enter
the next century as a full-fledged market economy.
(2) Risks
60.   While there are good reasons to believe that the base case reflects the most likely scenario,
important risks should also be factored into our strategy. Poland's recovery is hinged on the rapid
growth of exports to EC markets, which might not be sustained in the futre if Europe were to falls
into prolonged recession. Domestically, macroeconomic stability might be compromised if the
Govermment is not able to pursue fundamental fiscal reform, particularly in the difficult areas of
social spending. Increased economic Instability as a result of either cause would no doubt deal a set-
back to the economic transformation and resumption of growth back.
(3) The Bank's Assistance Program
61.   Poland, the largest country in Central Europe, has led the way in the reform movement
toward a democratic society and market economy throughout the region. Ihe results achieved in
1992 and the agreement with the IP give Poland a chance to recapture the leadership it achieved in
1990 and lost In 1991. The Bank's strategy in support of Poland's ambitious agenda must be viewed
in this light. Over the next few years, the Bank intends to continue to support the reform effort with
a combination of very practical and policy-oriented economic work and a substantia lending program.
The lending strategy would support four main objectives. First, adjustment programs would
complement the IS program by strengthening broad sectoral policies and sectoral performance that
would lead from stabilization to self-sustained growth. In this context, the Bank intends to provide
support for a DDSR operation with the London Club creditors. Second, support would be provided
for programs in areas of economic activity that will remain the domain of the state and where reform
and institutional buid-up are necessary conditions for the success of the economic program. Third,
investment in the rehabilitation of inafastructure would be supported, with private sector participation.
Fourth, we want to attempt to provide specific support for enterprise restructuring, downsizing, and
privatization in some very difficult subsectors, such as coal and steel.
62.   Lending would be complemented by ESW wbich is of particular interest in the case of
Poland, since the Polish experience, if well-documented and analyzed, may help other European and
Central Asia (ECA) countries embarking on the difficult jourey to a modern market economy.



17
PART U - THE ENTERIPRISE AND THJE BANi(NG SECTORS
A.    The Enterprise Sector
63.   Before 1989, the enterprise sector in Poland was organized into socialized and non-socialized
units. Broadly speaking, socialized units included SOEs, cooperatives and social organizations (such
as unions, and religious and political groups). Non-socialized units mainly comprised individual
businesses and joint ventures with foreign investors. During the last three years, this classification
has become progressively blurred with the introduction of new legal organizatioral stuctures and new
types of mixed ownership. In response to this evolution, the authorities developed a new
classification system, in force since January 1, 1991, which established public and private ownership
as the primary classification criterion.
64.   As of December 1992, enterprises in the public sector included about 8,200 SOEs and about
770 commercialized state-owned companies. The bulk of public enterprises are in industry (about
3,200), construction (about 1,300) and agriculture (about 1,800). The remainder operate in the trade
and service sectors (about 2,700), where they account for a smaller share of output tha in other
sectors. It is estimated that as of the end of December 1992, public enterprises accounted for about
60-70 percent of the gross sales of the enterprise sector. (Agriculture and agro-industry are not
explicitly dealt with under the proposed loan, as they are the focus of a separate ASAL [para. 421).
(1) Recent Performance
65.   Developments In the Enterprise Sector. Following the implemenaion of the Economic
Transformation Program in 1990 and the collapse of CMEA trade in 1991, gross sales of the
enterprise sector1 declined sharply in real terms, by about 25 percent and 13 percent in 1990 and
1991, respectively. Despite the pressure of declining sales and the obvious need for restructuring,
many enterprises were unable to adjust their production or costs to improve their financial position.
This lack of adjustment is reflected in the evolution of the performance indicators for the overall
enterprise sector. Sales per employedperson were estimated to be as much as 10 percent lower at the
end 1992 an at the end of 1991. Following the cut in real wages t'st occurred at the beginning of
the Economic Transformation Program in Jamny 1990, uwt labor costs in zloty terms regained an
upward trend and were back at their end-of-1989 level by the middle of 1991. In dollar tems, labor
costs rose even more markedly over the period, almost doubling as compared with the beginning of
the program, a reflection of Poland's initial effort to hold to a nominal exchange rate anchor. Only
after the shift in exchange rate policy in 1992 did dollar unit labor costs start to decline marginally.
Following the fall in output and abolition of the subsidies on energy, non-wage real costs per uni of
production have also risen sharply since the end of 1989.
The staistcs quoted bere weoe produced by the Cental Staiscal Office (GUS). GUS data agrate
publicly- and privatey-owned enterprises and cover entprises with SO or more employees in industry
or 20 or more employees in ote sects. Consequently, Xt daft provide better coverge of the SOB
secwr (whre entewpris ae of larger size) dtan of the emerging privat sector.



18
66.   In contrast, during 1992, sales of the enterprise sector showed signs of recovery, with those
of industry rising 4 percent on average. This positive development has been driven by the strong
perfomance of private entetprises: their sales increased by 32 percent, while those of SOEs dropped
a further 5 percent. Similarly, in the constuction sector, where sales grew by 5.5 percent on
average, the increase for the private sector was 32 percent, in contrast to a decline of 38 percent for
the SOE sector. Reviews of the loan portfolios of commercial banks by external auditors highlight
that a core group of around 2,000 SOEs,' mainly in heavy industry, are the major loss-makers. At
the same time, there are indications that medium-sized SOEs operating in light industry and in the
trade and service sectors have been relatively successful in adjusting to the new market conditions, in
particular to the collapse of CMEA trade. These enterprises have increasingly been able to tap new
export markets, particularly in the EC, and they continue to account for a substantial porion of Polish
exports.
(2) From Soft to Hard Budget Constraints
67.   The financial difficulties of the core group of large loss-makers are transmitted to other
sectors of the economy through the build-up of debt service arrears: (i) a serious portfolio problem
developed, starting In early 1991, in the banking system, particularly In the nine state-owned
commercial banks (SOCBs), that channel most of the credit to the enterprise secter (para. 81); and (ii)
loss-maling enterprises have built up large tax and social security arrears with the budget,2
significantdy contributing to the current fiscal crisis.
68.   Beyond causing finacial difficulties for their creditors, loss-making SOEs are likely to lead to
difficult social adjustments when their inevitable restructuring or liquidation takes place. Large loss
making enterprises are estimaed to employ between 500,000 and 700,000 people. While this nmber
is only approximately 3 percent of the labor force, larger enterprises are often the sole employer in
the areas where they are located. In addition, they operate a wide range of social assets, including
schools, hospitals and power stations. Consequently, their failure would virtually wipe out the
availability of social services and the economic ralson d'&re of many towns and cities acoss Poland.
69.   It seems that, despite the ongoing difficulties in enforcing a hard budget constait on many
SOEs, there was a significant chnge in 1992. For the first time commercial banl-s reduced their
SOE exposure. At the same time, the Government persisted in its no major bail-out policy,
transforming expectations in the enterprise sector. This move from a soft to hard budget constraint
has affected enterprise behavior and generated improvements in productivity.
(3) Govemance and Ownership
70.   While a hard budget constraint is one of the conditions for improved performance, Internal
governance and ownership reform are essential for medium-term progress. At the heart of the
These are the enterprises classified by auditors, basnd on both finana perfoance and debt serice
citeia, as 'doubt   or "loss" bowowers, using Anglo-Saxon loan classification methool  (ie.,
with loa   asified in five c ai-p, watch,            doub4 tl aInd loss).
2     Tbe liabflities of do eanteprise sector on account of obligations to the budget amountd to Zi 58 tnillion
(about 4 percent of CDP and 17 percent of entprise abties) at the end of August 1992.



19
struct    problems that have slowed adjustment in Poland and other post-commuu   societes Is the
largely unchanged SOE goverance structure. There Is no effective owner, and workers, represented
by a Workers' Council, have the power to fire the manager and oppose personnel actions. Under this
institutional set-up, there is no effective incentive to maximize the value of the firm. In short, there
Is no advocate for capital, a perverse situation that leads to a dissipation of the capital base of firms
and wait-and-see attitudes instead of decisive restructuring. Enforcing a hard budget constraint may
lead to more efficient short-run use of existing assets, but only the introduction of effective ownership
will result in medium-term productivity and value- enhancing management.
71.   To address this Issue, in late 1990 the Government embarked on a comprehensive
prlvaiewonprograml (Annex 4). Following enactment in August 1990 of the Law on Privatzatlon
of State-Owned Enterprises (the Privatization Law), the Government developed a multi-track approach
to privaizatlon, including: (i) privaffzation through the "dissoludon' of SOEs (productive assets are
contributed, sold or leased to new private companies, an approach much used ir the case of
management or employee buy-outs); (ii) capital privatization, under which shares of a commercialized
enterprise are sold to private investors; and (iii) mass privatization, a one-time transfer of the
ownership of selected enterprises to National Investment Funds (NIFs), which, in turn, would be
owned by private citizens following distribution of their shares through a voucher scheme.2
Subsequendy, additional privatization tracks were developed by the Ministry of Privatization (MOP),
such as sectoral privatization,! restructuring privatization,4 and privatization through "quick saless5.
As a transitory step toward privatization, the Govemment program also envisioned the
commerdalkaton of SOEs on a large scale. Commercialization was viewed as a means to improve
enterprise governance, with the dismantling of the Workers' Councils and the establishment of
Supervisory Boards.
72.   As of December 1992, program  Imlenadon had resulted in the privadzation of 1,600-odd
SOEs, representing about 20 percet of the total and 12 to 15 percent of total industrial output (Annex
4). In addition, about 500 SOEs had been commercialized, of which 180 were to participate in the
MPP.
I      Supported by the Bak throug the Privatiation and Restructurig Project (project number 3342-POL).
2      The Mass Pvatization Program (MPP) envisions selectg 400 to 600 profitable SOEs (increased from
200 under the inital plan) and transfeing their ownrsip to about 15 NIPs dtat in tuWm would be
owned by the public tbrough a two-stage quasi-fr  share distibution scheme. Initially, managent of
the NIPs would be conraced out through tender to reputable, mostly Western, investment companie8.
Some 14 percent of the SOE sector is expected to be transfrred to the private sector umder this
procedure.
3      Sysemic assessment of entris   belonging to a particulr sctor, with a view to determining those
to be liquidated, resructed or sold; and individual privatization of those enterprise for which foreign
investors or groups of local investors can be readily found.
4      lsis process consists of awarding control of an enterprse to a mageal group by auction and
providing it with strong ficial incentives linked to increases in the value of the finn. Privatization
of the firm would occur within a period of two to four years.
Sfi    Fast-track auctioning of smaller enterprises to local investors.



20
73.   Although encouraging, these results are well below initial expecttions. Two main reasons, in
addition to the so far cautious attitude of foreign investors vis-h-vis Poland, appear to have accounted
for the relatively slow pace of privaization:
(i) The principle of voluntaty enterprise transformadon established by the Privatization Law
required prior consent for privatizaton by management and the Workers' Councils. In
September 1992, the Governmet initiated an ambitious set of negotiations with the
unions resulting in the so-called Enterprise Pact. The aim was to revisit this princip:e in
exchange for increased worker incentives tied to privatization and worker representation
on the Supervisory Boards of commercialized and privatized enterprises. These
negotiations, successfully: ompleted in February 1993, will result in significant
amendments to the Privatization Law.
(ii) The institutional capabilities of the MOP are limited relative to the lengthy and resource-
intensive preparation required for individual sales, as well as the complexity of a scheme
such as the MPP. Preparation for the MPP involved the development of regulations for
the NIFs that will hold shf*es in privatized companies, for the contracting of managers
for the NEFs and for the c:istdbution of shares in the NIFs to the population. It also
necessitated the selection and commercialization of the enterprises under the program.
All this work is now completed, and a comprehensive Mass Privatization Law has been
submitted to Parliament.
74.   With the slower-than-pected pace of ownership and governace reforms, restructuring has
most ofte proceeded in an unclear, haphazard manner, and progress in closing non-viable activities
has been limited. In recent monts, the Government, responding to social and political pressures, has
been forced to intervene in the formulation and execution of restructring packages and to provide
some finmcial resources. Calls for selective help and "rescue" are likely to increase. Given that
selective intervention is going to be unavoidable and in some cases even desirable, it would be
preferable to address the issue openly, make the process subject to predefined criteria and keep it
within tight budget constraints, rather than denying the problem and resorting to interventions entirely
driven by political considerations.
B.    The Banldug System
(1) Early Developments
75.   Before 1989, the structre of the Polish banking system was typical for socialist economies.
It consisted of the Central Bank-monobank (National Bank of Poland, NBP) and four state-owned
specialized banks.' In January 1989, Parliament enacted a new Banking Law and a Law on the
Central Bank, which together created nine state-owned commnercial banks (SOCBs) that took over
most of the NBP's SOE loan portfolio and branch network. To spur competition, the authorities
subsequendy granted some 80 licenses to new prvate banks (1989-91). Building on this institutional
PKO BP, the savings and housing bank; PKO SA, the foreign exchange deposits bank;, Bank
Handlowy, the foreigm tusde bank, and BGZ, the bank specializng in financing sae-wed fim  and
agro-industry and associatd with a nationwide netwoik of approximately 1,700 small COOpev ban
catering to the financing needs of ptivate armr and ural households.



21
foundatton, the banking reform progam was focused on two sets of actions, to be Implemented over
two to tiree years: (i) creating the proper environment for the overall banking system to operate
along market lines (i.e., development of a legal, regulatory, supervisory and accounting framework;
transition to indirect monetary controls, reduction in the volume of directed credit and clarification of
past financial links with the state); and (ii) fostering the institutional development of the nine SOCBs
through govenamce reforms and massive injection of Western technical assistance.1 In additon, the
program envisioned the privatization of two SOCBs. The Bank supported these early reforms with
the FIDL approved by the Board in June 1991 (Loan number 3341-PCL).
76.   With the exception of the regulatory and supervisory framework (paras. 88-91), the objectives
of these reforms have been achieved or exceeded: (i) growth of directed credit has been successfully
contained, thanks in particular to major amendments to existing housing finance schemes2; and (U)
indirect instruments of monetary control have been effectively developed (introduction of unified and
market-based interest rates and development of the Treasury bills market). These achievements have
paved the way for lifting the credit ceilings, now envisaged by the NBP to take place during 1993
under the Stand-by Arrangement agreed to with the IMP.
77.   The other positive development under the program is the iniial success in fostering the
nsitdonal deelopment of the SO CBs. Ihe Ministry of Finance (MoF) has exercised Its ownerhip
function in quite an effective way vis-k-vis the SOCBs, achieving a delicate balance between increased
autonomy and accountability and active shareholder guidance on key strategic issues. To achieve the
first objective, the MoF commercialized the nine SOCBs in October 1991 and established Supervisory
Boarda omposed of independent outsiders. In parallel, the MoF kept providing guidance on key
strategic issues. For instance, it weighed in to elicit bank managers' support for twinning
arrangements to provide Western technical assistance on a massive scale3. Further, when the SOE
crisis became apparent, the MoF instrlcted the SOCBs to establish new organizational units, Workout
Departments (WODs, see para. 87), and to take prelimnary measures to deal specifically with bad
loans. The MoF also closely monitored the SOCBs, in particular by cmmissioning exter  auditors
to carry out annual financial and portfolio audits.
78.   As a result of MoF guidance, exposure to Wester auditing firms and active implementation
of the twinning arrangements, the SOCBs have made impressive strides toward becoming ful-fledged
banking organizations and more effective financial intermediaries (Annex 5). For instnce, they have
developed their deposit funding base considerably as opposed to previous reliance on NBP
refinancing; they show early signs of improved asset management, e.g., better portfolio classification
Ipovmg the instiuional capaility and banking sklls of the specialid banks was deemed a lesser
prionty for two reasons: (i) based on their longer existee, they were institutionaly sronger; and (ii)
their role in the transformation of the real sector was less critical than that of the SOCB&
2      More information on thes chages can be found in Staff Appraisa Report no. 9853-POL for the
Housing Project for Poland, dated May 29, 1992.
Under the so-called twiming angements seven of the ne Polish SOCBs have joined with reputable
Westem banks. The puxpose being a transfer to the Polish banks of skils in aU areas of banidng
operations over a thee-year period.



22
systems and more active credit risk mfa1agement; and in most cases, they are building professonal
skills in earnest, thanks to the twinning arrangements.
79.   At this juncture, the Polish banking system faces two major challenges. First ad foremost,
the SOE crisis has hit mostly the SOCBs, seriously constraining their further development. Second,
weaknesses remain in the regulatory and supervisory frameworls. If these weanesses are not
addressed rapidly, they may not only affect the public's confidence in the banking system but also
delay the bank privadzatlon sought by the reform program
(2) Inpact of the SOE Crisis
80.   The SOE crisis primarily affects the nine SOCBs, which are the main providers of credit to
SOEs and whose por;folios are highly vulnerable to them. As of September 1992, SOE loans
represented the primary exposure of the SOCBs, with about 90 percent of their loans to the non-
Goverment sector. SOCBs held 67 percent of the US$7.5 billion equivalent SOE debt tD the
domestic banking system; they were followed by Bank Handlowy (11 percent), with the balance
roughly shared between PKO BP, PKO SA and the private banks.
81.   Portfolio Deterioradon. Tho quality of the commercial banks' portfolios deteritd  sharply
during 1990 and 1991, following the deepening of the recession. According to a first set of portfolio
reviews carried out by Western auditors as of June 1991, the bad loans (classified as doubtful or loss)
of seven SOCBs1 increased, on average, from 15-20 percent to 40 percent of their loan portfllios
between the end of 1990 and June 1991. Portfolio reviews updated as of June 1992 indicate that this
deterioration bottomed out after June 1991, reflecting the stabilization in economic actvity.
82.   Capital Adequacy. While the SOCBs exhibited an average capital adequacy ratio of 12-13
percen  at the end of 1990, the magnitude and speed of the portDolio deterioration eperienced in
1991 rapidly led to serious solvency problems. Based on the mid-1991 portfolio reviews, the seven
commercial banks under review were esmated to be insolvent In the aggregate.3 The banks'
financial condition bas improved since then, as a rest of the to hih spreads charged to boirowers
(para. 84) and, to some extent, a shift from risk assets to Government securities. However, based on
an updated $et of portfolio reviews and financial audits, the shortfall of the commercial banks' capital
to 12 percent of their risk-weighted assets was still significant as of June 1992. After adequate
provisioning for loan losses and accrued interest, the shortfall was esdmated to be ZI 11 trillion, or
about US$750 million.
I     As two commercial ban  were being prepared for privatizatin, their audits and portfoio reviess were
carred out under the aegs of the investmen baks advising the Govment an tbis uter. For
confidentiality reasons, the results of thes  views have not been officially communicated to the Bank
However, the stuation of the two bnks concerned, as could be expected frm their selection for
privatization, is reporedly significantly *betteru than the average.
2      Based oan the Basi methodology.
3      Reflecting discrepancies observed in portfolio quality, the solvency ratios from bank to bank vared,
with some stil meeting or close to the Base standaras as of the middle/end of 1991, and some healy
insolvent.



23
83.   Ihe bad loan problem in the SOCBs has caused them to distort credit allocation. During
1990-91, potentially insolvent SOCBs capitalized the debt service payments due on their problem
loans, often at penalty interest rates up to two times higher than contractual rates. In continuing to
service" problem debtors, the SOCBs used up a major part of the headroom available to them under
the credit ceilings and crowded out viable SOEs and private sector borrowers. Becae of the bank
managers' growing awareness of the loan portfolio problem, the stock of credit outstnding to
enterprises has declined in real terms since early 1992, and lending by the commercial banks
remained significantly below their credit ceilings during most of the year. In fact, there is real
evidence that commercial bank behavior changed substantially in 1992, resulting both in a hardening
of enterprise budget constraints and in an iteruption of the worsening trend that had characterized
the banks' portfolios. Nevertheless, the outstanding principal balances of many problem borrowers,
which are mostly of very short maturity, are still continuously being rolled over, locking up a very
large part of the credit that could otherwise be made available for more efficient uses.
84.   The commercial banks' fimancial distress has dtansated into very high spreads between their
average lending and deposit rates (about 25 percent on short-term deposits, versus lending rates of 55-
60 percent). Despite increased interbank competition, average term deposit rates are still negative in
real terms (at about 40 percent as against the 45 percent inflation rate recorded in 1992). On the
lending side, banks charge high interest rates (15-20 percentage points above the NBP refinance rate)
to their sound borrowers to cross-subsidize the problem debtors. As a result, many business ventures
may not be getting off the ground because of to the unafordability of bank financing. In the absence
of an eeal injection of funds, the banks wiUl be forced to continue to protect their capital base by
realizing extraordinarily high margins, at the cost of growing disnmediation and foregone
economic growth.
85. The portfolio problems also take their toll on the banks in terms of the extent to which they
are able to concentrate on their   tudonal develoment and on diversification into new acdvities.
Without a restructuring program to tackle the problem in a systematic, straightforward manner, the
foreclosure on assets and the restrucuring of the debts of problem borrowers threaten to absorb
substal human resources. How time-consuming an individual debt restrucurig can be is
demonstrated by one of the early large restructing experiences, the Szczecin shipyard. The debts of
this shipyard to two SOCBs were restucmred by a creditor consortium, which hired Western workout
experts to assist them. Even with this assistance, the restuctring took more than six months to
complete and significantly constrained the management avaiability of the banks.
86. As long as the portfblio problems of the commercial banks are not solved, it will be difficult
to implement a satQactory and dear regulatory/accounting famnwrk, particularly sound rules
regarding loan classification and provisioning, treatment of interest income and limits on large
exposures. Alternatvely, the NBP could be led to apply dual standards: more lenient for the
commercial banks and stricter for newly created private banks. The detrimental impact of such a dual
system on competition and on the costs of inte n would be sigicant.
87.   Until specific legislation supportng the Government program is passed (ara. 104), the MoF
is actively using its shareholders' powers to ense at banks address theirporfoo issue. In the
spring of 1992, the MoF itrcted all nine SOCBs to take the following actions: (i) establish the
new WODs, and staff them adequately, preferably with outside professionals; (u) assign to WODs
those loans classified as doubtfl or loss and refrain from new lending to doubtful and loss borrowers;
and (ii) start evaluating the viability of all bad customers and taking action on them.



24
(3) Regulatory and Supervisory Framework
88.   Reform of the regulatory and supervisory framework for the financial sector has generally
been slower than expected under the Goverment's financial sector reform program. The main
reason is NBP's inability to address key issues such as its limited staff capability because of a period
of institutional instability that persisted until mid-1992. The NBP did not have a permanent president
from the summer of 1991 until March 1992, nor a head of its Supervision Department until late May
1992. In addition, a number of private or cooperative bank failures have required NBP's urgent
attention and diverted a significant part of its scarce resources.
89.   Under the FIDL-supported program, the legalframework for the bankdng sector was to be
overhauled through the enactment, by second tranche release, of new banking sector legislation (the
Banking Law, Central Bank Law and Deposit Insurance Law). The need for such a complete
overhaul, however, has become considerably less pressing. On the one hand, establishment of a
deposit insurance scheme preferably should await the financial strengthening of the banking system,
including, among other things, recapitalization of the SOCBs. On the other hand, Parliament
adopted, over the past two years, three sets of substantive amendments' to the Banking Law,
considerably improving existing legislation. These amendments (i) reinforce the independence of the
NBP (whose president is now appointed for six years and cannot be removed) and enable the NBP to
establish and enforce binding prudential regulations; (ii) tighten the licensing requirements for new
banks; (iii) increase the control over bank ownership and limit the possibilities for banks to own other
financial and non-financial entities; and Qiv) effectively tighten the regulation of banks regarding large
exposures and eliminate the possibility of lending to insiders at more favorable terms. Fully revised
new legislation is being finalized and will be submitted to Parliament during the first half of 1993.
Given the substantive revisions described above, it will mostly involve harmonization and
rationalization of the various existing legal texts. The only substantive new addtions are expected to
be: (i) the deposit insurance mechanism; (ii) more clarity in the classes and powers of financial
institutions; and (iii) a wider range of enforcement powers for the NBP, in particular, refinement of
the instruments with which the NBP can intervene in bank activities.
90.   The development of proper regulatory and accouning standards that are strictd, binding, as
opposed to the non-binding guidelines issued in 1990, has been slower than expected. The main
achievements to date include the adoption by the NBP, in early 1991, of a new, EC-compatible chart
of accounts. Limits on large exposures were also established by the April 1992 amendments to the
Banldng Law, and the NBP issued a money laundering regulation in the last quarter of 1992. In
January 1993, it issued a new capital adequacy regulation and a new loan classification and
provisioning rule. It has also been developing a new regulation on foreign exchange exposure, which
it plans to issue by June 1993. Finally, the tax treatment of loss proWsions and suspended Interest
was clarified in January 1992, and fully harmonized with the accounting standards set by the NBP.2
The first two amendments came into force in April and May 1992 respectively; the  ird amendment
has been approved by Parliament and is to be ^aacted shortly.
2 luterest due but not received is no longer taxable; provisions for losses can be made before tax as m
the case of loans classified as doubtful or loss (50 perct and 100 peret of expected losses, net of
collaterad values and Govement guarntees, respectively).



25
91.   As important as the finalization of binding prudential regulations and accounting standards is,
the quality of the whole bank regulatory framework depends ultimately on monitoring and
enforcement capabilties. These are still seriously underdeveloped in Poland. An unfortunate
illustration of this phenomenon is the reportedly large number of technical insolvencies in the private
and cooperative banking sectors, sometimes on account of fraudulent activides and insider lending.
The new management of the NBP is unequivocally committed to developing off-site and on-site
supervision as a top priority. It has started to increase significantly the staff of the Supervision
Department and to improve its compensation in line with wage levels in the private banking sector.
However, both new and many existing NBP staff are still unfamiliar with modem banking supervision
practices and principles, and a massive training effort will be required to build up, in a reasonably
short timeftame, a strong supervisory capacity.



26
PART MI - THE NEfT PHASE OF THE REFORM PROGRAM
92.   While there was a good start on the transformation of the enterprise sector and on the
development of a modem financial system over 1990-92, a new 'wave" of reforms is clearly needed
to deal with the problems facing the enterprise and banking sectors in Poland. The Polish
Government has developed, with the assistance of the Bank, an ambitious and comprehensive
Enterprise and Bank Restructuring and Privatization (EBRP) Program, which is described in the
attached Letter of Development Policy (Annex 2). ITe EBRP Program is an integrated attempt at
addressing and eliminating the root causes of enterprise debt and banking sector portfolio issues. Tbis
program will deal with troubled enterprises and banks and provide safeguards agaiist a recurrence of
their problems through action on their incentive and governance framework. The Goverment wi11
also speed up the privatization or commercialization of most other, currently sound, SOEs. Finaly,
decisive measures will be taken to strengthen the supervisory framework for banks, thus allowing
more rapid privatization of the SOCBs. Before turning to a detailed description of the program and
an assessment of its fiscal costs, the economic principles underlying its desigp are outlined.
A.    Objectlves and Piciples
(1) Gener  Approach
93.   Because the Polish reform program requires fuctioning financial in ries to achieve the
objective of private sector-led growth, financial sector reform lies at the heart of the systemic
transformation of the Polish economy. However, since the core of the banking system's troubles lies
in the pervasive losses Incurred by its main borrowers, addressing the capital inadequacy and
incentive problems in the fiancial sector without stemming the losses in the state enterprise sector is
unikely to bring more than temporary relief. Ihe problems in the financial sector and In the
enqrise sector must therefore be addressed jointly.
(2) Dealin  Ath LowsMaiLdg Enterpri
94.   The Government believes that the task of dealing with 2,000-odd loss-maling, mostly state-
owned, enterprises cannot be left entirely to regular bankruptcy and liquidation mechanisms in Poland
for at least three reasons. First, the Polish Judicia system, as It cwrrently ands, does not have dte
required capacity to carry out a task of this magntude. Under the previous regime, the bankruptcy
law was seldom applied.' With a shortage of trained judges and other legal professionals, court
capacity and training are certain to be a bottleneck to the development of sound bankruptcy practices
for years to come. While the infusion of tenical asistce, training and consultancy exetise is
highly desirable and should be actively pursued, It simply will not be up to the scale and urgency of
the problem.
Until 1989, conmmcial disputes wer resolved tirough State Economic Arbitato, with the MoP as
the main agent and the Cental Pan as the legal 8ource.



27
95.   Second, an excesstve bias toward liquidation should be avoided. In a significant number of
cases, the debt overhang and ongoing losses reflect not so much managerial incompetence or any
inherent lack of viability as simply the fact that under the current incentive structure there is no good
reason not to incur losses and run up debt. This suggest that at least some current loss-makers may
have a viable futre as going .oncerns once their labor contracts and capital structe are adjusted to
new realities and the new set of relative prices. In a significant number of cases, reorganization and
new ownership offer a more promising route to efficient use of assets than does liquidation into a tin
capital market and depressed economy. What is needed, in those cases, is a reorganization-cum-
finmcial restructuring of the enterprise (creditors' agreement, or concdaron), something that takes
place in Western economies as a way to overcome the obstacles that would othewise lead to
liquidation.'
96.   7hird, to be of lasting value, this type of conciliation requires both extensive information
about the prospects of the firm and the creation of an ownershp srure  at incorporates strong
nceives towadpropfitabUily. In most cases, the only successful way to bring this about is
privadzation. Thus, a strong case can be made to buld a prvadzation bias into the restrcuing
process. Any restructuring that does not involve the eventual new owners is liklcy to complicate
subsequent privatization and is also likely to be followed by further reorganizations once new owners
are found.
(3) The uConIiZation" Procedure: A Commercial Bank-Led Chapter Elevens
97.   To take into account these various constrais and objectives, the Goverment has chosen to
stike a balance between efficiency and regular application of commercial law. In addition to the
xisting court-led bankrptcy procedures, the SOCBs, as the main enterprise creditors, wil be
granted the right to conduct and condude "conciliationprocedures by a special, dme-bound,
enabling legislation. Conciliation procedures are a streamlined version of a Chapter Eleven-type
procedure already existing under the Polish Bankruptcy Law, whereby minority creditors can be
forced into a debt restructuning agreement with an enterprise willing to implement a credible
restructuring plan (para. 104). Ihe courts, however, retain the right to examine, by means of apped,
the regularity and fairness of any bank-led conciliation.
98.   Since the SOCBs are to play the role of change agent, their efficiency is key to the success of
the Government program. Uldmately, the issue of bank efficiency is to be solved through their
privatization. This process, however, shouid be phased, consistent with the needed strengtening of
the reguatory framework for the financial sector. It is not reasonable to expect its completion for
While the Goverment's program seeks to avoid formal bankuptcy procedures where possble, two key
problems that are normaly tced through bankrptcy procedures also need to be dealt with in ny
scs  reorganzation effort outside fonmal bankptcy. Any capita rstutng w*l need to
incorporate a specific mechanism for deding with creditor conficts if the procedues are not to be
derailed by disgrunded mmority creditors tnggering bankrtcy. Second, mehaism to deal with fiee
rider problems need to be built in. Since capital resucw ill unavoidably imvolve scag back
creditots' claims, any given creditor has an incentive to stay out and shift the burden of adjustment to
the other creditors.
Chapter Eleven of the United States Bankruptcy Code.



28
another two to three years. In the meantime, the Government will take a series of steps to promote
efficiency. These include, first, mdatory actions to be Imosed on bankr Oara. 106) as weil as
close monitoring by the MoF (para. 116). Second, the issue of the banks' incenive stnrture will be
addressed. Recapitalization will take place early in the program (para. 113). To maintain incentives
for banks to reach constructive restructuring solutions for their non-performing debtors, this
recapitalization will occur on an ex ante basis, taking into accouwA a series of recently performed
audits, rather than ex post, based on actual collection performance. This procedure will on average
provide sufficient new capital while maintining full collection incentives: under this approach banks
can on the margin keep every Zloty they collect. In addition, efforts will be made to link managers'
compensation to the bank's value, in such a way that they are more likely to pursue the banks' long-
term interests. These interests are, in turn, linked to successful reorganization and, whenever
possible, privatization of the loss-making enterprise.
(4) Government Intervention and Large Loss-Makers
99.   Even if all the desirable legal and incentive aspects of this bank-led, Chapter Eleven-type
procedure are in place, there will be cases involving very large, politically sensitive enterprises where
the procedure is likely to break down, just as has happened in such counries as the United States,
France and the United ingdom. It is best to recognize the danger and address the problem up-ftont,
in order not to jeopardize the entire process.
100. The issue is the role of the Government in handling large or locally sensitive loss-makers that
fall to reach workout agreemems with their commercial creditors and for which outright liquidation is
politically impossible or economically undesirable. Political and social considerations may in some
cases justify gradual rather than rapid closure, while In others viability may be restored with a limited
infusion of public money. A special support mechansm, to be administered by the Coucil of
Ministers (COM), will be set up for this purpose as a complement to the bank-led conciliation
procedures and as a socW "safety valve" (paras. 119 - 123).
101. The availability of public money creates the risk of open-ended subsidy schemes. This risk
could in principle be limited by pre-selection of a fixed number of eligible enterprises. In the Polish
context, however, preselection would be politically too difficult to achieve. The Government decided,
instead, to seek the same limiting results by establishing strong negative incentives for enterprises and
banks1 who apply for public money (para. 121). There will be, moreover, a tight annual ceiling on
the total amount of budget resources available for this "safety valve".
1      The rationae of negative incentives for banks is as follows. Any infusion of resoures by the
Govement  reas  the value of commemial bank claims and, in fact, of al junior ceditor claims.
Therefoe participants have a strong incentive to limit treir own contibuti  and to manipult, the
Govermet to make the cracial final contribution. De ficto, this would mean that the Govment
contibution would benefit creditors, in parcular the SOCBs, rather than the enterprise, which would
contradict the concept of ex-ant recaitaliplztion and would not help the enterprs. Through the
reapitalization, the SOCBs have already received all the support they are entitled to and should not St
additional reSourCes. ltus SOCBs too must face negative incentives under the Program, Eat up so as to
discourage referal of thir clients to the Govrnment.



29
B.    Resolution of Enterprise Debt and Bank Portfolio Issues
(1) Bank-M edEnterprise Restructuing
(a) Action Plan and Implementation Progress
102.  Scope of Resucturing. The first objective of the Government's EBRP Program is the
restrucing and privatization, under the direcon of the banks, of the group of fiacially troubled
enterprises. ITis group encompasses 2,000-odd companies, mostly SOEs and joint-stock companies
operatng in the industrial sector. They account for about 40 percent of the nine SOCBs' aggregate
loan portfolio in volume terms (para. 66). There may be overlap between this group of enterprises
and subsectors within the universe of SOEs for which restructuring plans are being considered by the
Government. In particuar, plans are already being prepared for the restructuring of certain
subsectors of heavy industry, such as coal mining, steel production, chemicals and shipbuilding. The
Bank is currently helping the Government draw up restructuring plans in the steel and chemical
subsectors, and it plans to support the Government in implementing these restructurings and linking
them with enterprise privatization. While these plans cover both currently sound and financially
troubled enterprises, the Government intends to ensure full compatibility between these restructuring
plan and the EBRP Program. The only exception is the coal mining sector, which is being trt
outside the program.'
103.  Enabling Legislation. To facilitate and accelerate bank-managed enteprise restructurings,
the Government has prepared a specific piece of legislation, the Enterprise and Bank Restructring
Law (the Law), which was approved by Parliament in February 1993.
104.  The Law essentially contains two sets of provisions. Arn, it establishes two new legal
instruments to facilitate enterprise restructuring: a new conciliation procedure, and a debt-t-equity
swap scheme that allows restuctring of a troubled SOE to be combined with a transfer of its
ownership to the private sector. Those mechanisms are descbed below.
(I) Conclaton procedure. Ihe Law entrusts to banks and, provided certain specific
conditions are met, the Industrial Development Agency (IDA), (see paras. 121-123) the
authority to conduct 'conciliation procedures," if they hold a minimum percentage (10-
20 percent, depending on the amount in absolute terms) of an enterprise's total liabilities.
Conciliation is a quasi out-of-court and streamlined version of the Polish Commercial
Code's existing "arrangement proceedings" (a procedure similar to Chapter Eleven of the
US Bankruptcy Code). Under arrangement proceedings (which wiU remain in force),
courts can enforce upon aU creditors a debt restructuring plan accepted by 60 percent of
the creditors representing 75 percent of claims. Ihe Law confers a similar enforcement
power to the banks and the IDA on a temporay basls (for aperod lnd to three
years). To reduce the risk of minority creditors derailing the process, the bank- or IDA-
led conciliation is considered complete as soon as creditors representing 50 percent of an
enteprise's liabIites, irrespectve of their nwnber, have reached agreement (minority
creditors, however, retain the right to appeal the decision in court). Under another
As in many other countries, the coal mining sector has very specific chaacs: sigificant
economic weight; heavy concentation in one region; aad a tradition of very high social smvity.



30
IMnovative provisidn, the Ldw oblig6s the Treasury to forgive its claims on a parl-pm
basis.
(b) Debt-toequy conversion. To facilitate privatization as an outcome of entrprise
restructrIng, the Law gives credtors holding at least 30 percent of a public enterprise's
debt the right to convert their clains Into shares.' The same option will be open to, and
could also be imposed through, conciiation procedus that are binding on al enterprise
creditors. This provision constiutes nothing less than a behugh In the Polish
Government's privatizaton policy since, for the first time, it ms prvaizaton of an
enterprise posstble without the legal consent of its workers.
105.  Second, the Law provides the legal foundation for bank recapitalization. Banks digible for
recapltazaion are those that have: (i) commissioned Independent finacial audits and portfWoo
reiews; (1) assigned their troubled assets to a separae organizatonal unit; and (Iii) submitted to the
MoF a srategic plan to deal with their troubled assets. The Law also species the actions to betake
by recapitalized banks regarding their troubled borrowers (para. 106). Under the EBRP Program, the
banks concerned are the SOCBs, as they hold most of claims on all non-aculture troubled SOEs.
The MoF expects  th  e losses to be incurred by specialized banks as a reslt of the indusion of
some of their claims in SOCB-led debt restructurings will remai limied, and it wil address this
issue separately if need be. Ihe MoP, however, will ensure that the speciaized banks do not
frustre, by their commeri  activities, the negotiations led by SOCBs regarding enterpise
restrucrins, and it has issued instuctions to this end.
106.  Process of Enterprise Regructuing. Under the Law, recapitalized bansl witl be given a
maximum period of times to deal with all their troubled customers, as follows. If the customer is
deemed non-viable or is unwilling to restucture, the banks will have to file for bankuptcy or sell the
troubled asset. If the erprse has agreed to a credible restructuring plan, the ban  will concude a
concilation procedure; typically, the restuctring plans will involve closing loss-making production
units, carving out non-en    actiities, divesting non-pouctive or undulized assets and
shedding excess labor. Failure of the enterprise to comply with the actions agreed to under the
restruurig plan would be grounds for court cancellation of the conciliatory agreement, by petiion
of any creditor.
107.  To ensure the long-tenn viabiUry of the restrutung, the program seeks the prbbvat on or
commercializaton of viruly all troubled SOEs. As indicated (para. 104), the Law establishes for
this purpose an innovative debt-equity conversion scheme that, when used, will result by definition in
SOE commercialization and in the dilution of state shareholdings. Should the debt-equity converion
mechanism not be used, the Law gives creditors the power to force the commercialiaon of their
SOE debtors: (i) SOEs are required formally to express their consent to comurcializaton, prior to
In tie case of SOEs, this conversion will automaticaly tigg  a tAormatn into a joint-stock
Company.
2     To be specfied by an Executive Order from the MoF, consste with the Law. The eavisaged
dadline is 9 to 12 months after enactmnt of the Law, i.e., toward the end of 1993 or lt begining of
1994.



31
starting the conciliation procedure;, and (ii) creditors can require commercialization as part of the
conciliation agreement, in which case government agencies will have to implement it within one
month, a requirement ta implies the dissolution of the Workers' Council and the appointment of a
new Supervisory Board. Creditors are expected, and will be advised by government agencies, to use
the debt-equity conversion mechanism or to require commercialization as a matter of principle (with,
in the latter case, the possible exception of some cases where commercialization may not be necessary
or even advisable)2. The Government has therefore agreed to minim   targets whereby conciliation
agreements would result, in at least 70 percent of the cases, in the commercialization of the SOEP
and, in 30 percet of the cases, in its privatizaton. It should be noted that, when an enterprise is to
be commercialized, the Workers' Councils will remain in place during negotiation of the conciliation
agreement, a positive feature that will facilitate discussion of the restructring plan with the workers.
108. Progress to Date. Even before the Law has gone into effect, the banks have already become
knowledgeable about the anticipated process and timing, thanks to guidance provided by the MoF in
its capacity as owner. They are actively engaged in evaluating all their troubled customers" situations
and prospects and have sated to take action in a number of cases.
(b) Conditions of Loan Effectiveness and Tranche Release (see matrix in Annex 2,
Appendix 1)
109. By loan effectiveness, the Enterprise and Bank Restructuring Law would have been enacted
and the Executive Order issued.
110.  By second tranche release, satisfactory evidence would be provided that the banks have
complied with the Law and the Executive Order in terms of the actions to be taken and deadlines to
be observed with respect to their troubled customers.
- 1i. By thrd tranche release, a comprehensive program review would have been completed with
the Bank, that assesses implementation by the enteprises and monitoring by the banks of conciliation
procedures. Based on this program review, frther policy actions or imple on-related steps
would be agreed to, if needed.
To initiate a cnciliation procedure, dgned applcation for cmercialization should be atafched to the
roquest sent by SOEs to their bank
2      For example, if the Goverment has decided to rtai ownershp of the eterpdrs, ad  e clrfication
of owneship rihs on asses used by the SOE is likely to delay re ur  dsgnificanty.
Should a SOE not be com iaed as a resut of a conciliatin procedure, it will still fall under the
pvisons of the Entupris Pact (pa. 128), which call for the comaliiaon of all SOBs witin
about 18 months.



32
(2) Banks' Incentive Framework and Monitoring
(a) Action Plan and Implementation Progress
112. The Government recognizes that the issue of the incentive framework for banks will be best
addressed by transferring their ownership to the private sector. It is committed to privatize all nine
SOCBs over a three to five year timeframe, with the first two SOCBs scheduled to be privatized
during 1993 (paras 135-136). However, as the EBRP program will be essentally implemented in
1993-94, its success relies heavily on the proper functioning of the SOCBs before they are privatized.
This issue is addressed comprehensively by the program, which provides for the redesign of the
incentive framework for SOCBs, a firther build-up of their institutional capabilities and close
monitoring of their performance.
113.  Although not the only step envisaged by the EBRP Program, bank recapitalizton is the
centerpiece of the new incentive framework for banks, with the exception of the two SOCBs
scheduled to be privatized during 1993.1 The recapitalization of the seven remaining SOCBs will
entail three major elements:
(i) The recapitalization will be clearly announced as a once-and-for-al operation, following
which the banks will be fully accountable for their future losses. As a consequence, the
explicit state guarantee of deposits with state-owned commercial banks will be
discontinued and replaced by a general deposit Insurance scheme.2 This will create an
environment in which one or two large banks could be allowed to fail if they did not
perform in the future, without bringing down the whole financial system. The existence
of such a credible threat is essential to the program.
(ii) The recapitalization will be carried out upfront, i.e., its amount will be determined ex-
ante, taking into account the assessment of external auditors, not the amount of losses
actually incurred as workout decisions are made. This feature will create an incentive
for banls to maximize collection on their bad loans and make it possible for them to
improve their financial condition beyond the new capital base provided by the
recapitalization.
(Iii) the amount of the recapitalkllion will be large enough to ensure the credibility of the
concept of the banks' future and full accountability. The Government wiUl transfer to the
banks resources in an amount sufficient to leave them with a capital cushion of 12
percent of their risk-weighted assets after satisfactory provisioning of their risk loan
portfolio.' Based on these parameters, the cost of the recapitalization wiUl be Zi 11
trillion for seven SOCB3s (about US$750 million equivalent). Technically, the MoP will
I     PPivatiaion of these two bank is a condition of seond tranche release (see pam 138).
2      The Deposit lInrame Scheme is expected to be submitted to Parliamt by mid-1993.
3 To provide against the Odynamicn risk that could arise when the bak convert thliquid asset into
* risk asses, the MoP has chosen to define the risk loan portfolio in a very broad way, to include most
of these liquid, currently non-risk, assets.



33
recapitalize the banks by issuing Treasury bonds, based on an authorization contained in
the budgetary law for 1993. The bonds will be zloty-denominated, have a 15-year
maturity, be repaid in 14 equal installments starting in 1994, and carry an interest rate
equal to the NBP's rediscount rate.
114.   As an additional way to improve the banks' incentive framework, the MoF has taken steps
to provide managers and employees with an incentive to maximize the long-term value of their banks,
as well as to favor their rapid privatization. In 1992, the provisions of the Law on Privatzation of
SOEs, which allows employees to buy 20 percent of the stock of their enterprises at a 50 percent
discount upon privatization, were made applicable to the banks. In addition, on MoP's instruction,
the Supervisory Boards of the nine SOCBs established incentive compensation schemes that link
managers' bonuses with banks' profits.
115.  Institutional Capabilities of Banks. On average, each of the nine banks is expected to deal
with 200 to 300 troubled enterprises. To ensure that the banks are well-prepared to carry out the
tak, the following steps have been taken to enhance their institutional capabilities. (i) On MoF
instructions, all nine banks set up WODs in mid-1992 (para. 87), to which they assigned all their
troubled customers. (ii) As of September 1992, each WOD had been staffed with 12-15 persons, a
significant number of whom were hired externally as opposed to transferred from the existing credit
departments. The MoF has asked the WODs to increase their staff rapidly to at least 20. At the
MoP's request, the WODs will also make extensive use of outside technical assistance to complement
their own limited workout, recovery and corporate finance packaging skills. (iv) The Supervisory
Boards have established procedures governing their roles and powers vis-a-vis the Maagement
Boards, particularly the approval of strategic or key business decisions. For instance, the Supervisory
Boards have asked the WODs to prepare, for their approval, business plans laying out their workout
strategies, timetable for action and financial targets. The banks have transmitted these plans to the
MoF, which will use them as a basis for its monitoring.
116.  Monitoring of Bank-Managed Restructurings. In September 199M, the MoP established an
intenal monitoring unit (MU) to supervise closely the Implementation of bank-managed enterprise
restructings and serve as a counterpart to the banks' WODs. The MU has already been staffed with
five junior professionals and will be headed by a senior foreign consultant with prior expeience In
bank restructuring. It will develop a comprehensive database that will allow the MoF to monitor
bank-managed enterprise restuctrings on a monthly basis by enterprise, bank, steps taken, sector or
region. In addition to its routine monitoring, the MU will carry out two major reviews at two critical
points in program implementation. The first will take place toward the middle of the time period
allocated to the banks to make decisions on troubled loans (para. 106); this review would allow the
MoP to detect impl'nmentation problems and take remedial action in due time. The second review
would be a fill portfolio and fiancial audit of the SOCBs by extrnal auditors, to be completed as of
December 1993, on the basis of which the MU will prepare a progress report and take additional
policy measures, if the need arises.
(b) Conditions of Tranche Release
117.  By second tranche release, the fecapitalization bonds would have been issued, in an amount
and with features conforming to the plans agreed to with the Bank. Satisactory progress would have
been made by the nine banks toward staffing their WODs and using extal assistance, as per plans.



34
The results of the first review by the MU of program implementation by the SOCBs would have been
provided to the Bank, and remedial action agreed on, if needed.
118.  By dtrd tranche release, satisfactory evidence would have been provided that the
recapitalization bonds were being serviced in timely manner. The full portfolio and financial audits of
the SOCBs, as of December 1993, would have been completed. On this basis, a comprehensive
program review would have been conducted with the Bank, and further policy actions or
implementation-related steps agreed on, if needed.
(3) Subsidiary Government itervention
(a) Action Plan and Implementation Progrs
119.  For the decentralized approach to enterprise restructring to work, the Government believes it
must retain the option of intervening through the injection of public money in entexprise restrucuring
or liquidation when such restructurings or liquidations are exceptionally difficult from an economic or
social standpoint. To ensure both the efficiency of Government intervention and tight control over
the corresponding budgetary expenditures, access to public money under this facility will be made
transparent and subject to tight conditionality imposed on both enteprises and their creditor banks.
In addition, the Govenment has taken steps to ensure efficient preparation and monitoring of its
interventions.
120.  To ensure the transrency of Government interventions, the budgetary funds available for
this purpose will be provided from a specific line item in the budget and allocated by individual
decisions of the Council of Ministers (CoM). For FY93, a first appropriation of up to Zi 2.5 trillion
(about US$150 million) has been made in the budgetary law recently adopted by Parliament. As the
bulk of the restructuring effort fr difficult entprise cases is expected to materialize in late 1993 and
In 1994, and might spread over 1995, the Government anticipates it will be necessary to provide
firther budget allocations in FY94 and FY95. Additional funding, expected to amount to US$300-
500 million in each of FY94 and FY95 (or 0.3-0.5 percent of GDP) will be agreed to with the Bank
as part of the conditions for the second and third tranche releases, respectively.
121.  The condidonallty governing eligibility for Govemment intervention will be spelled out in a
Decree (the Decree), to be issued by the Government by the time of loan effectiveness. The
conditionality wil be based on a set of negative incentives for enterprises and banks. For enterprises,
the conditions of access wil be as follows: (i) budgetary support to a given enterprise will be
provided only once; (ii) liquidation or restructuing plans must provide for the divestiture of all the
enterprise's non-productive assets; and in addition, the provisions concernng wages or layoffs as
envisaged under these plans must have been accepted by the enterprise's unions; (iii) the enterprise
must be commercialized; (iv) the SOE's owneship righs to its land and buildings must have been
clarified; and (v) evidence must have been provided that the budgetary resources cannot be used to
pay off other creditors' claims.' Banks will also face a disincentive intended to prevent them from
conditioning the conclusions of conciliatory procedures on the provision of budgetary assistance. The
Such evidence may consut of the formd initia  of arangement proceedings or cnciatory
procedures, which grant the enterprise protecfion gainst creditors, or may result fom an ad-hoc and
explicit commitment of creditors.



35
intervention decree will stipulate that it will only be possible to allocate budgetary resources to
support a conciliation agreement if the procedure is conducted by IDA. In this case, the banlks will
lcse their senior creditor status, since: (i) either they will have to sell their claims on the enterprise to
IDA at the seconday market price; or, alteively, (d) they will have to agree to transfer to IDA
the right to represent their claims in a debt restructring discussion with the debtor.
122. The Decree will lay out the rules governing the preparation and monitoring of Government
interenons. First, the right to apply wiUl be conferred to the IDA and the founding organ of the
eligible enterprise.1 By introducing a degree of institudonal competition, this measure is intended to
increase the flexibility of Goverment decisions and to improve the average quality of the action plans
submitted to the COM. Second, these action plans will be duly screened, appraised ad monitored,
using the normal interministerial and budgetary procedures, as follows. (i) The Secretariat of the
CoM will screen, as part of its statutory functions, all applications for budgetary support and wDI
check for compliance with the access conditions, in particular the 'negative incentives." (ii) An
assessment of the decisions proposed for CoM consideration will be performed, under Polish
interministelal procedures, by the Government agency members of the CoM.2 (iii) A two-fold
monitoring will be carried out: a "primary" monitoing will be implemented by the disbursing body,
i.e., the IDA in the case of loans and the founding organ in the case of grants; and a 'secondary,"
independent monioring will be performed by the unit of the MoF already in charge of monitoring
economic interventions at large. The monitoring will involve checks on enteprise compliance with
the restrucluring or liquidation plans agreed to at the CoM level and action on non-compliance cases,
such action to include the immediate suspension of any further disbursements and execution of clawms
resulting from previous disbursements.
123.  Role of the IDA. The IDA wiUl have a key, although not exclusive, role in the preparation,
implementation and monitoring of CoM decisions. Established in 1991, and operating with a staff of
80 professionals, the IDA already has significant experience in enterprise restructrings, particularly
in heavy industry sectors such as shipyards and machinery production. It needs, however, fther
institutional strengthening and additional funding, as its inital US$200 milion in capital are now fully
committed. Under the EBRP Program, the Govermnent will ensure that IDA develops its institutional
capabilities adequately and will link IDA's recapitalization to its effectiveness in enterprise
restructuring. The IDA has already taken the following steps:
(i)      Sqperv1ory Board. The membership of IDA's Board was broadened in
March 1993 to include one representative of the MoF. This measure is
expected to allow the Board to better reflect economy-wide considerations,
including fiscal constraints, when providing guidance to IDA's management
and staff.
I.s., the sectal Ministries (such as Indusay, Transports and Energy, etc) or the Voivodships (local
Admistraons).
The include, in addition to the differ  ministries, the NBP and, for the putpoe of Goveent
intervention, the IDA (the IDA will thus be in a position to express its opinion an action plans
submitted by founding organs). All CoM members ae provided wiith draft decisions and are to express
their opimon m writng, in advance of CoM meetinps.



36
(1i)    Reorgani ona stfng plan. IDA has adopted a comprehensive
reorganization and staffing plan prepared with the assistance of the Bank. To
ensure that IDA's capabilities will be continuously adapted to the workload
generated by Government interventions, this plan will be implemented In two
phases. The first phase has two elements. (a) A new functional unit will be
created to manage communications with the CoM and other Government
agencies and to oversee and coordinate the activities of IDA's existing
operational units in the area of Government interventions. This Unit will be
led by a new vice-president, to be appointed, and will include four staff.
(b) Existing operational units (with 20-odd stafO, i.e., the restructuring,
liquidation, capital investment, economic evaluation, finance and foreign
departments will be strengthened. Based on the first year's experience under
the intervention mechanism, IDA will, by second tranche release, prepare,
and get Bank agreement on the second phase of its reorganization and staffing
plan.
(lii)   Financial incendves. As an incentive to maximize the quality of its proposals
to the CoM, the IDA will be allowed to retain as its own funds the
repayments of the loan facilities provided out of the state budget, upon
satisfactory evidence that the enterprise has been successfully turned around.
3b) Conditions of Loan Effectiveness and Tranche Release
124.  By loan effectveness, the Decree defining access conditions and procedures applicable to
Government interventions would have been issued.
125.  By second tranche release, satisfactory evidence would have been provided to the Bank that
Govenment interventions have been delivered as per the conditions and procedures laid out in the
Decree. The Bank and the Government would have agreed on the FY94 budgetary appropriation for
Government interventions. The first phase of IDA's staffing plan would have been implemented, and
the IDA would have agreed with the Bank on the second phase of the plan.
126.  By third tranche release, the FY94 budget would have been adopted,' with an appropriation
for Government interventions as per previous agreement with the Bank. The Bank and the
Government would have agreed on the FY95 budgetary appropriation for Government intervention.
Satisfactory evidence would have been provided that Government interventions continue to be
delivered as per the conditions and procedures laid out in the Decree. The second phase of IDA's
staffing plan would have been implemented. A comprehensive review of Government interventions
would have been carried out, with fiuther policy actions or implementation-related steps agreed on, if
needed.
The budget may not have been approved at the tme of second tache release, hence this condition of
third tranche release.



37
C.    Ownership and Governance of State Enterprises
(1) Action Plan and Implemention Progress
127.  Mediwm-Tenn Perspctive. The EBRP Program aims to address in a decisive way the lack of
clarity in the enterprise governance structure, an important cause of the current SOB crisis, by
answering two critical questions: (i) which enterprises should be clearly earmarked for rapid
privatization and which ones should remain public in the short to medium term; and (ii) how is the
state going to exercise its ownership function. The Government has identified the sectors in which it
may want to retain ownership of selected enterprises in the medium term and where the privadzation
of individual enterprises will be decided, during the next three years, on a case-by-case basis by the
CoM. These are the energy, mining, steel and defense sectors, which include about 300 enterprises
and account for about 20 percent of industral output. in the immediate future, the ownership
function in those sectors will be exercised by the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MoMT), irrespective
of whether the enterprise has been commercialized or remains a SOE. To define on a more
systematic basis the principles and mechanisms governing the exercise of the ownership function, the
Government will submit to Parliament, during 1993, draft legislation clarifying the distribution of
responsibilities among government agencies with respect to the ownership of public enterprises.
128.  Acceleration of P7ivataon and Commercializaion. In sectors other than energy, mining,
steel and defense, all enterprises are eligible for as rapid a privatization as possible and will be under
the purview of the MoP until privatized. In the case of troubled enterprises, privatization or
commercialization is encouraged through bank-led restructurings (para. 107). In the case of currentdy
sound enterprises, the Government intends to accelerate the pace of change in enterprise ownership
and governance by revisiting the principle of voluntary enterprise commercialization or privatization.
129. To achieve the latter objective, the Government has prepared an ambitious legislative package
that wiUl modify, inter alia, key provisions of the Privatization Law. Following several months of
negotiations, the Government gained the support of the Polish unions for this package (the Enterprise
Pact) in February 1993. The relevant legislation, to be submitted to Parliament during the spring of
1993, essentially proposes to: (i) introduce more flexibility in wage-setting mechanisms through a
selective dismantling of the current tax on excess wages, in combination with built-in incentives to
maintain enterprise profitability (e.g., post-tax profits could be partially used for wage increases);
and (ii) agree once and for all with trade unions on an overall framework for enterprise
commercialization and privatization, following which the transformation of individual enterprises
would no longer require approval of the Workers' Councils. Under this general framework,
enterprises will be given six months to choose their preferred transformation route, i.e., privatization
through liquidation or commercialization and capital privatization. Transformation will then be
implemented automatically within a 15-to 18&onth time period, with the relevant Government agency
taking over ownership. The enterprise's workers will be given up to 10 percent of their firm's shares
upon its commercialization, and after privatizztion they will also gain representation on the
Management Boards (one member) and Supervisory Boards (one representative if the board has less
than 10 members, two if it has between 10 and 15 members, and three if more members).
130.  Ihe Government expects that the EBRP Program and the Enterprise Pact together will provide
the tools it needs to achieve a set of ambitious privatization and commercialization targets. By the
end of 1993, the Government intends to commercialize an additional 400 to 600 SOEs and to
privatize another 500 to 1,000 enterprises. The total of privatized enterprises will thus be in the



38
range of 2,000-2,500 and will account for 30-35 percent of industial output. This effort would
include liquion of at least 400 small or medium-size enterprise, including about 30 through
Nquick sales," and about 30 entetprses trough capital prvatization, either through initia public
offerings or trade sdes to foreign investors. Additionally, between 30 and 40 etrprses will be
auctioned for "restructuring privatization," and sectoral privatzation will continue with contacts
signed for at least three additional subsectors by Dember 1993. Finally, the shares of the
enterprises selected for mass privatization will be assigned to the NIFs. The MOP has already
selected 200 entprises to be mass-prvatzed and intends to select another 200 to 400 companies.
131.  In 1994, the Government expects to commerciaize 500 to 700 enterprses and to prWvatze
about 700 enterprises. TIis would bring the total of privatized enterprses to 2,700-3,200, or 50-60
percent of industrial output. Another 50 enterprises will have been privadzed through the
"restructuring privatione route, another 30 through capital privaizaton, and about 450 through
liquidations of small- or medium-sized enterpriser, including 20 tirough "quick sales."
Implementation of the MPP would be filly completed with the distribution of the share certificates in
the NIFs to the public .
132. To address the bottlenecks that have slowed commercialization so far, the MOP has agreed to
implement an action plan to increase its own staff and use foreign technical assistance in 1993. As
part of the conditions for second tranche release, a second phase of the plan will be agreed to with the
Bank.
(2) Conditfons of Tranche Release
133.  By second tranche release, satisfactry progress would have been made on the Governmee's
privatization and commercialization targets. The mass privatation legistion would have been
adopted and the NIPs established. The amnments to the privatization law resulting from the
Enteprise Pact, which would enable acceleration of the changes in enterprise ownership, would have
been adopted by Parliament, and their implementation would be satisfactory. Legislation clarfying the
exercise of ownership rights over public enterprises would have been enacted and implemented. The
MOP would have complied with the staffing plan agreed to with the Bank.
134. By third tranche release, evidence would have been provided that continued satisfactory
progress has been made toward the Government privatization and commercialization targets. The
MPP would have been fully implemented. The MOP would have agreed vith the Bank on the second
phase of its staffing plan.
D.    Banking System Reform
135.  The Government has already decided to privatize two of the nine SOCBs durng 1993 and is
fully committed to prlvatzng most of the bading system and aU the oher seven SOCBs as a Jirst
step, as soon as feasible. This clear statement of policy, however, needs two qualifications. First,
the Government is aware that the combination of de facto, if not de jure, deposit insurance,
information asymmeties and weak bank supervision makes this industry exceptionally vulnerable to
fraud. As such, the Government wishes to ensure th  privatization of the commercial banks keeps
pace with the strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory framework for banks. This linkage
makes it all the more crtical to address the issue of bank supervision. A strong action plan has been
included in the EBRP Program to this end (para. 137). Second, the Government intends to base



39
firter bank privatization on a coherent strategy for the development of the finacial sector, building
on: (i) lessons to be learned from the first two privaization cases; (ii) assessment of the progress
made by the SOCBs under the EBIP Program; and (iii) a medium-term vision of the Polish banking
system, including the optimal path from specialized banking to universal bankng. This stategy wil
be fornulated in the course of 1993 and will be submitted to the Bank as part of the conditions for
second tranche release.
(1) Incentives for the Government to Privatize Banks
136.  Bank privatization is expected to be significantly fostered by the establishment of the Polish
Bank Privatizaton Fund (PBPF). ITe PBPF, established on December 23, 1992, is open to donor
countes willing to reallocate the contributions previously pooled in the Polish Stabilization Fund.
The PBPF has been devised In close coordination with the IM and the Bank and will become
effective after, inter alia, approval of a Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF and dfectiveness of the
proposed EPSAL. lhe contributions to be channeled through the PBPF amounted to about US$500
million as of Februay 1993.1 They wiUl be available to the Government to service the Treasry
bonds held by any SOCB as a result of its recapitalization, as of the prltadzadon of the SOCB, a link
that provides a strong incentive for the Government to achieve bank privatization.
(2) Bank SuperwvsLon
137.  The NBP has been developing, with the Bank's assistance, a comprehensive program
providing for both the immediate supervisory needs and the medium-term development of domestic
supervisory capabilities (see Annex 6). Under this program, the NBP has hired a senior advisor and
developed a strategic plan dealing, inter alia, with training needs. It will make comprehensive use of
foreign expert  (centra bak superviso  and/or auditing fms) to: (i) help banks Implement the
new chart of acounts and Improve the off-site reportng system currently used by the NBP based on
is plan; (i) assist the NBP In dealing with bank failures, iLe., review/adapt the legal framwork and
train a core staff on a few in    cases; and (Iil) meet urgent needs in the area of on-site Inspections
of indiidual banks and on-the-job traing of future NBP supervisors.
(3) Condilions of Board Presentation and Tranche Release
138.  By second tranche release, the Governmt would have privatized two SOCBs, it would have
reached agreement with the Bank on a transformation program for the banking system, including the
dming of the privatization of the seven remaining SOCBs, and the NBP would have made satisfactory
progress on the plan to strenghen bank supervision.
139.  By thrd tranche release, the Govement would have complied with the transformation
program for the banking system, particularly the targets for privatzion of the SOCBs, and the NBP
would have made continued sasfactory progress on the plan to develop bank supervision. As part of
the general program review (para. 118), the performance of the NBP would be reviewed and further
policy actions or implementation-related steps agreed on, if needed.
Out of a principal amount of US$1 bilion in the PoHsh Stition Fund. Some donor countries bave
not yet decide whether to relocde their contibutions to the PBPF.



40
E.    Assessment of the Fiscal Costs
140.  The EBRP Ptogram would make explicit the cost of losses already incurred by both banks and
enterprises as a result of policies followed under the former centrally planned regime. Ihe issue of
debt to recapitalize the banks resulting from the recognition of these past losses is substantially
different from budget outlays for new activities. Any delay in recognizing these past losses would
only result in additional losses and could lead the authorities to finance those through additional
budget outlays or monetization.
141.  While the increase in fiscal outlays that will result from the Government's program does not
pose any particular problem in principle, there is a need to make sure that these outlays are properly
accounted for in the projected budget deficit and deficit financing scenarios. Fiscal outlays will result
from three elements of the program: (i) the bank recapitalization; (ii) the Cental Government
support mechanism for difficult and sensitive SOEs; and (iii) increased unemployment benefits to be
paid out to workers becoming redundant as a result of enterprise restructuring or closures. In the
context of the conciliation procedures, the Government will also give up claims on SOEs on related to
overdue tax and social security payments. However, these costs were accounted for in the budgets
for previous years, and no payment related to these claims has been included in revenue projections.
As a result, forgiveness of these claims is a sunk cost and will not give rise to new cash oudays.
(1) Bank Recapitaliaton
142. The Governmnent will issue Zi 11 trillion in Zloty-denominated Treasury bonds, with a
maturity of 15 years and repayment in equal installments starting in 1994. These bonds are expected
to be issued to the banks on April 1, 1993. Based on the Bank' projections for GDP and Zloty
interest rates, the cash cost of servicing the bonds would be approximaely equivalent to Zi 3 trilion
in 19931 (or about 0.18 percent of GDP), ZI 3.4 trillion in 1994 (0.16 percent of GDP) and Zi 2.4
trillion in 1995 (0.1 percent of GDP). These costs would be reduced by the resources to be received
from the PFPB.
(2) Central Government Support Mechanis
143. The 1993 budget approved by Parliament includes a US$150 million equivalent line item for
the Centra Government support mechanism. Ihis amount is equivalent to about 0.15 percent of
projected 1993 GDP. The amounts to be allocated for the support mechanism in 1994 and 1995 are
as yet unknown, but will have to be agreed upon with the Bank as conditions for the second and third
tranche releases, to ensure that the costs to the budget stay within reasonable limits. Current
expectations are that they could amount to about 0.3-0.5 percent of GDP in each year. Room has to
be made within the overall fiscal targets for these allocations.
(3) Inneased Unemployment Benefits
144.  Under the Program, it is expected that approximately 2,000 SOEs will be restructred and/or
liquidated. It is estimated that these enterprises together currently employ a work force of between
500,000 and 700,000. Based on the expenience gained so far by the authorities with the restructuring
N-me months only.



41
of large individual SOEs such as shipyards and steel mills, it can be assumed that approximately half
the work force will have to be laid off. Whoever becomes unemployed is entitled, for a period of
one year, to 36 percent of the average wage in the economy (currently around US$250 per month),
except that workers who are within five years of pension eligibility are entitled to 75 percent of their
average earnings. The SOE work force contains a relatively high number of such pre-retirement
workers. Based on these data, it Is expected that the increase in unemployment oudays for the budget
would range between US$416 and US$583 million1 (or 0.5-0.7 percent of GDP). As not all workers
will be laid off at once, this cost would be spread across fiscal years 1993, 1994 and 1995.
Assuming half the wodk foive to be laid off will be of pre-retimmt age, the cost would ranS.
between. (i) a low of 0.36 x US$250 x 12 x 125,000 = US$13S milion + 0.75 x $250 x 12 x
125,000 = US$281 millio, ie. total costs of US$416 million; and (H) a high of 0.36 x US$250 x 12 x
175,000 = US$189 mlo   + 0.75 x $250 x 12 x 175,000 = US$394 million, i.e. total cowt of
US$583 m;ion.



42
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.    Loan Features
(1) Loan Amount and Borrower
14S. 'no proposed Bank loan, in an amount of US$450 million equivalent, would be made to the
Republic of Poland through the MoF for 17 years, including a 5 year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
() Procurmt
146.  'Te proposed loan would finace 100 percent of the CIP cost of general imports, excluding
luxury goods, military equipment, nuclear reacrs and parts, uranium, tobacco and tobacco
procesg machinery, and environmentally h dous products defined under the Standard
Inteational Trade   icaton.
147.  Imports made by ministries, public enterprises and private importers above US$5 million per
contract would be procured in accordance with the simplified International Competitve Bidding
(ICB). Simplified ICB bidding documents cleared for the first Strucura Adjustment Loan (SAL 1)
(Loan 3247-POL) would be used for ICB procurement under this loan.
148.  Contracts for commodities in excess of US$5 Win ,on each would be awarded following
esblished commodity market prcices, provided these practices are found acceptable by the Bank.
A detailed description of these practices for each commodity the borrower proposes to finance with
the proceeds of this loan would be prepared and submitd to the Bank for its prior review and
acceptance. Contra  for the procurement of goods estated to cost below US$5 million each would
be awarded as follows: (i) in the case of the public sector, on the basis of the borrower's public
procurement procedures, provided that such procedures have been found acceptable by the Bank; and
(ii) in the case of the private sector, on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least two eligible countries. Direct contacting (single source purchase) would
be allowed only for proprietary items or where the need for compatibility with existig items calls for
standardizain . A Country Procurement Asessment (CPA) is being carried out in April 1993 to
determine the acceptability of local procurement procedures and practices in both the public and
private sectors. The Government of Poland has prepared a draft procurement regulation for public
procurement in Poland.
149.  Procurement would be coordinated by the NBP under arragemen satisfactory to the Bank.
The NBP has considerable experience in procurement under several Bank-financed projects that
Involve both investment and structural adjustment operations. The NBP would provide biannual
progres reports on procurement activities to the Bank.
150. Contracts below US$50,000 would notbe eligible for Bank financing. This thref old is
consitent with sadsfactory access by small and medium size Importers, and the operation would still
remain mageable from an  sminiative point of view. Retroactive fincing would be acceptable



43
fbr up to US$45 million (10 percent of the loan amount) for eligible Imports paid for during the tr
month period preceding loan signing.
(3) Disbursement
151.  Disbursement would be made on the basis of documented disbursemet applicadons except for
expenditues below US$3.5 million, which wold be based on statemets of expendture. Ihese
statements would indicate the origin of the goods, invoices, customs declarations and evidenc of
payment and would be available for review by Bank supervision missions and exenal auditos.
(4) Acmunts
152. The NBP would keep the accounts on the operations under this loan, to comprise: Q) a
record of drawings on the loan, with copies of all disbursement requests and underlying
documentation; and (Hi) a record of transactions on the special account and copies of the NBP
statements of these accounts. These records would be updaud monthly, and quarterly st iamn  of
tansactions and balances, together with the necssary recommendations for disbursement and
information on claims in process, would be forwarded to the World Bank.
(5) Audit
153.  The NBP would main   records of all transactions under the loan In accordace with sound
accounting practices. All accoun would be audi  within six months of the end of the fiscal year
by independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank. The accunts and auditors report woud be
submitted to the World Bank witiin six months of the end of the finacial year. Assuances on the
above arrangements for accounts and audit have been obtained at negotiations.
B.    Lon Design and Components
154.  In view of the present crisis In public finances, mounig pressure on the balance of payments
and continued need to support a strong program of policy reforms, the proposed loan would be
entrely quick-disbursing with, however, US$100 million set aside to support the DDSR package with
London Club creditors. The other US$350 milion would be disbursed in three tanches, as
implementation of most of the meamses supported by the loan is expected to take place over a two- to
three-year period. A first tranche of US$125 million, supporting the adoption of key legislatio
neoded for the EBRP Program, would be avaiable upon efectiveness. Ihe second tranche of
US$100 million would support init  progress on implementatin, particularly with respect to bank-
managed enterprise restrucuuings. The third tranche of US$125 million woul& support frther
implementtion, particularly that of restructings and liquidations supported by Govemet
interventions. Tranche releases would be subject to the conditions laid out in the Matrix of Policy
conditionality aached to the Letter of Development Policy (Annex 2).
C.    Monitoing Arangements
155.  The authorities are aware that achieving the ambitious objectives of the EBRP Progam would
require a major implemenion effort (mcluding technical assisance support) and close coordnion
of Government actions and policies. They have recognized the importance of the latter issue by
setting up an interministerial task force that acted as the World Bank counterpart to finalize



44
preparation of the proposed EFSAL. This task foce would remain in place after finalizatio of
project preparation and would closely monitor implementation of the EBBfP Program.
D.    Administrative Arrangements
156.  The loan would be administered on the same basis as agreed to under the first SAL and the
FIDL. The NBP is to be designated as the representative of the borrower for the adminion of
loan resources and would be responsible for: (i) preparing wihdrawal applicaions under the loan and
collecting documents to be submitted to the Bank in support of such applications; (ii) ensuring
compliance with Bank procurement practices; and (iii) maitning records for all transactions under
the loan in accordance with sound accounting practices. All accounts would be audited within six
months of the end of the fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
E.    Environmental Assessment Requirenents
157. In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.00,
Annex A), the proposed operation has been placed in Category 'C' and does not require an
environmental assessment.
F.   Beefits and Risks
(1) Benefits
158.  The EBRP Program is in close agreement with the main recommendations contained in the
CEM submitted to the Board on May 29, 1992. It addresses up front an issue that is critical to the
resumption of sustained growth in the medium and long term: the need to find a coordinated solution
to the intrinsically linked issues of the entprise debt overhang and bank portfolio problems. The
program also complements and extends other Bank operations hat have supported the EP since its
inception, pardculady the trmsfomation of enterprise governance and restrctring of the enterprise
sector. By addressing the portfolio problems in the banking system, it would ensure continued
prgress in achieving the core objectives of the 1990-91 ffnancial sector refom, i.e., the development
of a modern and effective intermediation system and the privatiaion of the banking system.
(2) Risks
159.  Three main risks are associated with this program. Thefrst relates to Poland's continued
ability to stabilize the economy, particularly to maintain fiscal balance in the coming two years. The
Government demonstrated its resolve to control the public sector deficit by taking importat cokrective
measures in the faU of 1992, and the 1993 budget adopted by Parliament is based on a strong
macroeconomic program agreed to with the IM.
160. The second risk results from the sheer magnitude of the restructuring and privatization effort
and the complexity of its implementation. Reforms planned under the Program are unprecedented in
their scope and ambition, and their success will depend heavily on the performance of the SOCBs and
various institutions that are already struggling with numerous new responsibilities. Ihe Program tries
to deal with this constraint through: (i) the incentive famework for the key players, banks,
enterprises and the IDA; and (ii) a strong TA effort for the WODs of the SOCBs, for the IDA, which
would serve as the conduit for the budget support medhanism, and for the supervision department of



45
the NBP. In addition, there would be close monitoring of bank-managed enterprise workouts
(through the Monitoring Unit in the MoP) and of enterprises benefiting from funding provided by the
budget
161. The third risk relates to the social sensitivity of this operation. First, the program will need
to overcome workers' resistance to privatization and generate support ftom the trade unions. This
was the objective of the Enterprise Pact negotiations, which gained the support of social partners
through the esthblishment of a collective bargaining process and the participation of workers in
prvaization. Second, the Government would need to manage the social implications of large-scale
enterprise restructuring. It is addressing this issue by improving its unemployment and social
assistance system, with the support of the Bank, and by establishing, under the EBRP Program, a
selective budget support mechanism aimed at the restructuring and liquidation of particularly large
and/or sensitive SOEs. The Governmnent is also taking steps to ensure the effective transfer of social
assets currendy run by SOEs to local authorities.
162. The EBRP Program is an ambitious and comprehensive program. It aims at privatization and
competition, and does so with concrete policies and actions. It accepts the need for industrial and
financial sector "casualties" in the process of building a modem market economy and of changing the
behavior of managers and workers. It is also a realistic program that does not absolve the state as
owner and the Government as macro-manager from specific responsibilities and a proactive role in
making the process of transformation take hold. Successful implementation over the next two years
would imply a major breakthrough in resolving the enterprise and financial sector problems plaguing
Eastern Europe.



46
PARtT V -11 RECCdDOATION
163.  I am satified that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank, and I recommend that he Executive Dirors appre the proposed loan1
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachmets
Washinon, D.C.
April 8, 1993
MWtXWAP



47
POLAN                                            AM  I
Rain ElcaM   Indcators                                Pao 1 of 6
. .,.... e_.... ,,............................_......................
1990    1991      1992 1/      1993       1994       1995      1996
........t.l.etl................ ......... * ..-   ...................... estlaMe  ......................
(aUrwh Rates)
droaw Dmtec Product              -11.9       -7.6       1.5        3.0       4.0        4.0       .5.0
Consptfen                        u14.r        5.8       1.5        2.1       3.4        3.6        4.8
Pubtfe                          0.2       -7.8      -3.9        1.4       1.2         0.7       *.8
Private                       -16.6        7.9       2.2        2.2       3.7        6.0        5.2
Priv co,mtfan per Cap.    -16.9          7.5        1.8       1.8       3.3         3.6       4.8
Invetment                        .24.8      -14.2      -7.7        7.t       6.8        5.5        5.8
ixed Capitat Formation          -10.6       -4.5       1.0        4.0       6.0        5.0        5.0
Mm Government                  -11.9       -6.2       3.8        4.7       1.0        2.7        2.6
Glvenmt  (IPP)                  -1.3        6.2      -14.6      -0.6       24.9      17.9       17.0
l:haa      In Stocks  2U         -5.4       -2.8      -2.2        0.?       0.7        0.2        0.2
trflation (Avere)                58M.J       70.3Z     43.0       36.7w     23.8%      15.02       7.52
Rmt 1lgsBo Caonaf-per)           -30.0        3.2      -8.0        3.0        ..          .
(NIt flln US)
bqorts, Cmw. Curny             10862.7   12760.0   13997.0   1548S.8   16332.    1360.4   18689.2
1part, Cenv. Currency          8649.3   12709.0   13415.0   14963.0  19SM5    17018.2   18124.7
Tracb Blanm                   2Z213.4      51.0     512.0      522.8     398.9      342.2      364.5
(percent of GP)                  3.6        0.1       0.6        0.5       0.4        0.3        0.3
(pecn of GP)
Curret Accouts, CetlV. O"rsm       1.0       -1.t      -0.4      -0.1       -0.4       -0.S       -0.7
of WIfch: MICA                  6.4        0.8        1.2       1:3 t1               t.0        0.9
(aromth ntes)
Total Expts XlIFS  31             15.1      -13.6       6.3        3.5       3.3        3.4        3.0
Totat hyrt RONFI  3/             -10.2       16.0      -2.0        4.7       4.0        3.7        3.0
lo  bcumws Rate (198910oo)   a o.8          126.6      130.0     130.4     128.5      128.8      127.8
dte  In ilMIR (   iitlon)      -44.0    1317.0   -1614.5         500.0   -1200.0    -800.0    800.0
Ors Reserves (Months N0S)          6.2        4.7       5.6        5.4       5.6        5.5        5.5
Fisat Ildiato@t4s (percent of UP)
Geeal t;mt.s Tot Rmswes           45.8       39.8      39.6       39.6      41.4       40.7       41.3
Tot bEpndtue    43.1         43.5       46.1      44.4       43.7       4W        43.1
tance               2.7      -3.7       -6.5      -4.8       -2.3       -1.9      -1.8
.......................... .... .......................................................................
I/ Preltfinary
2/ Contrfbutlan to GOP growh
3/ Natfolt Accounts data
Sours   Govertnmnt Authoritfes and Vrtd Bank Estimstes
3 Nor 1993



48
POLAND                                              AM=  I
salance of Paynts                                     Pe 2 of 6
(USS militon)
....... ...........__._........................._....................
1990       1991       199Z        1993       1994       19ff        1996
....... ........... _,................................................................................
Current Ace. Balance             641.9    -822.4    -347.5    -135.0    -389.9    -850.4            -s6.7
(C of GOP)                        1.0       -1.1        -0.4       -0.1       -0.4       -0.8        -0.?
Trad. .            ..ence       2213.4       51.0       512.0      S22.8      398.9      362.2       364.S
Exports of goods              1062.    12760.0    1399T.0    15485.8   16332.4   17360.4    188.2
Reports of Goods               869.3    12709.0    13485.0    14963.0   15933.5   17018.2    18124.?
....................................... ........................................................................... 
services Batlmce               -3504.0   -1181.4   -1089.5   -1157.6   -128.9   -1692.6   -1721.2
Exporte of Servioe             1908.0    2118.0       2139.0     2079.6    2304.6    2520.8        2735.0
van-Factor Services           1327.0     1577.0      1612.0     1726.1     179.1    1897.8        2021.2
Factor servicew                581.0      541.0       527.0      353.5      510.5       623.0      713.8
Rlports of Services            5412.0    3299.4       3228.5     3237.4    3503.4    4213.5        4456.1
Mon-Factor Services           1477.0     1341.0      1268.0     1458.9    1516.3    1S94.6        1698.3
Paetor SerWices               3935.0     1958.4      1960.5     1778.6    2077.1    2618.9        2737.8
Intaest Due 1                3935.0     1957.7      1951.7     1749.8    2027.4    2541.1        2"65.0
.........................................................................................................
Not Current Trunsfers           1932.5      308.0       230.0      500.0       500.0      500.0      500.0
............ ...........................   _..............................
Capital Acsount                -232S.9   -2784.3       -336.1    -1354.9    1622.4       1614.6     1595.1
,,.,,,,,......................... __... .....................  _..................
bisbursemmes                    428.0      786.0       562.0     1S24.1    1S06.1       1523.9     1707.1
Afmrtizatlen dae  11           2954.0    1567.6       1891.2      251.5       283.7      409.3      612.0
Gross debt retired (8-Back)                                     2927.5
Direct Forefgn Invest.           10.0       117.0      284.0      300.0       400.0      500.0      500.0
Short-term, HEt                 192.1   -2119.7        709.1
Overall BaLens                 -1682.0   -3606.?    -683.7    -1489.9    1232.4           764.2      738.4
. ................................................................................................. 
not Chon"e in Reserves         -4442.0      1317.0    -1614.5      500.0   -1200.0    -8oo.0        4800.0
arose                        -4942.0      99.o   -1614.5    -288.0    -997.0    -570.0            -63.0
Not tMP C+ incr.)              500.0      322.0         0.0      788.0    -203.0    -230.0        -147.0
VDSR Total Cost                                 ..         ..     1045.6
Capital gain an Buyback                                           2049.2
Debt fttfef/Reeehod.            4941.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Prfnipat                     2446.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Interest                      2495.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
iaonpe fn Arrears               1183.0     2289.7      2298.2        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
interest                        198.0    1069.7        850.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Amrtizatfon                     965.0      1220.0     1448.2        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
........................................... ................_.,...._._....__
financing gap                      0.0        0.0         0.0      -13.8      .32.4       35.8        61.6
........................ ...................................................  0..............
NowD ttess
..............................
CDP (tn Us$)                   62265.0   78031.9    9OSS2.7   97146.o   101451.1  108585.5   117020.9
Trad  Blance CZ of CDP)            3.6        0.1         0.6        0.5        0.4        0.3         0.3
RICA (Nhn USO)                  3995.9      594.3      1077.1     1261.3    1126.9    1067.6        1074.6
CZ of GOP)                    6.4        0.8         1.2        1.3        1.1        1.0         0.9
Exports 08fS CC                12189.7   14337.0    15609.0   17212.0    18126.5   19258.2    20510.4
Reports 6UPS CC                10126.3    14050.0    14M.0   16421.9   17449.8   18612.8    19863.0
OWOILT (Mtn USS)               48774.9   47373.8   48110.4   45355.9   42918.0   44068.4   452S2.1
Debt/GOP. (Z)                     T8.3       60.7        53.1       4.7        42.3        40.6       38.6
*ODNLT (C of MMPGS)              381.9      318.4       298.2      258.2      230.3       221.7      213.1
Rnt Dut/E2MO3                     30.8       13.2        12.1       10.0       10.9       12.8        12.5
CInt+A    XP0AV     (dee)         53.9       23.7        23.8       11.4       12.4       14.8        15.3
dlnte')/EXPGOS (paid)              5.8        8.3         9.6       11.4       12.4.       4.8        15.3
tnt &adoDP                         6.3        2.5         2.2        1.8        2.0        2.3         2.3
Not Res Level (Months of N)        5.6        4.0         4.9        4.2        4.7         4.7        4.9
(Ntn USM)         6592.0      275.0     6889.5      4389.5     1589.5    8389.5       9189.5
1/ ExcludgsanteUu0d.and converted obligations.
Sources Gwvenuont Authorfties end World Bank Ett1ates
3 nar 1993



POWAD
ExteL Sector * SArs  ed Uses of Feuds
Suommy ?Ibe - After DOM 1/
(155$ Blillion)
............ ...................... .......... .... .,........_--..-.--.........  ....*--------............................
1991     (2)          1992    (M         1991-95    (I)    1996-2000    (C)        19-2000    (2)
............................................ ............................................................................................. ,,----..----
1. Uses of funds                         4.6      100.0        4.7       100.0       21.1      100.0       23.2      100.0        4.3      100.0
1. Totad Payments Du  1/                 3.5       75.8        3.8       80.9        1S.3       n2.s       20.2       87.3       35.5       80.2
Old Debts  (Of Wich)                  3.4       73.6        3.         78.5       13.2       62.7       13.1       56.4       26.3       59.4
Paris Clib                           0.5       11.2        0.6        12.6        4.0       18.9        8.3       36.0       12.3       27.8
Losu   Club                          2.2       47.9        2.2       45.6        6.0        28.6        2.5       10.8        8.5       193
OlGA                                 0.3        S.9        0.4        8.8         1.1        5.4        1.1        4.9        2.3        5.1
Other 2/                             0.4        8.6         0.5       115         2.1        9.9        1.1        4.8        3.2        T.2
Om Debts  (Of Which)                  0.1        2.2        0.1         2.4        2.1        9.7        7.2       30.9        9.2       20.8
eW Stlata   ens                      0.0        0.8        0.0        0.6         0.4        2.1        2.8       12.0        3.2        7.3
IB3D                                 0.0        0.4        0.0        0.9        0.6        3.1         3.4       14.2        3.9        8.9
185                                  0.0        1.1        0.0        0.9         1.0)       4.6        1.0        4.4        2.0        4.5
othr  Gapf ter  *M  Int)             0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.1        0.0        0.1
2. Chang  fn Gros Reserves 3/           -1.0      *21.4        1.6        34.0        2.5       11.7        3.2       13.8        5.7       12.8
3. Camrclal Creditors NOS   4/                                                        1.9        9.1                              1.9        4.3
4. Other  SJ                             2.1       4.6        -0.7       -14.9        1.4        6.7       -0.3       -1.1        1.2        2.6
It. Swurea *f fundB                      4.6      100.0        4.7      100.0        21.1      100.0       23.2      100.0       44.3      100.0
1. gem Debt                              1.1       23.8        0.6       11.8         .3        34.3        9.1       39.5       16.4       37.0
Of Whicht IM8                         0.3        7.S        0.3        7.2         3.6       17.3        3.6       1S.?        7.3       16.S
iN?                         0.3        6.9        0.0        0.0        1.4        6.4        0.0        0.0        1.4        3.0
t1, EIB, and Other          0.4        9.4        0.2        9.4        2.3       10.7        S.S        23.8        7.8       17.5
2. 3fl                                   0.1        2.5        0.3        6.0         1.6        7.6        2.8       12.1        4.4        9.9
3. WICA                                  1.1       24.4        1.6        33.8        7.7       36.4       11.2       40.4       18.9       42.7
4. Arrears (Cainrlola  CredItors)        2.3       49.2         2.3      48.4         4.6       21.7        0.0        0.0        4.6       10.4
1/ Inseuds all payets dbt an engino  shedueks with the Pis CLeh nd Cmrcela creditors
Aseus cpl.etin of dt  first Oh& of te Parls Club afreemen  (fay 1991).
2/ Itludln INF purhes                                                                                                                                      o
31 Ilmeas th  gttited total outflow of the camecal  O. l
4  Include credit  ,tedsd. ard capital   to:li     Identif lied (Copital IIEI o gp filler lo am)
sims  wortd Bf  Istisn "to
3 Kwr 1993



so
Nationat Acsounts                                 Pog 4 of6
(Ztoty Trittton)
1990      1991      1992      19        1994       1995      1996
............................................................................................
CA) At 1987 prIces
~~~~~........... ..........._--*---
Gramtlo Proust                   1S.6      14.4      14.6      15.0       15.6      16.3      17.1
Team of Trad@ adjustwnt           0.2      .0.1      -0.2      -0.2       -0.2      -0.2      -0.2
Gros Damest10 riae.              15.7      14.3      14.4      14.9       15.5      16.1      16.9
Reur  satnce                      1.4       0.2       0.5       0.5        0.5       0.5       0.5
lports of tNF8                   4.7       4.0       4.3       4.5        4.6       4.8       4.9
lepots of GIFS                   3.3       3.8       3.8       3.9       4.1        4.2       4.4
Total Eapndltwo                  14.2      14.2      14.1      14.5       15.1      15.7      16.5
Csrpton                          10.0      10.6      10.?      11.0       11.3      11.7      12.3
'ai                              1.3       1.2       1.2       1.2        1.2       1.2       1.2
Prvate                           8.7       9.4       9.6       9.8       10.1      10.5      11.1
Umtuoated ltm                  -0.4      -0.2
Inv>aseet                         4.2       3.6       3.3       3.6       3.8        4.0       4.2
Fixed Ctatl Formation            3.5       3.4       3.4       3.6       3.7        3.9       4.1
Non 80 ormnt                    3.1       2.9       3.0       3.1        3.1       3.2       3.3
ovewm snt (NMPS)                0.5       0.5       0.4       0.4        0.6       0.7       0.8
Chans In StocKs                  0.6       0.2      -0.1       0.0        0.1       0.1       0.2
oamastie SavIn                    S.?       3.7       3.7       3.9       4.1        4.3       4.6
Not Factor InsoeQ               -0.8      -0.3      -0.3       -0.3      -0.3      -0.4      -0.4
Current Tranfers                 0.5       0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1
Groes ational Savings             5.4       3.4       3.5       3.7       3.9        4.0       4.3
Gross Nationat Prodbwt           14.7      14.1      14.3      14.7       15.3      15.9      16.7
(3) At Current PriceF
_..._..........................
Groso Domestf* Product          591.5     82.S    1234.3    1701.5    2158.5    2586.9    2898.4
aesurce Deence                   50.0       3.4      22.6      2.1        31.2      35.4      39.1
Eqport of IMfS                 160.5     167.7    239.3      330.2      422.0     501.8     555.6
E4#orts of Gm                  110.5     164.3     216.7    303.1      390.8      466.5     516.5
Total Eapondituro.              541.5     821.9    1208.6    1670.1    2121.7    2544.8   2U51.7
Ceneuiption                     378.6     664.6    935.5    1305.9    1671.4    1991.6    2244.2
Publie                          49.5      73.      101.0     139.9      175.2     203.0      MA.
Privat                         329.1     571.1     834.5    1165.9    1496.1    1788.6    2022.1
invest mnt                      16Y.9     17.3      273.1     364.2     450.4      553.2     4W0.5
Fied Capital Frmtion           116.1     155.0     24.8      339.2     432.7      523.4     588.0
Km  Gonvowt                    94.4     128.9     212.0     296.9      368.0     435.4     477.8
Gaerunt (NFPS)                 21.6      26.1      31.8      42.3  66.8           81.0     110.1
Chanes fn Stocks                46.8      22.3      29.3      25.0       17.6      29.9      19.5
Grow Somtie SvinsP              212.9     180.7     295.7     391.3     481.5      5Sl.6     46.6
net factor Sevico Inam          -31.9     -15.0    -19.5      -23.0      -33.3     -47.5     -50.
Current Tramfs                   18.4       33        3.1       8.8       10.6      11.9      12.4
6reas atfonal Saving            1S9.4     169.0     279.3     375.1     458.8      552.9     608.4
Grass National Prodwt           559.6     810.3    1214.8    166.6    2125.1    2539.4    28A7.8
Coawersion Factor               500.0   10576.0   13631.0   17515.0   23275.8   2324.0   24768.6
Cenwarsfon Faor (Ad. 1)        8689.1   1187.8   15973.6   18118.5   21093.1   25741.3   2443.r
Poputlaon (Oln mid-period)      38.12     38.25     38.38     38.52     38."6      3.80      3B.95
I  per Cap N   Atlts (M)         1690      1780      1980      2400       2610     2g6        2960
GOP per Cap NaL Attas (US)       10        1820      2010      24400 5              2810      3020
OP ntn US (n  x)                62265     78a0      905       97146    101451    10858    117021
GOP per Cap VOmL (M)S)           1630      2040      2360      220        260       2800      30
..................------.--  .....................--....-------.-.--........................-....-.......
1/ AdJusted lcovrion factor is teq   to the roltng avera  (3-years) of th actuat e2cuW  rate.
tam (t-) ard Ct-2) ar adjuBted to the period Ct) using th  dmetic 9* daf tatw un the US IP dsf tater.
3 Nat 1993



POLAND                                             AIt=I
Natoalt Accents                                      Pages  of 6
(percent of MUP)
-----)-* ......................................,............................... ...........................
1990      1991       1992        1993       1994       199f       1996
....................... ................................................  _  *................
(A) As percent of 1987 prfce CP
..............................
Gros Omstic Product                100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0
Tem  of trade mdj.                   1.0       -0.9       -1.0       -1.1       .1.2       -1.2        -1.1
Gross Datstic trom                 101.0       99.1       99.0       98.9       98.8       98.8        98.9
CensuAptfen                         64.2       73.5       73.5       72.9       72.4       72.2        72.1
Privto                             55.8       65.1       65.6       65.1       64.9       6.8         64.9
PubLic                              8.4        8.4        7.9        7.8        7.6        7.4         7.1
investmnt                           26.9       25.0       22.8       5.7        24.3       24.7       24.9
ffid Copitel Fomtfun               22.8       23.6       23.4       23.7       Z5.7       23.9       23.9
Priveto                           19.6       19.9       20.4       20.7       20.1       19.9        19.4
Puble                              3.2        3.6        3.1        2.9        3.5        4.0        4.5
Cha   In Stocks                     4.1        1.5       -0.7        0.0        0.6        0.8         1.0
ResoAcae goante                      8.9        1.3        3.7        3.5        3.2        3.2        3.1
Export of GUFS                     30.1       28.1       29.5       29.6       29.4       29.3        28.7
Imports of GArS                    21.2       26.7       25.8       26.2       26.2       26.1       25.6
bcmastlc Savings                    36.8       25.6       25.4       26.0       26.4       26.6        26.8
not Factor tncome                  -5.4       -2.1       -2J        -2.0       -2.1        -2.4      -2.3
CrrTent Tronfces                    3.3        0.5        0.3        0.7        0.7        0.6        0.6
Grows  ationat Sains                34.7       24.0       23.?       24.7       25.0       24.8        25.1
PUbtfe                              6.4       -0.5       -4.0       -2.3        OJ;         1.5       2.0
Prfvate                            28.4       24.5       2V.?       27.1       24.3       23.4        23.1
C8) As percent of current GDP
........ ............... _..
Gross Domesatic Produst            100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0
Cmisaption                         64.0        78.1       75.8       76.7       7r.4       77.0        77.4
Private                            55.6       69.2       67.6       68.5       69.3       69.1        69.8
Publfc                              8.4        8.9        8.2        8.2        8.1        7.8         7.7
Investment                          27.5       21.5       22.1       21.4       20.9       21.4       21.0
Fixed Capital Formeation           19.6       18.8       19.8       19.9       20.0       20.2       20.3
PriVate                           16.0       13.6       17.2       17.5       17.0       16.8       16.5
Public                             3.7        3.2        2.6        2.5        3.0        3.4        3.8
ChaMe in Stocks                     7.9        2.7        2.4        1.5        0.8         1.2        0.7
Resource gotl                        8.5        0.4        1.8        1.6        1.4        1.4        1.4
Exports of OMPS                    27.1       20.3       19.4       19.4       19.5       19.4        19.2
teporCt of GNFS                    1l.?       19.9       17.6       17.8       18.1       18.0       17.8
Domostie Savings                    36.0       21.9       24.0       23.0       22.3       22.8        22.3
net Factor Incme                   -5.4       -1.8       -1.6       -1.5       -1.5        -1.8       -1.7
Current Trnfers                     3.1        0.4        0.3        0.5        O.S        0.5         0.4
Gross matfonal Savings              33.7       20.5       22.6       22.0       21.3       21.4       21.0
...........................................................................................................
Surceas 60rtd Bank estiostes.
3 nor 1993



creditaM     n anOW  Bank ExpoDw
(rdS mdIlfen)
1990     1991    192    19        1994    1995    1996    2000    1-19               2000
MOULT  I/                            4774.9 47 .8 48110.4 4535.9 42 .0 4406.4 42.1  478.3                    45 .3        46815.2
DOD IBD                                54.0   403.4   747.4  1871.5  287.6  3611.7  4234.0  5610.1             1902.3      503.8
Payments Due 8 IOD                       2.0    17.2    43.2       5.6   173.3   316.9   459.4   87.6            129.2       65.6
Wl INF                                 SOO5.O   62.0   822.0  1610.0  1401.0  1177.0  1030.0   39.0             1167.6       5.2
Payments Due INF                        25.0    49.8    40.7   193.8   378.0   309.1   22.3    45.2             194.3        205.6
DOD EIB, EBRO, Now Busat.              374.0   460.0   678.0  1078.0  1531.3  2173.8  2989.0  6575.0            1184.2      4769.5
Payment. Due at8, 53RD, New B tle.      15.7    35.4    30.2    52.7   133.0   193.0   286.4   87S.7             88.8        558.0
MOULT (C of 6DP)                        78.3    60.7    53.1    46.7    42.3    40.6    3B.6    29.4             48.7         34.0
DOT CZ of EXPS)  V1                    381.9   318.4   298.2   258.2   230.3   221.7   213.1   170.3            25.3         192.6
Interest Due/EXPOS                      30.8    13.2    12.1    10.0    10.9    12.8    12.S    10.2             11.8         11.4
Total Debt Service/EXP   (Cd)           53.9    23.7    23.8    11.4    12.4    14.8    15.3    16.6             17.2         15.6
Total Debt Service/ES (paid)             5.8      8.3      9.6    11.4    12.4    14.8    15.3    16.6           11.3         15.8
StAn Expsures (3
DOD IBRDDWLT                             0.1      0.9      1.6     4.1      6.7      8.2     9.4    11.7          4.3         10.7
DOD IBSR/m  Debt                         5.8    23.9    33.3    41.0    49.S    51.9    51.3    44.7             39.9         48.8
Payments DMi IBRD/XGS                    0.0      0.1      0.3     0.5      0.9      1.6     2.2      3.1         0.7          2.7
Paymnts DUE ID/Totat Puts Dw             0.0      0.5  *  -1.1     4.8      7.5    10.7    14.1    18.6           4.9         16.8
Preferred Creditors: (X) 3/
DD PREF ClDODLT                          1.4      3.0      3.8     8.6    11.4    12.8    14.3    18.0            7.9         16.1
Paymnt Duo PREf CRED/XKS                 0.3      0.5      0.6     1.8      3.2     3.5      3.T      4.5         1.9          4.4
Punt Due PREF CRED/Totat Ptse DUO        0.5      2.3      2.5    15.5    26.2    23.8    24.4    27.1            14.1        28.1
.................... ............................................_ ..,,.... .,.......,,,....... ,.,,,,,.........................................
Vl Asu s suwcessful cl.tf a of debt newgtfatfon.
2f Exports of Goods nd Servce inlude trad  In CuwtIbte Curreny.
All trad  meds In cawertibte curreny since 1991.
3/ Include IBM, IN, E5, & El.
3 Nor 19



532
lRELIC OF POAN
LETrER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Dear Mr. President,
1.    We are wridting this letter on behalf of the Government and the National Bank (NBP) of
Poland to describe the Government's program which aims at simultaneous restructuing of stat
owned enteprises (SOEs) and staeowned commercial banks (SOCBs) and their privaation (the
Program), and to request from the World Bank a Loan to support the execution of tis Program.
This ambitious program builds upon two reform programs implemented in support of the Economic
Transformation Program (ETP), initiated in early 1990, in the enterprise and banking sectors
respectively. The Bank supported these efforts with a Privatizaton and Restructuring Project (PRP,
Loan # 3342 POL) and a Financial Instilutions Development Loan (FIDL, Loa # 3341 POL). The
measures we plan to take in the context of the Program are fidly embedded in our fiscal projections
and macro-economic program for the next fiscal year, which forms the basis of a new Standby
Arrangement with the I1M covering the 12 month period extending until March 7, 1994. Ihe Stand-
by Arrangement was approved by the IMF Board on March 8, 1993.
I BACKGROUND
2.    The two reform programs undetaken in the enterprise and bankdng sectors are described in
our Leaters of Development Policy of May and June 1991, related respectively to the PRP and the
FIDL. In the enterprise sector, these early reforms encompassed the development of a
comprehensive, multi-track approach to privatization of SOEs, with an anticipation of transferring 50
percent of state assets in the industral and service sectors into private hands within a three year
period. The program was supported by a Bank credit line and a comprehensive technical assistance
effort to strenthen the institutional capabilities of Government entities responsible for implementing
the privatization. In the banking sector, the reform program encompassed a range of policy measures
intended to contain directed and subsidized credit, develop market based instrumentS of monetary
policy and improve the legislative and regulatory framework for the financial sector. In addition, the
Government implemented a set of specific measures aimed at strengthening the governance and
capabilities of the nine state-owned banls that were previously hived off from the National Bank of
Poland (NBP, the monobank under the former regime).
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington, D.C. United States of America



54                                  ANNEX
3.    While significant progress has been made under the two programs, the severit of the
economic recession following the introduction of the Economic Transformation Program (ET1), and
the simultaneous collapse of the CMEA trade regime, has slowed down the pace of prvatzation in
the enterprise sector. Also, prvatization has proven to be a much more complex and lengthy process
than Initially expected, as a result of difficulties In properly assessing the value of enterprie, limied
investor interest in the face of mountig economic uncertainties, and the inexperience and shortage of
staff in the relevant Government agencies. As a consequence, a large number of enterptises,
particularly the bigger ones, has continued to operate under an ill-defined govean  strucure, with
incentives for managers and workers alike to pursue their own short term itest rather tm  the long
term well-being of their firm. Under this perverse incentive framework, a growing umber of
enterprises did not adjust to the new market conditions introduced by the ETP. Compounded by the
enal shock of the collapse in the CMEA trade regime, enterprise performance deteriorated
sharply, generaing widespread losses and excessive levels of indebtedness which eneprises became
increasingly unable to service.
4.    The severe financial difficulties of the SOEs that do not service their debts have reslted in a
sharp deterioration of the quality of the banking system's loan portf;olo. In partiar the ine
SOCDs, which hold the bulk of the loans to these firms, have suffered an erosion of their capital
much below prudent solvency standards. To try and rebuild their capital, they have increasingly
reorted to widening their spreads at the expense of depositors and of their remaining good
borrowers, thereby frustrating new investments, particularly by the emerging prvate sector.
Insufficient capitalization has also resulted in banks becoming extremely risk averse and increasingly
refusing to finance potentialy profitable business ventures.
5.    The financial difficulties of the loss-making SOEs have also severely compounded the fiscal
problems enperienced by our Government. The Goverment, already faced with increasing soc
outlays on account of growing unemployment benefits and social assistance claims, has seen its
tradonal SOE tax base shrink. A large number of enterprises are running up tax and social securt
arrears to the budget. At the same dme, despite the ongoing reform of the tax system, tax collection
from the emerging private sector is still lagging.
6.    Against this background, the Government is undertaking an ambitious effort to address
simultaneously the interrelated problems of the SOEs that are not paying their debts and of the
commercial banks through the Program. This program is outdined in more detail below, following a
short assessmet of the current situation in the enterprise and banking sectors.
The State Enterprise Sector
7.    As a result of two years of hard work to privatize state assets, the Government, as of
September 1992, had succeeded in privatizing a total of 1,475 SOEs, representag about 20 percent of
the initial stock and about 12-15 percent of industrial output. Out of this total, as of September 1992,
1,400 SOEs had been privatized under the liquidation route, including 40 firms divested through
"quick sales". The balance, or 75 SOEs, had been sold through capital privatization, of which 16
through initial public offerings and the remainder through trade sales. In addition, ownership
transformation had been itiated for 200 SOEs selected for a first manche of mass privatization and
commercialized, as well as for another 15 SOEs selected for 'restructuring-privatization'. Finally, as
of September 1992, a total of 475 SOEs, including the enterprises selected for mass privazadion, had



55                                 ANNEX2
Page 3 of 14
been commercialized but not privatized yet. Notwithstanding these significant achievements, in the
industrial sector about 3,000 non-commercialized SOEs remained in state hands as of September
1992.
8.    The introduction of the ETP and the subsequent collapse of the CMEA trade regime has
resulted in a dramatic deterioration In staft enterprise performance indicators. Gross sales in the
enterprise sector declined sharply in 1990 (by about 24 percent In real terms), and again, although to
a lesser extent, In 1991 (12 percent) and rose by 3 percent between January and November 1992.
Despite the overall contaction of sales from their pre-1990 level, many enterprises did not reduce
their production and/or adjust costs to improve their financial position. As a result, inventories have
surged and profitability has declined sharply. This evolution however masks divergent trends between
private enterprises and mediumsized SOEs, on the one hand, which are managing to tap new
markets, particularly abroad, and the bigger state enterprises on the other hand, where litte
adjustment to the new market conditions created by the ETP has taken place.
The BankiDg Sector
9.    Ihe 1990-91 fiancial sector reform program was intended, inter alia, to strengthen the
governance and institional capabilities of the nine newly created commercial banks. Under this
program, the nine SOCBs were trned into joint-stock companies owned by the Treasury, representd
by the Ministry of Finance (MOP). The MOP has commissioned regular portfolio reviews and
fincial audits, has provided strong guidance to the newly appointed supervisory boards of the banks,
and also has steered the banks' managers to accept comprehensive foreign technical assistace to build
up their banking skills. As a result, seven of the nine banks have entered into twinning arrangement
with reputable foreign commercial banks, which are helping them modernize their operations and
train their staff in all aspects of banking business.
10.   The initial results of these measures are very ecouraging. In the Goverment's opinion, the
nine commercial banks have made significant progress in terms of their institudonal development and
are in the process of becoming effective financial intermediaries. At the same time however, the
deterioration of the financi condition of enterprises has hit these nine banks which are the main
providers of credit to the state enterprise sector. While the financial condition of the commercial
banks was still quite satisfcory at the time the ETP was initiated, their portfolio quality deteriorated
sharply in 1991. Ithe size of the non-performing portfolio also generates significant flow losses.
With the uptur in the economy in mid 1992, the situation aears to have stabilized and may have
even improved slightly. Tis latest evolution, while encouragig, is however nowhere near sufficient
to ensure that the banks have a capital cushion large enough to absorb the losses likely to arise firom
widespread enteprise restrucuring and to support the risks inherent in lending to emerging, reladvely
inexperienced private and privatized businesses.
11.   The commercial baks' finmcial difficulties leads them to maintain relatively high spreads
between their average lending and deposit rates, at the expense of good borrowers and depositors.
Also, bank managers have become increasingly risk averse and are more frequendy reluctant to lend,
Investng excess resources Instead in interbank placements and Government securities. As a result
many business ventures, including newly privaized and restuctured SOEs, have difficulty gaiing
access to bank cred   The Govemment is convinced that without an injection of Goverment funds to



56 
PE& 4 of 14
rebuild the banks' capital, the banks' behavior threatens to inhibit the still weak but clearly discernible
recovery in the economy.
12.  'Me banks' poor financial condition also threatens to undermine the progress already made by
the National Bank of Poland (NBP), under the 1990-91 reform program, In strengthening the legal
and regulatory framework for the financial sector. While advancement under this program has been
slower ta expected, among others due to personnel changes at NBP, the Central Bank has recently
issued regulations in the area of banks" loan classification and provisioning policies. Regulations
concerning banks' capital adequacy ratios and foreign exchange exposure are forthcoming.
Enforcement of these pmdential mles will be a credible exercise only if NBP can set realistic
intermediate targets, for the banks to achieve the prudential standards set under these rules.
13.   While recognizing the importance of issuing binding prudential regulations and accounting
standards, we fully realize that the quality of the regulatory famework depends ultimately on NBP's
monitoring and enforcement capabilities. Even though NBP has increased significantly its supervisory
staff during the second half of 1992, it is not in a position yet to adequately perform the Important
task of bank supervision. The recession, coupled with initial liberal policies for licensing new private
banks, many of them inexperienced in banking, has created a precarious situation in the private
segmpent of the banking secetr. Ihese same factors have also negatively affected the development of
the 1,700 small cooperative banks, which regained their independence from the Bank for Food
Economy (BGZ) in 1990. As a resut, NBP is now faced with a small but growing number of bank
failures, without the tools needed to address such failures. To address this issue, NBP has strted to
implement a comprehensive program to strengthen Its supervisory capabilities.
H. TIRE GOVERNNT'S PROGRAM
A.    Scope of the Program
14.   The Government recognizes the need to solve the financal difficulties of loss making
enterprises and the related portfolio problems experienced by the banking system. The Government
reform program requires functioning financial intermediaries to achieve its objective of private sector-
led growth. Banking sector reform therefore lies at the heart of the systemic tansformaion of the
Polish economy. However, the core of the banking system's troubles lies in the pervasive losses
incurred by its main borrowers. Thus addressing the capital inadequacy and incentive problems in the
banking sector without stemming the losses in the sta  enterprise sector is unlikely to brig more
ta temporary relief. The Government's Program concerns troubled SOEs, irrespective of their
sector.
B.    Objectives and Principles
15.   The Govenment considers that the task of dealing with 2,000-odd enterprises hat are not
servicing their debt cannot be left entirely to regular bankruptcy and liquidation mechanisms In
Poland, for at least three reasons. First, the Polish judicial system, as it currently stands, does not
have the required capacity to carry out a task of this magnitude. Under the previous regime, the
bankruptcy law was seldom applied. With a shortage of trained judges and other legal professions,



57                                  ANNEX2
Pane g 14
court capacity and training is certain to be a bottleneck to the development of sound bankruptcy
practices for years to come. While the Government is planning to increase its use of technical
assistance, training, and consultancy expertise in this area, this will clearly not be up to the scale and
the urgency of the problem.
16.   Second, the Government believes that any excessive bias toward liquid.ation should be
avoided. In a large number of cases, the debt overhang and ongoing losses reflect not so much
managerial weaknesses or any inherent lack of viability, but simply the fact that under the previous
incentive structure there was no good reason not to incur losses and run up debt. Many of the current
enterprises that do not service their debts may have a viable future as going concerns once their labor
contracts and capital structure are adjusted to new realities and the new set of relative prices. In such
cases, their reorganization and the transfer of their ownership to the private sector offer a more
promising way towards efficient use of their assets tham straight liquidation. What is really needed Is
a reorganzation-cum-fiancial restucturing of the enteprise (creditors' agreement, or conciadon),
something that takes place in Western economies as a way to overcome the obstacles hat would
otherwise lead to liquidation.
17.   Third, to be of lasting value, this type of conciliation requires both extensive information
about the prospects of the firm and the creation of an ownership structure that incorporates strong
incentives towards profitability. Therefore, the Government program introduces new mechanisms
meant to simplify and facilitate the ownership transformation of troubled enterprises. These
mechanisms constite a new p.ivatization track.
She Conclladon Proceedings
18.   In order to take into accunt these various constaints and objectives, the Government has
decided to establish a process which will strike a balance between efficiency and regular application
of commerca law. In addition to the existing court-led bankruptcy and arrangement prceigs
existing under commercial law, the banks, in particular the SOCBs as the main enterprise creditors,
will be granted the right to conduct and conclude "conciliation proceedings" under a special, time-
bound, enabling legislaion. Bank-led conciliation proceedings are a simplified version of the
arrangement proceedings already exisdng under Polish commercial law, whereby minority creditors
can be forced into a debt restrucring agreement with an enterprise willing to implement a credible
restuctuig plan. Courts, however, will retain the right to examine, by means of appeal, the
regularity and fairness of any bank-led conciliation.
19.   Since SOCBs are to play the role of "agent of change", their efficiency is key to the success
of our program. Ultimately, the issue of bank efficiency will be solved through their privatization
and the strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory framework for the banking sector. UntH
banks are privatized, the Government will take a series of steps to ensure that they operate in an
effective way. These include, first, mandatory actions to be Imposed on banks as well as their close
monitoring by the MOF. Second, the Issue of the banks' incenive stucture will be addressed. As
banks fat need to have a capital base for managers to pursue their commercia interests, a bank
recapitalization will take place early in the progrm. To maintain Inentives for baks to reach
constuctive restucturing solutions for their nonperfrmirg debtors, this recaitalization will occor
on an ex ante basis, using a series of recently performed audits, rather tham ex post based on actual
collection performance. This procedure will on average provide sufficient new capital while



58
maintning full collection incentives: under this approach banks can on the margin keep every zloty
they collect. In addition, maining the strong role of the Supervisory Boards, efforts will be made
to link managers' compensation to the banks' value, in such a way that they are more likely to pursue
the bankl long term interests.
Gowrnme  Intervention and Large Loss Makers
20.   Eve afer all athe legal and incentive aspects of this bank-led proceedigs are in place, there
will be cases of very large, or politically sensitive, loss makers failing to reach a work out agreement
with their commercial creditors and for which outright liquidation is politically inpossible or
economically not desirable. Political and social consideradons may In some cases justify grad
rather than rapid closure, while in others viability may be restored with a limited infusion of public
money. The Govenment believes hat it is best to address this problem up-front, recognize the
danger, and not let it disrupt the entire prs. For ftis purpose, the Government will establish a
special support mechanism out of budget resources, to be managed by the Council of Mbnisters
(COM), with significant patcipation of the Industrid Development Agency (IDA), as a complement
to the bank-led conciliation proceedings and as a social 'safety valve'.
21.   The Government is fiuly determined to keep the budgetary resources made avaiable for the
above purpose strictly limited. While this objective could in principle have been reached by pre-
selecting a fixed number of eligible enterpises, the Goverment believes that such a method could
lead to arbitrary choices resulting in both misallocation of public resources and additional fmanci
demands from non-selected enterprises. Therefore, the Government has decided to regulate this
source of public expenditures through establishing sigent conditions for the access to these
bc4getary resources.
22.   The decisions to allocate budgetary reurces and their effective management, I.E.,
Disbursement, monitring and repayment, wil be subject to specific procedures. First, individual
allocation decisions will be made by the Council of Ministers. Second, IDA, which plays an
importat role in the process, will retain as its own funds the resources arising from the recvery of
the loans made out of these budgetary resources. In addition, the Program contains specific measures
aimed at stregtheaing IDA's appraisa and monioring capacity.
C.    Action Plan
Bank-managed Enterprise Resrucuring
23.   The legal framework for the bank-managed restrucuring process is established In the
Enterprise and Bank Restructuring Law enacted by Parliament on February 3, 1993 (the Law). The
law contains two sets of provisions.
24.   First, it establishes legal insument aimed at facilitaftng enterprise restrucfuing, i.e. the new
conciliation proceedings, a debt-to-equity swap scheme allowing to combine restuctuing of a
troubled SOE and transfer of its ownership to the private sector, and the sale of creditors' claims.
Those mechanisms are described below.



59 
2a of 14
(a)    ConcUlaion Proceedings. The Law entrusts to banks and IDA the authority to conduct
'conciliation proceedings,' provided they hold a minimum pordon (20% or 10% If not less
ta 1 billion zloty) of an entprise's total liabilities. Conciliatory proceedings are a quas
out-of-court and simplified version of 'arrangement proceedings' eisting under Polish
commercial law. Under arrangement proceedings (which wil remain in force), courts can
enforce upon all creditors a debt restructuring plan accepted by more than 50% of editors
representng two-thirds of claims or 80% of claims If the debt reduction is to exceed 40%.
The Law confers a similar enforcement power to banks and IDA on a temporary basis (for a
period limited to three years). To reduce the risk of minority creditors derailing the process,
bank- or MIA-led conciliation will be complete as soon as creditors representing 50% of an
enterprise's liabilities, irrespective of their number, have agreed (minority crediors, however,
retain the right to appeal the decision in court). lhe Law also obliges the Treasury as a
creditor to accept a conciliation agreement if its claims are not treated unfavorably in
comparison with the claims of other creditors. Such conciliatory agreements will be based on
the debtor enterprises' restucing plans, that will typically involve closing loss-making
production units, carving out non-essenta activiies, divesting non-productive or under-
udilized assets, and shedding of excess labor.
(b)   Debt-to-Epuly Conversion. Creditors holding at least 30% of a public entprise's callable
debt wiU have the right to request from the Ministry of Privatization (MOP) the conversion of
their claims into shares. If MOP agrees, the same option will be open to, and could also be
imposed through concil;atory proceedings on, a enteprise creditors.
(c)    Sale of Credtors' Clains. In addition to the existng Civil Code regulation, the Law
itroduces a new procedure faciitating public sale of creditors' claims.
25.   Second, the SOCBs, which hold most of claims on troubled SOEs, and which the Governm
plans to privafze, are eligble for recWitalization under the Law. The Goverment has required ese
bans to take specific actions with respect to their problem loan portfolio. In addition, the
Government will take appropriate measures to ensure that the commercial activities of the state-owned
specialized banks do not in any way undermine the Program.
26.   The Law imposes on banks that have been recapitalized to have dealt with all their troubled
cstomers by a date to be established by a Decree of the MOP. The MOF intends to establish the
above date as being wihiln 9-12 months of the Law's effective date. By that date, the banks are
obliged to sell all unsatisfied claims that have been classified as bad for the purpose of the
recapitalization unless a conciliatory or arrangement agreement has been entered into with the debtor;
or bankruptcy of the debtor has been declared; or liquidation under the Privadzation Law or the Law
on SOEs has been iniiated; or the debtor has been fully servicing its debt for at least 3 months.
27.   The Law allows banks to reqhire the commercialization of SOEs, or their liquidation through
privatization, as a precondition for concluding a conciliatory proceeding. In such cases, consent by
the relevant Government agency to the SOE's legal transformation will be compulsory. The
Government expects that, under the new incentive framework it is establishing for SOCBs under the
Program, bank managers will have a strong interest to seek the commercialization, and simultaneous
or subsequent privatzation, of the great majority of their customers, so as to maximize their banks'
intinsic value. Therefore, the Government expects that, of the SOEs emerging from bank-led



60                                    X 2
conciliatory proceedings, about 75% will be transformed into joint-stock companies. It also expect
that, in about 30% of the cases, the Treasury's stake in the newly-created joint-sock company wMll
have been reduced to below 50%.
28.   Until the commercialization is completed, the Workers' Councils will remain ia place, which
will facilitate discussion of the restrucrtuing plan with the workers during the conciliation
proceedings. Failure of the enterprise to comply with actions agreed on under the restructg plan
would allow creditors to recall th conciliatory agreement and file for bankruptcy.
Subsidary Government Intervention
29. As a matter of principle, the Government will not intervene in individual negotiations between
banks and enterprises. In a limited number of cases however, the Govermnent will establish an
intervention mechanism to support the restructuring or cushion the liquidation of enterprises which
have been unable to reach a conciliation agreement with their creditors and which it regards as
important from the social-economic perspective. The Government wil ensure th this mechanism is
finmced in a transparent manner, and that the public resources used will be put to efficient use.
30. To ensure transparency, the public resources to be used for the intervention mechanism will
be provided from a specific line item in the budget. The Council of Ministers will decide on the
individual allocation of these funds, on a case by case basis. The draft budget for 1993 that was
submitted to Parliament in November 1992 authorizes the Government to appropriate up to US$150
million equivalent to this budget line, to be financed extrly. Additional budget allocations will be
made in fiscal years 1994 and 1995 to accommodate the needs lkely to arise in those y-ars.
31.   To guarantee maximum efficiency in the use of public resources and limit budgetary outays,
the Govermment will require SOEs to comply with a set of stringent conditions for access to its
resources. The budgetary resources will not be avalle to support conciliation proceeing led by
banks. These feaures of the Government's support efforts will be specified in a Decree or a
Resolution to be issued by the Council of Ministers. Ihe Secretarat of the Council of Ministers will
be responsible for monitoring compliance with the submission procedures laid down in the Decree or
the Resolution.
32. For enterprises, access conditions will be as follows. First, as a general principle, SOEs will
be allowed to receive budgetary support only once. Second, a condition for access to the budgetary
resources is the commercialization or the liquidation, under the Privadzation or the Stateowned
enterprise Law, with the exception of SOEs whose privatization requires a consent of the COM, and
such consent has been denied. Application for the budgetary resources for an enterprise may be
submitted by the Founding organ or IDA. Third, the SOB must have developed either a restuctrig
or a liquidation plan. Restructuring plans must include the divestiture of all of the SOE's non-
productive assets. Any freeze of wages or lay-offs of workers envisaged under the restructuing or
liquidation plan must have been agreed upon with relevant Trade Unions. Fourth, in case of
restructuring, the enterprise's creditors must have agreed to initiate Conciliatory or Arnugement
proceedings. Alternatively, to protect the SOE and to ensure the viability of its restructurig plan,
the SOE's creditors must have agreed that the Govenment's resources will not be used to pay off
creditors' claims. Such an agreement is equal in spirit to the formal protection granted by
Conciliatory and Arrangement proceedings during the course of debt restructring discussions. Fifth,



61                                 ANNEXa
Pa 9 gf 14t
the SOE's Founding organ must have completed an assessment of the qulifications of the incumbent
management, and cause its replacement when such replacement is necsary. Sixth, the clarificaton
of the SOE's ownership rights to its lands and buildings must have been completed.
33.   In order to prevent banks from conditioning the conclusion of conciliatory proceedings on
budgetary assistance, a strict rule will be applied that no budgetary resources will be made available
for conciliatory agreements between creditors and debtors where the banks acted as the leader of the
discussions. Application of this rule would deprive the Government of all possibilities to intervene in
a particular SOEs at its discretion. Therefore, to ensure a minimum level of discretion while At the
same time retaining protection against excessive budgetary spending, the COM may allocate, using
the special budgetary line, resources to IDA to allow it to buy the debt of the enterprise In question
from the banks. Alternatively, the banks holding the claims on the SOB may agree to tansfer to IDA
the right to represent their claims In a debt restructring discussion with the debtor.
34.   Decisions to use budget resources under the Intervention mechanism will be made by the
Council of Miisters. These decisions will be based on the appraisals, prepared by the ministries and
IDA, of the restructring and liquidation plans developed by SOEs. In case the COM decides to
provide budgetary resources in support of a restructuring or liquidation plan, IDA will be assigned the
responsibility to monitor the implementation of the plan in case the support is provided in the form of
loans. In cases where budgetary support consists of subsidies, the Founding organt will be responsible
for monitoring Implementation. The Founding organ may ask for technical support of IDA in order
so deliver its responsibities. In addition, the use of all budgetary resources is supervised by the
MOF.
35.   While MDA has already significant experience in enterprise rec , particularly in
heavy sectors such as shipbuilding and machinery production, the Government and IDA recognize that
there is a need for significandy strengthening its institutional capability. For this purpose, the
Government has decided to include one representatve from MOP into the supervisory board of IMA.
This decision will allow the Board to reflect economy-wide considerations, including fisca
constraints, in providing guidance to IDA's management and staff. In addition, IDA's Board will
carry out a conprehensive organization and staffing plan. This plan will be demand-driven, and IDA
will ensure that its capabilities are continuously adapted to ensure that it will be in a position to
effectively perform the tasls assigned to it by the COM, consistent with budget and exter  resources
constraints.
Improved Incendesfor Bankr
36.   As noted earlier, the Government has already made major progress under its 1990-1991
fimancial sector reform program in strengthening the governance of the nine commercial banks.
However, given the importance of these banks in the envisaged restrucuing process, the Government
believes that more needs to be done. In particular, with improved management and skdlls, It is now
becoming all the more important to ensure that the SOCBs have an adequate capital base to perorm
the task it plans to confer onto them. For this purpose, the Government will proceed to recapitalize
the SOCBs.
37.   The Government intends this recapitalization to be a once-and-for-all operation, following
which the banks will be held fully accountable for any future losses they would incur. To reinforce



62                                  AS        2
the credibility of this statement, the Government plans to teminate the State guarantee of deposits
which the SOCBs now enjoy under the BakiDng law, and to replace it by a deposit insurance scheme.
The relevant Bili of law will be submitted to Parliament in 1993.
38.   The Government is planning to conduct the bank recaitalizatlon up-front, l.e., taking ino
account the assessment of the quality of the bas' loan portfolios made by extnal auditors as of
December 1991, and confirmed by frther portfolio reviews carried out in November 1992, not the
amount of losses the banks will actually incur as and when they initiate workouts for their problem
debtors. This feature will provide an incentive to the banks to maximize collection on bad loans and
wfll also make it possible for them to improve their financial condition beyond the new capital baso
provided by the recapitalization.
39.   The size of the recapitalization has been decided in order to ensure the credibility of the
overall exercise, and to provide each SOCB with sufficient resources to creae required loan loss
provisions and to have an adeque capital base for future opetions.
40.   The incentives outlined above apply to banks as institutions. While bank managers wili
naturally be committed to the future of their institution, the Government believes that this
commitment would be reinforced if the managers would also have a personal stake in the financial
well-being of thfeir bank. The law governing bank privatization allows bank employees to buy a
portion of the stocks of the bank at a 50% discount once the bank is privatized. MOF has also asked
the banks' Supervisory Boards to establish adequate incntive compensation schemes for managers
and staff. One such scheme consists of lindng managers' bonuses with banks' profits. This will
provide an incentive to maximize the long-term value of the bans' equity.
41.   Ihe Government trus that this set of incentives will serve to maximize the banks' interest In
a successful outcome of the enterprise restructuring process. At the same tme however, the banks
wfll need to futher develop their workout skills. Therefore, the authories are developing
comprehensive tecanical assismce programs for the banlks' newly created Workout DepameAts
(WODs). Ihe first priority under this program is for the banks to develop a strategy and detailed
business plans for dealing with their bad loan portfolio. Such plans have already been prepared and
were approved by the banks' Supervisory Boards in Jamary 1993. ITese plans provide that the
WODs will have the necessary managerial backing to implement appropriat policies and procedures.
To this end, the WODs will also need to attr  staff with workout skills, and if these camot be
found, they will need to develop strog training programs. While part of this work can be
undertaken by the twinning banks, the efforts required are of a magnitude beyond the original terms
of reference for these arrangements. Therefore, the Government plans to launch a major effort to
identify additional sources of funding for the program.
42.   Notwithstanding the banks' own efforts, the MOF, as the representative of the owner of the
SOCBs, will closely monitor the SOCBs' performance under the Program, and will undertake
corrective action in case of need. In September 1992, a Monitoring Uni (MU) was established in the
MOF to supervise the actions of the WODs. The MU has already been staffed with five junior
professionals and MOF intends to hire a senior foreign consultant with prior experience in bank
restructring to assist in their work. The MOF will also develop a comprehensive database alowing
it to monitor the performance of the SOCBs under the Program, and will commission a full portfolio
and financial audit of the SOCBs by external auditors as of December 1993.



63                                  ANNEX2
FM it Qf 14
Ownership and Govenance of State Enterprises
43.   The Government recognizes that the lack of adjustment of a nmmber of loss making SOEs is
rooted in their unsatisfactory governance, and It is determined to address this issue in a decisive way.
While it has been the authorities' stated objective to privatize the bulk of state assets within a
relatively short period of time, individual SOEs have received little guidance as to the dming of their
privation. To elinate this uncertinty, the Government has identified the sectors in which it may
wants to retain ownership of selected enterprises in the medium-term, and where the privatization of
Individual enterprises will be decided, during the next three years, on a case-by-case basis by the
Council of mistes. These are the energy, the mining, the steel and the defense sectors, which
include about 300 enterprises and account for about 20% of industial output. In the immediate
future, the ownership function will be exercised by the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MO1) In
those sectors, irrespective of whether the enterprise has been commercialized or retains a SOE status.
As soon as possible, the Governmen will define on a more systematic basis the principles and
mechanisms governing the exercise of the ownership function. To this end, the Government is
plamning to submit to Parliament, in the course of 1993, applicable legislation specifying
responsibilities of government agencies concerning ownership of public enterprises.
44.   Regarding all other enterprises, the Government wil seek their commercialization and
privaizaton as soon as possible, under the Enterprise and Bank Restuctg Bill and the Law on
Priatzaion. To accelerate the pace of prvatzation, the Government signed with social partners an
nterprs Pact, and will submit to the Parliament, in mid-1993, a set of amendments to the Law on
Privatization. Under the proposed Enterprise Pact, the enterprises will be given a six months period
to choose their preferred trormation route. Then the transformation will be implemented within a
15 to 18 month time period, with relevant Government agency taking over ownership. The
c.trprise's workers wiUl be given up to 10 percent of their firm's shares upon its commercialization,
and after privatization they will also gain representation on the Management Boards (one member)
and Supervisory Boards (one representative if the board has less than ln members, two if It has
between 10 and 15 members, and three above).
45.   As a first stp toward enterprise privatzation, the Government wil speed up the
commercialization of both problem and sound enterprises.
46.   To address existng bottlenecks recognized to have slowed down the commercialization
process so far, MOP has developed an action plan to increase its own staffing and use of foreign
technical assistance. The first phase of this plan will be implemented in 1993 and the second phase in
1994.
47.   Privatzation of SOEs wil be pused actively under different existing privazation tracks.
The Govrnment firmly believes that together, the Program and the Enterprise Pact wil provide it
with the tools to achieve a set of ambitious privatzaton tagets. By the end of 1993, the Goverment
Intends to privatiz another 500 to 1,000 enteris, bringing the total of privatized entpes to a
range of 2,000-2,500. This effort would include at least 400 small or medium size enterprises under
the liquidation route, including about 30 "quick sales", and about 30 enterprIses under capital
privatzation, either through inital public offerings or trade sales to foreign investors. Additionaly,
between 30 and 40 enterprises would be auctioned for arestmuctrng privatizatlon%, and sectoral
priazation will continue with contracts signed for at least ftree additional sub-sectors by December



64                                 ANN 2
Peage 12 of 14
1993. Finally, the shares of the enterprises ihat have been selected for mass privatization would be
assigned to the National Investment Funds. Ihe MOP has already selected 200 enterprises and
intends to select another 200 to 400 companies.
48.   In 1994, the Government expects to maintain the pace of privatization at the level of 1993.
49.   On their way to privatization, the Government Intends to commercialize 400-600 SOEs in
1993 and 500-700 SOEs in 1994.
Transfrmaton of te Bankdng Systenm
50.   Under the reform program supported by the F1DL loan, considerable progress has already
been made toward preparing the privatization of two of the nine commercial banks, and the
Government is determined to achieve the process during the first half of 1993. Following this first
stp, the Government remains filly committed to pursue and expand its policy of privadzing the
banking system. For this purpose, the Government will define a stra  for the privatzation of the
remaining seven commercial banks, based on a vision on the future of the overal Polish banking
system.
Bank SWprvsion
51.   The Government and NBP plan to significantly strengthen the regulatory and supevisry
framework for the financial sector. Mhis strengthening is essendal for the privafization of the banks
and for the successful implementation of the Program.
52.   NBP has developed a comprehensive ambitious program aimed at building up as quicldy as
possible a significant bank supervision capability. The plan includes four main components: (i) off-
site analysis; (ii) on-site supervision; (iii) training plan; and (iv) senior advice.
53.   As a prerequisite to efficient off-site analysis, a proper accounting framework must provide a
sound basis for many of the regulatory reports submitted by banks for supervisory purposes. NBP
focused on this issue at an early stage and developed, with the assistance of the IDP, a new Plan of
Accounts according to which banks are required, since 1991, to prepare reguatory reports for NBP.
Implementation of the new Plan, however, stil raises a number of technical difficulties, which need
to be solved through additional improvements or clarification. For this purpose, NBP will use an
IM-fimded consultant who will recommend the necessary modifications to the Plan, to be
imrplemented by June 1993. Another major outstanding accounting issues is the tratment of
restructuring of troubled debt, which raises specific difficulties for bank supervisors, such as the
accounting for assets taken in lieu of previously contracted debts (e.g., equity securities and real
estate). To deal with these issues, NBP will secure additional, specific, expertise to assist in
developing appropriate policies and accung procedures, and to provide training to key NBP staff
in their application.
54.   In order to k.prove the process of data collection and fiacial analyses, NBP's supevision
department is planning to streamline and improve the process of data submission and input, as an
interim measure pending the expected development of a new, NBP-wide, automation system. his
effort has already been initiated with the hiring of two computer experts who are developing



65
EM 1 of 14
procedur  for uomated bank reporting through a computer dedicated to NBP's supervision
department.
55.   NBP wiUl further streghen its off-site analysis function through a fonnr financial analysis
traMng progam, which could also be used as a component of the basic training provided to on-site
inspection staff. In addition, such training will enable NBP to better specify its data processing
requiremets during the design and Implementation of the NBP-wide automation effort. Primary
training will focus on a core group of around 20 analysts who would thereaer assume responsibility
for providing training to other NB3P supervisory staff.
56.   In caryg out on-site supervision, NBP Is aurentiy confronted with an onerous work load
ta includes: (ti) performing routie on-site inspections in the stat-owned, private and cooperative
banks; (ii) conducting special investgations in problem banks, avd reviewing and analyzing merger
and liudation proposals; and (iii) moning and evaluating the procs of troubled debt
restrucuing, particularly in the nine SOCBs. At present, NBP does not possess a suffcient number
of skilled staff to undertake these critical impora  supervisory activities. Its acton program puts a
strong emphasis on this area, through a combiaion of structr  and stop-   measures.
57.   Structural measures include the development of a detailed inspection procedures manuD  and
the provision of training for NBP staff in its use and implemention. WIth respect to an Inspection
manual, the task facing NBP in this area is significant, an will have to be implemened in severa
steps. Initially, a broad outline of the inspection manua will be developed, along with specific
modules addressing supervisory goals and objectives, scope of inspections, general methodologies for
conducting inspections, NBP's supervisory policies and prudential regulations, and report preparation.
Training will begin mmeely thereater in these basic topics. Further inspection manual modules
then wiU be developed based on priorities established by NBP (such as loan portfolio analysis, foreign
exchange management, duties and raponsibilities of supervisory and mangement boards, etc.).
Throughout the process of deveoping the mana, specific aining on sach module will immediately
follow its preparation and approval by NBP management.
58.   Until sufficiet in-house capabilities are available, NBP has decided to utilize extemal auditing
and other firts to carry out supervisory fiunction, as far as it is possible under the autbority currentiy
open to the President of NBP under the Act on the Central Bank. NBP will require the extenal
firms, as part as their terms of refrence, to associate NBP staff to their work, thus providing
immediate on-he-job traning. As NBP anticiptes to use auditig fim  as requ red, on a case-by-
case basis, at least in the iniial stages, it will enter into contruats with selected firms over calendar
years 1993 and 1994. A more comprehensive use of extral fkms for supervisory duties is
envisaged once the new bankig law is approved.
59.   NBP will conduct in the near fture an overall taing needs assessment Based on this
assessment, NBP will develop a formal, comprehensive trann program, and ensure hat sufficient
resources are devoted to staff training. NBP will request the assistance of the Bank in organizing and
arranging specialized taining programs, particularly when it is necessary to draw on support from
foreign bank supervbors or external auditig firms to provide the training.
60.   NBP is confroted with substantial issues and challenges rqiring difficult decisions,
particularly in relation to the overal satgy for fancial and banking sector development and



66                                 Ah2
Page 14 ofi
supervision, regulatory policy, and the resolution of problem banks. NBP will therefire utlize the
services of a senior-level consultant with direct experience in the management of a bank supervision
agency, regulatory policy development and implementation, and problem bank resolution.
61.   The Governmet and NBP will carry out the Program and actions referred to in this leaer
substantily in accordance with the matrix conained In the Annex to this letter.
62.   Based on the representations, policies and actions described or referred tO in this letter, we
hereby request on behalf of the Republic of Poland a Loan in an amount equivalent to US$
450,000,000 that would support the Government's and NBP's effors to carry out the Program.
SINCERELY YOURS,
NATIONAL BANK OF POLAND                              REPUBLIC OF POLAND
BY                                                   BY
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE                            AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE



,  j0, !,I         '  ii I. 
Ipi         LIibI
1 ft ii~~~ Ii ~Ll9~



POLAND - ENPRISE AD FiNANciAL SEFBOR ADJUgLS4 r LO
Mati of Aci  un     p Ma PaMa
AREA    TO S TAKEN BY                            TO I TAKEN BY
Dwm&w 1993                               Jono~~~~~3a  1994
U. ENTEPIESE RuRICrua
, ZnkmmgLd saimdmra                                  Salsfaciozyb performa   of SOCBs in caling           Sati    monitoinsg SW enfmunt of coniliaon
action dhscdbd by the BEP Low and the EBEP Decree    agteeanmt by SOCBe.
Impcnn-  iofaredw naraoncingsecild
pU rpest on comp_hnsve asmsmat, perormd by th    EZcl aoo  to cauy ot, as of Decembe 1993, fi
Moonating U*, eofd  SOCs ortfio aN  finw1            poti (padt 1), sl fina        t p ) adt of the
by Mori bMOP                              condition as of Sepseane 1993.                       SOCEs, and to _m   th4i Perforr      iue  a cyaout th
actog. rxsi   under thb SEB   Law and deo EBEP
Decme (par 3). Copies of do sladi,torepmort to be
fad sed to RD'.p hm                          d
asreaat wit 3RD on fiuhe poifrY ucam Of
bilnpculcotaltion stams if needed.
coatae pgmas towwa  m        n t  cd pbts  of
SfcBSw WODL
hi rn,cueofSOCs atocaofo privaiatm  in 1994, WnY psa S of th. audtmeor'port to to foitidhod to 19RD.



ANF1EK-2
Pae 3-of 5
E9A -  EfZF  AMD Prfia& A  AMUS4Wl
MACiONS TO BE TAKE BX                              AONS TO BE TAM Bw
Doceabr 193IM                                             19
mL GOVERN?wN MItERlONS
- Pundhia                                         A_memet wih IM an budaq appeprion for FY4 FY'4 senactd by r_dimbt                           _      
for ancialup  of special SOE& BRD.t
Impvlmnaitm Ai    awnd nontoe Of GOveamant financa  Conqpi*mw. pogmem renw and agreefet wAt IMD
!--wm  SW mmkwmnppoit for spei SOEBs as per do b_ienton Dcrm                                          on XAdh  polic etacuo iorcSAM it
Iqiemeaatonof IDA' awIata   ad  tgpln psu ofdo  po                                 oflDA' oWsanion
(fist pies), Nd ag_emt an a *asP-d pls              an smg pan
-   MAbsp



IOLA  - ENTR  AM tPANIl WEC1R ADJSrMM LOA
MLSLofA6w 9MJftPimm
.AAACION$ TO BE TAN Y                                ACONS TO BE TAKN DX
Decembe 199                                             AMJw  1994 
TV. DAM RK- QRM
C                                                   lanu accdives Oth$of tSONS  1 oe    Gowa nent bhod to zacaptalz SOCB,,  Truney smeiing of the Govemmt ao_ds.
as P agemmt with 3RD.
. Mlw4rn Strsv for Bankig Syte                        Pdvatztc Of Wo SOdsB Ag_met with  RD on a             Prges towmd imp      s     _ao  of thse   _
tinsfoinasion pi      foc th bani  syWtem, inhAding   pwupzm  in pad    wih   It to pavatiz         of do
th timing of the pivatiz    of the sevaenii           SOCBs.
S0CR., b.an a medha. tmon Mn,  .



71
.    '! 1  :f



72
Page Iof I
PXA   -ENTERPRISE! AND FINANCIAL SECIO  ADIUSTMEN  LQAN
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
section I:          -Ti        etable of Rey Events~
a.                Time taken to prepare project            14 months
b.                 Responsibility for project preparation  Government/Bank
C.                 Fist Bank mission                       December 1991
d.                 Appraisal mission departed              October 27,1992
e.                 Negoations                              Jamny 18, 1993
f.                 Planned date of effectiveness           June 1993
seton II             Se    Bank  emttion Acdon
None
Seene  S2ecial Conditions
See Amexc 2, Appendix I



73                                  ANNEX4
ENTEIPRISE PRIVATIZATION IN POLAND
1.    This Annex describes Poland's enterprise privatization program. It starts with the progress
made with privaizaton before the inception of the Economic Transformation Program (ETP) in early
1990, then presents in turn the objectives of the ETP in the area of entprise privatizaton, the results
achieved to date, and the main constraints to fiuher progress.
A.    Entrprise Pivatzation Before the EIP
2.    Significant privadzation took place before the adoption of the ETP, throgh four main tracks.
Thefist andprincpal track to private or semi-private status consisted of placing part of the assets of
a staomwned enterprise (SOE) into a joint venture with a private local or foreign parter. In the two
years following the enactment of the Law on Joint Ventures in December 1988, about 1,400 such Joint
ventures were formed. Second, privatization was accomplished by leasing part of the asset of an
SOE to a private company, frequently formed by the management and employees of the SOB Iself.
Both routes to privatization were largely initiated and managed by the enterprises themselves and in
some cases led to some abuse. 2hird, some bankrupt enterprises were liquidated and their assets sold
to new, private owners. Fourh, in some cases where enterprises had already been incorporated as
state-owned joint-stock companies, privaization was effected through a capital increase subscribed by
private instuons or persons. Privatzation of assets and activities following these methods have
ontinued untdl today, but have resulted only in a limited reduction in the recorded number of SOEs,
since in most cases the original SOE continued to exist (at least legally), in many istances reduced to
a "shell company."
B.    The ETP's Privatizatlon Sategy
(1) Small Pi'aduztio
3.    Under the ETP, a first major step toward full-fledged privatization was the "Small
Privadzatlon" of the retail trade and service sectors. The focus of this privatization track was mosldy
shops and other small business premises belonging to as (municipalities) and the break-up of
regional trade enterprises founded by the vroido  (provincal authorities), the urban-based
cooperatives engaged in the distbution of food products, and the trade cooperatives operating in
rural areas. Privtzation takes place through the zmna leasing the premises to a prospective owner
or through outright sale of the property or transfer through a "xpetual usufruct' (generally fir 99
years).' Ihe new private operator or owner Is usually selected through an auction, sometims with
preference (or better prior information) given to the personnel of the SOB or to the municipal
T1is method has not been used extensively, eithr becas prospective privat operatos do not bav
sofficient f=uds up front for a purchas, or moe often beca  the municipality prefrs to contin  to
own a source of seady ret revenues. In other cases, conflictg prper claim or the absoc of
an undised tl of th mn=icipalit to t prperty prevents a oi  sale of the preni



74                                 A,N=  4
Px2 of 
enterprise that previously worked on the property. Precise administrative procedures are not strictly
adhered to in all transactions.
(2) Privatizatlon of SOES
4.    Objecives and Prindcples. One of the key components of the ETP has been an ambitious
program of privatzaton of SOEs, which dwarfs in size all privatization efforts launched previously in
market economies. The objective announced in the Government's program of February 1991 was to
transfer about one-half of the 9,000 SOEs to private hands within a period of three years and to
achieve a structure of ownership of the economy similar to that of European Community (EC)
countries within five years. The program was underpinned by: (i) the Anti-Monopoly Act enacted In
February 1990, which provides for anti-monopoly measures with regard to large monopolistic
entpises prior to privatization; (ii) the Privatization Law, enacted In August 1990, which provides
a detailed legal famework for privazing enterprises; and (fiii) the establishmen of the PrivadzaJon
Agency, transformed in September 1990 into a full-fledged Mlnsry of Prutdzadon (MOP). While
the primary objective of the program was the speed of the transformation process, other major
concerns of the Government were transparency, fairness and compliLnce of the process with social
justice. Recognizing the wide variation in the type and condition of enterprises to be transformed on
the one hand, and of potential entrepreneurs on the other, as well as the limited availability of Polish
private capital and management skills, the Government adopted a multi-track privatzation approach.
It utilizes both the conventional methods of enterprise sale applied in the West, and more innovative
methods of privatzaton that emphasize maximum possible participation on the part of Polish ciizes.
S.    PrVaAlon  Techniques. The main privatzation routes are: (i) commercizadon of an
SOE, i.e., its conversion into a joint-stock company or limited liability company, with a view to
subsequent sale or distribution of shares to private owners, either through individual" privatzation
(public offering, trade sale or managementlemployee buy-out) or 'mass pdrvatn; and (i)
liquidt on of an SOE, i.e., transfer of some or all of the assets of an SOE, through contrition, sale
or lease, to a new private company. The latter transf  of assets, as opposed to the sale of the
entprise as a going concern, has been the most widely used. In particular, the so-called Oleasing
route which is in fact a method of deferred payment whereby the new eteprise fully owns the assets
after a maximum period of five years, has been very popular. It has been used for a large number of
managemen buy-outs (MBOs).
6.    Mass Pr fidn. A pardcular component of the Governmene's privadzation program is the
mass prvatzaton which envisages: (i) the sale of a 'program share3 (voucher) for a small fee to all
adult citizens, exchangeable later for shares in newly-created financial intermediaries or National
Investmet Funds (NIFs)1; and (ii) the establishment of a number of such Funds in the form of
privately-managed mutual funds/active holding companies, which will be assigned a majority of the
Tne prelmi    plan eiges that citin would redve an amout of voucher coresponding to
60% of the saum of the selected entpriss; employees, which under the existing  ivation Law
are ntided to 20% of tre entepdses' equity at a 50% discount of the sds pdce, wold now recev
10% of shares for fiee once dto MPP law has ben enacted; th remaining  oe would be hldd for
some tm by the stat vich would est them during a tanitienal period to the NIFs to give the
contrl of he eneprises.



75                                  AMEX4
shaes of mass-privatized enterprises. Each of these funds is to be managed with the help of foreign
professional partners and will, as a controlling shareholder, manage or closely control 20 to 30
enterprises for a certain number of years in some cases as long as necessary to complete the turn-
around of the enterprises). This innovative concept aims to create a market that will allow a company
to be valued, give the citizens some choice as to a fund (the funds could propose different investment
strategies and attract investors with different risk perceptions) and reduce investor risk through
portfolio diversification. The fund concept would also avoid too large a dilution of ownership while
providing professional exercise of ownership rights. The program will in its first phase deal with
some 400 compani(representing about 15 percent of Poland's industrial output) distributed among
15 to 20 NIFs, and is likely to be quickly expanded, first to 600 enterprises, to encompass more
enteprises and funds.
7.    AddIional Privatialon Draccs. Other privatization tracks were intoduced subsequenDtly.
The quk privabzuon" scheme, which involves the simultaneous offering of a group of small or
medium scale enterprises to domestic buyers in the local market, was tested with the successfil
privatization of about 16 enterprises during the last quarter of 1991. Under the other innovative
approach, "reactwuringprvaolon," commercialized enterprises will be controlled by new boards,
and managed and restructured under a management contract, during a period of three years. The
company obtning the management contract will be given a call-option on the equity to be exercsed
upon the company's privatizaion. Ihis feature will provide an incentive to manage the company well
in the interim period so as to maximize the value of its equty. Pinally, 'secoralprlvadzadon'
involves the contracting of comprehensive studies on specific sectors to investment banks andlor
consulting firms, which will have to rank all individual enterprises in their sectors in tms of curent
business performance and futre prospects and to privadze, on a success-fee basis, those companies
ranked as the top performers.
8.    In support of the various privatization tracks, the MOP has made significant progress in
developing a coherent policy on environment-related contingent liabilities (clean-up cosm) for new
owners of privatized state-owned plants and other assets with potential environmenal problems, and is
undertakdng preparatory work for the conversion of the external debt of privatized companies Into
equity .
(3) Privatizatlon of Local Public Enterprises
9.    While most of the formal privatizaon activity has focused on SOEs, in particular the
industrial enterprises whose founding organ is the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MOm, significant
privatization is also planned at the local level:
(i)    At the level of the voivoids, which are the founding organ for about 4,500
enterprises (mosdy small and medium-sized ones). The MOP plans to
decentralize the transformation process through the creation of regional
agencies.
(ii)   A similar approach will be followed at the municipal level, where there is, in
additiowi to the local wholesale and retail trade entities, an important number
of public service enterprises and even some manufacturing entities, for which
the founding organ is typically the municipal council.



76
(iii) In the case of the 13,000 cooperatives In Poland, which represent about 20
percent of GDP, for which thee is no clear leg  framework for full
privadzation, there have, nevertheless, been a signiflcant mber of
aspontaeou  privatiztons. Several distinct programs are currenty
envisaged to bring more order to this process.
C.    Achleveents
10.   Small Privadzadon. Small-scale privatization proceeded at a fast pace during 1990 and 1991,
with the result that by mid-1992 an estmated 80 percent of all retail trade outlets had been priatized.
More than 120,000 shops and other small business premises have been released to privat traders and
ardsans throughout the couty, primarily businesses th  belonged to municipalities (aW. As a
result of the rapid pace of the Small Privatiaton, large stte-owned distribudon organizations, for
example in the phamaceutica sector, have essenlly lost all their retail facilities.
11.   SOEs. During the two years since the SOE privadzation program staed, real progress has
been made, but at a slower pace than initily expected and at an uneven pace across the differe
pratiazaion tracks and dq?ending on the size of enterprises. Appendix 1 exhibits the nmber of
SOEs commercialized and privatized, track-by-track. After a slow start in early 1991, the pace of
privatzaon more tuan doubled by the end of 1991, to 80100 entprises transformed per month.
By the end of 1992, 1,600-odd SOEs had acually been privatized, or about 20 percent of the nt
stock. However, they represent only 12-15 percent of indusal production, as most prvatizadons
involved the liquddation of smal or medium-sized SOEs (1,475). Individual trade sales, mostly to
foreign investors, were involved in about 50 cases; quick sales, 40 cases; and rescturing
prlvatization, 15 cases. In addition, about 500 SOEs have been commercialized since the beginning
of the ETP.
12.   Mass Privakaton. Draft of enabling legislation for the Ma8s Privadzation Program (MPP)
reglaing the NIFs' stes, the distribution of shares in the population, and the management
contats for the fiuds has been completed and was submitted to Parliament in August 1992.
Following enactment of the Law on Mass Privatization, expected in the spring of 1993, selection of
fund managers will be started, with a view to signing management contracts by the summer of 1993.
The MOP has already selected a fist batch of 200 enterprises and is well-advanced in selecting a
second batch of 200 enterprises. Of the companies selected, 180 have already been commercialized.
13.   Locally-Owned Enrprises. Privaization of municipally-owned enterprises has barely stated.
In general, it has been held up by the lack of experience and competence of municipal authorities.
More progress has been achieved toward the privatization of state farms and state agricultural land,
with the enacmnt in September 1991 of the law creating the Agriculture Property Agency (APA), a
new Treasury-owned agency that will take over the land and be responsible for its transfer to private
famers and for the transformation of ste :ams.
D.    Constraints and Obstacles
14.   Reprvatzation. Previous owners' claims on ste assets may be an obstacle to privaon in
cases where nationalization was carried out in an abusive manner or without adequate co on.
This obstacle, which arises particularly in the case of "small privatzation," is addressed tirough a



71                                 AINU4
selective plan of compensation (mostly small businesses, farms and land), which was presented to
Parliament in June 1992. The general principle is that, except for limited specific cases, property will
not be returned but previous owners will receive compensation, not in cash but through bonds issued
by the state or shares in privatized enterprises. By stating clearly dith compensation but not
restitution will be the rule, except in well-defined cases, this policy will remove a major caus of
uncertnty. A draft reprivatization law has now been submitted to Parliament.
15.   Workers' Resistance. One important constraint In privatization is the basic principle
underlying the Government's initial program and the 1990 Privatization Law, i.e., that tran#formadon
Is voluntary. The sharp economic downfall in 1991-92, unexpected when privatization was launched,
had adverse effects on the dynamics of privatization. The significant number of new private
enterprises failing or reducing employment in the recessionary environment fueled the growing
reluctance of workers in many SOF,s to volunteer for privatization. In this context, agreement on
privatization or even commercialization required agonizing discussions and protracted negotiations
with the Workers' Councils, particularly on the highest possible number of jobs likely, or even
guaranted, to be maitained for the next years.
16.   To overcome this obstacle, the Govenment has prepared an ambitious legislative package that
will modify, inter alia, key provisions of the Privatization Law. Following severa months of
negodions, the Government gained the support of the Polish unions for this package in February
1993 (the so-called Enterprise Pact). Ihe relevant legislation, to be submitted to Parliament during
the spring of 1993, essentially proposes to: (i introduce more flexibility in wage-setting mechanisms
through a selective dismanding of the current tax on excess wages, associated with built-in incentives
for mananing enterprise profitability (e.g., post-tax profits could be partially used for wage
increases); and (ii) agree once-and-for-all with trade unions on an overal framework for enterpise
conmmeiization and privatzation, following which the tansformation of individual enterprises
would no longer require approval of the Worers' rouncils. Under tis general firamework,
enterprises will be given six months to choose their preferred transformation route, i.e., privatizaton
through liquidation or commercialization and capital pivatzation. Transformation will then be
Implemented awomatically wlWdn a 15-18-month dm period, with the relevant Government agency
taking over ownership. The enterprise's workers will be given up to 10 percent of their firm's shares
upon its commercialization, and after privatization they will also gain representation on the
Management Boards (one member) and Supervisory Boards (one representative if the board has less
than 10 members, two if it has between 10 and 15 members, and three if it has more than 15
members).
17.   Socal Assets. Another important constraint is the issue of ownership, maintenance and
operation of the social assets of the SOEs after their privatization, restructuring or even liquidation
(houses, schools, and health ficilities). Stable access to these facilities is often a critical element in
the compensation of workers. Seldom can the newly privatized enterprise financially afford to take
over and operate these facilities. Many towns are heavily dependent on such facilities, and the public
services provided by the SOE and the Polish municipalities do not yet have an adequate revenue basis
to afford these assets. As a result, the future of these assets is often a important factor in the local
government or Workers' Council stalling the privatization of their enterprise.
18.   Implmentation Capability. Privatization has been hampered by the insufficient
implemention capability of virtually all instutions responsible for one aspect or another of



78                                  A
privadzatlon and enterprise transformaion. Fhrs, the overall staffg of the various Governent
Instiutions resposible for privatization and the previous experience of the existing staff or newly
recruited personnel, are insufficient compared with the magnitude and complexity of the tasks. Even
when Polish institutions use foreign investment bankers and consultants extensively to make up for the
scarcity of local experdse, they stil need substantial local staff wo control the transfnnation and make
it acceptable to the population, and to take sensitive decisions. The problem has been compounded by
the lack of personnel continuity. High turnover is often attributable to the fact that Govemment
salaries are insufficient to keep experienced Polish staff (or attrat qualified replacements) in the
ministries' demanding positions.
19.   CentralWaon of the Privatadon Process. The overwhelming task of dealing flrst with
SOEs under the control of the ministries in Warsaw (with the priority generly given to large
enterprises or Industrial enterprises) has left little time sand resources for the MOP to address
adequately the needs to decentralization of privadzatioit ;t the regional and municipal levels. The
MOP has strted to establish 13 regional agencies to dBcentralize the privatization and support local
authorities In privatlzing small enterprises under their control. The tesources currently allocated to
this program will only allow a slow build-up of the capabilities needed for transparent and orderly
privatization.
20.   IncreasIng Compleiy of Pfvadzadon. The scarcity of implementation capability is
increasingly felt as the pool of easily privatzable enterprises has started to shrink. As a result of the
SOE crisis, an increasing number of prvatizable enterprises will need to go through a prior
rtructuring or liquidation, which requires more time and human resources than are presently
available (iquidators, exe  dealing with clams of banks and other creditors, banks' workout teams
handling financial restructuing of enterprises, etc.). Ihe program started by the MOP to tain and
recruit liquidators will, for example, need to be accelerated and expanded.' Strong workout teams
need to be established in the banks and enterrises; analytical and restucturing capabilities must be
significantly expanded at the Government level, for example, in the MDA. Changes in the legislation
are also being proposed that would allow easy and rapid splitting and/or merger of exisdtg SOEs to
facilitate, prior to privatzation, 'packaging' SOEs into more attractive lots that can be readily offered
to private buyers.
Th MOP prepared a detiled liquidation a-ml and identified and tuined about 1,000 'liquddaorw
candaes (awyers, accountoan or enterpri  sans) in 1991: aftr accelerated courses, about 200
candidates passed the final tests and are now working, usually paid by the en tprisem se. 
MOP is pnVosing to select and tain another 4,000 candidates in order to have abou 1,000 acdve
4.lq aors.



Poland - Enterise Commercialization and Frhvaizaion
Pogmas to-dae and Targ
P~~~~~~~~~~~~ -   _                                                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I  _ _ _ _ _ _
(Number of enteprses)                    6-91       3-92 9I92            end 92          end 93    lend 94
(targets)   j (targets)
Commerciaized E3 .nrncia              162         431        475        S00           900-1100      1500-1700
(excluding MP)                        162         251        295        320           700-9         1100-1300
PFtiadzed EMRerp                      353         1180       1472       1580          2000-2500     2700-3200
- through liquidaton                  343         1123       1382       1475          1900-2400     2500-3000
- dihugh quick sales                  0           25         32         40            70            90
- through individual saes             10          32         43         50            80            110
- thrmgh restucturing                0            0          1S         1S            S0            100
Prwadzatiole            0           0          0          0             400-600       400-600
1       iExcluding Mass Privatiation.
2      By and 1993, shares of entrprie wold be tnsferred to National Investment Funds (NEFs), by end of 1994, shares of NIFs would bave
been distrbuled to the public hough a voucher scheme



80 
}sg I of 9
STATUS OF STAT-OWNED COMMRCIAL BANKS' INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
1.    An important part of the 1990-91 financial sector reform program was the strengthening of
the governace and institutional capability of the newly created state-owned commercial bank
(SOCBs) in preparation for their privatization. It is the stated intention of the Government to
privatize all SOCBs as soon as practicable, and the Government has already taken steps to privatize
two of the nine SOCBs.1 This Annex describes in more detail the measures taken to strengthen the
SOCBs' governance and institutional capabilities and the initial results obtained. The assessment is
based on repeated visits by Bank staff to individual banks over the last year and a half.
A     Str.ngthening of Governance and nsitutional Capability
2.    As a first step toward clarifying the SOCBs' governance framework and strengthening the
Governmen's ownership function, all SOCBs were tuned into joint-stock company ba  during
1991, with the MoF becoming the representative of the State Treasury. The transformation into joint-
stock companies resulted in the creation of Maagement Boards, Supervisory Boards and shaeholders
(i.e. the MoP), with rights and responsibilities clearly defined by the Polish Commercial Code and
laid out in the banks' statutes and by-laws. The presence of this well-defined institutional framework
has significantly limited the possibility- open to individual members of the Government and
Parliament under the previous regime- of instructing the banls' managers to undertake, or refrain
from undertaking, certain actions. At the same time, the banks' 'owner (the MoF) has been clearly
Identified and can be easily held accountable by the Government fbr properly exercising its ownership
fnction.
3.    The MoF has taken its ownership function very seriously. This is apparent from the wide
range of actions it has taken since it became the SOCBs' owner. Over the last two years, the Bank
has provided support to the MoF in this process and has provided MoP staff on various occasions
with suggestions and advice on a wide range of technical aspects, such as terms of reference for
portfolio audits (para. 4) and the twinning arrangements (para. 5).
4.    The MoF has regularly commissioned porfillo revis and year-endftnancil audis of the
SOCBs by Western auditing firms. The latest such portfolio review is currently being undectken as
of June 1992. Using the results of the portfolio revievs, in the course of 1992 all banks separated
their bad loans from their good loans and set up special Workout Departments (WOD) at MoP's
request. Significant progress has already been made in staffing these departents and identifying
their technical assistance needs.
The MoF contractd in early 1991 with foreign investmet banks to act se its advisors for the
privation The invesme bank already have completed a finai and man     as       of
the two respective bais and have developed offring  n , which hav been seat to poteial
investor. ThIse investor are crdy in th proces of undeak   their 'due diligence a_t
of the bans.



81                                  ANNEXI
Pa= 2 of 9
5.    The MoF has requested the banks' management to useforeign technical assistance to build up
much needed banking skills. This has resulted in seven SOCBs entering int "twinningul
arrangements with Western banks providing comprehensive techical assistance in all areas of banking
business over a period of three years. Of the two commercial banks that did not find twinning
partners, one receives assistance from a US Treasury-financed credit advisor and the other was
selected by the MoF to be privatized shortly.
6.    The MoF has selected and appointed (and can repeal) independent experts in the legal and
financial field as Supervisory Board members of the SOCBs, and has been providing strategic
guidance to the Supervisory Boards (for example, the MoF has requested the Supervisory Boards to
obtain, from management, strategic directions for the banks, including specific strategies for dealing
.vith their bad loan portfolios). Active involvement of supervisory board member. in overseeing the
banks' activities is also encouraged by the MoF through the following measures: (i) remuneration of
Supervisory Board members has been set at a level relatively high in the Polish context and is linked
to members' attendance at board meetngs; and (ii) such meetings must take place at least once a
month, but more frequent meetings are strongly recommended by the MoF.
7.    In turn, the Supervisory Boards have responded to the MoF guidance by actively exercising
their own significant powers over the Management Board. The Polish Commercial Code determines
that transactions of sufficient size with a noticeable impact on the banks' financial position (i.e., the
provision of large loans, undertaking of debt-equity swaps, acquisition large pieces of real estate, etc.)
need to be approved by the Supervisory Boards. Further, the Supervisory Boards can independently
acquire eteral assistmce to perform part of management's duties if management fails to do so in an
adequate manner. Finally, the Supervisory Boards can change the composition of the Management
Board on short notice. All these powers are actively being used by the Supervisory Boards.
B.    nitial Results
8.    The set of actions undertaken by the MoF to strengthen the banks' governance and
institutional capabilities has already led to noticeable changes and improvements in the behavior of
SOCB managers. These changes are apparent in all the major areas of banking business and are
described in more detail below.
(1) StrategIc Planning and Development of Business Plau.
9.    When the banks were hived off from the NBP, they were licensed as universal banks. At the
same time, they had little strategic focus and were at risk of overexpanding into an overwhelming
array of new activities. To protect them against this risk, the banks are to develop a strategic plan
defining their mission, business objectives and action plans to achieve these objectives, main products
h twinng an          we idefi  ia 1991 and sgned in Mar-May 1992. It is hoped tha
tinnarangaements will expand at sone, stag into special busines alationhVps, incuding possiblde
equity patcipatioL Some of the Westen bank have  eady expressed an *I princple' iees in
such equity paricipation at a Ier stage. In the ca  of am of the banm cuedly prared for
prvatizaton, the foeign twinng bank is acvely consdrn takg an equity stake.



82                                  AN?N  N5
Pane 3 of 9
and services to be offered, target markets, and strategies to follow in major functional areas. Tne
strategic plan is to be based on a thorough analysis of the macroeconomic situation, the financial
situation of the bank and its market or competitive position, and the profitability of key products and
markets. The results of these analyses are to be translated into realisdc financial objectives for the
capital adequacy ratio, return on assets, return on capital, asset and deposit growth, non-interest
Income, non-interest costs and portfolio quality, with specific strategies for achieving them.
10.   The majority of the banks, with the help of their twinning partners, have succeeded in
developing reasonably sound strategic plans. While, as noted, commercial banks are licensed as
universal banks, there are strong indications that many of them have decided for the time being to
consolidate their activities in a few key areas and/or a few key regions. Most banks have identified
the retail- and small private corporate market, and restructured/privatized SOEs, as key target markets
and have done or are planning to undertake market surveys. Nearly all of them are planning to
broaden their product range, which to date has been very narrow, and have idenified foreign trade
finance and leasing as priority areas of expansion. Ihe importance of fee-aning brokerage and
privazation-related advisory services has also been identified by some banks as an area with high
growth potential. Given the predominance of SOE loans in existing bank portfolios, their relatively
weak financial position and the still dominant position of Bank Handlowy in the foreign trade finace
market, the banks' strategies- combining consolidation with focused expansion in a limited number of
high-profit areas- appear to be sensible.
11.   The first results of bank managers following a much more focused course of action are also
apparent when looking at the diversification that has taken place in the composition of the SOCBs
assets and liabiles. During the last three years, the banks have significantly reduced their
dependence on NBP refinancing as a source of funds and have successfully attracted a large share of
household and private enterprise deposits.' On the asset side, the banks have managed to keep loans
to SOEs more or less stable in real terms over the last two yea. While the MoF isucted the
banks early in 1991 no longer to etend new loans to borrowers classified by the auditors as doubUl
or loss, the banks themselves have shown an increasing awareness of the risk they face in lending to
umrestnctured enterprises that continue to be stateowned. Further, with the economy in recession,
there have been few attractive lending opportunities. In this environment, the banks have resoted to
less risky uses of fiuds such as short-term interbank lending and investment in Government securities.
(2) OrgaWnzational Structure
12.   When the SOCBs were split off from the NBP, they inherited an organizational structre
unsuitable for commercial banking in a market economy. The banks' organizational structure was
characterized by a relatively small and weak head office and an undifferentiated network of very
autonomous branches. The branches were not reporting to anyone in particular other tan to the
president directly, who did not have the time or ability to exercise control.
In Jime 1989, the mio of total deposits to NBP refinance credit stood at 2.01; in September 1992 this
ratio had inased to 5.58.



83                                 ANNEXS
Pagg4 of
13.   The banks have to rearrange their organizational structures to reflect their mission and
business objectives as Identified in the strategic plan. Within the parametes of the strategic plan, the
new   ional structre needs to ptovide for the fill range of functions needed at the head office,
to rationalize key responsibilities (i.e., eliminate overlaps and fill existing gaps) and to provide more
focused mangement of the branches. Once a high-level organizational structure Is developed based
on the banks' core activities as defined in the straegic plan, the banks need to define in more detail
the responsibilities and functions of each unit and to develop detailed job descriptions.
14.   Progress in developing and Implementing new organizational structures In a number of cases
involving a twinning arrangement- has been slower than expected under the foreign banks' terms of
reference. In some cases, It has taken the foreign banks longer than anticipated tW document the
excistng structure, because among other reasons, of language and communication problems. In other
cases, there has been resistance to change. Nevertheless, the inital results are encouraging,
demonstrang that strong learning effect working wit foreign bankers has had on SOCB managers.
A few banks already have implemented a complete overhad of their organizational strucure, reining
in the power of the branches. Other banks have enhanced their control over their branch network by
significandy lowering credit competencies for individual branch managers. Still others have decided
to create a new layer of regional "lead branches, which will support the smaller branches and/or will
focus on specific operations (such as foreign trade finance, or investment advisory services).
(3) Budgedng and Performance Measurement
15.   When the SOCBs were created, they had to develop a budgeting system from scratch. 'Me
budgeting systems introduced during 1989-90 were very general and did not use acknowledged budget
formats such as product- or organiational profit/loss centers. Ihe concept of transfer pricing was
hitherto ukown in Polish banking, and head office finctions and branches were judged on their
performance using direct staff and funding costs only. The banks have to start deploying modern
budgeting tools and to develop concrete budgets as soon as practicable, which wil translate the banks'
strategic planning goals into realistic financial targets to be achieved by divisional and branch
managers.
16.   Most banks have completed the development of budget formats and are undertaking the
preparatory work needed to serve as inputs into concrete fiture budgets to be develope& using these
formats. Some bamks use a "bottom-up approach, developing strategic guidelines for the branches
and head office divisions based on the strategic plan, providing inputs into transfr prices and asking
the branches to fill in achievable product- and branch profitability goals. Others are using a top-down
approach, are undertaking or have already completed branch profitability analysis. In one case, a
bank has already acted on the initial results of these analyses, requesting loss-making branches to
develop a business plan to improve their financial situation under threat of closure. Some banks also
have already developed a system allowing remuneration of managers to be linked to their level of
performance.



84                                 A
Pag 5 of
17.   Progres in the area of budgeting has also assisted the banks' WODs tD undertk activities in
preparation of the EBRP independently (see para. 22).
(4) Credit Polices and Procedures
18.   When the bank were created, they inherited a very shallow credit funcdon dtat did not
adequately equip them with the tools needed to assess adequately and manage credit risk in a market
economy. Under central planning, the SOCBs were simply implementing the credit allocation
decisions set by the central plan, and thus they had little incentive to develop strong credit policies,
procedures and skills. The banks are now In the process of significandy strengthening their credit
function, including dealing with their bad loan portfolios.
19.   Impressive progress has been made to date by all banks, including those without a twinning
partner, in strengthening their regular credit funcdon. Most twinning banks, at the request of the
Bank, have given high priority to work in this area and in some cases have inWiated work in the credit
area in advance of contract signing. Credit policies have to a large extent been redefined, and new,
lower competencies for the branches have been set by most banls. For problem loans, however, this
process is less advanced, and further work is needed to clarify the responsibility of the various
organzational levels (branches, WODs, and Management and Supervisory Boards). Loan
classification systems have been introduced and are now used on a regular basis by all banks. As a
result of repeated portfolio reviews by exteal auditors, the banks' managers have become
inreasingly familiar with the techniques underlying proper loan classification. Comparisons between
the banks' and the auditors' classifications suggest that, while some banks are stiU more opmistic
about the prospects of their borrowers, the differences are narrowing over time, and the banks are
increasingly capable of correctly assessing their borrowers' creditworthiness. Ptogress In developing
a mangement information capability allowing frequent (.e., daily or weekdy) monitoring by senior
management of the overall loan portfolio and of progress in the workout process is less advanced and
may have to await the installation of aomated equipment. Manua monitoring of the portfolio on a
monthly basis, including the portfolio of bad loans assigned to the WODs, however, aldy available
in all banks and is used to provide information to the MoF.
20.   Work on improving existing credit procedures also has been progressing steadily in most
banks. A number of banks have already introduced standardized credit application format. In some
banks, new credit manuals have been completed, and draft manuals for dealing with bad loans have
been prepared. A number of the foreign twinning banks are assisting their Polish counterparts in
developing bad loan manaals under the existing twinning arrangements, while others have put forward
proposals to undertake more comprehensive work in this area and in the area of developing strategic
plans and the organizaional structure of the WODs, under supplementary technical asistance
arrangements. Nearly all banks are unning massive trainng programs in the area of credit analysis,
using outside sources and/or the twinning banks. As the quality of the credit officers of the banks
will determine the quality of the future loan portfolios, training is of crucial importance, and it is
apparent that the banks will have to develop strong internal training programs in the credit area. The
WODs have made good progress in attracting qualified staff. However, to date little taining of the
WOD staff has been undertaken in recovery strategies and oDrporate finmce packaging, as these are
scarce skills in Poland, both in external training centers and within the bank internally. Ihe banks
wilt need more help in this area in the near future.



85                                   aN X S
Rag 6 of2
21.   The MoF has recognized that the size of the banks' bad loan problem is such that special
efforts will be required beyond the development of adequate credit policies and procedures as oudined
above. As a first step, the MoF has asked the banks to create special WODs and to assign them loans
classified by external auditors as doubtfdl and loss as of a certain date.' The MoF subsequenly has
instucted the banks to develop a strategic plan for dealing with their bad loans, which will guide the
WODs' staff in their approach certain sectors and regions and instuments to be used in the workout
process (amount and parameters of debt relief to be provided, use of debt-equity swap, financing of
management and worker buy-outs, etc.) Once the strategic plan for dealing with the bad loans is
decided, the organizational structure of the WODs will need to be detailed, including the role of
problem loan units in the branches. As a next step, detailed functional and job descriptions will need
to be developed. Finally, the banks will have to staff their WODs fully with qualified persons based
on an objective workdoad analysis. Intensive tAining of the entire staff of the WODs in developing
and negotiadng practical recovery/restructuing strategies will be needed. Procedures and funding for
the use of extensive external technical assistance will also need to be developed.
22.   Progress in the credit area is also apparent from the noticeable improvement in the
commercial banks' behavior toward their borrowers. Increasingly, banks are asking their customers
to provide collateral for their loans,2 including for existing loans. In a significant number of cases,
banks, under the leadership of the WODs, have gone beyond obtaining collateral and have actively
started foreclosure proceedings on enterprise assets and/or have petitioned for formal bankruptcy or
liquidation of enterprises. The WODs also have made substantial progress toward using extrnal
technical assistance to develop restructuring plans and recovery stategies for individual problem
debtors. In some banks, the WODs already have specific internal budgets for this purpose. In
addition, six banks are in the process of tneing to use grant fimding available from the EC PHARE
for their WODs.
Some banls have interpreted the WOD as a static concept and have assigned only loans classified as
bad as of a certin date to the WODs, while retaning all loans that tuned bad after that date within the
regular Credit Department In effect, these banks now have two diffeent bad loan units, which
compliates monitog and also ihbits the development of a focused strategy for dealing with
problem loans. This duplication is to be rectfied shordy.
2      In the case of SOEs, as property titles on land and buildings ane often unclear, the bulk of collateral
consists of movables (inventories and machinery) and promissory notes (claims by enteprises on other
enterprises). This will most likely change with the enactment of the restructuing bill, which provides
for immeate acquisition by SOEs of tide to the land and buildings they are located on/in. Colltal
is also often provided in the form of other banks' (often the specialized banks) guarantees, as a way for
those banks to circumvent the credit ceilings currently applied by the NBP. Personal guartees
provided by wealthy individuals are another common form of collater. The co _lmme    banks are
often even tougher on private sector borrowers, which reportedly in some cases ate asred to put up
collateral for 200 percent of the loan balance, sometimes in the form of an up-front bank deposit.



86                                 AD
(5) Asset and lUablity Management
23.   When the banks were created, they virtually had no Treasury to equip them adequately with
the tools needed to protect themselves agaimt the main risks in the existing market onvironment
Oiquidity, interest rate, foreign exchange exposure and capital risk). Moreower, the Treasury function
was dispersed among several different organizaional units and not well-iegrated into the banks'
management strctures. The banks are thus facing the task of expanding and unifyig the Treasury
funcion, consolidating Treasury rssponsibilities at the management level and tning staff in the
complex area of asset and liability management.
24.   Nearly all banks, in pardcular those with twining arrangements, have made good progress in
addressin the Iues in this area. The bans' managers, while unfamiliar with cerauln types of risks
and risk management techniques, have quicldy caught on to the importance of asset and liability
management. Bank staff are generally perceiving work in the Treasury function, which I new and
non-contentious, as potentily rewarding. Some banks have already completed the organional
structure of the Treasury function, including the creation of an Asset- and Liability Managemen
Committee, and have finized work on detailed function and job desciptions. Ihese bank, as well
as others that are less far advanced, have already mnaged to generate substantial profits through
successfil short-term interbank placements of excess liquidity previously kept in uaraed
balances with the NBP.
(6) Automation and Mnagement Information Systems MS
25.   After their separation from the NBP, the banks have coninued to use NBP's procesing
capability for their back-office operaions. The NBP plans, however, to discontinue this service in
the near fiture, and thus the banks will have to build up their own inhowse computer capacity. In
addition, the SOCBs will need to develop comprehensive management Infbrmation sytems, hitherto
unknown, to enable the banks' manage  to manage adequately the risks their banks .4 and to plan
and budget futumre activities. Under the Bank's FIDL, resources are available for all Polish baks to
procure the hardware, software and consultancy services required to automate their core operations
and subsequent expansion and MIS effbrts. Most banks that are twinned are receiving exteve
assistance from their twinning parter in this area. An automation expert assigned to the MoF is
available to assist the banks.
26.   Some banks have decided not to use the Bank's financing and have entered into direct
contracts with suppliers for a comprehensive capability (core plus MIS). Others have been very
successfid in upgrading, with limited investment, their core processing capabilities and are now
completing their strategic plan, which will provide the basis for the purchase of a comprehensive MIS
capability. Still others, with the assistance of their twinning partners, are doing a very thorough job
in terms of first decieing on their strategic information needs and their organizational strucure and
then going through the steps required to purchase the best available equipment through  enatio :l
Competitive Bidding. While such an approach is clearly preferable in terms of the quality of the
output to be obtained, it is necessarily rather slow.



87                                 ANX S
Eago  of 9
(7) Human Resource Devdopment and Training
27. Under the centrally planned regime, bankdng was essentially no more than an extensive
bookkeeping underking, with banks fulfiling the requirements of the central plan. Consequently,
the banks inherited a staff with very limited banking skl'iP upon their creation. Te challenge for the
banks s quickly to upgrade the knowledge and capabilities of this staff and to attact new, young
people with adequate qualifications. The SOCBs will need to develop sophisticated rewards,
manpower planning, performance appraisal, recruitment and selection systems for this purpose.
Introduction of these tools of human resource management will also serve to strengthen the banks'
competitive position vis-a-vis emerging private sector bank competitors. Given the sheer size of the
task, with each bank having a staff of approximately 3,000, it is imperative that the banks develop a
strong interal training capability, with a curriculum that covers all areas of banking operations.
Another major challenge facing the banks is to redeploy or lay off redundant staff once the banks are
automated.
28.   Most banks have made significant progress in the area of human resource development.
Some banks have already completed the creation of a comprehensive dta  base concering their
existfng staff and have introduced performance measuren and bonus sstems. The twiirg banks
are assisting their counparts in setting up comprehensive peoel functions. In the area of
training, nearly all banks have initiated etensive internal training programs andlor are making
etensive use of external training facilities. Jn the last two years, approximaely half to two-thirds of
bank staff have received training in key areas such as credit and bank automation. However, most
banks are not yet basing their taining programs on structured training needs analyses and thus may
be targeting the wrong people. There is a need to prioritize training programs better as new training
needs are idendfied, and continually to conduct training needs analyses to stay current with all the
changes in credit, treasury, audit, planning, marketing and other areas ta are being introduced. A
more systematic approach is needed to ensure adequate trtining methodologies are used, including
case studies and use of a train-the trainer' approach. A -t'ar area in which activity has so far been
relatively limited is management training.
(8) Marketng
29.   MarketIng is a very important tool to enable the SOCBs to compete successfully with the
newly emerging private banking segment. The concepts underlying successf  marketing stategies
are, however, completely alien to the banks. The SOCBs must build awareness among their staff of
the need for a very proactive, custor-oriented approach offering banking services and to familiarie
manags and staff with the tools used to achieve the market share objectives set under the bans'
strategic plans.
30. To date, few banks have started to develop marketing strategies and tools. Some banks are
taldng the position that they will be able to obtain an increased share of targ  marks simply as a
result of the antkcipated rapid growth of demad for tanking services, which will ensue from stped-
up entprise piovzaton and private sector developmen. Market resarch, often in suWort of the
stregic planning exercise, has been Iitiated by a number of banks. Others, recognizing that they
lack adequate sklls, have turned to newly emeging external market survey burau.



88                                 ANNEX5
Pag2 of 2
(9) Internal Audit
31.   Upon their creation, the banks inherited a branch audit function very much geared toward
checking compliance with accounting procedures. Auditing of head office functions was virtually
non-existent. Moreover, the Chief Internal Auditor did not report directly to the president and
therefore did not have the independence required for objective and adequate auditing. With the
introduction of a wide range of new instruments and activities, the audit function will need to be
significantly strengthened to undertake new tasks such as EDP auditing. The task facing the SOCBs
Is to improve the focus and scope of audits, to restate audit department responsibilities, to improve
the methodology for determining the time and frequency of audits and to establish an adequate
organizational set-up for the audit function, including the creation of audit committees at the
Management or Supervisory Board level.
32.    Progress in this area has been relatively limited. While nearly all banks have hired
additional audit staff, they are only starting to consider head office function audits. For historical
reasons, internal auditing is still perceived by bank staff as a relatively uninteresting profession, and
the banks have difficulty attracting staff witi modem audit skills. As long as the speed at which new
activities are being introduced and automated operations come into effect is still relatively slow, the
lack of progress in this area will not pose major issues. At the same time, given the weaknesses in
bank supervision and the occurrence of a relatively large number of fraudulent activities during the
last two years, particularly in the private banking segment, developing the internal audit function is
becoming an increasingly urgent priority. Bank managers' awareness of the importance of internal
auditing needs to be expanded to ensure timely action in this area.



89
ANNEX 6
Pae I of 5
DEVELOPMET OF BANK SUPERVISION CAPABILIlES
1.    The NBP has developed, with the assistance of the World Bank, a comprehensive program
aimed at building up rapidly a significant bank supervision capability. The plan includes four main
componens: (i) off-site analysis; Qi) on-site supervision; (iii) training plan; and (iv) senior advice.
Ihe NBP's program could be supported by grant financing from donors such as EC PHARE or
USAID and/or by loan financing from existing Bank loans (in particular, a US$2 million component
of the FMIL earmarked for this purpose).
A.    Off-Site Analysis
2.      As a prerequisite to efficient off-site analysis, a proper accountg framework must provide
a sound basis for many of the regulatory reports submitted by banks for supervisory purposes. The
NBP focused on this issue at an early stage and developed, with the assistance of the IMP, a new
Plan of Accounts, which came into effect in Jauary 1991. Implementation of the new plan,
however, still raises a number of technical difficulties, which need to be solved through additional
improvements or clarification. For this purpose, the NBP will use an IMF-funded consultant who
will recommend the necessary modifications to the plan, to be implemented by June 1993.
3.    Among the outstanding accounting issues, the treament of restructrng of troubled debt
raises specific difficulties for bank supervisors, such as the accounting for asset taken in lieu of
previously contacted debts (e.g., equity securities and real estate). To deal with these issues, the
NBP has secured additional, specific exertise to assist in developing appropriate policies and
accounting procedures and to train to key NBP staff in their application.
4.    F oiancia Analyses. Currendy financial analyses carried out by the NBP are still fragmented
and untimely, as the data supportng them come from several sources and are inconsistent. As an
interim measure pending the expected development of a new, NBP-wide, automation system, the
supeviion department is planning to streamline and improve the process of data submission and
input. This effort has already been initiated with the hiring of two computer exets who are
developing procedures for automated bank reportig trough a computer dedicated to NBP's
supervision depatment. The key remaining component of this effort is purchase of the necesy
equipment,1 which is envisaged by the NBP. I will consider using World Bank loan financing
available under existng loans.
5.    The NBP will furter strengthen its off-site analysis function through a formal financial
analysis traing progrwn, which will also be used as a component of the basic training provided to
     A nmifiam computer, 1S (esimated) persoWa conntew ad rlatd applicaion aad load am
network soflwu, at a coat of abot US$So,0o0. Hurdw   acquistios would be co _istat widh NBP-
wida computer equoi



90                                 A
the on-site inspectio staff. In addition, such training will enable the NBP to specify its data
processing requirements better during the design and implementation of the NBP-wide automation
effort. The Bank will provide assistance to the NBP in designing, staffing and funding such a training
program. Primary training will focus on a core group of around 20 analysts, who would thereafter
assume responsibility to train other NBP supervisory staff.
B.    On-Site Supervislon
6.    In carrying out on-site supervision, the NBP is currently confronted with an onerous worldoad
that includes: (i) performing routine on-site inspections at the ste-owned, private and cooperative
banks; (i) conducting special investigations at problem banks and reviewing and analyzing merger
and liquidation proposals; and (iii) monitoring and evaluafting the process of troubled debt
restructuring, particularly in the nine SOCBs. At ptesent, the NBP does not possess a sufficient
number of skllled staff to undertake these critically important supervisory activities.
7.    Its action program puts a strong emphasis on this area through a combination of suuctural and
stop-gap measures. lhe sural measures include the development of a detailed insetion
procedures manual and the provision of training for NBP staff in its use and mpletion. With
respect to an lwcdon manual, the task facing NBP in this area is significant and will have to be
Implemented in sveral steps. A broad outline of the Inspection mamnal has already been 4deeloped.
Ihe nx step wM be to develop specific moduies addressing supeisory goals and objectives, scope
of inspectons, general methodologies for conducting ipcions, NBP's supervisory policies nd
prudential regulations, and report preparaton. Training will begin immediately the fter in te
basic topics. Further inspection manual modules then will be developed based on priorities
established by NBP (such as loan portfolio analysis, foreign exchange mangement, duties and
responsibilities of suevisory and management boards, etc.). Throughout the process of developing
the manual, specific training on each module will immediately follow its preparation and approval by
NBP management.
8.    The manual, in Polish and English, will be developed by two consultants already hired by
NBP management. One consultant, wn*king in coordination with World Bank experts, will be
assigned primary responsibility for development of the manual and will prepare many of the modules,
although certain modules may be developed by specialized experts. The NBP will designate at least
one counterpart within the regulatory policy unit, and at least two counterparts from among the bank
supervisors, to work full-Oime with the consultant to ensure that the mamud corresponds to the Polish
environment and NBP's requirements.
9.    7ralnlng will be provided by the consultants prepaing the different modules of the manual, or
additional consultants working with those responsible fDr preparing of the manual, and by the NIBP
counterparts noted above. The consultant with primary responsibility for developing of the mamnal
also will be responsible, along with a designated NBP counterpart, for organizng and ensuring the
effectiveness of all taiing. Training intally will focus on a core group of 40 to 50 NBP
suervisors, who then will be responsible for training additional NBP supervisory staff, with the
support of the consultan. NBP's supervision department wil work with the consultn and the
World Bank to ensure appropriate selecdon of the core group of 40 to 50 supervisors, ffcusing
particularly on their capacity to absorb the training and to train additional staff. It is anticipated ha



91
Pago 3 of5
the taining program instituted under this project will serve as the fundation for a permanent
orientation training program for new NBP supenvsory staff.
10.   Stop-Gap Measures. UntSi sufficient in-ouse capabilities are available, the NBP has decided
to utilize extr  auditing and other firms to cany ow sqpervMsoryfincdons, a possibility already
open to the president of the NBP under the Act on the Central Banku The NBP will require the
extel finns, as part as their terms of reference, to associate NBP staff with their work, thus
providing immediate on-the-job training.
C. Additional Tranig Requfments
11.   The uldmate effectiveness of bank supervision in Poland depends criticaUly on NBP's staff
development program, the foundation of which is a sustained and comprehensive tranibg program.
Several key components of such a program will be addressed through the specific actons mentioned
above, but there will clearly be a need for both a comprehensive approach to training and additional
specialized training (for eample, in the prevention and detection of money laundering). The NBP is
conducting an overall training needs assessment, funded by the EC PHARE program. Based on this
assessment, the NBP has started to develop a formal, comprehensive training program and will ensure
that sufficient resources are devoted to staff traning. Ihe Bank will asist the NBP in organizing and
arranging specialized training programs, paricularly when it is necessary to draw on support from
foreign bank supervisors or external auditing firms to provide the training.
D. Seilor Advisor to the NBP
12. The president of the NBP and the director of the supervision department are confronted with
substata issues and chalenges requiring difficult decisions, particularly in relation to the overaU
strategy for financial and bandkng sector development and supervision, regulatory policy, and the
resolution of problem banks. The NBP has therefore conted for the services of a senior-level
consultant with direct experience in the management of a bank supervision agency, regulatory policy
development and implementation, and problem bank resolution.
E.    Adcievements To Date and Conditionality
13.   In close cooperation with the bank, NBP has already:
(i)    Prepared a written strategic plan outlining the manner in which internal and extal
resources will be utilized for the supervision of all components of the banking system
(stateeowned, private and cooperative banks) and which identifies the manner in which
exrnal auditing firms and other professional firms will be utilized to supplement
N$P's internal resources. The NBP has also prepared final drafts of the terms of
reference approved by the Bank, and has established a short list firms.
(ii)   Prepared terms of reference and hired a consultant responsible for: (a) overseeing the
development of the inspection manual; (b) developing a significant and defined portion
of the modules, including defined initW modules; and (c) organizing training in all
modules as they are developed.



92                                 ANEX
(ii)   Made arramgements for the services of a consultant to support eacemes to tf1e
Plan of Accounts.
(iv)   Selected, wih the assane of the World Bank, a consultant to provide the policy and
accounting  peise necessary for troubled debt restrucuring. Within two monts it
wfll have issued in fmnal fonm its regulatory policies and accounting procedur  for
troubled debt restrctring;
(v)    Prepared an overal training program (ncorporating the training elements discussed
elsewhere in this Annex, along with other desired training) and will have made an
initial d  on of which training over the next two years will require the use of
outside expertise.
(vi) Entered into a contract for the services of a senior consultant.
4.   As a condition for second tranche release, the NBP would have:
Q)    Implemented the changes necessary in the Plan of Accounts.
(U)   Signed contracts with a least two auditing or other professional firms for the pupose
of contrutng to its on-site supervision effort and will have begun utilizing the
services of such lm.
(Xii)   With respect to the development of the inspection ;anal: (a) designated fl-time
counterparts to work with the consutant(s); (b) established a time schedule for
developing all principal modules and related training; (c) developed detailed outie
for the initial modules; and (d) developed procedures for selecting the core group of
40 to 50 supervisors to receive training and made allowance for such traiing in Its
work schedule and budget.
(iv)   Signed a contract with a consultant to provide the necsary off-site analysis taining
to the core group of 20 analysts, selected by the NBP under procedures described
above in the section dealing with training related to the inspection manual.
(v)   Have demonstrated adherence to specific milestones esublished in its general training
program.
15.   As a condition for trd ranche rekase, the NBP would have:
Q1)    Demonstrated adherence to the strategy for the use of extea auding or other
professional firms to strengthen its supervisory fiuctions, as measured in terms of a
higher quality and broader coverage of supervision.
(i)   Completed aU inital modules of the inspection mamnal and provided related tWaini  in
all such modules to the core group of 40 to 50 supevisors. Fut*'her taining of
additional staff by the core group will have commenced.



93                                  A-li
se 5 aud
OMii)   Completed training of the core group of analysts and commenced fitrher raining of
additonal staff by the core gro.
(tv) Have demonstrated continued adherence to specific milestones established In its
general  taining program.



94                                               ANNE7
Palge  of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN POLAND
A. STAI OF BANK
(As of Febrar 28,1993)
US Malin
Loan      Foscal                                                                           (LAes Canclao)
NoL      x.IL           Jaom                               Prect                           Loan      SJdmjbd
One Lan (SA-Fully Disbursed:
3247      1991       Republic of Poland        Struchtal Adjustment Loan
Total Fully Disbused SAL SECAL and Program Lon                         300.0
Loans U_nd_er Dlisbursmenmt
3166      1990       Natl Bank of Poland       Industry Export D lopen                      26Q0       21W7
3167      1990       Nat'l Bank of Poland      Agroindustty Elport Deveopment               100.0       4212
3190      1990       Republic of Polnd         En     ment Management                         0         8A9
t193        90       Republic of Poland        Tranl ort                                     48         3.19
3194      1990       Polh State Raiway         Traspot                                      14S.0      10175
3215      1990       PolIsh 01 and Oas         Eneg Resodrs uevlopmnt                       200        1.6
3319      1991       Polish Post, Telephone
and Tegraph              Telcommnicatios                             120.0       9Q87
3338      1991       Republic of Poland        Employment Promotion Serices                 100.0       94*7
3341      1991 k/    Republic of Poland        Fmania Institu    Daeopment                  200.0      11876
3342      1991 M    Republic of Poland        Prvtiation and Retucuing                     280.       19454
3343      1991       Republic of Poland        Agrielua Dtlopmet                            100.0       99.00
3377      1991 c/    Republie of Poland        Heat Supply Retucring                        75.0        37.50
3378   V 991 /    DHE-Gdansk                    Heat Sply Rest                              40.0        38.50
3379      I991 S/    DHE43dyna                 Heat Suply Restuctg                           2S.0       21A0
3381      1991 9/    Municipal HB-Kkow         Heat Supply Re2Su ing                         25.0       22.26
3382      I9M19/    Capital Rego HE            Heat Suppy Restrutg                          100.0       9327
3383      1991M      W     polso   Bank Kredytowy Heat Supy Restrucng                       20.0        20.00
346       1992       Republic of Poland        Heal                                         130        130.00
3467      1992       Polish Delopment Bank    Private Bnterpise Delopmet                    60.0        60.00
3499      19924/   Republic of Poband          Housing                                    .0           200
Total
Of Which- Repaid
Total Now Held by the Bank
Total Amount Sold                            Q0
Of Whici Repaid                         0.0
Total Undisbud                                        12
A/  The status of these piQjectd is desaibed in a separat report on aD Bank/DA financed poects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and cireulated to the Executive Direcs on April 30 and October 31
k/   Hybfid loan.
s/   DHE - District Heating Enterprie Lans, totaing $28 million (net of cancelatins) made for one poject
#/   Not yet effct



"w~   j~ W  X~ !   !55555Sa  !     
1 S  U E   S  S  S  S  S  S   SI S    I  5!  1   fl   | I n I X
9~~~~~ Sl  J ffifffs-f  
0~                              -



