Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16743
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3599-POL)
June 16, 1997
Country Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1996)
Currency Unit          Zloty
1 Zloty         US$
US$1           Zloty 2.83
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1992            1993               1994                1995                1996
1.36            1.81               2.27                2.42                2.72
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I -December 3 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CMEA         -    Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
COM         -    Council of Ministers
DDSR        -    Debt and Debt Service Reduction
EBRD        -    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EBRP        -    Enterprise and Bank Restructuring and Privatization Program
EU          -    European Union
EFSAL       -    Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
ESW         -    Economic and Sector Work
ETP         -    Economic Transformation Program
FIDL        -    Financial Institutions Development Loan
GDP          -    Gross Domestic Product
IBRD        -    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA         -    Industrial Development Agency
IMF         -    International Monetary Fund
LIBOR       -    London Interbank Offer Rate
MoF         -    Ministry of Finance
MolT        -    Ministry of Industry and Trade
MoP         -    Ministry of Privatization
MPP         -    Mass Privatization Program
NBP          -   National Bank of Poland
NIF          -   National Investment Fund
OECD         -    Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PBPF        -    Polish Bank Privatization Fund
PHARE       -    Poland Hungary Assistance for Economic Reconstruction
SOCB        -    State-owned Commercial Bank
SOE         -    State-owned Enterprise
TA          -    Technical Assistance
USAID       -    United States Agency for International Development
WOD         -    Workout Department
Vice President:           Johannes F. Linn
Acting Director:          Hans Apitz
Division Chief:           Michel Noel
Task Manager:             Michael Borish



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN 3599-POL
Contents
Preface ........................................................                                                                        i
Evaluation Summary .......................................................                                                             ii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment .......................................................I
A. Background .......................................................I
B. Project Objectives and Benchmarks ........................................................2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives ........................................................4
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ..............................................8
F. Project Sustainability                                                    .9
F. Bank Performance ......................9
G. Borrower Performance .....................                                                                              10
H. Assessment of Outcome .....................                                                                             10
1. Future Operations ......................11
J. Key Lessons Learned ......................11
Part II. Statistical Tables ........................... 13
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ..............................                                                                        14
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ..............................                                                                    15
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .............................. 16
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ................................................. 16
TABLE5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............................................................                       17
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .............................................................                           19
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .............................................................1  9
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS .............................................................                                                 19
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ............................................................. 1 9
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .............................................................                                    19
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .............................................................                                    20
TABLE I1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .............................................................                  23
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .............................................................                                 23
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .............................................................                                     24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN 3599-POL
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Enterprise and Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan in Poland, for which loan 3599-POL in the amount of US$450 million equivalent was
approved on May 4, 1993 and made effective on January 6, 1994.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1996, compared with the original closing date of June 30, 1995.
The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by January 6, 1994. A US$100
million set-aside for debt and debt service reduction was disbursed in November 1994 as part of a larger
US$170 million package. A second tranche was released on March 20, 1996. The second tranche
release was the final disbursement; a planned third tranche was not utilized. Total disbursements were
US$324.39 million, equivalent to 72.1 percent of total commitments. A balance of US$125.61 million
was canceled when the project closed.  Cofinancing of US$428.6 million for the Polish Bank
Privatization Fund was provided by Australia, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Japan, Sweden, Turkey, the
United Kingdom, and the United States. The Government of Switzerland also agreed to make a
contribution in late 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Michael Borish, consultant to Country Operations, Central Europe
Department of the Europe and Central Asia Region, and reviewed by Michel Noel, Division Chief,
Country Operations Division; Luca Barbone, Lead Economist, Central Europe Department; Olivier
Godron, Senior Country Economist, and Daniel Oks, Senior Country Economist, Country Operations
Division; George Park, Senior Operations Officer, Poland Resident Mission; Yves Duvivier, Private
Sector Development Specialist; and David Scott, Principal Financial Sector Specialist.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission from January 15-26,
1997. It is based on material in the project file and other related Bank documents, interviews conducted
in the field, and research materials reviewing developments under Poland's Enterprise and Bank
Restructuring Program. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by exchanging views on the
project's execution and commenting on the draft ICR.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN 3599-POL
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    Poland rejoined the Bank in 1986, and lending to Poland began in 1990 in support of the
Government's Economic Transformation Program. The Bank's strategy of assistance has focused on
supporting the country's program of structural adjustment to enhance productivity and capacity to
compete under market conditions. The Bank has been heavily involved in enterprise and financial sector
reform, providing assistance in the formulation of medium-term sector strategy as well as support
through several lending operations. These include (i) the Structural Adjustment Loan, which closed on
December 31, 1991 and supported the Government's Economic Transformation Program; (ii) the
Financial Institutions Development Loan, which closes on June 30, 1998 and supported reforms in the
financial sector; (iii) the Privatization and Restructuring Loan, which is scheduled to close on June 30,
1998 and has supported efforts to privatize state enterprises; and (iv) the Private Enterprise Development
Loan, which was closed on May 14, 1996 and supported efforts to stimulate investment by the private
sector. The Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL), approved on May 4, 1993, was
designed to reinforce and build on these previous efforts by resolving jointly the systemic crisis facing
banks and enterprises, and by supporting their privatization. The project succeeded in (i) helping State-
owned commercial banks (SOCBs) to restructure their troubled portfolios in a way that made them more
attractive candidates for privatization, and in a manner that applied greater financial discipline to bank
and enterprise investment decisions; (ii) assisting Ministry of Industry and Trade in establishing and
applying transparent criteria for loans and grants to troubled industrial enterprises where their outright
liquidation would have had unsettling social consequences; (iii) achieving privatization targets in the
enterprise sector; and (iv) strengthening bank supervision for the ongoing enforcement of prudential
regulations consistent with international and market-based standards.
Project Objectives
ii.    The EFSAL aimed to foster a microeconomic response to the new environment created by the
price and trade liberalization policies of the early 1990s, thus accelerating Poland's transition to a full-
fledged market economy. The project's key objectives were to (i) improve the enterprise sector's
responsiveness and ongoing adaptation to market signals, and to facilitate the exit of nonviable
enterprises when unable to respond or adapt; and (ii) raise the level and quality of financial
intermediation through better credit allocation and enhanced commercial bank capacity to impart and
enforce financial discipline on banks' enterprise debtors. The project included three core components:
(i) an integrated attempt to deal simultaneously with the debt overhang of the State-owned Enterprise
sector (SOEs) and the portfolio problems faced by the State-owned commercial banking system, which



- iii -
accounted for about one-third of banking system  resources;'  (ii) legislative reforms intended to
accelerate the pace of privatization for sound and potentially viable enterprises; and (iii) improvements
to the incentive system to reform the commercial banking system, including up-front recapitalization and
privatization of SOCBs, the strengthening of the prudential bank regulatory framework, and enhanced
banking supervision capacity in the National Bank of Poland (NBP). The EFSAL also included a
US$100 million set-aside which was used to support a US$170 million Debt and Debt Service Reduction
project approved by the Board on October 25, 1994.
iii.    The basis for action on enterprise restructuring and bank recapitalization  within the
Government's overall Enterprise and Bank Restructuring and Privatization (EBRP) program was
provided by the Act on Financial Restructuring of Enterprises and Banks (EBRP Law) which was
adopted by the Parliament on February 3, 1993. Special loan covenants/agreements to achieve project
objectives included (i) overall progress in the execution of the EBRP program as provided in the EBRP
Law, the EBRP Decree, and the Intervention Fund Decree (Schedule 5, Para. 1) and proper monitoring
(Schedule 6, Para. I); (ii) the issuance of Recapitalization Bonds in an aggregate amount and on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Schedule 5, Para. 2); (iii) agreement on budgetary resources to be
made available to Special SOEs in accordance with the 1993 and 1994 Budget Laws and the Intervention
Decree (Schedule 5, Paras. 4 and 12; Schedule 6, Paras. 3 and 4); (iv) progress in the execution of the
Privatization program with specified targets (Schedule 5, Para. 5; Schedule 6, Paras. 5 and 8) and
enactment of amendments to the 1990 Privatization Law to facilitate and accelerate implementation of
the Privatization program (Schedule 5, Para. 6); (v) assignment of SOE ownership to the relevant
Government agencies (Schedule 5, Para. 8); (vi) development of a medium-term plan for banking system
privatization with specified targets (Schedule 5, Para. 10), and progress towards execution (Schedule 6,
Para. 6); (vii) progress in executing the Bank Supervision program (Schedule 5, Para. 11 and Schedule 6,
Para. 7); and (viii) enactment of the Law on the creation of National Investment Funds and their
privatization (Schedule 5, Para. 7). In virtually all cases, implementation of the project was in
compliance with agreements and covenants.
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.    Implementation Experience. The EFSAL was conceptualized and designed to support Poland's
EBRP. Initially, the program was to be implemented in parallel with the IMF's 12-month Stand-by
Arrangement, which extended to March 7, 1994. The EBRP had three principal objectives. First, to
support bank-led enterprise restructuring without excessive reliance on court-oriented bankruptcy and
liquidation procedures.  The EFSAL supported banks as "agents of change" to lead out-of-court
"conciliation" procedures, bankruptcies and liquidations to complement court-oriented procedures.
EFSAL support for the Intervention Fund also provided resources through the budget for enterprise
restructuring where troubled but viable enterprises were the leading or sole employer in a particular area.
Second, to support and accelerate enterprise privatization. Enactment of amendments to the 1990 Law
on Privatization were intended to support this objective. Third, to accelerate banking sector reform and
privatization. Strengthened banking supervision and the reallocation of donor funds from the
Stabilization Fund to the Polish Bank Privatization Fund (PBPF) were intended to strengthen incentives
for banking sector reform  and privatization.  Additionally, to contribute to Poland's restored
creditworthiness in global markets, a US$170 million Debt and Debt Service Reduction (DDSR)-in
The project did not directly focus on the larger specialized banks, which accounted for more than half of total system
resources. Partly as a result of EFSAL approaches, some of the specialized banks have gone on to pursue bank-led
conciliation and debt-equity swaps as part of their own portfolio restructuring efforts.



- iv -
support of which US$100 million from the EFSAL was set aside-was intended to help bring Poland to
agreement with its London Club commercial creditors.
v.     The project was a success largely due to (i) a comprehensive and well thought-out design; (ii) the
commitment of the Ministry of Finance to banking sector reform in accordance with market principles;
(iii) the general improvement in the economy, which provided greater employment, trade and investment
opportunities at a time when pressure for greater budgetary outlays to subsidize troubled SOEs could
have increased; and (iv) the professionalism of NBP staff and complementary of donor assistance in
building up banking supervision. The key negative factors were frequent Government changes and
concerns about the impact of privatization and market reforms on incomes and employment. By and
large, the EFSAL was successful largely because the positive factors heavily outweighed the negative
ones.
vi.   Implementation Results. With a few minor exceptions, the project achieved its objectives. Based
on the EBRP law, the SOCBs conducted nearly 800 debt restructurings, acquired valuable workout skills,
and now have strong balance sheets, better management systems, and improved financial performance.
Restructured enterprises likewise appear to have strengthened positions due to better management,
reorganized company structures, and new operating strategies. Four of Poland's nine SOCBs have been
privatized (two during the EFSAL), and others are set for privatization in 1997; financial incentives to
privatize from the Polish Bank Privatization Fund remain in place. Meanwhile, banking supervision
capacity of the National Bank of Poland has been significantly enhanced in recent years, contributing to
the improvement of bank governance and management. This should facilitate bank privatization, and
provide better grounding in Poland for prudent commercial banking practices as competition intensifies.
The Subsidiary Intervention Fund has made nearly US$150 million in loans and grants, and most
companies are reporting favorable results. While enterprise privatization has been gradual in Poland,
results achieved have been consistent with EFSAL targets. By September 30, 1996, 4,784 SOEs had been
privatized, commercialized, or put into court-controlled bankruptcy proceedings.
vii.   The EFSAL contributed significantly to the reinforcement of financial discipline, and to the
institutional development process in the banking and enterprise sectors. Commercial banks are now
better managed and more competitive than in 1993, and banking supervision promotes this through the
enforcement of prudential regulations. The government now has more transparent criteria by which to
allocate fiscal resources for troubled enterprises, often rejecting applications because of many
enterprises' inability to comply with these criteria. However, not all goals have been met. Progress with
state enterprise reform has been more sluggish than originally anticipated, and it has taken longer to
privatize five commercial banks than originally thought. Lax enforcement of tax payments and social
security requirements in the state sector has also offset some of the financial discipline imposed in recent
years by bank and trade creditors. It is also too early to tell if the activities of IDA and the Intervention
Fund represent a net benefit to Poland2, although the earliest indicators show that most of these
enterprises are now profitable and servicing their debt on schedule. Overall, the project has been
effective in achieving most of its targets.
2   Full evaluation of the operations of the Intervention Fund will be possible once an effective system of monitoring of
enterprise restructuring programs is put in place by IDA and after the concerned enterprises have met their obligations
towards IDA.



Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
viii.   Findings. The impact of the achievements under the EFSAL is already visible and indications
are that the reforms introduced will be sustained. For example, the financial and enterprise sectors have
improved governance and management, better financial returns, and greater financial discipline; and the
banking sector is increasingly competitive. The next major economic challenge is to bring incomes in
Poland closer to those of EU member states. To do that, Poland is expected to stay on track with its
overall reform program. Increasing integration with Western capital markets and political institutions
should reinforce this direction.
ix.    Future Operations. Based on the success of reforms in Poland, the Bank's continued support
should address structural weaknesses and other risks that threaten to reverse progress made over the last
few years. Specific structural weaknesses include (i) a significant number of industrial SOEs, perceived
by some to be "strategic," which are in dire need of privatization; and (ii) still underdeveloped financial
markets. The Bank can provide needed assistance to accelerate privatization in the industrial sector
(including environmental clean-up and social assistance), and policy guidance to assist with reform of
specialized banks, judicial reform, and capital markets development.
x.     Key Lessons Learned. The Poland EFSAL supported an innovative approach to tackling the
problem of unprofitable state-owned enterprises and deteriorating bank portfolios in transition
economies. This operation recognized the impact on the enterprises and banks of the radical change in
the incentive framework and tried to address the interrelated problems of the enterprise and banking
sectors in an integrated way. This approach has led to similar operations in other countries.  In this
context, (i) the project succeeded most where up-front enabling legislation was established; the
effectiveness of debt restructuring efforts and strong governance role played by MoF was partly due to
passage of the EBRP Law prior to project effectiveness; whereas the slower pace of privatization in-the
enterprise sector may have been partly due to the fact that the amendments to the 1990 Law on
Privatization were never enacted during loan implementation; (ii) the EFSAL was characterized by a
high level of donor coordination, leading to the responsible use of TA for successful project
implementation and institution-building; this has been evident in the development of banking supervision
capacity, and with implementation of some of the bank-led debt restructurings and project work
associated with the Subsidiary Intervention Fund; and (iii) the project might have benefited from more
developed project monitoring and evaluation capacity; a more systematic review by the authorities of the
financial performance of enterprises and banks as a result of reforms supported by the EFSAL might
have been beneficial for project supervision, and it might have provided some useful lessons to the
authorities in dealing with problems faced by specialized banks.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENTERPRISE AND 1INANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN 3599-POL
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Background
1.    At the time the EFSAL became effective, Poland's economy was still troubled at the structural
level, but showing signs of emerging from its difficult period of stabilization and adaptation to the
collapse of the CMEA trade regime. The inflation rate was a high 38 percent in 1993, but much lower
than 249 percent three years before. The fiscal deficit was 2.3 percent for 1993, down from nearly 7
percent the prior two years. Real GDP growth, recorded in industry, agriculture and construction, was
nearly 4 percent, the second consecutive year of real growth after the sharp declines of 1990-91. While
official unemployment was a high 16 percent, significant private sector activity was beginning to emerge
in Poland.' This activity was primarily small-scale, with some evidence of large-scale investment
resulting from earlier privatizations or greenfield operations.
2.     However, the banking sector and many state-owned enterprises were still experiencing a deep
financial crisis. This had been brought about by the combined effects of the economic transformation
(which drastically changed relative prices, particularly those of energy and raw materials), the domestic
recession and the loss of much of the traditional export markets to the East, following the dissolution of
the CMEA in 1991. The portfolio of the state-owned commercial banking sector (itself created only in
1989 from the split of the old socialist monobank) largely consisted of loans to SOEs, and as their
condition worsened, so did that of the banks' balance sheets. The systemic nature of the crisis (with
some 40 percent of the SOCBs loan portfolio considered non-performing, and thousands of enterprises
reporting losses) was such that, even under the best of circumstances, the normal "exit" mechanisms
(such as bankruptcy) prevalent in market economies would have been severely taxed. But in Poland such
mechanisms were extremely limited, having basically just been re-created after a hiatus of 45 years, and
being largely untested (no bankruptcies had taken place by 1993). It was also clear to the Polish
government that the potential social and economic consequences of inaction or. worse, misguided action,
could have been colossal: unemployment could have risen much further, the pressure to increase
government spending and subsidies could have become unresistable, macroeconomic stability could have
been compromised. In short, nothing less than the fate of the entire reform process was at stake.
The private sector contributed 53.5 percent of GDP and accounted for nearly 58 percent of employment in 1993. This
compares with estimates of 31 and 46 percent, respectively, in 1990.



-2 -
3.     Against this backdrop, it became clear to the Government of Poland that a decisive program of
action was necessary to: (i) provide a vehicle for a viable resolution of the systemic insolvency in the
SOEs and in the banking system, which would minimize avoidable economic costs, and would by-pass
the bottleneck of the judicial system; (ii) provide incentives for the banks to strengthen their portfolios,
improve their management and prepare them for privatization; and (iii) provide clear and limited
vehicles to ensure that the resolution of socially sensitive cases would be adequately funded in a
transparent but limited manner. The blueprint for a program to attain these objectives was developed by
the Polish Government during 1992 (the Enterprise and Bank Rehabilitation Program, EBRP), with the
help of consultations with the Bank and other partners in development. The EFSAL was the Bank's
financial vehicle to support the policy measures under the EBRP. Previous support to reform of SOEs
and banks had been provided under the Privatization and Restructuring Project (PRP) and the Financial
Institutions Development Loan (FIDL). However, these two projects had begun execution prior to the
emergence of the banking and enterprise crisis discussed above. In this sense the EFSAL represented a
path-breaking project into an uncharted territory, and was to be widely replicated in the Region, as
similar problems began to surface in other former socialist economies in transformation.
B.    Project Objectives and Benchmarks
4.     The EFSAL aimed to foster a microeconomic response to the new environment created by the
price and trade liberalization policies of the early 1990s, thus accelerating Poland's transition to a full-
fledged market economy. The project's key objectives were to: (i) improve the enterprise sector's
responsiveness and ongoing adaptation to market signals, and to facilitate the exit of nonviable
enterprises when unable to respond or adapt; and (ii) raise the level and quality of financial
intermediation through better credit allocation and enhanced bank capacity to impart and enforce
financial discipline on banks' enterprise debtors. To achieve these objectives, the project included three
core components: (i) an integrated attempt to deal simultaneously with the debt overhang of SOEs and
the portfolio problems faced by the State-owned commercial banking system, which accounted for about
one-third of banking system resources at the time; (ii) legislative reforms and institutional strengthening
intended to accelerate the pace of privatization for sound and potentially viable enterprises; and (iii)
improvements to the incentive system for commercial banks, including their up-front recapitalization and
privatization, the strengthening of prudential regulations, and enhanced banking supervision capacity.
5.    It should be noted that, at the insistence of the Government, the EFSAL program  was
circumscribed to dealing with the problems of the SOCBs, which represented less than 25 percent of total
banking sector assets. There was already a recognition of the fact that the portfolios of two of the largest
specialized banks, BGZ (the agricultural bank) and PKO-BP (the savings and mortgage bank) were in
severe trouble. It was however felt that these two banks could not be effectively dealt with under the
framework of the EBRP. On the one hand, the nature of their portfolio problems was qualitatively
different from that of the SOCBs. On the other hand, given the social and political difficulties likely to
be encountered in dealing with these very sensitive areas, it was feared, with good reason, that trying to
bite too large a problem might jeopardize progress on the entire banking front, including the SOCBs.



-3 -
6.      Specific performance benchmarks included:
i.  Bank-managed   Enterprise   Restructuring.   Resolution   of  about  2,000   problem
enterprises/debtor via bank-led conciliation agreements, bankruptcy/liquidation proceedings,
loan sales or other collection methods, or the return of the debtor to regular servicing; or by
debt-equity swaps, which Awould simultaneously restructure company debt, convert the
enterprise to joint stock status, and facilitate its privatization.
ii. Banks' Incentive Framework. Full, up-front, one-time, ZL 1.1 billion (US$750 million-
equivalent) recapitalization of the seven SOCBs expected to be privatized after 1993, giving
them capital equivalent to 12 percent of risk-weighted assets after provisioning for loan
losses based on the assessments of external auditors. Improved asset recovery (the proceeds
of which banks could keep) was expected, based on the activity of newly-established
Workout Departments, and incentive compensation schemes for employees and managers.2
The basis for action on enterprise restructuring and bank recapitalization was provided by the
Act on Financial Restructuring of Enterprises and Banks (EBRP Law) adopted by the
Parliament on February 3, 1993.
iii. Subsidiary Intervention Fund. Allocation of up to US$325 million from the EFSAL
counterpart funds to be used to handle the work-out of loss makers with high social
sensitivity. This support mechanism was to be used specifically when the viability of the
enterprise could be restored with a limited infusion of funds, or in those cases where political
and social considerations justified gradual closure rather than a rapid termination of
operations. The use of the Intervention Fund was conditioned on a series of criteria and
negative incentives intended to make the process transparent and limited in its cost to the
budget.3
iv. State Enterprise Reform. Substantial achievement of enterprise commercialization and
privatization targets, including virtually all 2,000 troubled SOEs undergoing debt
restructuring under the EBRP; additional privatization of 1,000-1,500 enterprises over a two-
year period was envisaged by Polish Government as a target, bringing the total number of
privatized enterprises to 2,500-3,000 by end 1994.4 Legislative amendments to the 1990
Law on Privatization to accelerate enterprise privatization, and launching of the Mass
Privatization Program were also expected by 1994.
2    Examples included the right of employees to purchase up to 20 percent of shares at a 50 percent discount, compensation
for management based on performance; and the organization of WODs as profit centers.
3   Negative incentives for enterprises included (i) one-time only budgetary support; (ii) acceptable restructuring plans
justifying the financing; (iii) commercialization of the enterprise; (iv) clarification of SOE rights to fixed assets; and (v)
evidence that funds provided by the Intervention Fund would not be used to pay off other debts. Later, the Bank and Polish
Government resolved that interest rates on loans would be at market rates. For banks, (i) budgetary resources could not be
used in conciliation proceedings unless the agreement was led by IDA; and (ii) to facilitate IDA's role in these
proceedings, a fraction of the budgetary resources managed by the Council of Ministers were made available to IDA to buy
banks' claims on enterprises in question.
4    The mining, steel, defense and energy sectors, which accounted for about 20 percent of industrial GDP in 1992, were
excluded from this strategy. Mining, steel and other heavy industries were to be dealt with in two separate Bank
operations-a coal mining adjustment loan, and a heavy industry restructuring project-- which did not materialize.
Approximately 250 enterprises in these sectors remain state-owned, accounting for a significant percentage of the
remaining value of state-owned enterprises.



-4-
v. Banking Privatization and Supervision. The Polish Government was expected to privatize
two of nine SOCBs by second tranche release, and to have made significant progress towards
privatization of the remaining SOCBs by third tranche. The Polish Bank Privatization Fund5
was created to serve as an incentive to bank privatization. Privatization was to proceed in
concert with regulatory changes and improvements in banking supervision. The plan to
strengthen bank supervision was based on a revised chart of accounts, improved reporting
for off-site surveillance, and intensive training and use of on-site inspections to more
actively determine banks' financial conditions and the level of systemic risk.
C. Achievement of Project Objectives
7.      With a few minor exceptions, the EFSAL is broadly acknowledged to have succeeded in Poland.
It contributed to improving incentives and to institutional development in the banking and enterprise
sectors. Commercial banks are now better managed and more competitive than in 1993, and banking
supervision promotes this through the enforcement of prudential regulations. Irrespective of ownership,
banks and enterprises exercise greater financial discipline than in the past. Government subsidies to
enterprises are now allocated in a more transparent manner based on stringent criteria. However, not all
targets have been met. Progress with state enterprise reform has been more sluggish than originally
anticipated. It has taken longer to privatize five commercial banks than originally thought.  Lax
enforcement of tax payments and social security requirements in the state sector has offset some of the
financial discipline imposed in recent years by bank and trade creditors. It is also now too early to assess
the extent of the benefits of the Intervention Fund for Poland relative to the costs. However, overall, the
project has been effective in achieving most of its targets.
i.  Bank-managed Enterprise Restructuring. The banks conducted 775 debt restructurings, which
accounted for 98 percent of the book value of the troubled SOE debt and about 40 percent of the
SOCBs' loan portfolios.6 These debts generally had nominal principal values of at least ZL I
billion (US$70,000), with the average being about US$10 million.' Enterprises which had
carried significant debts on their balance sheets generally repaid the banks (203 of 792 cases),
entered into conciliation agreements with banks (198 of 792 cases), or at least became current on
debt service (126 of 792 cases); these three forms of debt resolution accounted for nearly 80
percent of the bad debt values, and represented the greatest extent of financial restructuring at the
enterprise level.8 Operational restructuring included reorganization of product lines, divestiture
of extraneous units, layoffs of permanent staff, increased use (as needed) of sub-contractors and
5   The PBPF has nearly US$450 million available from 10 countries to service the Treasury bonds held by SOCBs for
purposes of their recapitalization. Service on the bonds can not begin until the bank is privatized.
6   Based on May 31, 1994 figures from the Ministry of Finance, a total of 775 debt restructurings had begun (ZL 15.7 billion,
or about US$7.6 billion), of which 93 had not been completed (ZL 910 million, or about US$439 million). An additional
17 remained to be started (ZL 61 million, or about US$29 million).
7   The Bank and authorities agreed that the banks would focus on the largest debts in their portfolios, thereby reducing the
target from 2,000 to 800 key debts to be restructured by the March 31, 1994 deadline; the balance of those left
unrestructured until later were of virtually no financial consequence to bank portfolios. Unrestructured debts were later
written off as of December 31, 1994.
8   Bank-led conciliations tended to be with the largest debtors. Other methods of bank-led restructuring included (i) 127
bankruptcies accounting for 10 percent of debt values; (ii) 94 loan sales accounting for 5.7 percent of debt values; and (iii)
44 liquidations accounting for less than 3 percent of debt values.



-5 -
part-time labor, improved cash management, and limitations on wage increases. While some of
the smaller and medium-sized firms that repaid or at least serviced their interest may not have
been in dire financial straits (despite having been delinquent prior to implementation of the
Law), the hard budget constraint imposed by banks generally provided incentives for the most
potentially viable SOEs (often the largest) to restructure to compete.9 In addition to debt
restructuring, most of the troubled SOEs have been commercialized or privatized.
8.     The project experienced mixed results with debt-equity swaps and loan sales. Debt-equity swaps
were used in about 60 conciliation cases, primarily by two SOCBs, accounting for about ZL I billion in
total, 7 percent of total debt restructuring through March 31, 1994 and about 15 percent of debt
restructuring via conciliation.'° Although there was a tax bias against debt-equity swaps, for the most
part, this did not appear to be a major factor in a bank's decision on how to deal with its bad loan
portfolio. Most of the banks decided that there was a higher expectation of repayment through debt
restructuring and therefore preferred this course of action.
9.      Loan sales occurred in only 47 cases (6 percent) and involved the restructuring of only ZL 0.9
billion (6 percent of value). Banks were reluctant to sell bad debt at the deep discounts needed to make a
market. Also, there was only limited secondary market demand for these assets during the period.'"
Banks recovered about 23 percent of principal and 12 percent of interest from loan sales, which were
viewed by banks as a fast, low-cost method preferable to bankruptcy. 12
ii. Banks' Incentive Framework. The ZL 1.1 billion (US$750 million-equivalent)
recapitalization of the seven SOCBs in September 1993 provided them with the financial
resources needed to write off the significant portion of debts that were unrecoverable, and to
discontinue the cycle of rolling over nonperforming loans and capitalizing interest due.
Among the seven SOCBs, classified loans dropped to 13.5 percent, compared with 35.1
percent at end 1993. (In the banking system as a whole, classified loans are down to 17.7
percent of total loans,'3 compared with 35.7 percent at the end of 1993.)
10.    Workout departments today continue to monitor for loan quality and comply with strict
guidelines imposed by NBP. Heads of WODs continue to sit on bank management boards, contributing
to banks' efforts to ensure financial discipline is upheld in the enterprise sector. All of this combined
with incentive compensation schemes have improved governance and operations at the banks. While
Polish banks themselves acknowledge they are not fully competitive by Western standards, they are
much closer today to being competitive by global standards than they were in 1993. Nevertheless, most
monitoring still appears to be quantitative in nature, and medium-term risk management capacity will
9   Restructuring via conciliation often indicated a bank's/branch's long-term interest in retaining a relationship with the
customer. Restructuring also involved major write-offs by banks, and in some cases loans were foregiven, effectively
releasing selected SOEs from much of their prior obligation.
10   According to NBP figures, as of December 31, 1996, the seven SOCBs had converted ZL 1.6 billion in principal and
interest into shares, and written off ZL 1.1 billion. Thus, the banks have continued to use debt-equity swaps as a tool for
enterprise restructuring (and investment).
I   Prospective buyers had the incentive of using debt purchases to offset existing debt held by the bank's debtors, or to use
these purchases for conversions into equity if they were interested in acquiring a debt-ridden firm.
12  See L. Pawlowicz, "Financial Restructuring of Enterprises and Banks," Gdansk Institute for Market Economics, 1994.
13  Figures from NBP as of September 30, 1996.



-6 -
need to be further developed at the banks (and at NBP) for qualitative approaches, particularly as banks
increase lending.
iii. Subsidiary Intervention Fund. The Intervention Fund, as of December 31. 1996, had fully
committed and disbursed US$125 million from the first tranche of the EFSAL.
Commitments and disbursements from the second tranche (totaling US$100 million) have
been much slower, with only about US$28 million disbursed by end-1996. It continues,
nevertheless, to use resources from the second tranche'4 and expects to be able to fully utilize
remaining balance. To date, a combined 92 firms'5 have benefited from loans and/or grants
from the Intervention Fund. Under the first tranche, the Council of Ministers approved the
allocation of ZL 282 million to 60 firms, or about ZL 4.7 million (about US$2.1 million) per
firm. These included 32 grants for social costs of plant closures and severance pay under
mass layoffs, and 33 loans, with grants and loans accounting for 6 and 94 percent of
disbursements, respectively.  Similarly, second tranche interventions, as of end 1996,
included 14 grants for redundancies and 22 loans, accounting for 8 and 92 percent of
disbursements, respectively. The impact of the Intervention Fund in supporting closures and
enterprise restructuring (via the financing the redundancy payments) was actually much
greater than the relatively small volume of grants.'6 Total allocations under the second
tranche are smaller than first tranche allocations, averaging ZL 3.1 million. This, along with
cancellation of the third tranche, indicates that most of the larger enterprises were dealt with
in the first tranche.
11.    Initial financial results of the Intervention Fund show that about four in five companies are
meeting their principal and interest obligations on schedule. By January 1997, one of the 31 borrowers
from the first tranche has gone into bankruptcy and five others are in default. For those, IDA has agreed
on additional restructuring measures with other creditors. Overall employment by borrowers (first and
second tranche) was 61,000. Layoffs among 46 enterprises that received grant financing approximated
23,800.
12.    IDA has generally administered the Intervention Fund according to the criteria intended. In most
cases, the impact appears to have been favorable, as restructuring plans have been implemented and
many of the smaller obligors have improved performance.'7  In some cases, claims to "social
importance" may have been questionable or the effects of restructuring may have been less favorable.
The Intervention Fund has generally been instrumental in (a) leveraging debt restructuring by the other
creditors, or (b) providing limited but needed new working capital as a catalyst for enterprise turnaround
by working with banks to restructure company finances, or by directly providing the working capital to
the enterprises. In some of the very large cases, IDA has not been successful in turning these companies
around, largely because other Ministries (as founding shareholders) have not provided sufficient support
'4  IDA showed an additional ZL 195.4 million (about US$65 million at January 31, 1997 exchange rates) to be utilized.
5   By December 31, 1996, 32 allocations had been approved under the second tranche out of 81 applications. In the first
tranche, 60 allocations were approved from about 183 applications.
6   The amounts paid by the Intervention Fund are also small because, in some cases, the Social Fund has also contributed to
redundancy payments.
"7  In some cases (this is relevant as well for bank portfolios), a buoyant economy has probably kept some of companies
afloat, and any future economic downturn might return the more vulnerable companies to more troubled status. However,
most companies are performing better as a result of their restructuring.



-7 -
for IDA's efforts to restructure these companies to be competitive (e.g., through asset sales, divestitures).
Although several years are generally needed to confirm the effects of restructuring programs, the
restructuring and subsequent privatization of the initial borrowers under the first tranche indicate the first
measures of success. Full evaluation of the operations of the Intervention Fund will be possible once an
effective system of monitoring of enterprise restructuring programs is put in place by IDA and after the
concerned enterprises have met their obdigations towards IDA. Currently, 24 of 33 borrowers under the
first tranche are profitable. IDA and the Polish Government have introduced a process by which eligible
enterprises need to pursue sound restructuring programs to receive loans or grants. That about two-thirds
of applications have been rejected suggests that the relevant institutions have been selective in applying
eligibility criteria, and that this has contained some of the potential waste that could have been incurred
in the process. Cancellation of the third tranche also suggests that the Government is applying some
measure of financial discipline in the process.
iv. State Enterprise Reform. The privatization process has been slow to gradual in Poland. The
EFSAL included a second tranche condition to enact amendments to the 1990 Law on
Privatization to accelerate the pace of enterprise privatization. This condition was waived
and made a condition of third tranche release because second tranche privatization targets
had been met, and because the Bank was satisfied the government would move ahead and
introduce new privatization legislation to Parliament.'8
13.    Privatization  results are roughly consistent with  EFSAL  targets, which  anticipated  the
privatization of at least 3,200 enterprises by third tranche (originally expected by June 30, 1994). As of
September 30, 1996, Poland had effectively privatized 3,406 SOEs in accordance with the 1990 Law on
Privatization, including 2,714 "direct" privatizations, 512 companies managed by National Investment
Funds under the Mass Privatization Program, and 180 "capital" transactions. In addition, there have been
367 conversions (commercializations) of enterprises to joint-stock status still awaiting privatization, and
1,011 court-controlled bankruptcies. Another 1,667 agricultural units went to a special program for
privatization, leasing or liquidation. Although the EFSAL targets were met, the approach to privatization
has remained gradual because (a) provisions from the 1990 Law on Privatization requiring consent of
SOE employees to privatization were not amended until late 1996, (b) in its initial phase, privatization
encountered complex legal, social and administrative obstacles which slowed the pace of progress, and;
(c) successive governments have focused on proceeds from privatization as part of the revenue-
generating process for the budget, which the authorities have preferred to spread over time. Poland has
followed a wide range of privatization tracks and options, with emphasis on the quality and
consequences of the privatization process. While this has not resulted in rapid privatization, it has
contributed to increasing acceptance of privatization by the public.
v. Banking Privatization and Supervision. The Government privatized two of nine SOCBs by
second tranche, and two others have been privatized since."9 The Polish banking sector is
increasingly controlled by the private sector, although private ownership is not yet in the
18  New legislation on commercialization and privatization was subsequently adopted by Parliament in January 1996. but
returned by the Constitutional Tribunal in mid-1996 as unconstitutional. A new Law on Privatization was subsequently
passed in late 1996, and will be effective in 1997.
19  The four are Bank Wielkopolski, Bank Slaski, Bank Przemyslowo Handlowy and Bank Gdanski. Together. they accounted
for ZL 21.7 billion (US$8.8 billion) in assets, about 13 percent of the total assets of the banking system as of December 31,
1995.



-8 -
majority in terms of banking system resources.20 Five SOCBs remain 100-percent owned by
the state. While all five are widely regarded as far more stable, competitive and privatizable
now,2' their privatization has not proceeded as quickly as originally thought. This is
primarily because MoF officials took a more deliberate approach to bank privatization after
the privatization of Bank Slaski, including an intensive review process linked to the use of
investment houses in the preparation of prospectuses and marketing efforts to encourage
transactions.
14.    While bank privatization has been slower than originally hoped, good progress has been
achieved on the supervision front. Under the EFSAL, a program to strengthen on-site inspection and off-
site surveillance, train personnel, develop a new chart of accounts and improve the regulatory framework
has been broadly acknowledged as a major success. Such progress and institutional development has
contributed to improved management and governance at banks, and this should facilitate the privatization
of the remaining SOCBs. In the coming years, it is expected that: banks will increase lending as a
percentage of total assets; there will be a willingness by banks over time to lend more on a medium- and
long-term basis; lending to potentially risky clients at higher rates will occur; and there will be a gradual
increase in unsecured lending as banks' credit risk evaluation skills increase and there is greater access to
information.22 NBP will need to adapt its risk management skills to these portfolio trends. Furthermore,
the growing attraction of derivatives and foreign exchange trading for financial institutions will require
increased coordination with foreign regulatory and supervisory authorities, and improved early warning
systems.
D.      Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.    Implementation Record.  The EFSAL was designed as a three-tranche operation of US$450
million, of which US$100 million was set aside for official debt reduction. The project was originally
expected to be effective in June 1993. Delays in project effectiveness (January 4, 1994) resulted
primarily from legal complications, on the Borrower's side, in issuing the Legal Opinion. First tranche
funds of US$125 million were released on June 6, 1994, about 12 months after the originally planned
first tranche date. (The US$100 million DDSR set-aside was released in November 1994.) Second
tranche release of US$100 million occurred on March 20, 1996, 27 months after the originally planned
date. Delays in second tranche release were primarily due to government changes and concerns about
the impact of privatization and market reforms on incomes and employment. The Government met most
of the conditions for second tranche release,23 with the major exception being the failure to enact
20   Poland's 54 private banks accounted for 28 percent of banking system assets, 33 percent of loans, 24 percent of deposits
and 38 percent of Tier I capital as of September 30, 1996. At the end of 1993, 58 private banks accounted for 13 percent
of assets, 14 percent of loans, 1 1 percent of deposits and 26 percent of Tier I capital.
21   PBK-Warsaw is likely to be privatized in 1997. PKO SA Group, which includes BDK (Lublin). PBG (Lodz) and PBK
(Szczecin), expects to be privatized in 1998. Bank Zachodni (Wroclaw) is also expected to be privatized during this time
frame.
22  Poland is currently in the process of developing systems for regular credit reports that will be available to all banks.
Combined with work on property registries, banks are expected to have far better and greater amounts of information in
the coming years to factor into their credit decisions. This will provide some of the impetus for increased lending on an
unsecured basis.
23   Particular progress was evident in the banking sector, with nearly 800 bank-led resolutions completed by the first half of
1994, a significant reduction in classified loans, and rapid institutional development of banking supervision at the National
Bank.



- 9 -
amendments to the 1990 Law on Privatization curtailing the right of employees to reject (and, therefore,
slow down) privatization plans. This condition was waived because quantitative privatization targets had
been met, and on the condition that the Government would introduce new legislation overhauling the
1990 Law-which it did in 1995, although it was subsequently rejected by the Constitutional Court-as a
condition of third tranche release. The originally planned date of third tranche release was June 30, 1994.
The Government had generally met conditions for release of this tranche,24 although  new privatization
legislation was not yet effective. However, because of the overall improvement in the economy and
Poland's public finances, the Government did not require the additional financing from the EFSAL. The
third tranche of US$125 million was consequently canceled on June 30, 1996 at the request of the
Government.
16.    Major Factors  Affecting  the  Project.    The  major positive factors  affecting  project
implementation were: (i) the continued commitment of the Ministry of Finance to improved bank
governance and management to make banks more competitive (and privatizable): (ii) general
improvement in the economy, which provided greater employment, trade and investment opportunities at
a time when pressure for greater budgetary outlays to subsidize troubled SOEs could have increased and
enterprise privatization could have fallen further behind schedule; and (iii) the professionalism of NBP
staff and complementarity of donor assistance in building up banking supervision. The major negative
factors affecting project implementation were (i) the frequent changes of government personnel involved
in project monitoring and supervision, and concerns in some quarters of the Government and the work
force of the short-term effects of enterprise privatization on employment and incomes; and (ii) at least
for an interim period, some political resistance to foreign investment in the banking sector following the
privatization of Bank Slaski.25 By and large, the EFSAL was successful largely because the positive
factors heavily outweighed the negative ones.
E.      Project Sustainability
17.    The impact of the achievements under the EFSAL is already visible and indications are that the
reforms introduced will be sustained. For example, the financial and enterprise sectors have improved
governance and management, better financial returns, and greater financial discipline; the banking sector
is increasingly competitive; and Poland is experiencing rising levels of financial intermediation. The
next major economic challenge is to bring incomes in Poland closer to those of EU member states. To do
that, Poland is expected to stay on track with its overall reform program. Increasing integration with
Western capital markets and political institutions should reinforce this direction.
F.      Bank Performance
4   Conditions for third tranche release would have involved (i) special audits of the results of the bank-led conciliation
agreements to conform to EFSAL monitoring and enforcement conditions: (ii) an external audit of Intervention Fund
operations as part of a comprehensive review to determine its future direction; (iii) significant progress towards
privatization of remaining SOCBs. including those linked to consolidation schemes: and (iv) implementation of the Mass
Privatization Program, and accelerated privatization in the enterprise sector. None of these conditions was viewed as a
reason for canceling the third tranche.
25   When Bank Slaski shares were put on the market, their price jumped. The Ministry of Finance was henceforth criticized in
some quarters as having undervalued the shares before going public. This prompted MoF officials to be more cautious in
selecting investment advisors and establishing the terms of reference for their contracts regarding subsequent bank
privatizations. This caused further delays. contributing to a slowdown in the process.



- 10-
18.    IBRD  performance reflected: (i) responsiveness to government needs during a challenging
period in which there was significant turnover in the Government; (ii) a constructive role in
strengthening project design, particularly with regard to bank-led restructuring; (iii) a high level of
effective donor coordination; and (iv) a strong supervision impact through 1996. By design, the EFSAL
was structured to follow a demand-driven approach in support of the Government's Enterprise and Bank
Restructuring Program. EBRP called for a quasi-decentralized approach to debt restructuring (bank-led,
with MoF exercising governance in SOCBs) which the Bank helped to refine and develop. This was an
innovative approach for the Bank and for transition economies and, through its involvement, the Bank
was effective in strengthening the original design provided by the authorities. Project implementation
was also effective due to the high level of coordination among various donors in bank resolution efforts,
enterprise restructuring, and banking supervision.2' With regard to ongoing monitoring and evaluation,
the Bank's supervision missions and frequent communication through the Warsaw office allowed the
project to stay on course.
G.     Borrower Performance
19.    Government performance was generally favorable with regard to the design and implementation
of the EFSAL. The Government was effective in carrying out significant legislative, financial and
institutional preparation prior to project effectiveness. To ensure EFSAL financing and support, the
Government: (i) passed the enabling legislation (the EBRP Law, an associated Decree, and a second
decree related to the Intervention Fund); (ii) recapitalized the banks up front in September 1993; and (iii)
established the institutional mechanisms needed to successfully implement the project (e.g., senior MoF
officials on bank supervisory boards; a bank monitoring unit in the MoF: and a Permanent Team  in
charge of preparing the Council of Ministers' decisions to use or not use resources from the Intervention
Fund). The project's results were more modest in the area of enterprise privatization. Supervision
missions documented concerns from the Ministry of Privatization about the restructuring efforts (via
debt-equity swaps) led by banks in conciliation proceedings. Much of this was rooted in MoP concerns
that the banks' incentives to restructure loan portfolios and strengthen their financial positions would
lead to "unnecessary" unemployment and divestitures. There has been significant support in MoP for: (i)
a gradual approach to privatization rather than an emphasis on speed, based on an attempt to maximize
proceeds from privatization sales and the necessity to deal with the complex legal, social and
administrative obstacles encountered in the initial phases of privatization; and (ii) continued focus on
employee consent on privatization decisions, often times based on incentives that would maintain higher
cost structures and reduce the potential competitiveness and efficiency of the enterprise. Nevertheless, a
wide range of privatization tracks and options was followed with emphasis on the quality and
consequences of the privatization process, and the same MoP commercialized about 600 enterprises and
privatized about 1,700 enterprises during the EFSAL process and finally launched the MPP.
H.     Assessment of Outcome
20.    With a few minor exceptions, the project achieved its objectives. The banking sector is now
characterized by increasing competition. narrowing real spreads (at least with blue-chip customers),
stronger balance sheets, and better prospects for competitiveness.22 Bank earnings have been strong in
26  Some of the more prominent donors in these areas were EU-Phare. USAID and UK Know-How Fund in the provision of
technical assistance, and EBRD as an investor in banks.
27  Such institutional strengthening resulting from Bank projects in the banking sector has emanated from both the FIDL and
the EFSAL.



- 11 -
recent years, and capital is now sufficiently strong to allow for significant asset growth. Under the
EFSAL, about half of classified debt among the seven commercial banks was restructured via bank-led
conciliation, and an additional 30 percent returned to service. The privatizations of four SOCBs were
achieved, remaining SOCBs are now considered more competitive than before, and there is greater
strategic investor interest in the market than found in 1993-94, including from foreign financial interests.
Banking supervision objectives were generally achieved ahead of schedule. Thus, the project is widely
viewed as having contributed to rising levels and quality offinancial intermediationi.
21.    As discussed, the EBRP and the EFSAL did not target the problems of the large troubled
specialized banks. Although some of the lessons learned from the execution of the EFSAL have been
applied to these banks as well, progress on the front of their restructuring and privatization has been
relatively disappointing, with large cost to the taxpayers and an as-yet unclear horizon for privatization.
In hindsight, this would seem to vindicate the position of the Polish Government. which opposed dealing
with BGZ and PKO-BP in the framework of the EBRP. Nevertheless, the very limited progress here
should be of major concern for the policy agenda over the next few years, particularly as the obligations
connected to the European Union accession are likely to increase the competitive pressure on these
banks.
22.    In the enterprise sector, the Bank's approach provided an alternative to many calls in Poland at
the time to provide a soft budget constraint to help restore production and jobs in the state-owned
industrial sector without regard to efficiency and competitiveness standards. Hard budget constraints and
financial discipline have been applied to most loss-making enterprises, and many have gone out of
business or are on the verge of doing so. With significant absorptive capacity in the private sector, the
more feared consequences of privatization (e.g., layoffs) have partly diminished.)8 Meanwhile, the Bank
effectively worked with IDA to refine criteria for loan terms and conditions from the Intervention Fund,
and when IDA contemplated the use of subsidized interest rates (about the time banks were beginning to
think about increasing lending flows). In general, the project has contributed to the enterprise sector's
improved responsiveness and adaptation to market signals, and at least to the hard budget constraints
imposed on nonviable enterprises.
23.    Finally, although the third tranche of US$125 million was canceled in 1996, this partly reflects
the Government's improved fiscal position and general growth of the economy.  The EFSAL's
contribution was primarily in the field of institution-building, and in helping Poland to further restore
creditworthiness in international markets with structural adjustment and debt reduction. The DDSR
made a tangible contribution to the latter, while reforms in the banking and enterprise sector have
contributed to Poland's economic competitiveness. By June 30, 1996, the Polish Government felt it did
not need to borrow under the third tranche.
I.     Future Operations
24.    Based on the success of reforms in Poland, the Bank's program  of continued support should
address structural weaknesses and other risks that threaten to reverse progress made over the last few
years. Specific structural weaknesses were earlier identified as: (i) a significant number of industrial
28  This does not mean that Poland can now reduce its official unemployment level from 14 percent to single-digit levels, as
many people lack the skills to adapt to a modern. markct-based economx, and many regions still lag Poland's more
dynamic economic regions. Nevertheless, official unemployment is interpreted as those officially receiving unemplo\ meni
benefits: these benefits are often supplemented with income derived from informal sources. reflecting much of the ongoing
private sector activity in Poland's booming economy and a defacto lower real rate of unemplovment.



- 12 -
SOEs which are in dire need of privatization; and (ii) underdeveloped financial markets. To assist with
SOE privatization, the Bank can assist with environmental clean-up, provide social support, and
generally provide incentives to private investors (and Government) to accelerate privatization. With
regard to the financial sector, the Bank can provide needed policy guidance. This is particularly true in
helping to resolve the burdensome problems of some specialized banks, strengthening capital markets,
and introducing judicial reform.
J.     Key Lessons Learned
25.    The Poland EFSAL supported an innovative approach to tackling the problem of unprofitable
state-owned enterprises and deteriorating bank portfolios in transition economies. This operation
recognized the impact on the enterprises and banks of the radical change in the incentive framework and
tried to address the interrelated problems of the enterprise and banking sectors in an integrated way. This
innovative approach has led to similar operations in other countries. Some key lessons from the design
and implementation process are summarized below.
i. Importance of Up-front Establishment of Enabling Legislation. In Poland, successful project
implementation is often based on the need for actions whose legitimacy is legally conferred.
The EBRP Law was passed, and this contributed to the effectiveness of debt restructuring
efforts and strong governance role played by MoF. Conversely, amendments to the 1990 Law
on Privatization and subsequent legislation were never enacted during the EFSAL, and this
contributed to the slower pace of privatization in the enterprise sector.
ii. Importance of Donor Coordination and Responsible Use of TA for Successful Implementation
and Institution-Building. The EFSAL benefited significantly from donor coordination and the
provision of TA in the banking and enterprise sectors. The effectiveness of TA has been
partly due to complementarity (little evidence of redundancy) and ongoing commitments
based on client needs (e.g., banking supervision).  The client has also been active in
determining TA needs (e.g., bank audits, restructuring plans for enterprises), helping to
provide value and to transfer skills in the process.
iii. The Importance of Institutional Capacity for Successful Project Monitoring and Evaluation.
The project might have benefited from enhanced institutional capacity to monitor project
performance.  Such capacity might also have had the practical effect of mitigating
implementation problems, and, in the end, reducing project implementation costs.



- 13 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN 3599-POL
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:       Summary of Assessment
Table 2:       Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:       Project Timetable
Table 4:       Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:       Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:       Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:       Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:      Project Costs
Table 8B:      Project Financing
Table 9:       conomic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:      Bank Resources: Missions



-14-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial   Partial        Negligible     Not applicable
Macro policies                           0            0                E]             0
Sector policies                 i                     0                0              El
Financial objectives                     El           0                El             El
Institutional Development                0            El               El             El
Physical objectives                      Ol           E                El             0
Poverty reduction                        El           0 E0                            El
Gender issues                             l           E                E              0
Other social objectives                               E                El             0
Environmental objectives                 El           El               El             0
Public sector management                 0            0                E              E
Private sector development               0            El                              El
Other (specify)                          E            El               0 El
B. Project Sustainability              Likely               Unlikely              Uncertain
0                     E                      E 0
C. Bank Performance              Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                           0                     El                     El
Preparation assistance                   0l                    0                      0
Appraisal                                0                     El                     El
Supervision                              E]                    0                      0
D. Borrower Performance          Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                              0E 0El
Implementation                           0El                   0E
Covenant compliance                      C]                    0                      E
Operation (if applicable)                El                    E                      El
E. Assessment of Outcome   Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory Highly Unsatisfactory
0            El              El             El



- 15 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title     Purpose                Year of approval       Status
Structural            To support Polish       1991                  Disbursed
Adjustment Loan       Government efforts to
stabilize the economy,
to implement structural
reforms to establish a
market economy, and to
restore Poland's
creditworthiness in
international markets
Financial Institutions   To foster the        1991                  Partly Disbursed
Development Loan      development of
independent, mostly
private, market-oriented
banks providing general
banking services to the
economy, and able to
mobilize savings,
evaluate risk, and
efficiently allocate
resources to
investments with the
highest returns
Privatization and      To support Polish      1991                  Partly Disbursed
Restructuring Loan    Government in
developing and
implementing a large-
scale enterprise
privatization program,
and restructuring a
major share of the
industrial sector
Private Enterprise    To strengthen private    1992                 Closed
Development Loan      sector development and
support the creation of
new, efficient private
enterprises



- 16-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                     Date Planned          Date Actual
Identification (Concept Review)                                  January 20, 1991
Preparation                                                      June 26, 1992
Decision Meeting                                                 September23, 1992
Appraisal                                                        October 28., 1992
Negotiations                                                     January 19, 1993
Letter of Development Policy                                     April 8, 1993
Board Presentation                                               May 4, 1993
Signing                                                          October 11, 1993
Effectiveness                              June 1993             January 4, 1994
First Tranche Release                      June 30, 1993         June 6, 1994  -
DDSR Set-Aside                              1994                 November, 1994
Second Tranche Release                     December 31, 1993     March 20, 1996
Third Tranche Release                      June 30, 1994         NA
Loan Closing                               June 30, 1995         June 30, 1996
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY'93  FY'94  FY'95                 FY'96
Appraisal estimate              0   325.00   450.00             450.00
Actual                          0    75.66   224.96             324.39
Actual as % of estimate          -    23.3    50.0                72.1
Date of final disbursement                              March 20, 1996



- 17 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated*                      Actual**
Enterprise Reform
Ownership Function        Assign ownership rights on SOEs  Not achieved (waived for 2nd
to relevant Government agencies  tranche release)
by 12/93 (2nd tranche)
Privatization             Substantial achievement of     Generally achieved, although
targets set under the Privatization  significant number of industrial
Sub-program, including large-    enterprises of economic
scale privatization scheme    importance remain state-owned
Commercialization         Implementation of legal reforms,  Partly achieved, although the
including enactment of        amendments to the Law on
amendments to the Law on       Privatization were never adopted
Privatization, and substantial  during the EFSAL; this condition
achievement of targets agreed for  was waived prior to 2nd tranche
commercialization of SOEs     release because of the Polish
Government's intention to submit
new legislation to Parliament,
which it did.
Implementation of Ministry of    Achieved according to plan
Privatization staffing plan.
Enterprise Restructuring
Bank-managed   Enterprise  Satisfactory performance,     Achieved on the whole, although
Restructurings            monitoring and enforcement of    questions about bank monitoring
conciliation agreements by    of enterprise use of loan proceeds
SOCBs in accordance with      were raised during the course of
EBRP Law and Decree           the project
Implementation of agreed      Achieved as required
measures with specialized banks
Monitoring by Ministry of Comprehensive assessments of    Achieved
Finance                   SOCB portfolios and financial
condition as of 9/93, and findings
from 12/93 external audits of
participating SOCBs utilized for
comprehensive program review
and recommendations on further
policy actions and
implementation steps
SOCBs'        Institutional  Continued progress towards  Achieved
Capabilities              increasing the capabilities of
SOCBs' workout departments



- 18-
Government Interventions
Funding                   Agreement by Polish           Achieved
Government and Bank on FY93-
94 budgetary appropriations for
fiAancial support of special SOEs
Procedures and Monitoring   Implementation, monitoring and   Achieved, with modifications to
review (if needed) of financial    made prior to 2nd tranche release
support to special SOEs as per    to account for smaller companies
the Intervention Decree       with differing debt profiles and
restructuring objectives from ISt
tranche firms
Role of IDA               Implementation of IDA's       Achieved
organization and staffing plan
Bank Reform
Governance/Incentives   of  Issuance of Government bonds to  Achieved
the SOCBs                 recapitalize SOCBs, and timely
servicing of bonds
Medium-term  Strategy for  Agreement on a timetable for  Partly achieved; 4 banks were
Banking System            privatization of nine SOCBs, and  privatized by end 1995, but 5
progress toward implementation   remain state-owned
of that timetable
Bank Supervision
Use of External Auditors  Substantial achievement of Bank  Achieved
Supervision Sub-program
objectives
Inspection Manual         Preparation of modules and    Achieved
provision of training for NBP
staff
Off-site Supervision      Core group of analysts trained  Achieved
Plan of Accounts          Adopt changes based on        Achieved
assistance provided by IMF
Training                  Execution of training program  Achieved
for NBP supervisory staff
* December 1993 and June 1994 were expected to be second and third tranche release dates
** Second tranche was actually released on March 20, 1996, and the project was closed prior to third
tranche release



- 19-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Not Applicable
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Item                         Local  Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD                           0       450      450           0       325      325
TOTAL                          0       450      450           0       325      325
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Item                         Local  Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total
1. IBRD                        0       450      450          0       325       325
TOTAL                          0       450      450           0       325      325
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



- 20 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
POLAND
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCLAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Covenant  Present Original      Revised    Description of Covenant                    Comments
Agreement   Section   Type       Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
3.02 (b)  05        C                                Prior to each such exchange of reviews, the  None
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its
review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
3.03     05         C                                Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,  None
procurement of the goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.04 (a)  01        CP      6/30/96                  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be  None
maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices, the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
3.04 (b)  01        CP                               The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and    None
account referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
3.04 (b)  01        CP                               (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as possible, but None
in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
3.04 (b)  01        CP                               (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information  None
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
3.04 (c)  01        CP                               For all expenditures with respect to which  None
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made
on the basis of statements of expenditures, the
Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a)
of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
3.04 (c)  01                                         (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank  Final audit due
has received the audit report for the fiscal year  6/30/97
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
3.04 (c)  01                                         (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to  Final audit due
examine such records; and                 6/30/97
3.04 (c)  01        CP                               (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are   None
included in the annual audits and that the report



- 21 -
Covenant  Present Original     Revised    Description of Covenant                    Comments
Agreement   Section   Type      Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
of such audit contains a separate opinion by
said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation. can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
3.05     13        C                                The Borrower shall: (I) submit a plan for the    None
reduction of its payments of principal, interest
and other charges under loans from non-official
external creditors; and
3.05     13        C                                (ii) if in the exclusive opinion of the Bank such  None
plan meets the requirements for Bank support
of debt reduction operations, the Borrower and
the Bank shall seek to conclude an agreement
(the implementation Agreement) providing for
the use of the portion of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated to Category (2) in the table of
Schedule I to this Agreement in the execution
of the plan.
Sched.5, 12        C                                Adequate progress in the execution of the  None
para. I                                             EBRP Sub-program as provided in the EBRP
Law, the EBRP Decree and the Intervention
Decree, including substantial compliance by
the SOCBs and IDA with the obligations and
deadlines therein set forth and appropriate
monitoring of the SOCBs' execution of the
EBRP Sub-program by the Monitoring Unit.
Sched.5, 11        C                                The Recapitalization Bonds have been issued   None
para. 2                                             and delivered to the SOCBs in an aggregate
amount and on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank.
Sched.5, 12        C                                Adequate progress in increasing the capabilities None
para. 3                                             of WODs by SOCBs.
Sched.5, 11        C                                The Borrower and the Bank shall have agreed   None
para. 4                                             on the amount of appropriations for providing
financial support to Special SOEs under the
draft budget for fiscal year 1994.
Sched.5, 12        CD                               Progress in the execution of the Privatization    None
para. 5                                             Sub-program, as measured by privatization
targets therein set forth.
Sched.5, 12        NC                               The Privatization Law has been amended to  Condition
para. 6                                             facilitate the carrying out of the Privatization    waived. 3
Sub-program.                              tranche
condition.
3.02 (a)  01       C                                The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to   None
time, at the request of either party, exchange
views on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program and the actions specified in
Schedules 5 and 6 to this Agreement.
Sched.5, 12        NC                               The Borrower has formally assigned ownership  Condition
para. 8                                             of SOEs to the relevant Government agencies.  waived. 3
tranche
condition.
Sched.5, 12        C                                The MOP 1993 Program of Organizational and  None
para. 9                                             Staffing Strengthening has been carried out and



- 22 -
Covenant  Present Original     Revised    Description of Covenant                   Comments
Agreement  Section   Type       Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
the Borrower and the Bank have agreed on a
program of organizational and staffing
strengthening to be carried out by MOP in
1994.
Sched.5, 12        C                               The Borrower has developed a medium-term    None
para. 10                                           program aimed at the privatization of the
banking system, including targets to attain its
objectives.
Sched.5. 12        C                               Adequate progress in the execution of the Bank None
para. 11                                           Supervision Sub-program by NBP.
Sched.5, 12        CD                              Enactment of the Law on the creation of   None
para. 7                                            National Investment Funds and their
privatization.
Sched.5, 12        C                               The Borrower has implemented measures     None
para. 14                                           ensuring that the Specialized Banks will not
cause disruptions in the execution of the EBRP
Sub-program.
Sched 5, 12        C                               The Borrower has provided financial assistance None
para. 12                                           to Special SOEs under the EBRP Sub-program
in accordance with the 1993 Budget Law, and
the Intervention Decree.
Sched 5, 12        C                               Adequate progress in the execution of the IDA   None
para. 13                                           Program of Organizational and Staffing
Strengthening-Phase 1, and the Borrower and
the Bank have agreed on a second phase of
such program to be carried out by IDA in 1994.
Sched 6, 11        C                               Timely compliance by the Borrower of its  None
para. 2                                            obligations to service the Recapitalization
Bonds.
Sched 6, 12        CP                              Adequate progress in the execution of the  None
para. I                                            EBRP Sub-program as provided in the EBRP
Law, the EBRP Decree and the Intervention
Decree, including substantial compliance by
the SOCBs and IDA with the obligations and
deadlines therein set forth and appropriate
monitoring of the SOCBs' execution of the
EBRP Sub-program by the Monitoring Unit.
Sched 6, 11        C                               The Borrower's Budget Law for fiscal year  None
para. 3                                             1994 has been enacted, including
appropriations, in amounts satisfactory to the
Bank, for providing assistance to Special SOEs
under the EBRP Sub-program.
Sched 6, 12        CP                              The Borrower has provided financial assistance None
para. 4                                            to Special SOEs under the EBRP Sub-program
in accordance with the Borrower's 1994
Budget law, and the Intervention Decree.
Sched 6, 12        CD                              Progress in the execution of the Privatization    None
para. 5                                            Sub-program, as measured by the privatization
targets therein set forth.
Sched 6, 12        CP                              Progress in the execution of the Banking  None
para. 6                                            System Transformation Sub-program and
particularly in the privatization of SOCBs.
Sched 6, 12        C                               NBP shall have carried out the Bank       None
para. 7                                            Supervision Sub-program in accordance with
its terms.



- 23 -
Covenant  Present Original      Revised    Description of Covenant                    Comments
Agreement   Section   Type       Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
Sched 6, 12         CP                               Of those SOEs that have concluded          None
para. 8                                              conciliation procedures pursuant to the EBRP
Law about 70 percent have been converted into
joint stock companies and about 30 percent of
such SOEs have been either privatized or the
share of the Borrower's Treasury in their
capital stock has been reduced to less than 50
percent.
Sched 6, 12         CP                               Adequate progress in the execution of the MOP None
para. 9                                              1994 Program of Organizational and Staffing
Strengthening.
Sched 6, 12         C                                Adequate progress in the execution of the IDA   None
para. 10                                             Program of Organizational and Staffing
Strengthening-Phase 11.
Sched 6, 11         C                                The MOF shall have contracted for full     None
para. 11                                             portfolio and financial audits of the SOCBs as
of December 31, 1993, and assessments of the
performance of the SOCBs of their obligations
under the EBRP Law and the EBRP Decree,
and shall have fumished to the Bank copies of
such audits and assessments, with the exception
of the portfolio and financial audits of SOCBs
selected by the MOF for privatization in 1994.
Covenant types:                                                                             Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                               8. = Indigenous people                  C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from   9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD  complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                      10. = Project implementation not covered  CP  complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds         by categories 1-9                        NC  not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                           11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  or other resource allocation
agency                                             12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                       regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                      13. = Other



- 24 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not Applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                  Revised                     Actual
Stage of Project Cycle    Weeks      US$        Weeks        US$             Weeks       US$
Preparation to appraisal                                                      88.8     253,700
Appraisal                                                                     22.5      65,100
Negotiations through Board                                                    48.9      155,200
approval
Supervision                                                                  223.9     697,200
Completion                  9.0      46.5
TOTAL              267.6    826.6



- 25 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project cycle      Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'       Performance Ratin&-       Types of
Year   Persons  Field                         Implem.   Developm.  Problems3
status     objectives
Identification               3/91      6       96           E,F
Identification              12/91      4       40           E,F
Pre-Appraisal                6/92      9       180          E,F
Appraisal                   10/92       7      70           E,F
Supervision                  6/93      4       44           E,F              I             1          M/T
Supervision                  2/94      3       36           E,F              I             I          M/T
Supervision                  2/95      3       27           E,F              I             I          M/T
Completion                   1/97       1       15           F
Total                                  508
1 - Key to Specialized staff skills:     2 - Key to Performance Ratings:       3 - Key to Types of Problems:
etc.                                             etc.                                 etc.



IMAGING
Report No.:        16743
Type:     ICR



