                          PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                   APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                          4/4/2011
                                                                              Report No.: AB6505
Operation Name                          TAJIKISTAN PDPG 5
Region                                  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Country                                 Tajikistan
Sector                                  Primary education (25%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry
                                        sector (25%); Aviation (24%);General finance sector (14%);Public
                                        administration- Information and communications (12%)
Operation ID                            P120445
Lending Instrument                      Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)
Implementing Agency
                                        Ministry of Finance
                                        Ag Street 3
                                        Dushanbe
                                        Tajikistan
                                        Tel: (992-372) 211-417 Fax: (992-372) 221-3329
                                        minfin@tojikiston.com
Date PID Prepared                       April 4, 2011
Estimated Date of Appraisal             April 11, 2011
Estimated Date of Board Approval        June 7, 2011
Corporate Review Decision               Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to proceed
                                        with the preparation of the operation.

I.      Country and Sector Background
Tajikistan’s economy grew at an average of 8.6 percent per year during 2000-2008, but was adversely
impacted by the 2008-09 global economic recession. Strong growth during the earlier period was made
possible by five main factors: peace agreement that permitted businesses and households to return to
normal economic activity; stabilization dividend from the Government’s success in stabilizing the
economy; growing global and regional economy that led to rising aluminum and cotton export receipts
and remittances; rising inflows of donor assistance, including from the international financial institutions;
and reforms that permitted businesses and households to take advantage of emerging opportunities.
Tajikistan was impacted by the global economic crisis through a decline in remittances and exports.
Remittances fell from US$2.3 billion in 2008 (nearly 47 percent of GDP) to US$1.6 billion in 2009, while
total export receipts dropped by almost 13 percent due to lower international prices of cotton and
aluminum. The financial sector was also adversely affected by the drop in remittances and exports. The
Government pursued a two-pronged strategy in response to the growth slowdown by increasing public
spending and facilitating external adjustment. Development partners provided increased external
assistance to Tajikistan in 2009, which helped the government maintain expenditures on health,
education, and social assistance. While affected by the global economic downturn, Tajikistan’s economic
growth of 3.9 percent in 2009 was better than most other countries in the region.

II.     Operation Objectives
The PDPG4-6 programmatic development policy grants are central to the World Bank’s FY10-FY13
Tajikistan Country Partnership Strategy, and support its two main objectives to: (a) mitigate the negative
impact of the crisis on poverty and vulnerability in Tajikistan, and (b) pave the way for post-crisis
recovery and sustained growth.
III.     Rationale for Bank Involvement
In February 2010 the Government of Tajikistan approved its Third Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS 3)
for 2010–2012. Its overarching objective is to promote sustainable strong economic growth and improve
the population’s living standards. The World Bank and other development partners are collaborating
closely through a Joint Country Partnership Strategy to help the government implement PRS 3. PDPG 4–
6 serve as the Bank’s primary vehicle for policy dialogue with the government, and for discussions with
other development partners on how best to align support for the Government’s program. Many
development partners have provided technical assistance and financial support for the PDPG4-6 reform
program. PDPG4 focused mainly on protecting earlier gains in social spending and improving the climate
for private investment, in the face of ongoing global crisis.

PDPG5 supports actions aimed at improving basic social services, private sector climate, and government
effectiveness. To protect basic services, government has continued improving targeting and efficiency of
social spending, and specifically has adopted a health sector master plan, issued resolutions for
implementation of per capita financing in general education, and introduced pilot schemes for better
targeting of social assistance in two rayons. To improve the environment for private sector, the
government submitted a law to the Parliament codifying reduction in coverage of permit and procedures
to restrict introduction of new permits. It has also submitted a bankruptcy law for credit institutions
prepared with technical assistance from the World Bank, as well as a draft National Bank of Tajikistan
law consistent with IMF advice. To promote farmland restructuring, the government has accelerated
issuance of land use certificates to family farms. To enhance government effectiveness, PDPG5 supported
continued implementation of financial management improvement plans for Barki Tajik and Tajiktransgas.

Tajikistan’s economy has recovered in 2010, growing by 6.5 percent, reflecting higher growth in
hydroelectric power production, construction (up 11.5 percent) and in manufacturing (up 9.7 percent).
The agriculture sector performed well too, expanding by 6.8 percent. Remittances rebounded in 2010 (up
nearly 26 percent compared to the previous year), though their level remained below the peak recorded in
2008. Strong growth in recent years has contributed to good progress on poverty reduction. The poverty
headcount rate has declined steadily from 72 percent in 2003 to 47 percent in 2009, while extreme
poverty fell from 42 to 17 percent over the same period. According to data from the 2010 EBRD-World
Bank Life in Transition Survey, in late-2010, seventy five percent of respondent in Tajikistan said that the
economic situation improved since 2006 and 64 per cent said that the political climate also got better.

IV.      Tentative financing
Source:                                                                                      ($m.)
International Development Association (IDA)                                                    10
Borrower/Recipient                                                                              0
IBRD                                                                                            0
                                                                             Total             10
V.     Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
The Ministry of Finance is responsible for overall implementation of PDPG5, and for
coordinating actions among other concerned ministries, agencies, and departments, with
additional help provided by the State Advisor of the President of Tajikistan for Economic Policy.
The Executive Office of the President is responsible for implementing the public sector reforms,
while various other agencies and line ministries involved (i.e. NBT, agriculture, energy, and
transportation, and labor) are accountable for implementing the reforms under their
responsibility. The State Committee for Investments and State Property Management is
responsible for overseeing policy actions related to streamlining business regulations. World
Bank staff will monitor actions and review progress using the Program Policy Matrix. An
important objective of the PDPG series is to strengthen national monitoring systems to track
poverty and human development outcomes. With the support of a 2-year trust fund financed by
DFID, the World Bank has substantially increased technical assistance provided to the
Government to increase in-country capacity for poverty monitoring and analysis.

VI.    Risks and Risk Mitigation
Successful implementation of the PDPG-supported reform program faces some risks, including (i) general
macroeconomic risks as well as (ii) risks related to poor governance.
       • General macroeconomic risks: The Government has reaffirmed its commitment to the
         importance of maintaining macroeconomic stability, and to adhering to the macroeconomic
         reform program supported by the IMF’s extended credit facility.

       • Governance: While Tajikistan has made some progress in improving its governance, many
         public institutions remain very weak. The functional block of the PRS aims at strengthening the
         public administration system through introduction of professional civil service, and improving
         the investment climate by strengthening property rights and reducing the regulatory burden.

VII. Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects
The PDPG series is expected to have a positive social and poverty reduction impact. A key objective of
the series is to protect delivery of basic services (health, education, and social protection), and to support
implementation of reforms designed to ensure more equitable resource allocation across regions. The
social assistance pilot supported by the PDPG series is expected to help the government design and
eventually scale-up an improved social assistance program nationwide using refined targeting
mechanisms to channel resources to needy households. In the medium term, strengthening farmers’ rights
to land and improving access to inputs is likely to lead to greater agricultural profitability, reduced
production risk, and lower rural poverty. A stronger financial sector will benefit the poor by expanding
access to affordable financial services. More reliable energy services will help promote growth.

Country policies supported by the PDPG program are not likely to have a significant impact on
Tajikistan’s environment and natural resources. Measures contemplated under this operation are primarily
geared at mitigating the negative impact of the global economic crisis and paving the way for post-crisis
recovery. None of the sectors included in this operation are expected to have any direct significant links to
the environment. There may be indirect positive impacts on the environment due to the various measures
being pursued to promote growth, as the envisaged improvement in living conditions will likely reduce
environmental degradation due to more efficient use of natural resources.

VIII. Contact point

Salman Zaidi
Title: Lead Economist
Tel: +7(727) 2980-580. Ext 224      Fax: +7(727) 2980-581
Email: Szaidi5@worldbank.org
Location: Almaty, Kazakhstan (IBRD)

IX.     For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500            Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
