Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB6339 
Operation Name 
Tajikistan PDPG5 
Region 
Europe and Central Asia 
Country 
Tajikistan 
Sector 
Primary education (25%); General agriculture, fishing and 
forestry sector (25%); Aviation (24%); General finance 
sector (14%); Public administration- Information and 
communications (12%) 
Operation ID 
P120445 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Lending 
Borrower(s) 
Republic of Tajikistan 
Presidential Administration 
80 Rudaki Avenue 
Dushanbe 734023 
Tajikistan 
Tel: 992 372 213 446 Fax: 992 372 213 446 
matlubkhon@nm.ru 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
February 7, 2011 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
March 28, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 24, 2011 
I. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement  
The fifth Programmatic Development Policy Grant (PDPG5) in the amount of US$ 10 million is the 
second in a programmatic series of three operations for the Republic of Tajikistan. 
This series, 
building on the earlier PDPG1-
3,
is central to the Bank’s engagement in Tajikistan, as envisaged in the 
FY10-13 Country Partnership Strategy approved by the Board of Directors in May 2010. It supports the 
government’s two-pronged strategy to mitigate the impact of the global crisis and to pave the way for 
post-crisis recovery and sustained growth. 
Tajikistan was affected adversely by the global economic crisis. 
Growth decelerated to 3.4 percent in 
2009 from more than 8 percent per annum during 2000-08. The government’s budget experienced 
substantial shortfalls in revenue resulting in pressures on public spending in health, education and social 
protection. The government responded to these unfavorable external developments by facilitating external 
adjustment through exchange rate flexibility, and by increasing public spending under its anti-crisis action 
plan to protect critical expenditures and by continuing reforms. 
The PDPG 4-6 series seeks to (i) protect social spending and increase its efficiency, (ii) improve the 
climate for private sector development and (iii) strengthen government effectiveness. 
To protect 
basic services, the program seeks to maintain public expenditures on health, education and social 
protection and increase their efficiency and targeting. To improve private sector environment, it seeks to 
streamline business regulations, strengthen financial sector, increase access to air transport and promote 
Page  2
private investment, especially in agriculture. To enhance government effectiveness, the program seeks to 
promote transparency and efficiency in management of utilities and of public expenditures. 
II. Proposed 
Objective(s) 
The development objectives of PDPG 4
–6
are to protect basic services within a sustainable fiscal 
framework, and to lay the foundation for post-crisis recovery and growth. The proposed operations are a 
central element of the World Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy. 
 
III. Preliminary 
Description 
The proposed PDPG5 envisages actions aimed at improving basic social services, private sector 
climate, and government effectiveness. 
To protect basic services, government expects to continue 
improving targeting and efficiency of social spending, specifically to adopt a health sector master plan, 
issue resolutions for implementation of per capita financing in general education, and introduce pilot 
schemes for better targeting of social assistance in two rayons. To improve the environment for private 
sector, the government expects to submit a law codifying reduction in coverage of permit and procedures 
to restrict introduction of new permits, to continue issuing land-use certificates to farmers, to increase 
access to air transport, and to take further actions to strengthen the financial sector. To enhance 
government effectiveness, Barki Tajik and Tajiktransgas expect to make progress in implementation of 
financial management improvement plans. 
 
IV. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
Poverty and Social Impacts  
The PDPG series is expected to have a positive social and poverty reduction impact. 
A
key objective 
of the series is to protect delivery of basic services: health, education, and social protection. This will 
directly benefit poor and vulnerable people, by ensuring their access to services does not decline due to 
budget revenue shortfall. In the medium term, strengthening farmers’ rights to land is likely to lead to 
greater agricultural profitability, reduced production risk, and lower rural poverty. A stronger financial 
sector will benefit the poor by expanding access to affordable financial services. More reliable energy 
services will help promote growth—essential for poverty reduction. In addition, provisions to ensure that 
low-income households have access to a basic minimum level of service at affordable rates will directly 
benefit the poor. An important objective of the program is to strengthen national monitoring systems to 
track poverty and human development outcomes. With the support of a 2-year trust fund financed by 
DFID, the Bank will substantially increase technical assistance provided to the government to increase in-
country capacity to collect policy-relevant data through integrated multi-topic household surveys, analyze 
these data, and utilize the analysis in policy formulation. Under the Education Fast Track initiative, the 
Bank is undertaking an evaluation of supply- and demand-side schemes to promote school enrollment and 
attendance. As part of the support to the Ministry of Labor and Social protection, the Bank is helping with 
the design of the new proxy-means testing (PMT) methodology to help identify program beneficiaries and 
evaluation of the targeting effectiveness of the pilot PMT-based program in two rayons. 
Environment Aspects  
As noted in the PDPG4 program document, country policies supported by the PDPG program are not 
likely to have a significant impact on Tajikistan’s environment and natural resources. The measures 
contemplated under this operation are primarily geared at mitigating the negative impact of the crisis and 
paving the way for post-crisis recovery and growth. None of the sectors included in this operation are 
expected to have any direct significant links to the environment. There may be indirect positive impacts 
on the environment due to the various measures being pursued to promote growth (and in particular to 
Page  3
strengthen social protection), as the envisaged improvement in living conditions will likely reduce 
environmental degradation due to intensive use of natural resources.
 
Tajikistan is taking major steps to build greater resilience on various sectors from impacts stemming from 
recent climate variability and future climate change. The World Bank regional report on adaptation to 
climate change noted that Tajikistan is the most vulnerable country in ECA. Tajikistan has been selected 
as one of nine national pilots under the multi-donor trust fund supported Pilot Program for Climate 
Resilience (PPCR).  The Government has played an active role in 2010 to prepare their Strategic Program 
for Climate Resilience; a $50 million investment and capacity building program addressing needs in 
agriculture, water, energy, environment and social development.  The technical assistance component was 
approved in June 2010 and investment program approved in November 2010.  The program is being 
implemented by the World Bank, Asian Development Bank, and European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development. The Government will set up a Secretariat to coordinate the PPCR and other international 
and domestic-supported climate programs. 
V. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
10 
Borrower/Recipient  
IBRD 
Others (specifiy) 
 
Total 10 
VI. 
Contact point  
Contact: Salman Zaidi 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: +7(727) 2980-580. Ext 224 
Fax:  +7(727) 2980-581 
Email: Szaidi5@worldbank.org 
Location: Almaty, Kazakhstan (IBRD) 
 
VII. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
