                                           CONFORMED COPY


                                      GRANT NUMBER H724-TJ




  Financing Agreement


 (Fifth Programmatic Development Policy Financing)


                     between


           REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN


                       and


INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                Dated June 23, 2011
                                                             GRANT NUMBER H724-TJ

                              FINANCING AGREEMENT

        Agreement dated June 23, 2011, entered into between REPUBLIC OF
TAJIKISTAN (“Recipient?) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(“Association?) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this
financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy
framework. The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:


ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                              ARTICLE II - FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to six
        million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,400,000)
        (“Financing?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
        Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

2.05.   The Payment Currency is Dollars.
                                            2


                             ARTICLE III - PROGRAM

3.01    The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end:

        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
                of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
                achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
                shall reasonably request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
                situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
                of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
                action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.



ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, a
        situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
        significant part of it, will be carried out.

                ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, the
        Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying
        out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
        framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

                ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.
                                           3


6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

               Ministry of Finance
               3 Akademikov Rajabovikh Ave.
               Dushanbe, 734025
               Republic of Tajikistan

                                                       Facsimile:

                                                       (992-372) 213329 or
                                                       (992-372) 221-6796

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

               International Development Association
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

               Cable:                   Telex:                Facsimile:

               INDEVAS                  248423 (MCI)          1-202-477-6391
               Washington, D.C.

        AGREED at Dushanbe, Republic of Tajikistan, as of the day and year first above
 written.

                               REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN




                               By /s/ Safarali Najmuddinov

                                                       Authorized Representative


                               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                               By /s/ Motoo Konishi

                                                       Authorized Representative
                                             4


                                      SCHEDULE 1

                 Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions Taken Under the Program

        The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:

1.      The Recipient, through Government Resolution Number 169, dated April 1,
2011, has adopted a health sector master plan consistent with the Recipient’s National
Health Sector Strategy.

2.       A draft Law on Public Finances to accommodate implementation of per capita
financing requirements in general education at the national level has been submitted to
the Parliament pursuant to the Government Resolution Number 100, dated March 3,
2011.

3.      The Recipient, through the Government Resolution Number 586, dated October
30, 2010, provided the basis for the introduction of a pilot scheme in at least two (2)
rayons for improved targeting of social assistance.

4.      A draft Permits Law to introduce new procedures for issuing permits and to
codify the decision and recommendations made by the Government Commission for
Permits Review has been submitted to the Parliament by the Government Resolution
Number 159, dated April 1, 2011.

5.      The Recipient has issued forty thousand three hundred and thirty-two (40,332)
land use certificates in accordance with the standards and targets set forth in Presidential
Decree Number 374, dated July 2, 2009.

6.       The Recipient: (a) has submitted to the Parliament a revised draft of the Deposit
Insurance Law by the Presidential Resolution Number 2.1/1-8, dated April 4, 2011; and
(b) enacted the Law on Anti-Money Laundering and Countering Financing of Terrorism,
Number 684, dated March 25, 2011.

7.      A new performance appraisal system for public administration employees has
been introduced pursuant to the Recipient’s Presidential Decree Number 1018, dated
February 18, 2011.

8.       A draft External Audit Law (Law on Chamber of Accounts) has been submitted
to the Parliament by the Presidential Resolution Number 23.4/1-7, dated April 7, 2011.

9.       The Recipient has caused: (a) Barki Tajik and Tajiktransgas to introduce IFRS in
the calendar year 2011; and (b) Barki Tajik to prepare actions plan for it (i.e. Barki Tajik)
                                           5


to complete implementation of FMIP (including migration to IFRS) in accordance with
the principles and procedures agreed upon with the Association.

Section II.     Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.     General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the
Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.       Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single
tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing. The
allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below:

                                               Amount of the Financing Allocated
                Allocations                          (expressed in SDR)

  Single Withdrawal Tranche                                 6,400,000


              TOTAL AMOUNT                                  6,400,000


C.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions

        No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
Association is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient, and (b)
with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework.

D.      Deposits of Financing Amounts

1.      The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the request for
withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain the following two
deposit accounts (“Deposit Accounts?) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank:

        (a)     a deposit account in Dollars (“Foreign Currency Deposit Account?); and

        (b)     a deposit account in Somoni (“Local Currency Deposit Account?).

2.      All withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
Association into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account. Upon each deposit of an amount
of the Financing into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, the Recipient shall deposit
an equivalent amount into the Local Currency Deposit Account. All amounts withdrawn
from the Local Currency Deposit Account shall be used exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.
                                             6


E.      Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for
an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association.
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.

F.      Audit

        Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall:

1.     have the Deposit Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the
Association;

2.      furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the date of the request, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, and make such
report publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the
Association; and

3.     furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit
Accounts and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request.

G.      Closing Date. The Closing Date is January 31, 2012.
                                           7


                                     APPENDIX

Section I.     Definitions

1.      “Barki Tajik? means OSHPC Barki Tajik, an open joint stock holding company
        established by the Recipient’s Government Decree Number 537, dated October
        31, 2008, and registered on November 27, 2008 (Registration Number 001-5563)
        or any successor or successors thereto.

2.      “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

        (a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Association or
               the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or
               the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or
               loan;

        (b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
               by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
               (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
               revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
               Recipient:


                        Group             Sub-group             Description of Item

                        112                                     Alcoholic beverages

                        121                                     Tobacco, un-
                                                                manufactured, tobacco
                                                                refuse

                        122                                     Tobacco, manufactured
                                                                (whether or not containing
                                                                tobacco substitutes)
                        525                                     Radioactive and
                                                                associated materials

                        667                                     Pearls, precious and
                                                                semiprecious stones,
                                                                unworked or worked

                        718               718.7                 Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                                thereof; fuel elements
                                        8



                     Group             Sub-group            Description of Item

                                                            (cartridges), non-
                                                            irradiated, for nuclear
                                                            reactors

                     728               728.43               Tobacco processing
                                                            machinery
                     897               897.3                Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                            platinum group metals
                                                            (except watches and
                                                            watch cases) and
                                                            goldsmiths’ or
                                                            silversmiths’ wares
                                                            (including set gems)
                     971                                    Gold, non-monetary
                                                            (excluding gold ores and
                                                            concentrates)

     (c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
            consumption;

     (d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
            which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
            agreements to which the Recipient is a party;

     (e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
            United Nations; and

     (f)    with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
            collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
            Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
            Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
            action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
            occur.

3.   “FMIP? means the financial management improvement program being carried
     out by Barki Tajik.

4.   “Foreign Currency Deposit Account? means the account referred to in Part E.
     1(a) of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
                                            9


5.      “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association
        General Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 31, 2010 with the
        modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

6.      “Government Commission for Permits Review? means the Recipient’s
        government commission for permits reviews established under Government
        Resolution Number 305, dated May 28, 2009, or any successor thereto.

7.      “IFRS? means the interim un-audited financial reports of Barki Tajik and
        Tajiktransgas, respectively.

8.      “Local Currency Deposit Account? means the account referred to in Part E. 1 (b)
        of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

9.      “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
        protect basic services within a sustainable fiscal framework, and to lay
        foundation for post-crisis recovery and growth, as set forth or referred to in the
        letter dated April 7, 2011 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the
        Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
        assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its execution.

10.     “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
        category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of
        Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

11.     “Tajiktransgas? means the open joint stock holding company, established by the
        Recipient’s Government Decree Number 81, dated February 21, 2009, and
        registered on May 28, 2009 (Registration Number 001-6163), or any successor or
        successors thereto.

Section II.     Modifications to the General Conditions

        The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
        in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
        accordingly.


3.      Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
        Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly.
                                       10


4.   Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
     and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.   Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
     above) is modified to read as follows:

            “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

            …       (c)      The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
            invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
            under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient
            shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.?

6.   Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
     read as follows:

            “Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
            furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing
            Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
            reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by
            the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under
            the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
            Financing.?

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as
            follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Financing Agreement.?

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements? and its definition as set forth in the
            Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is
            modified to read as follows:
                          11


“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
support of which the Financing is made.? All references to “Project?
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
“Program?.
