 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14806

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                             Date Posted: 09/14/2015

               Country: Tajikistan
                        Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                      Yes    No
                            How many operations were planned for the                                3
                           series?
                            How many were approved ?                                                3
              Series ID: S126042
        First Project ID : P126042                                               Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Tajikistan Pdpg6            Project Costs (US$M):                       20                   20

 L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                        20                   20
      Sector Board:       Economic Policy           Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                10/31/2012
                                                              Closing Date:             05/31/2013         05/31/2013
        Sector(s):      General  public  administration sector (50%); Energy efficiency in Heat and Power (17%);
                        General industry and trade sector (11%); General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector
                        (11%); Compulsory health finance (11%)
        Theme(s):       Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (45%); Administrative and civil
                        service reform (22%); Health system performance (11%); Other Private Sector Development
                        (11%); Other rural development (11%)
    Second Project ID :P120445                                                     Appraisal             Actual
       Project Name:    Tajikistan's Fifth          Project Costs (US$M):                        10                 10
                        Programmatic
                        Development Policy
                        Grant
 L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                        10                 10
     Sector Board:      Economic Policy               Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                      Board Approval Date :                                06/07/2011
          Cofinancers:                                        Closing Date:             01/31/2012         01/31/2012
        Sector(s):      General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (25%), Primary education (25%), Aviation
                        (24%), General finance sector (14%), Public administration- Information and communications
                        (12%)
        Theme(s):       Other economic management (50%), Macroeconomic management (30%), Public
                        expenditure, financial management and procurement (20%)
      Third Project ID :P117692                                                    Appraisal             Actual
       Project Name: Tajikistan Pdpg 4              Project Costs (US$M):                     25.4                25.4

 L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                     25.4                  25.4
     Sector Board:      Economic Policy              Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                     Board Approval Date :                                   06/23/2010
           Cofinancers:                                      Closing Date:            01/31/2011             01/31/2011
          Sector(s):    General  finance  sector (33%), Other social services (23%), General agriculture, fishing and
                        forestry sector (22%), Aviation (11%), Primary education (11%)
         Theme(s):      Regulation and competition policy (44%), Public expenditure, financial management and
                        procurement (34%), Rural policies and institutions (22%)
Evaluator:               Panel Reviewer:          ICR Review                Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Robert Keyfitz            Clay Wescott            Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The project development objective (PDO) was stated consistently throughout the operation as, “to protect basic
    services within a sustainable fiscal framework, and to lay the foundation for post-crisis recovery and growth.” See
    Program Documents for PDGP 4 (Grant Summary, p. v, and Sect. 5, pp. 17-18); PDPG 5 (Grant Summary, p. v);
    PDPG 6 (Grant Summary, p. v.).

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    (1) Protecting Delivery of Basic Services within a Sustainable Fiscal Framework: In the near term, the operation
    sought to prevent any impact of the global financial crisis on government spending on health, education and
    social protection. Programmatic Development Policy Grant (PDPG) 4 prior actions required 2010 budget
    allocations for health, education and social protection to maintain at least their shares in 2009 -– 6.1%, 17.8% and
    20% respectively.

    The second and third years (PDPG 5, 6) turned to a diverse set of structural issues in service delivery:

         Health: Adoption of a Health Sector Master Plan and introduction of a per-capita formula for allocating
          primary healthcare resources in two new districts. A PDPG 6 proposed action to begin implementation of the
          Master Plan was dropped.
         Education: Submission of a draft law to parliament implementing per capita funding for general education. A
          PDPG 6 proposed action to adopt a national education strategy was dropped.
         Social protection: Introduction of a pilot scheme to improve targeting of social assistance to the most needy
          in two districts. A proposed PDPG 6 action to adopt an action plan scaling up the pilot scheme to a national
          level was dropped.

    (2) Improving the Environment for Private Sector Development: The PDPG tackled a range of constraints to
    private sector development under four main headings:
         Reducing the burden of regulations on business: Drastic reduction by 85% in the number of approved
          permits and introduction of a law codifying procedures for issuing new permits. A PDPG 6 proposed action to
          submit a Public Private Partnership law to parliament was dropped.
         Strengthening the financial sector: Approval of a financial sector development strategy and action plan;
          submission to parliament of a draft banking law; amending the law of the National Bank to allow greater
          independence and strengthen oversight of the banking sector; submission of a revised deposit insurance law
          to parliament. In PDPG 5, enactment of an anti-money laundering and countering financing of terrorism law
          was added. However, plans to implement consumer protection and banking sector regulations in PDPG 6
          were dropped.
         Modernizing aviation services: Adoption of a resolution setting forth an aviation sector policy aimed at
          liberalizing the aviation market. However, establishment of an independent regulatory authority and
          enforcement of compliance with International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) safety and security
          practices for new entrants, as well as consumer protections were dropped.
         Reforming agriculture institutions: Writing off of US$423.6 million of debt and issuance of land use
          certificates to strengthen farmers’ security of tenancy and ability to make production and marketing
          decisions. Adoption of an agricultural reform strategy and an action plan for implementation.

    (3) Strengthening Government Effectiveness: The PDPG supported cross-cutting governance and public
    administration measures that, while not directly linked to the PDO, arguably contributed indirectly to sustainable
    outcomes by strengthening overall public sector performance.
         Strengthening capacity of government institutions: Introduction of performance appraisal for civil servants
         and a new salary grid for central government entities to increase salaries of government employees, bringing
         them into line with comparator countries; submission to parliament of a public administration law clarifying
         the functions of the executive and ministries in developing and implementing sectoral policies and regulatory
         functions.
        Promoting transparent public financial management: Submission of a draft External Audit Law to parliament
         and establishment of an accounts chamber. Adoption of Unified Chart of Accounts and preparation of the
         budget using the new budget classification.
        Enhancing transparency of state-owned enterprises: Completion of Financial Management Improvement
         Plans by state electricity and gas monopolies and completion of an energy efficiency audit to identify options
         to increase energy efficiency.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   PDPG 4 was approved 6/23/2010 and became effective 7/27/2010. The second operation, PDPG 5, followed
   exactly a year later, but the third was delayed while waiting for the Government to act on a banking crisis and
   became effective 2/11/2013. The third project closed 5/31/2013. Total disbursement was US$55.4 million. PDPG
   4 provided US$25.4 million of that amount, some of it under the crisis response window. There was no borrower
   contribution or co-financing.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:


   The objectives directly addressed two critical issues for Tajikistan: mitigating the short term impacts of the global
   financial crisis and continuing a reform process supported by the Bank and other Development Partners that had
   underpinned a decade of high growth. The objectives were well aligned with the Government’s National
   Development Strategy and 2010-12 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, which emphasized sustainable private
   sector development and protection of vulnerable groups.

   For the Bank, the PDPG series was intimately linked to the FY10-13 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). The
   CPS Results Framework comprised three main pillars, of which two were Strategic Objectives: (1) Reduce the
   negative impact of the crisis on poverty and vulnerability and (2) Pave the way for post-crisis recovery and
   sustained development, and the third was a “Crosscutting Agenda” of strengthening public administration and
   governance. The PDPG’s three policy areas mimic this structure, showing clearly that the PDPG was intended as
   a centerpiece of the Bank’s policy dialog with the authorities.

   Rating: High

b. Relevance of Design:

   Measures such as preserving expenditure shares, reducing regulatory burdens, and strengthening sector policies
   in finance, air transport and agriculture were clearly and directly targeted on the PDO, with prior actions and
   triggers straightforwardly linked to outcomes and objectives in the results framework. These portions of the
   design were highly relevant, albeit overoptimistic about implementation capacity with regard to sector strategies.
   However, in a few other areas the linkage to objectives was more tenuous. For instance, civil service reform
   (introducing performance management and a new salary grid) contributed little to the objectives, especially within
   the three year time frame of the operation. In addition, some parts of the program incorporated many disparate
   elements with little synergy. In particular, protection of basic services switched from short term budget
   considerations in PDPG 4 to structural reforms in PDPG 5-6. Including both elements muddied the logical flow of
   the policy matrix and obscured the operation’s strategic priorities (see further below).

   Programmatic operations are intended as vehicles for policy dialog, but in this case there was an attempt to load
   too much of the country program into it. On balance, the quality of the design merits a relevance rating of Modest.

   Rating: Modest


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
To assess efficacy, it is useful to distinguish two sub-objectives of the PDO: (1) Protecting basic services within a
sustainable fiscal framework, and (2) Laying the foundation for post-crisis recovery and growth.

(1) Protecting basic services within a sustainable fiscal framework: Achievements can be measured according to
two aspects. The first, short term macro, called for maintaining expenditure shares for health, education and
social protection in the 2010 budget law at no less than the 2009 level – 6.1% for health, 17.8% for education, and
20% for social protection. The outcome was fully achieved. Though ex post outcomes were not part of the formal
results framework, the PDPG 6 Program Document (PD) reported actual expenditures in 2010-11:




While attribution is difficult, the additional resources in PDPG 4 compared to PDPG 5-6 (around US$15 million)
represented around 1% of the 2010 budget, so the direct contribution to the funding envelope was limited, though
not insignificant. Beyond that, the Bank’s intervention through dialog and prior actions targeting budget shares
plausibly influenced the Government’s priorities and helped catalyze additional support from other Development
Partners.

The second aspect concerned longer term structural reforms aimed at raising the quality and efficiency of service
delivery, such as adoption of a Health Master Plan, piloting the use of a per-capita funding formula for education
and better targeting of social assistance. Such initiatives might reasonably be expected to help lay the
groundwork for more effective and sustainable service delivery. However, concrete achievements are hard to
discern. In terms of the results framework, outcomes were mixed. An indicator measuring per capita visits to
primary health centers in two districts exceeded its target, while the share of wages in education expenditure fell
short and in any case is not obviously related to the prior action of adopting per capita education funding. For
social protection, the share of social assistance delivered to the lowest quintile could not be determined due to
lack of data. Meanwhile, proposed triggers for education and social protection were dropped from PDPG 6
adding to doubts about efficacy, while a recent Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA)
assessment questioned how well Tajikistan’s budget priorities translate into actual service delivery. Thus, efficacy
with regard to the structural reform agenda is rated as modest.

"Cross cutting" budget and civil service reforms under the “strengthening government effectiveness” pillar may
have been intended to contribute to this sub-objective as well. However, the impacts are unlikely to have been
significant in the time frame of the operation, and the results framework made no attempt to measure them. The
number of applicants per published vacancy, supposedly measuring the attractiveness of civil service
employment, is more an output than an outcome and besides it fell short of the target, while submission of a draft
External Audit Law, establishment of an Audit council and implementing a new Chart of Accounts were achieved,
as were associated results indicators calling for implementation of new procedures and posting budget
implementation reports based on the Chart of Accounts on the Ministry of Finance web site.

In brief, efficacy was high for maintaining short term spending levels, and modest for longer term structural
reforms affecting service delivery and fiscal sustainability. A careful reading suggests the primary interest of the
operation was in service delivery in the short run, switching to growth and private sector development in the
longer run. For instance, from the Program Document for PDPG 4, p. 22:

    “The first major benefit of the proposed operations will be … maintaining or increasing delivery of essential
    social services…. during a severe economic slowdown. The second major benefit will be to help the
    government address the key constraints to long-term growth….”

On balance, the efficacy of this sub-objective is rated as Substantial.

Rating: Substantial

(2) Laying the foundation for post-crisis recovery and growth: Drawing on an extensive body of analytical work,
PDPG 4-6 Program Documents made a compelling case that the issues addressed in this component – regulatory
burdens, limited access to financial services and air travel, and restrictions on land use –- represented significant
private sector development constraints. Accordingly, there is a presumption that the PDPG may have contributed
   to the recovery in real GDP growth from 3.9% in 2009 to 6.5% in 2010 and 7.4% in 2011-13 (ICR Table 2). Of
   course, foreign remittances and exports also rose strongly so the recovery cannot be entirely attributed to the
   PDPG, but the policy measures were well targeted and the operation also coordinated the development
   community’s support and signaled confidence that the reforms of the previous decade would continue.

   Nevertheless, in terms of specific achievements the record is mixed.

   Simplifying regulatory burdens: the number of approved permits was reduced by 85% and new procedures were
   codified to streamline future permitting. The initial results framework proposed to monitor both the time and cost
   for (i) construction permits and (ii) permits in general. However, no data were available regarding cost or permits
   in general, so the ICR was able to report only the time requirement for construction permits, where there was a
   relatively modest decrease from 250 days to 228 days. Though the target was met, one wonders if a more
   substantial decrease could have been achieved.

   An ambitious agenda for the financial sector called for implementing various aspects of a 2009 Banking Law;
   amending the central bank law; enacting a new Deposit Insurance law and Anti-Money Laundering/Counter
   Terrorist Financing provisions; and strengthening banking surveillance and consumer protection. In the event,
   however, PDPG 6 prior actions on strengthening banking surveillance and remedy procedures and consumer
   protection were dropped. Ironically, PDPG 6 effectiveness was put on hold for several months as the
   Government confronted a banking crisis stemming from poor lending practices at one of Tajikistan’s largest
   commercial banks. The IMF's latest Article IV surveillance mission (November 2014) found the situation was not
   yet fully resolved, and pointedly urged, “strong policy actions and bold structural reforms” to address many of the
   same financial sector issues as the PDPG.

   The results framework focused on access to financial services and efficiency. The number of bank accounts
   increased from 210,000 to 1.04 million, far exceeding the target of 250,000, and deposits rose from 11% of Gross
   Domestic Product (GDP) to 13.6%, though private sector credit declined from 14% of GDP to 12.3%. Meanwhile,
   interest rate spreads on both local and foreign currency deposits, a measure of efficiency, narrowed. Important
   progress has been achieved, however the slow progress on institutional strengthening shows that financial sector
   reform remains work in progress.

   An aviation sector policy was adopted aimed at liberalizing the air transport market in accord with a PDPG 4 prior
   action, but subsequent follow-up actions were dropped from PDPG 5-6 because according to the ICR, “further
   improvements in the sector will require investments for impact.” (p. 5) Accordingly, measures to establish an
   independent regulator, ensure compliance with International Civil Aviation Organization safety and security
   standards, and establish user protection were not undertaken. Results indicator targets on the number of
   international flights and passengers were surpassed, though the impact of adopting a sector policy is unclear.

   For the agricultural sector, the PDPG set targets for issuance of land use certificates and debt write-offs intended
   to strengthen land rights and give farmers more power to make decisions. The proportion of farmers perceiving
   they can take independent production and marketing decisions increased substantially, though fell short of the
   target.

   In conclusion, there was some degree of success in all areas and the operation sustained a productive dialog
   during a challenging period. However, the operation achieved only limited progress toward this sub-objective,
   probably due in part to the relatively short, 3-year time frame.

   Rating: Modest


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   The objectives were highly relevant to Tajikistan’s short and medium term situation but the relevance of design
   was only modest as it was overly broad and not precisely targeted on the PDO. In terms of efficacy, only one
   area –- maintaining social spending during the downturn -– fully achieved its intended result. Elsewhere progress
   was uneven. Expectations were lowered over the course of implementation, especially with regard to structural
   reforms, and risks remain significant. However, the operation sustained an important dialog and deepened the
   relationship with the authorities during a difficult period. Accordingly, some longer run payoff can be anticipated,
   just as earlier operations undoubtedly contributed to the gains under PDPG 4-6. On balance, an outcome rating
   of Moderately Satisfactory appears justified.
a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   A variety of factors pose significant risks to the development outcome. Macro risks stem from dependence on
   remittances and a narrow set of commodity exports, mainly to Russia. In the domestic sphere, fiscal risks arise
   due to contingent liabilities from SOEs and the banking sector. In terms of specific program risks, the
   government’s commitment is uneven and the political consensus for reforms is fragile. Government capacity is
   also constrained. Offsetting these factors is a close working relationship with the Government and a unified
   approach by the Development Partners.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The operation drew on extensive diagnostic work from the CPS, a Country Economic Memorandum under
   preparation at the same time, and other analytical work on more specific topics, which enabled quick
   preparation in response to a pressing short term financing need while addressing key development
   constraints and maintaining continuity with previous operations. Collaboration with other Development
   Partners -– including the European Commission, United States Agency for International Development, the UK
   Department for International Development, the Asian Development Bank and more –- indicates that the
   program enjoyed widespread support across the entire community and allowed the PDPG to play an
   important coordinating role. At the same time, some elements of the design were overly broad and not sharply
   focused on the objectives, while inadequate attention to data availability in the M&E framework made
   effective monitoring difficult and undermined confidence in the results.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   Careful supervision was conducted through formal missions and exchanges with the Government and, when
   appropriate, issues were brought to Bank management's attention, such as at the time of the Agroinvestment
   Bank (AIB) crisis. Where there were common interests, other donors participated in joint missions.
   Supervision also took the form of technical assistance activities which supported the dialog and preparation
   missions for successive operations. Unfortunately mission reports, Implementation Status and Results reports
   and other supervision documents were not consistently filed, making it difficult to assess the overall effort. To
   the extent possible, the results framework was maintained and used to evaluate progress, though due to poor
   quality data evaluations sometimes relied more on inputs -- actions undertaken -- than outcomes.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   A strong but uneven commitment to the reform program contributed to implementation delays and
   subsequent modification of some program areas. Especially serious was slippage in implementing the results
   of an energy efficiency audit of the parastatal aluminum smelter, TALCO, and resolving the AIB banking
    crisis, the latter in particular as it delayed effectiveness of PDPG 6.



   Government Performance Rating :                              Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    The Ministry of Finance was in charge of implementation and played an active and supportive role. Day to day
    responsibility was delegated to the Deputy Minister. Rather than a formal steering committee, meetings with
    relevant Ministries were convened as necessary, usually at the Deputy Minister level. The system functioned
    well and when necessary things got done.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

    M&E was challenging due to the poor quality and availability of data. In several cases, indicators proposed at the
    outset in PDPG 4 were not available subsequently when needed. Where possible, alternatives were found,
    though in some cases the holes in the results framework could not be plugged. Thus, for instance, it was not
    possible to monitor the targeting of social assistance or the monetary cost of permits. In some cases substitutes
    were later introduced, but the unavoidable effect was to erode confidence in what they showed. Some indicators
    lacked a clear rationale –- for instance the wage bill as a share of education spending to measure the impact of
    per capita funding of education, or the attractiveness of civil service employment to measure the impact of
    performance appraisal. The design may have represented making the best use of what was available, but the
    result was a relatively weak system.

b. M&E Implementation:

    Not much of the Results Framework was regular published data, most was provided by the government or
    gleaned from special reports or one-off studies. Where possible, the results framework was kept current, but
    otherwise monitoring the program resorted to activities rather than outcomes.

c. M&E Utilization:

    To the extent possible, the M&E system was used to track program performance and prepare successive
    operations, but likely its usfulness was quite limited.

  M&E Quality Rating: Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
Not relevant for DPOs.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
No issues raised

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None
d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately         Modest design relevance and mixed
                                                            Satisfactory       results on efficacy indicate Moderately
                                                                               Satisfactory.
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately         Shortcomings in Quality at Entry and
                                                            Satisfactory       Supervision indicate Moderately
                                                                               Satisfactory.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR distills a number of pertinent lessons:
    DPOs are a valuable instrument to facilitate policy dialog and have been used effectively in Tajikistan.
    However, it is important to be realistic about what can be achieved during a relatively short time frame. They
    are most effective when the Government is committed to the program and a consensus exists about the
    reforms being supported. Using them to build consensus is less likely to succeed because of the time
    constraints. Maintaining a strategic focus and avoiding unnecessary duplication can increase their usefulness
    as policy tools.
    Continuing support for implementation may be needed where government capacity is low. Adoption of
    strategies and passage of legislation will have little effect unless they are implemented.
    Effective monitoring depends on good quality data, ideally in the public domain. Where published data are not
    available, an alternative is to make collecting them an explicit part of the negotiation package.
    To these may be added two further lessons: First, care is needed when a DPO is used to coordinate a
    multi-donor agenda, since each donor will want to showcase its own projects without regard to overall strategic
    priorities. Second, it is important for the Bank to maintain a strong knowledge base of economic and sector
    work in order to be prepared for effective crisis intervention (see, IEG 2012, "Phase II The World Bank Group's
    Response to the Global Economic Crisis").


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR was informative and knowledgeable. Its main weakness was to evaluate outcomes with respect to
    program areas rather than objectives, and it did not attempt to attribute the results to actions undertaken by the
    program. A more extensive discussion of the results framework -– how it was related to both actions and
    objectives -– would also have been helpful. Finally (a minor point), it was confusing to understand the results
    framework by year in the Data Sheet, since this led to a lot of duplication and repetition.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
