Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15498-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
HIGHER EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT:
DEVELOPMENT OF UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION
NAY 22, 1996
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Country Department III
Population and Human Resource Division



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 1996)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00 = 2,246 Rp
Rp 1 million=  US$445
ACADEMIC YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAN                   National Board of Accreditation
BHE                   Board of Higher Education
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CPCU                  Central Project Coordinating Unit
DGHE                  Directorate-General of Higher Education
HEDP I                Higher Education Development I Project
HEDP II               Higher Education Development II Project
ICB                   Intemational Competitive Bidding
JuCs                  Inter-University Centers
LPIUs                 Local Project Implementation Units
MOEC                  Ministry of Education and Culture
NCB                   National Competitive Bidding
Si                    Degree equivalent to Bachelor's Degree
S2                    Degree equivalent to Master's Degree
S3                    Degree equivalent to Ph.D. Degree
SOE                   Statement of Expenditure
UMPTN                 National University Entrance Examination
URC                   University Research Council
URGE                  University Research for Graduate Education



-1-
INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project:
Development of Undergraduate Education
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Republic of Indonesia
Implementing
Agency:                   Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE),
Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC)
Beneficiaries:            Six target universities; students and teachers
Poverty Category:         Not applicable
Amount:                   US$65.0 million
Terms:                    Repayable in 20 years including five years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate for currency pool loans
Commitment Fee:           0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:           See Table 4.2
Economic Rate             About 24% for the Universities Development Component;
of Return:                not applicable for other components
Staff Appraisal
Report:                   No. 15498-IND
Project Identification
Number:                   ID-PA-4004
Map:                     MBRD No. 27823






- ii -
INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project:
Development of Undergraduate Education
BASIC DATA
General (1993-94)
Population                                                        187.2 million
Adult Literacy Rate
%  of adults, 1990                                          77.2
%  of females, 1990                                         68.0
GNP per capita (US$) (1994)                                      880.0
Central Govemment Expenditure on education
as % of GNP                                                  2.7
as %  of total central government expenditure               14.4
Education (1993-94)
Primary   Junior Secondary            Senior Secondary           Higher
Grades                                 1-6               7-9                     10-12                  13+
Enrollment ('000)                    29,700             7,121                    4,192                 1,900
Gross Enrollment Rate(%)              110.8              53.8                     33.9                 10.5
Types of Highter Education Institutions (1994)
Private (%)                  Public (%)                  Total (%)
Academy                      380         (32.8)            2         (2.6)          382             (30.9)
Polytechnic                     8          (0.7)         27         (34.6)            35             (2.8)
Sekolah Tinggi               476         (41.0)            4         (5.1)          480             (38.8)
Institute                     47           (4.0)          14        (18.0)            61             (4.9)
University                   248         (21.4)          31         (39.7)          279             (22.6)
Total                       1159        (100.0)          78        (100.0)         1237           (100.0)
Note: Acaderny: A three-year, professronal diploma-granting institution; Polytechnic: A three-year professional diploma-granting
institution, primafily in engineering, agriculture and some business fields; Sekolah Tinggi: A one-faculty institution granting academic
degrees up through S3 (Ph.D.); Institute: An institution which grants academic degrees up through S3 (Ph.D.) but in only one discipline,
i.e. Institute of Engineering. Institute of Agriculture: University: An institution which grants academic degrees up through S3 (Ph.D.) and
has multiple faculties and disciplines
Source: Indonesia Educational Statistics in Brief 1993'1994, MOEC, 1995.
World Development Report, The World Bank, 1995.
The University of Indonesia.






- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMNMARY ...........................................i
BASIC DATA ..........................................                                                          ii
I. ECONOMIC CONTEXT AND HIGHER EDUCATION IN INDONESIA ..
A. Economic Context    ..
B. The Education Sector in Indonesia                                      .I
C. The Higher Education Subsector                                        .I
D. Issues in Higher Education                                         ..4
E. Issues Affecting Less-Established Public Universities                             .6
F. Govemrnment Strategy for Higher Education                                   .7
II.   BANK  INVOLVEMENT &  LESSONS LEARNED                                 ..................................... 10
A. Previous Bank Involvement ...........................................                                10
B. Lessons Learned ...........................................11
C. Bank Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement ..........................................           12
III. THE PROJECT ..........................................    .                                             13
A. Project Objectives and Performance Indicators ..........................................             13
B. Project Description ..........................................                                       14
C. Alternative Project Designs and Economic Analysis ..........................................          16
D. Project Management and Implementation ..........................................                    20
E. Monitoring and Evaluation ..........................................                                20
F.  Status of Project Preparation ..........................................                           23
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                                .......................................... 23
A. Costs ..........................................                                                    23
B. Financing Plan ..........................................                                           24
C. Procurement Arrangements ..........................................                                 25
D. Disbursement ..........................................                                             28
E. Accounts and Audits ...............                                                                 29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Indonesia in January/February 1996
comprising Lauritz Hohm-Nielsen (Higher Education and Science and Technology Specialist, Task Manager), David
Klaus (Human Resources Specialist), Christopher Smith (Operations Officer), and Mieko Masuda (Operations Analyst).
John Newman (Economist) assisted in report preparation. Project preparation benefited from the contributions of Robin
De Pietro-Jurand (Higher Education Specialist) and Luisa Masutti (Education Specialist) ), supported by a PHRD grant.
Peer reviewers were Donald Winkler (LATAD), Cecilia Valdivieso (PSP), and William Experton (LAIHR).
Marianne Haug, Director, EA3DR, and Samuel Liebernan, Acting Division Chief, EA3PH, have endorsed the report.



- iv -
Page
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS ..................................................                  30
A. Benefits ................................................. .                      30
B. Risks ................................................. .                         30
C. Sustainability .................................................                  31
D. Environmental Impact .................................................            31
E. Impact on Women .................................................                 31
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED &  RECOMMENDATION ...................................... 32
TABLES IN TEXT
1.0 Selected Regional Comparative Education Expenditures .................................................. 4
4.1 Summary of Project Costs by Component ..................................................  23
4.2 Financing Plan ..................................................                    24
4.3 Procurement ..................................................                        25
4.4 Disbursements ..................................................                      28
ANNEXES
1. Data on the Higher Education Sector               .        .        .35
1.1  Student Enrollment in Higher Education by Type of Institution, 1984-1994 ..     35
1.2  Projected Enrollment Data on Indonesian Higher Education 2000-2020 ..           35
1.3  Public and Private Resources and Unit Costs
for 51 Public Higher Education Institutions     ..36
1.4 Twenty-Six Public Polytechnics           ..38
1.5  Qualifications of Teaching Staff at Public and Private Universities . .39
1.6 Employment by level of Education           ..40
2.  Bank Group-Financed Education and Training Projects          .     .     .41
3. Less-Established Universities                 .         .        .42
3.1  Identification and Selection of Less-Established Universities   .  .42
3.2 Pre-proposal Submission Process           ..45
3.3  Information on 17 Less-Established Universities     ..46
3.4  Origin of Incoming Students by High School Attended      .      .47
3.5  Parental Income of New Students at the Less-Established Universities, 1995 .. 48
3.6  Summaries of Full Proposals submitted by the Six Selected Universities ..       49
4. The Board of Higher Education              ..58
5.  The National Accreditation Board ...................................................  60
6.  Calculation of Economic Rate of Return .       .................................................  62
7.  Project Implementation Plan .................................................. .     69
8.  Monitoring and Evaluation .................................................. .       80
9.  Supervision Plan ...................................................                 89
10. Technical Assistance Summary .................................................. .    91
11. Project Cost Summary, Expenditure Accounts by Components,
Expenditure Accounts by Years, and Project Components by Year .................................... 92
12. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ..................................................  98



- v -
13. Technical Audit Terms of Reference ..........................................                                                        99
14.  Selected Documents Available in the Project File .................                                   .......................... 105
15 Project Implementation Plan (PIP): available upon request
CHART
1.  Organizational Chart ..........................................                                                                     106
MAP: IBRD No. 27823






1. ECONOMIC CONTEXT AND
HIGHER EDUCATION IN INDONESIA
A. ECONOMIC CONTEXT
1.1   After a quarter century of rapid economic structural transformation, Indonesia has become
more diversified, less dependent on oil, more industrialized, more urbanized, increasingly driven by
private initiative and more integrated into the global economy. Since 1970, the Indonesian economy
has grown at an average real rate of over 6% per year, significantly faster dtan the average rate of
population growth, which has steadily declined and which is presently estimated at 1.70/o p.a. As a
result, income per capita has increased rapidly and is expected to surpass US$1,000 equivalent by the
turn of the century. The benefits of such growth have been felt by a growing proportion of the
population, reflected in a decrease in the number of people living below the poverty level from 70
million in 1970 to 26 million in 1994 (60% and 14% of the total population in the respective year).
With higher incomes has come an increased demand for education from both consumers (i.e., children
and their parents) and from users (i.e., employers).
B. THE EDUCATION SECTOR IN INDONESIA
1.2    A contributing factor both to rapid economic growth and to the decline in poverty was the
country's early success, at a time when per capita income levels were still low, in universalizing
primary education. By the early 1980s, the country had attained a net enrollment rate of over 900/. in
primary education and is now making efforts to improve the quality of primary education, through
improvements in teacher training and universal provision of textbooks. Girls account for almost 50% of
primary enrollments. Having virtually achieved universal primary education, the Government set the
goal of achieving universal lower-secondary education by the Year 2010, and has requested the help of
the Bank and others in achieving this goal. In addition, it intends gradually to increase access to upper-
secondary education. With these efforts to expand and improve secondary education, the demand for
higher education can be expected to grow rapidly. Indonesia presently has a well-balanced education
system, with 1993-94 gross enrollment rates of 111%, 54%, 34%, and 11% in primary, lower-
secondary, upper-secondary, and higher education, respectively. These participation rates compare
favorably with those of other countries at a similar level of GDP per capita and are also respectable
relative to those in the wealthier, newly industrialized economies of East Asia. 
C. THE HIGHER EDUCATION SUBSECTOR
1.3   At Independence in 1945, Indonesia's higher education institutions enrolled approximately
2,000 students. Currently, the higher education sector consists of about 2.5 million students enrolled
in 77 public institutions and over 1,200 private institutions, representing approximately eleven percent
of the 18-24 age group. During the 1960s, and continuing into the 1980s, the Government's strategy
was to expand access to public higher education. It accomplished this partly through establishing at
least one university in each province. This policy not only ensured some measure of regional equity,
For example, 1992 gross enrollments in tertiary education were 7% in Malaysia, 19% in Thailand, 20% in
Hong Kong, 28% in the Philippines, and 42% in the Republic of Korea.



but also provided all provinces with a local source of teachers, civil servants, professionals, technical
specialists, and managers. The expansion was planned and managed from the center, in response to (a)
the need for nation-building over a vast territory composed of many different ethnic and linguistic
groups, (b) social demand for education services from the regions, and (c) the lack of adequate
implementation capacity at local levels. The period between 1960 and 1990 was witness to an increase
in demand for higher education, from both consumers and users, at a much faster rate than the public
sector was willing or able to provide. This resulted in phenomenal growth in the private provision of
higher education with the number of private institutions increasing from 17 to over 900.
1.4   In the mid 1980s, when the present system of public universities was in place, and the private
sector had become a major provider of higher education, there was a gradual shift in the Government's
higher education policy to an increased emphasis on quality improvement. Investments in public
universities focused on the provision of quality-upgrading.  Government investment remained
important in disciplines with large investment costs (engineering, natural sciences) in which the private
sector was reluctant to invest. Over time, as the relative importance of the public sector as the primary
provider of higher education has decreased, the relative importance of the public sector as the primary
employer of university graduates has also declined, and that of the private sector has increased.
Although the Government's policy is to let the private sector respond to most of the increasing demand,
the Government is also aware that higher education provides social as well as private benefits and that
the public institutions of higher education provide externalities such as research and community service
which are not currently provided by private-sector institutions.
1.5    The current higher education system consists of approximately 1,400 institutions of higher
education, of which over 1,200 are private, about 100 are service academies belonging to other
Ministries, and 77 are public institutions operated by the Directorate-General of Higher Education
(DGHE) within the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC). Although they account for only about
5% of the total number of institutions, the public institutions account for about 35% of total
enrollments, with the remaining 65% enrolled in private institutions and service academies (Annex 1,
Tables I and 2, sets forth student enrollment by type of institution).
1.6    The 77 public institutions of higher education (Annex 1, Tables 3 & 4) are considered superior
in quality and performance to the private institutions. Of these, four--the University of Indonesia in
Jakarta, the Bandung Institute of Technology, the Bogor Agricultural University, and Gajah Mada
University in Yogyakarta--are recognized to be the country's premier institutions of higher education
with large, established graduate and undergraduate programs. Of the remaining institutions, six
(including three teacher training institutes) offer graduate programs, seven are teacher training
institutes with no graduate programs, 26 are considered less-established universities and were
established within the last 30 years, 26 are polytechnic institutes, two are technical teacher training
colleges, five are institutes of the arts, and one is an open university.
1.7    The over 1,200 private institutions comprise a wide variety of academies, schools of religion,
colleges, institutes, and universities and cater to some 1.5 million students. Many of these institutions
are quite small, offering only one or a few programs.  Course offerings tend to be limited to law,
religion, the humanities, and the social sciences. Most private institutions serve as second-best options
for university students who have been unsuccessful in obtaining a place in one of the public institutions
and most suffer from a lack of facilities, materials, qualified teaching staff, and resources for
investment. Less than 100 of the private institutions operate at a level comparable in quality to the
average public institution.



1.8    Regional equity in access to higher education has largely been attained due to the
Government's decision in the 1960s to have at least one public institution in each of the 27 provinces.
Gender equity is steadily improving. In 1992, women constituted 36% of undergraduates and 46% of
diploma-program students, with increasing proportions of women among the new intake every year.
Social equity has been much more difficult to achieve. Higher education is expensive: tuition fees in
the public institutions range from US$100 equivalent to US$400 equivalent per year; in private
institutions, fees range from US$100 equivalent to US$1,000 equivalent per year. To these tuition fees
must be added laboratory and other fees; off-campus living expenses; books; and transportation
between the university and home. Tuition may, in fact, account for only 15-20% of the total direct cost
of higher education to the student. Even without any calculation of opportunity costs, the total direct
cost of higher education in Indonesia may amount to US$500 to US$5,000 per year, whereas the per
capita income in 1994 was only US$880 equivalent, indicating that most tertiary students, in both
public and private institutions, come from Indonesia's better-off families. Various student support
schemes exist, such as scholarships, tuition waivers, and work-study programs, but these benefit only
2-3% of the total number of students. A student loan scheme was tried several years ago but was
abandoned because it was difficult to recover the loans. Given the perceived urgency and importance
of the benefits to society of a greater number of high-quality graduates in priority areas, the
Government now provides scholarships, through a variety of targeted programs, to some 50,000
students annually, accounting for only about three percent of the total number of students. The overall
efficacy of efforts within the higher education subsector to provide greater access to children from
poorer families is constrained by the fact that most children from poorer families presently do not
complete secondary school.2 In addition, it has proved virtually impossible to target scholarships to
those few children from poorer families who do complete secondary school.
1.9   Indonesia's higher-education system is characterized by levels of cost-recovery which are
among the world's highest and continue to rise. Private financing constitutes over half of total
expenditures on higher education. In public institutions, cost recovery from student fees has risen by
over 200%/o in real terms in the past five years, and the universities continue to raise them on an annual
basis. Tuition fees in public institutions, although generally much less than those charged by private
institutions, are still significant. Public universities differentiate fees among the various disciplines,
charging more for those disciplines which require laboratory work. In the school year 1993/94, almost
200/ of recurrent costs were recovered through student tuition and fees, while an additional 5% was
generated by other income-generating activities within the individual institutions. The share of higher
education within total government expenditures on education has declined from 17% in 1989 to about
13% at present. The annual unit recurrent cost for students in Indonesia's public higher education
system is US$870,3 which is lower than those of countries such as Thailand (US$2,210) and the
Philippines (US$ 975). The overall average cost per graduate is US$5,470.
2   The Government's long-term strategy for overcoming this problem is, as stated in para. 1.2, to universalize
lower-secondary education and gradually to increase access to upper-secondary education. The lower-
secondary-education program includes special efforts to attract and retain children from poorer families.
3   This unit recurrent cost was calculated taking into account both public expenditures (government budget) and
private expenditures (student fees) but does not include other direct costs to the student. The average annual
unit recurrent cost for students in Indonesia's private institutions of higher education is about USS250
equivalent,



- 4 -
Table 1. Selected Regional Comparative Education    enditures
Country            Public     Expenditure     on      % of Government Education
Education as % of GDP          Expenditures for Higher Education
Malaysia                        5.6                               14.9
Philippines                     NA                                15.1
Singapore                       3.4                              30.7
Thailand                        3.2                               14.6
Indonesia                       3.4                               13.1
Source: Albrecht, 1994. These figures are for 1993. A more recent World Bank estimate for public
expenditure on education as a percent of GDP in Indonesia is 2.7/o.
D. ISSUES IN HIGHER EDUCATION
1.10   Although Indonesia's system of higher education has come to exhibit many desirable features,
such as active private-sector participation and high levels of cost recovery, its institutions are sfill
developing, and there are still important problems in both public and private universities relating to
quality, efficiency, relevance, and management.
1.11   Quality. The Government is concemed with raising the quality of higher education so that
Indonesia may compete in the international marketplace. There are several factors which constrain
improvements in quality. One is the generally low level of qualification of teaching staff. Only 30
percent of staff in public institutions and eleven percent of staff in private institutions hold S2 and S3
degrees4 (see Annex 1, Table 5). As recently as 1995, the large majority of new teaching staff held
only S I degrees. At present, many institutions of higher education, both public and private, are actively
trying to recruit new teaching staff who hold advanced degrees. In part, the problem is one of supplv:
only a few institutions of higher education in Indonesia offer graduate programs, and the domestic
production of graduates with advanced degrees is low. However, the problem is also one of demand.
since salaries of teaching staff are low, relative to salaries for employment in other economic sectors.
1.12   The base-pay level of teachers' salaries in public institutions is set by civil service guidelines.
A few of the best public institutions supplement their teachers' civil service salaries with income
generated by the institution itself, but most institutions, particularly the less-established ones, have
limited resources for this purpose. As part of its dialogue with the Bank, the Government has been
examining the possibility of raising salaries for teachers in public institutions, in order to make such
positions more attractive and more competitive with jobs in the private sector. However, if salaries are
increased for teachers, then other civil servants who are not teachers but who have similar
qualifications would also expect to receive higher salaries. In private institutions, teachers are, in
general, hired by the hour, at rates which are similar to those paid in nearby public institutions which
are usually the source of the teaching staff in private institutions. Due to their low levels of
remuneration, most teaching staff cannot focus full-time on teaching or research at their home
universities, but must find additional ways of supplementing their incomes. It is estimated that well
over half of teaching staff in public institutions take on second jobs as teachers at private institutions, as
workers in private companies, or as independent consultants, or accept offers of employment from
other government agencies. The time taken up by the job outside the home university, whether public
or private, leaves little time for teaching, maintaining or enhancing skills, or providing guidance to
4   The SI degree is equivalent to a Bachelor's, the S2 to a Master's, and the S3 to a Ph.D.



students. Because of second and third jobs, the number of hours teaching staff spend per week
teaching students, in both public and private institutions, is low. All of the above factors impact
negatively on quality.
1.13   Several other problems with teaching staff which have a negative impact on quality should be
mentioned. Fir  in degree programs, critically important disciplines for economic growth, in both
public and private institutions, tend to be understaffed, with the humanities and social sciences typically
far better staffed than the sciences and engineering. Second since the deployment of teaching staff in
public universities is still govemed by national civil service regulations, staff positions are line budget
items, and as a consequence, university managers have litde autonomy or flexibility in determining the
profile of their staff.  University managers cannot easily reallocate staff intemally from  low-
priority/low-demand fields to high-priority/high-demand fields. The only room for maneuver comes
from new recruitment, and even those are tied to specific fields. Third, since the total number of staff
in public universities is determined by the center instead of by the university, there is litde incentive for
universities to reduce the number of staff. Fourth, the level of funding for research, although
increasing and in principle available to support research at both public and private universities, is in
fact still very limited in public universities and practically non-existent in private universities. In public
universities, although competition for research funds has been introduced in recent years, some small
research grants are still often distributed among all faculty without competition or based on
qualifications or the quality of their research proposals. Finally, staff are not always held accountable
for their actions. For example, regulations exist governing the number of student contact hours per
week staff are supposed to have, but they are difficult to enforce and are often ignored.
1.14  In addition to these problems with teaching staff, several other factors have a negative impact
on the quality of undergraduate education. Laboratory facilities are inadequate in most institutions,
particularly in private institutions, and library holdings, even in the best institutions, are limited. Still
another factor impacting on the poor quality of undergraduate education is the poor quality of
secondary school graduates a problem which the Government (with assistance from the Bank and
others) is presently trying to address. Except for in a few elite institutions, quality problems are more
serious in the private sector, which have fewer resources, are dependent on part-time staff, primarily
from public institutions, have few incentives to invest in additional facilities and equipment, and attract
lower-quality entrants.
1.15   Efficiency. Although the undergraduate program should be completed in four years, typical
undergraduates in both public and private institutions take from five to six years to complete their
studies. While this is an improvement over earlier years, efficiency gains could be made by
encouraging students to complete the cycle more quickly. In addition, low student-teacher ratios of
about 12 to 1, limited utilization of physical space, and the low number of student/staff contact hours
per week (para. 1.12) also contribute to low internal efficiency. Efficiency gains could also be achieved
by consolidating programs in areas like the social sciences, where the bulk of students tend to be
studying.
1.16 Relevance. The Government is concerned that the present higher-education system is not
providing graduates in the fields which will be most needed by an economy that is growing rapidly and
changing structurally. One indicator of this mismatch between the output of the higher-education
system and the needs of the economy is the long waiting period between graduation and employment.
A recent tracer study of graduates from ten universities confirmed that many, particularly those who
studied humanities and social sciences and those from universities located in regions where economic



development has been slower, find it difficult to find employment and may face long waiting periods of
up to three years before they obtain formal employment.
1.17  There are several reasons for the poor match between universities' output and employers'
needs. In the private sector, private demand for degrees in law, teacher training, and humanities is still
strong enough that private institutions do not have to change their course offerings to attract students.
In the public sector, there are structural rigidities which hinder better adaptation to market needs. First
although administrators at public universities are gaining more experience in academic planning,
linkages to demand are still weak. Second the present centralized decision-making structure gives
individual universities little opportunity in their academic planning to create programs of study to
reflect local students' or employers' needs. Third. many universities are saddled with a large stock of
permanent staff who do not teach the subjects or disciplines needed for employment in the new growth
fields. Finally until now, most institutions, both public and private, have had little interest in the
placement of their students and few, if any, institutional mechanisms to keep track of where graduates
have found jobs or assist their graduates in finding employment. For all these reasons, students often
receive an education which is not relevant to the constantly changing needs of the economy.
1.18   Management. The way the system is presently managed has had negative impacts on the
quality, efficiency, and relevance of higher education in Indonesia. There are problems both at the
central level, where managers lack knowledge of local needs and conditions, and in the institutions
themselves, where managers lack capacity and experience. Management problems are primarily
responsible for mismatches between needs and the ways investment funds are actually spent. For
example, many universities exhibit excessive physical capacity in some disciplines and shortages in
others. University administrators complain of books selected and procured by the center which arrive at
the university and are not needed or used. Similarly, they complain of equipment selected and
procured by the center which arrives at the university and is found to be incompatible with existing
equipment, lacks accessories, and cannot be serviced locally. It is clear that these imbalances result
both from the fact that investment decisions were made by the center, with inadequate knowledge of
local needs, and from unrealistic investment proposals prepared at the university level by managers and
staff possessing limited capacity. Decision-making patterns have encouraged university administrators
to blame the center for their problems and to attribute suboptimal results to the lack of local power
rather than to their own lack of capacity and experience.
1.19   A lack of autonomy and local responsibility has resulted in a lack of accountability and
transparency at the institutional level. In many universities, planning and administration are top-down,
with teaching staff and department administrators not adequately consulted or informed. Teaching
staff and lower-level administrators complain that they have little information on the sources or use of
the university's budget, particularly for maintenance. It is not easy to hold university managers
accountable, since the same constraints which apply to the hiring and deployment of teaching staff also
affect the selection of university managers.
E. ISSUES AFFECTING LESS-ESTABLISHED PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES
1.20   Of the 77 public institutions of higher education, the older, more established universities have
reached a level of maturity and development where they compare well with universities in other East
Asian developing countries. The 26 younger, less-established public universities, however, are still in
the pioneer phase of their development. Some of these were established for reasons of regional equity
(19 are located in the Outer Islands, which are defined as islands other than Java, Sumatra, and Bali),



while others were established in secondary towns in heavily populated provinces where there was an
un-met demand for higher education and where the Government hoped to promote regional poles of
development (three on Java and four on Sumatra). The issues described in the preceding section-
quality, efficiency, relevance, and management--although to some extent a problem for all public
universities, are particularly pronounced at these 26 less-established universities. The 26 have the
potential to play an important role in regional development, both in human resource development and in
applied research, to meet the needs of the local public and private sectors. For these institutions, the
most pressing issues are (1) to define realistic missions and goals which focus on selective
development responsive to local needs, and (2) to channel available resources to the highest-priority
programs to ensure minimum levels of qualified teaching staff, library materials, and laboratories.
1.21  In the 1980s, many of these less-established universities began ambitious campus development
plans involving large amounts of civil works and equipment. These programs have by in large not yet
been completed. Often, the original Master Plan was overly ambitious and not based on good academic
planning.5 The consequence of this may be unrealistically generous space allocations for those
faculties and administrative offices that already have their buildings and the inability to fund adequate
facilities for the rest. There have been complaints that generous administrative office space has been at
the sacrifice of adequate office space for teaching staff which is needed for interaction with students,
class preparation and private study to maintain and upgrade personal skills. Although private
institutions have since developed near these 26 public universities, they are for the most part, staffed by
teachers from the public universities and would not be able to survive without them. The academic
qualifications of the teaching staff in the public and private institutions has not yet reached adequate
levels. Over the longer term, the 26 newer institutions must demonstrate that they have an important
role to play in their respective locales, or risk losing their accreditation.
F. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
1.22  Indonesia has embarked on a comprehensive reforn of the higher education sector aimed at
reducing the role of the state and decentralizing the financing of public higher education. The
government realizes the need to (i) train a highly skilled labor force to compete internationally in the
production of high value-added products and services, which requires constant technological progress;
and (ii) ensure greater efficiency of the university sector in the use of public resources and create
financial incentives for improvement. The Government has requested Bank support in designing
structural reforms in this sector.
1.23. The Director General of Higher Education took the first step in the reform process with the
establishment of The Higher Education Strategy Task Force in February 1995. Its task was to
conceptualize the strategy for higher education in Indonesia for the coming decade. The result was a
concept paper entitled The New Paradigm, which (a) redefines the roles of the center and of the
individual institutions of higher education, (b) focuses on educational outcomes, and (c) provides new
mechanisms to enhance university-level, decentralized planning and performance-based resource
allocation. Under the New Paradigm, the role of the central Government will be reduced in scope, if
not in importance. The central Government's role will be to set the rules of the game, direct resources
to high-priority areas, encourage both public and private institutions to raise their standards, and
provide funds for those purposes where there is a market failure. The main themes of the emerging role
for the public sector include (a) greater decentralization of management for the public system, (b) a
5  Some universities are aware of this and have modified the Master Plan to better reflect their realities.



- 8 -
continuing role as direct provider of higher education in less-developed regions and in high priority
fields, (c) an increased emphasis on economic considerations in deternining where public funds should
be invested, and (d) an important role in enhancing quality in both public and private institutions
1.24   To implement the New Paradigm, the Government plans to strengthen institutional capacity
both at the center and at individual universities. At the central level, the Government has established a
new Board of Higher Education (BHE),6 supported by a permanent Secretariat, to which key
personnel have been assigned. The BHE is composed of various stakeholders including representatives
of private-sector employers, the Ministry of Education, the National Planning Board, the academic
community (both public and private institutions), the National Research Council and the National
Advisory Board on Education. The BHE has the responsibility to assist the DGHE in four areas: (a)
overseeing the higher education system by making recommendations on higher education policies,
identifying local and national needs and new programs to be financed, and providing a medium- to
long-term perspective to the DGHE; (b) providing competitive funding for research and graduate
education through the existing University Research Council (URC), which was established to assist the
implementation of the Bank-supported URGE Project (para. 2.5) and which is to be merged into the
BBE; (c) establishing competitive funding mechanisms for undergraduate education and implementing
projects (including the proposed project) which support such activities; and (d) providing technical
assistance and training to institutions of higher education to strengthen their capacity for decentralized
academic planning and management.
1.25 While recognizing that public and private institutions face different problems, the Government
sees that both types of institutions need an incentive to raise quality. One important step to this end is
the recent establishment of a National Accreditation Board (Badan Akreditasi Nasional--BAN)7
which will, for the first time, periodically inspect and accredit programs of study and institutions of
higher education, both public and private, and make the results public. BAN is intended to increase
transparency in the Indonesian higher education system, to guide users, to ensure accountability, and to
strengthen incentives for individual universities to increase quality standards, efficiency and relevance.
The decree named BAN's chairman, secretary, and 17 other members, who are recognized individuals
representing a variety of stakeholders including private-sector employers, the academic community
(both public and private institutions), and the Government. BAN's Board meets twice a month.
BAN's Secretariat has also been established, with office space in the MOEC and several professional
and support staff. BAN's mandate was reviewed by Indonesia's Parliament in mid-February 1996 and
given approval to proceed. At the national level, the Board is to grow to 36 members (12 subject
panels of three members each). Twelve regional task forces throughout the country will be responsible
for carrying out actual evaluations. These regional task forces will be staffed by individuals similar in
background to those on the national panels. They will be appointed for two-year terms, with half being
replaced each year. At full operation, the task forces will consist of some 100 people. By February
1996, BAN had developed accreditation instruments in fields including medicine, law and engineering
and has pre-tested them in several public and private universities. Over the next five years (the period
of the proposed project), BAN will establish accreditation mechanisms and will conduct accreditation
for the more than 1,400 institutions of higher education, both public and private, and for the more than
13,000 programs of study through sector-wide desk evaluations and site visits.
6   In Indonesian, Dewan Pendidikan Tinggi (DPT). DPT/BHE was established by Ministerial Decree No.
0121/U/1996 on May 6, 1996.
7  BAN was established by Ministerial Decree No. 0326/U/1994 on December 15, 1994.



1.26   Under the New Paradigm, individual public institutions of higher education will be given the
power and the responsibility to behave more as if they were private-sector institutions. To obtain
investment funds from the center, they will be required to undertake self-evaluation, prepare
institutional development plans tailored to their own specific needs, and develop budgets based on
projected resources and priority needs. Hand in hand with this new autonomy will come greater local
responsibility and accountability: the universities will no longer be able to blame their problems on the
center. In the medium to long term, the Government expects to grant financial and academic autonomy
to all public institutions of higher education. It plans to implement this policy gradually, however,
beginning with the less-established universities which, precisely since they are less established, are
more innovative and more open to change. In the first phase of implementation of the New Paradigm,
the Government has encouraged the less-established universities to compete among themselves for
limited investment funds. Over time, this competition will be extended to all institutions of higher
education, private as well as public.
1.27   By establishing a clear framework for accountability, the New Paradigm also encourages
private institutions of higher education to become more efficient and improve their quality. The
accreditation process will publicize information pertaining to the quality of individual study programs
and institutions, both public and private, and consumers (potential students and their parents) will be
able to make their own judgments as to the value offered for the price. In a competitive environment,
both public and private institutions will either have to demonstrate to students and their parents that
they offer a relevant, high-quality education worth paying for and leading to good employment
prospects or else lose "customers" and, ultimately, disappear. The Government has explicitly
recognized that competition entails losers as well as winners, and that in the long run, some public as
well as private institutions may prove economically unjustified and may not survive.
1.28  In short, the Government is in the midst of a paradigm shift intended to improve the quality,
efficiency, relevance, and management of the country's institutions of higher education.  The
implementation of the New Paradigm will entail substantial changes in the mode of operation within
individual universities and in the overall legal, regulatory, and financial controls on universities
heretofore set by the center. Although it is realized that such changes will require substantial capacity-
building, including upgrading the academic qualifications of the teaching staff, as well as commitment
and involvement at all levels, the Higher Education Strategy Task Force recognizes that in the context
of the New Paradigm, the individual institutions can make many quality and efficiency improvements
without significant new investments. The proposed project is the first step in the reform process.



- 10-
2. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. PREVIOUS BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.1    With 22 education projects approved in Indonesia since 1970, of which 15 have been
completed and seven are under implementation, the Bank has a long-standing and varied experience in
supporting all levels of education in Indonesia (Annex 2). The present education portfolio of seven
projects with the MOEC includes projects in primary education, secondary education, higher education
and non-formal education. Bank assistance to higher education in Indonesia has supported the
Government's strategy for higher education as it has changed and developed over the years in response
to the changing needs of the society and the economy: initially, Bank-supported higher education
projects supported the expansion of higher education, particularly in selected fields of high national
priority, then focused on quality improvement. Of ten past and two ongoing projects supported by the
Bank which had at least some components related to higher education, the five projects described
below have the greatest relevance for the proposed project.
2.2   The First and Second University Development Projects.    The First University
Development Project (Loan 1904-IND), approved in 1980, supported investments to raise the quality
and quantity of graduates in selected fields at three public universities, to develop graduate programs,
and to strengthen university management. The project was successful in achieving its targets, but it
was recognized that a project of such narrow scope could have only a very limited impact on both
quantity and quality of output. The Second University Development Project (Loan 2547-IND),
approved in 1985, supported the establishment of new graduate-level programs in selected fields of
study and research through the establishment of 16 new Inter-University Centers (IUCs) in emerging
scientific and technological fields. The project also initiated five undergraduate programs in fields of
study which were unavailable in Indonesia at the time. This project was successful in meeting its
targets, and most of the IUCs have become centers of excellence in Indonesia. A 1995 Project
Performance Audit Report prepared by OED states that "achievements in institution building have
been substantial; the new IUCs could become the focus of future efforts to upgrade the entire
university system."
2.3   The First and Second Higher Education Development Projects (HEDP I and II). The
second wave of Bank-supported higher education projects were the First and Second Higher Education
Development Projects (Loan 2944-IND and Loan 331 1-IND), which were approved by the Board in
1988 and 1991, respectively. These two projects financed three-year time slices of broad-based
sectoral programs to address a wide range of issues, including expansion of access in selected fields,
interventions to improve quality, university teaching staff development, and capacity-building in
university management. The preparation and supervision of these projects enabled the Bank to carry
on a continuous dialogue with the Government, both on policy issues and implementation problems.
One successful outcome of these sectoral interventions was the development of a pilot competitive
grant scheme to support university research activities. This experience led to the Government
establishing a larger multi-year research grant program with its own resources.
2.4   The First and Second University Development projects and HEDP I and II have been
completed. With the completion of these projects, the next cohort of Bank projects in higher education
in Indonesia will reflect the movement of government away from direct management of universities



- 11 -
toward a more decentralized management approach. Bank support for movement in this direction in
fact began with the University Research for Graduate Education Project.
2.5    University Research for Graduate Education Project (URGE). The URGE project (Loan
3754-IND), approved by the Board in 1994, seeks to (i) increase competitive funding for domestic
graduate education and university research activities, (ii) strengthen the procedures for selecting grant
and fellowship proposals, (iii) integrate university research with graduate training in universities, (iv)
strengthen research capacity and dissemination of research findings in universities, and (v) attract
highly qualified candidates for domestic graduate education. Successful outcomes of this ongoing
project have been the development of competitive grant and fellowship programs, which increase the
attractiveness of domestic graduate programs, and the development of the University Research
Council, whose functions are to administer all DGHE grant and fellowship programs for graduate
education and research as well as to provide policy advice on the development of graduate education
and research capacity.
B. LESSONS LEARNED
2.6   The first twenty years of Bank lending in Indonesia for education were reviewed in a 1991
OED report entitled Indonesian Education and the World Bank: An Assessment of Two Decades of
Lending. While the report does not focus specifically on higher education, there are valuable lessons to
be drawn from it. In addition, the recent 1995 Performance Audit report on the Second University
Development Project (Loan 2547-IND) provides guidance on improving higher education projects in
Indonesia The Bank Best Practice paper for higher education, approved by the Board in 1994, entitled
Higher Education: The Lessons of Experience, has a number of relevant recommendations for this
project. Finally, there are lessons to be learned from the experience with higher education projects
described in supervision and project completon reports.
2.7    OED Report. The OED report from 1991 had nine conclusions: (1) education should be
relevant to the labor market, (2) fellowship programs could be made more effective, (3) national
capacities should be created and strengthened, (4) sector work should be the basis of policy
discussions, (5) successful sector lending rests on a solid empirical base, an effective policy dialogue,
consistency between Bank and Government objectives, and satisfactory implementation procedures, (6)
the pursuit of equity should not lead to an attempt to spread benefits too widely, (7) projects should be
compact and uncomplicated, (8) the Government should increase its financial commitment to the
education sector, and (9) private education will continue to play an important role and warrants Bank
support. The proposed project (1) seeks to make the programs at the selected universities more
relevant to the labor market, (2) builds on and enhances existing natonal capacities, (3) is based on a
number of studies carried out under HEDP II, (4) has some aspects of a sector loan which are based on
the four criteria mentioned above, (5) focuses its most expensive interventions on needy, less-
developed universities, and (6) is compact and coherent. The project is not being used as a vehicle for
increasing the Government's financial commitment to the education sector. Finally, although private
universities would not be targeted for investments under the proposed project, they would be covered
through the project's quality-enhancing interventions and through the introduction of competitive
funding mechanisms in the context of the New Paradigm. In addition, the ongoing URGE Project
(para. 2.5) allows private institutions to compete for funds under the project.
2.8   Project Performance Audit Report. The 1995 Project Performance Audit Report cited above
(para. 2.2) on, the Second University Development Project recommended that quality improvement



- 12 -
efforts be extended to other universities rather than continuing only with the 16 included in that project.
It also reiterated the 'heed to shun complexity in large projects, specifically when they have a strong
element of innovation." Finally, it suggested that a system where institutions of higher education
would compete for funding might be the future of efforts to enhance the quality of higher education in
Indonesia All of these findings have been reflected in the design of the proposed project.
2.9   Bank Best Practice Paper for Higher Education.  While recognizing the difficulty of
generalizing from the experience of very diverse experiences from throughout the developing world,
this paper contains four broad recommendations: (1) encourage greater differentiation of institutions,
(2) provide incentives for public institutions to diversify sources of funding, and link government
funding closely to performance, (3) redefine the role of government in higher education, and (4)
introduce policies explicitly designed to give priority to quality and equity objectives. The proposed
project (1) encourages individual institutions to specialize according to their perceived strengths and
local needs, (2) provides incentives for competing institutions to maximize self-generated income, and
links central-government grants to performance under agreed development plans, (3) supports a
redefinition of the role of government in higher education (the New Paradigm), and (4) includes
specific incentives designed to improve quality. Although the proposed project has been designed to
support less-established universities in underserved regions, it does not include specific measures to
improve social equity, in recognition of the fact that this problem first needs to be addressed at the
lower levels of education, as is being done in ongoing Bank-supported projects and in the proposed
Bank-supported projects in lower-secondary education being prepared concurrently.
2.10  Previous Bank Experience with Higher Education Projects in Indonesia. Past Bank assistance
in higher education operated within the existing paradigm and hence focused on supply-driven and
input-based investments that were sector-wide in application. This sector-wide approach had some
positive results. Both HEDP I and HEDP II were successful in providing universities with better-
trained staff and more adequate facilities as well as in developing implementation capacity, including
capacity to undertake major procurement. Still, it has become evident that providing inputs does not
necessarily lead to their effective use; merely designing an information system or training university
managers is not sufficient to build a planning and management culture in a university. The proposed
project therefore moves away from sector-wide investments towards focused investments in those
universities which have demonstrated their worthiness through open competition, while simultaneously
changing the government's role and sector framework in which universities will operate.
C. BANK STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.11   Bank Strategy. The design of the proposed project is consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on March 21, 1995. The CAS supported some important
trends which were emerging within Indonesia's development strategy, most notably, a shift towards a
more decentralized, participatory approach to development in which the Government's role would be
to provide an enabling and regulatory framework but move away from direct provision of services. In
addition, the CAS welcomed the Government's continued emphasis on human resource development
to promote continued economic growth, competitiveness, and structural transformation. Finally, the
CAS emphasized the importance of more selective, efficient use of public resources. The design of the
proposed project is also consistent with the Bank's strategy of balanced assistance to the education
sector, which includes ongoing and proposed assistance for (a) improving the quality of primary
education, including possible additional interventions in early childhood development, (b) expansion
and quality improvement of lower-secondary education, (c) quality improvement of upper-secondary



- 13 -
education, (d) selective interventions in higher education, and (e) an active policy dialogue designed to
redefine and refocus the Government's role in the education sector.
2.12  In the higher education sector, specifically, the Bank's strategy is to support the Government's
introduction of the New Paradigm, which means a change from the previous supply-driven, centrally
managed, sector-wide approach towards a more demand-driven, decentralized, focused approach.
Future Bank-supported investments in higher education would be based on the further application of
competitive principles intended to encourage institutions (both public and private), departments, and
individuals to function more efficiently and effectively. In addition, projects would be carefully targeted
to those regions and disciplines where the private sector is not providing, and is not expected to
provide, the mix of graduates required for the economy's continued growth, development and
transformation. The proposed project would include a domestic graduate fellowship component for
teaching staff development as a bridging measure.
2.13   Foflow-up Operations. The Government of Indonesia has expressed a strong interest in
developing a series of projects of similar design. A possible DUE HI would invite proposals from a
selected group of less-established universities and possibly teacher training institutes and technical
training teacher colleges. Concurrently, the Government may seek Bank support for a Quality for
Undergraduate Education (QUE) Project, under which departments and faculties in selected priority
fields from any university could compete for funding to improve their educational processes and
outcomes in undergraduate programs. Additionally, the DGHE has suggested that a follow-up project
to URGE be considered if the mid-term review of the ongoing project indicates that it is achieving its
objectives.
2.14  Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank is a trusted partner in higher education in
Indonesia and has substantial experience working with the Indonesian Government in this sector. The
proposed project represents the culmination of a dialogue, which has taken place over the last several
years, on the appropriate role of the Government in higher education. This dialogue led, first, to the
URGE Project (para. 2.5), for which the Government articulated a competitive and decentralized
strategy for supporting graduate research, and, secondly, to the development of the New Paradigm
which redefines the role for the central government, emphasizes competition, and encourages greater
autonomy for individual institutions. The Govemment has expressed its desire that the Bank aid this
reform with financial and technical assistance.
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
3.1   The project has three objectives: (a) to improve the quality of undergraduate education, as
indicated by an increase of 10% in the mean score on the Benchmark Test and an increase of five
percent on the National University Entrance Examination score of students at the six target universities;
(b) to improve the efficiency of the educational process, as indicated by a decrease from the current
average time to graduate of 5.75 years to 5.25 years at the six target universities; and (c) to improve the
relevance of the study programs offered, as indicated by a decrease in the mean job search time of
graduates from the estimated current average waiting time to employment of 1.75 years to 1.5 years for
the graduates of the six target universities. Achieving these three objectives would lead to increased



- 14 -
earnings for graduates of the six target universities. The project would seek to achieve these three
objectives by supporting the first phase of the implementation of the New Paradigm, which redefines
the role of the central government in higher education, decentralizing responsibility to individual
institutions.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.2    The project will support (a) a first phase of activities at the institutional level as well as (b)
supporting activities at the sector level. Proposed interventions at the institutional level would focus on
six of the less-established public universities, where the needs for improved quality, efficiency, and
relevance, as well as improved managerial capacity, are greatest, and which, because of their location,
are seen as potential contributors to regional economic development. Proposed interventions at the
sector level would support the central government's new role in (i) overseeing the higher-education
system, (ii) regulating quality, and (iii) enhancing the quality of university teaching staff.
3.3    Component 1:   Universities Development Program  (US$63.3 million, not including
contingencies). Under the project, block grants would be provided to six universities to enable them to
cany out their development programs to strengthen undergraduate education. During negotiations,
the Government agreed to provide grants to the target universities in accordance with
procedures and on conditions agreed with the Bank. The grants would finance fellowships for
teaching staff, training for teaching and administrative staff, teaching and research grants, technical
assistance through visiting scholars, books, journals, teaching materials, equipment, and limited civil
works for the rehabilitation and upgrading of facilities. Investments under this component are targeted
at consolidating existing educational capacity with individual universities' strategic plans and would
provide resources enabling universities to plan new investments while capitalizing on earlier
investments. Each eligible university was asked to establish a Task Force chaired by the university's
First Vice Rector and staffed by young academics, to ensure their involvement in the planning and
preparation process. To obtain support, each eligible university was required to evaluate its existing
programs and resources and then to prepare a viable five-year plan including: (i) specific proposals to
improve the quality of teaching and to increase the efficient use of instructional inputs; (ii) the relevance
of institutional missions and objectives to regional development needs; (iii) the feasibility of
institutional priorities in light of social demand and staffing profile, as reflected in applicants and
enrollments, class size, and staff work load; (iv) consolidated budget plans that show a commitment to
the use of self-generated discretionary resources to maintain and operate new investments; and (v) a
commitment to reward staff for their teaching, particularly those individuals receiving fellowships from
project funds.
3.4    The universities to benefit under this component were selected through a competitive selection
process, reviewed and approved by the Bank, described in Annex 3. Under this selection process, 17
of the 26 less-established universities were invited to prepare and submit funding pre-proposals on the
basis of clearly defined criteria which were reviewed and approved by the Bank. The 17 pre-proposals
were reviewed and evaluated by an independent peer panel appointed by the Director-General of
Higher Education, and ten were pre-selected. The pre-selection process, including the development of
guidelines for self-evaluation, was highly participatory and included policy dissemination workshops
and training seminars with all potentially involved universities. The ten pre-selected universities were
then asked to submit full-fledged proposals in accordance with the detailed guidelines and selection
criteria reviewed and approved by the Bank. Proposals were received on February 10, 1996. The peer
panel completed the evaluation process, which included site visits to all ten universities, in March
1996. The DGHE provided the Bank with the results of the final evaluation, including (a) the names of



- 15 -
the selected institutions," (b) a revised implementation plan for this component, (c) revised costs for
this component, and (d) draft grant agreements with the selected universities. During negotiations
the Government (a) agreed to implement the Universities Development component according to
the implementation plan, (b) provided assurance that there would be a clause in the grant
agreement that the selected universities must have established both their indicator baselines
and their final targets, and (c) agreed to monitor each of the indicators throughout the project
implementation period.
3.5   Stakeholder participation has been, and will continue to be, ensured at all levels of the selection
process--from the identification of selection criteria, which was caried out by a Task Force whose
membership included representatives from the universities, to the actual implementation of the
investment plans, which would be carried out individually by the selected universities. While the
DGHE has the overall responsibility for approving the new regulatory framework and for reviewing the
funding proposals by the individual universities, project design and implementation arrangements have
been completely decentralized. This approach enables individual universities to determine their own
needs and targets, but will also hold the universities fully accountable for their performance and for
achieving their stated objectives and targets. In particular, each university's progress in implementing
its proposal will be reviewed annually by BHE and DGBE, and a grant agreement for the upcoming
year will be renewed only if progress has been satisfactory.
3.6    Component 2: Institutional Capacity-Building in Higher Education (US$6.4 million, not
including contingencies).  The development of the capacity of the recently created Board of Higher
Education (para. 1.24) would be supported under the project through the provision of technical
assistance, staff training, policy studies, equipment for the BHE Secretariat, incremental operating
costs, and workshops and technical assistance at individual institutions of higher education (Annex 4).
The BHE will use an existing management information system for monitoring higher education.
Lessons learned from the implementation and evaluation of the proposed project will be applied to
future higher education policies and practices. The Government has provided the Bank with the formal
Ministerial decree establishing the BHE, including its chairman (the Director-General of Higher
Education), members, and functions, the operating guidelines for BHE, and the implementation plans
and costing of BHE activities. The Government has also allocated sufficient office space to the BHE
Secretariat within the MOEC, devised a suitable plan for re-assigning sufficient number of qualified,
full-time staff to the BIHE Secretariat, and issued terms of reference for these staff. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government will maintain the BHE and its
Secretariat in accordance with terms of reference, staffing, and resources acceptable to the
Bank. Furthermore, it was agreed that grant agreements with the selected universities would
designate the BHE as the body responsible for monitoring and evaluating progress against the
targets specified by each university and recommend to DGHE any ameliorative actions.
3.7    Component 3: Implementation of a National Accreditation System for Higher Education
(UJS$10.0 million, not including contingencies). The project would support the consolidation of BAN
from its present initial state to full operation, strengthening its capacity to establish accreditation
mechanisms and carry out the accreditation of institutions of higher education and of study programs in
such institutions. Technical assistance, short-term staff training in administration and program
evaluation, training of peer reviewers, equipment, renovation of office space, and incremental recurrent
costs including funding for site visits would be provided under this component. Cost recovery will be
The following six institutions were selected: UNILA (Lampung), UNRI (Riau), UNS (Sebelas Maret), UNIB
(Bengkulu), UNEJ (Jember), and UNDANA (Nusa Cendana).



- 16-
introduced when the first round of accreditation has been completed (Annex 5). The DGHE has
prepared. and provided to the Bank, BAN operating guidelines, a workplan for the BAN, terms of
reference and a staffing plan for the BAN Secretariat, and a plan detailing how and over what time
period BAN would evolve to its full operational capacity. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the Government will implement the BAN component according to the guidelines,
plans, and terms of reference provided to the Bank.
3.8    Component 4: Competitive Domestic Fellowship Program (US$9.9 million, not including
contingencies). A key quality issue in Indonesian higher education is the low qualifications of teaching
staff. This component would address the issue of quality by supporting a competitive fellowship
program enabling 1,000 recent SI graduates, or present teaching staff with SI qualifications, to pursue
Master's degrees at Indonesian universities. Fellowship recipients would be bonded to teach in the 27
less-established public universities. In the longer run, the Government intends to re-examine the
incentives for attracting and retaining highly qualified people as teachers. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to carry out a comparative analysis of the remuneration and incentives
structure for university teaching staff, with a view to determining the best combination of
fellowships, increased remuneration, and/or other incentives for attracting and retaining qualified,
effective people as university teachers. Not later than October 30, 1997, the recommendations of
the comparative analysis will be furnished to the Bank for comments, and promptly thereafter,
the Government will prepare and carry out an action plan taking into account the comments of
the Bank on the recommendations.
3.9    Component 5: Project Administration (US$2.4 million). This component finances the Central
Project Coordinating Unit (CPCU). The CPCU will be responsible for monitoring and assisting the
LPIUs in implementing their respective projects and for collecting and analyzing data from the target
universities. During negotiations, the Government agreed to maintain the CPCU throughout
project implementation.
C. ALTERNATIVE PROJECT DESIGNS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
3.10   During project preparation, a number of issues related to the design and effectiveness of this
project were reviewed. These included: (a) the appropriateness of the Government's priorities in the
education sector; (b) investment altematives, and the criteria used to choose among them; (c) expected
economic returns; and (d) the appropriateness of the incentive structure built into the project design for
achieving the project's objectives.
3.11   Government Priorities in the Education Sector. The Government of Indonesia's policies
seem to be broadly appropriate. Indonesia first focused on the universal provision of primary
education, where economic retums were the greatest. It is now focusing on universalizing access to
junior secondary education, where there is also a strong economic justification for expansion.9 The
Indonesian economy is also exhibiting, however, a strong demand for higher education, evidenced by
substantial wage differentials between tertiary and non-tertiary graduates. Most of the demand is being
9  The Bank is supporting the expansion of junior-secondary education with a series of projects, of which the
first is expected to be approved in FY96.



- 17 -
met by the private sector". Recent Govemment policy in the higher education sector is undergoing a
shift toward high levels of institutional autonomy and self reliance and toward quality and relevance of
study programs in public universities. Regional comparisons suggest that Indonesia lags behind in
terms of overall investments in education and that other countries in the region are approaching OECD
quality standards.
3.12   Investment Alternatives. (i) The possibility of a sector-wide program of inputs, similar to
those used under HEDP I and HEDP It, was considered--and rejected--in view of the need to shift the
focus away from inputs and towards outputs and impact. (ii) A second altemative considered was to
assist the Government of Indonesia to undertake an overall reform of the higher education financing
system, as suggested in a Bank-commissioned paper on financing higher education in Indonesia"
This approach was, however, judged to be unimplementable at present because it would require reform
of the entire civil-service system. (iii) Another alternative discussed was to subsidize individual
demand by providing fellowships, loan schemes, or vouchers to needy students, rather than making
block grants to institutions. This alternative was considered inferior to the chosen alternative, for
several reasons. In the first place, most needy students in Indonesia drop out of the educational system
well before they reach the university, so an intervention of this sort in higher education is not yet
warranted. In the second place, whereas there may be some rationale for fellowships, subsidizing
demand without efforts to improve the attractiveness of the regional universities could result in a brain
drain towards Java, with none of the positive extemalities for regional development accruing from
efforts to upgrade the regional universities. In the third place, recent research12 concludes that before
emphasizing funding mechanisms such as vouchers, there needs to be improvement in the broad policy
environment in which universities operate. A fourth reason for rejecting the option of loan schemes is
the weakness of the financial system and the difficulties in ensuring repayment. (iv) The possibility of
including a larger number of universities in the pilot phase was considered and rejected on grounds of
cost and absorptive capacity.
3.13   Based on discussions with the Government, three changes in the original project concept for an
BEDP II follow-up project were made. It was agreed: (i) to move beyond what was done in HEDP I
and to introduce a competitive fellowship program for recent SI graduates to enhance the quality of
university teaching staff; (ii) not to include the accelerated engineering program, mainly because the
thrust of the proposed project is to encourage local institutions to make their own investment decisions,
rather than promoting expansion to meet nationally planned targets;'3 (iii) for the reasons cited in
paragraph (ii) above, not to include, in this project, support for the nationwide university library
network.
10 Although most of the incremental demand for higher education is being met by the private sector, most of the
incremental demand for science and engineering is being met by the public sector.
See Albrecht, 1994.
12  A recent publication by Ziderman and Albrecht, 1995, Financing Universities in Developina Countries
concluded that before emphasizing funding mechanisms such as vouchers and cost recovery to increase the
efficiency of higher education, there needs to be improvement in the broad policy environment in which
universities operate.
13 It is also important to note that at this time, implementation of an Asian Development Bank-financed project
to support engineering education in Indonesia has begun. Subsequent Bank-supported projects in higher
education might also fund improvements in engineering education, if needed.



- 18 -
3.14   Economic returns.  The major quantifiable benefits from  the project result from  the
investments made in the universities that are selected for funding. Until the selection process is
completed, it will not be possible to provide estimates of the economic retums based on the finalized
investment program. However, indicative returns that are likely to be close to the final retums can be
calculated, based on the information contained in the final proposals submitted by the ten universities
on the short list (Annex 3F).
3.15   Based on the information provided in these ten proposals, the estimated economic return is
24%. The details of the calculations and an analysis of the sensitivity of the estimates to the
assumptions are provided in Annex 6.
3.16   As no estimates of the positive extemalities from public investment in higher education are
available, the increase in earnings resulting from the investment is taken as a measure of the social
benefits of the investment. This increase is obtained through three effects: (a) a reduction in the time
students take to graduate; (b) a reduction in the waiting time for a job once they graduate; and (c)
increased eamings once they are employed. The largest contribution to total benefits arises from the
increased salary after employment (81 percent), followed by the benefits from reducing the time to
graduate (11 percent) and the benefits from having fewer graduates waiting for employment at any one
time (8 percent). Even though the effect of the project on the monthly eamings of any one graduate are
small (US$10), there are many graduates who would benefit. Moreover, the benefits would be
received for many years. Reducing the time needed to graduate makes a significant difference to the
total number of students who pass through the system. In 20 years, roughly seven percent more
students would graduate if the mean time to graduate were to decline from 5.75 to 5.25 years, with no
change in the number enrolled at any given time. Reducing the number of graduates waiting for
employment generates a large per graduate savings because the opportunity cost of having a potential
worker idle is substantial (roughly $1,460 per year).
3.17   System-wide effects can be expected if project investments increase not only the absolute level
of quality of the universities selected for funding, but also their quality relative to other public and
private universities. In the short run, more qualified students from less-established regions may then
go to local universities instead of to universities in Java. The expansion of their choice set results in an
unambiguous gain for the more qualified students in the less-established regions. Since places in
universities are rationed in Java, this would free up more positions for students from Java who would
otherwise have gone to private universities. Their retums to education would be expected to rise as
well, since econometric analysis suggests that the retums to public university education are roughly
nine percent higher than for private university education. Provided the reduction in time to graduate
allows the more qualified students to be absorbed into the less-established universities without
displacing students, there would be no groups that lose with the investments. However, if, because of
the rationing in public universities, less-qualified students from less-established regions must attend
private less-established universities, they would be expected to receive lower retums.
3.18   In the short to medium term, there is likely to be a supply response from the private universities
as they improve their quality in response to the improvements in quality in public universities. Part of
the improvement in quality of the private university would be obtained virtually automatically. Because
the private universities hire most of their staff as part-time lecturers drawn from public universities,
increases in the quality of public university faculty will result in increases in quality of private school
faculty.



- 19 -
3.19  Incentive Structure. The changes to the investment allocation process being introduced in the
New Paradigm and implemented in this project introduce incentives to improve quality and efficiency
that, heretofore, have been lacking. The process being followed is described in detail in Annex 3, but
the important features are described below:
1. Universities must compete for investment funds.
2. Investment proposals are prepared after a self-evaluation that must include a discussion of
program relevance, academic atmosphere, intemal management, sustainability and
efficiency. The self-evaluation also discusses the institution's strengths, weaknesses,
opportunities and threats.
3. The investment proposals must meet standards set by the Board of Higher Education.
4. Universities must contribute some of their own discretionary funds to the proposed
activities.
5. The Board of Higher Education and the Universities will agree on specific performance
indicators against which progress will be measured. The amount, timing and conditions of
future funding decisions will depend upon performance.
3.20   The beneficial effects of the incentives are heavily dependent upon the criteria which will be
used to evaluate the investment proposals and on what happens to the flow of funds from altemative
sources. Technical assistance on setting evaluation criteria and evaluating proposals has been provided
during project preparation and will continue under the project. Funding allocations from all sources
would be carefully monitored during the project to ensure that the universities that win the competition
receive more than they would have in the absence of the competition.
3.21   Although the Bank considers the institutional changes to be important, it is difficult to provide
ex ante an estimate of the expected net benefits. However, it is worth noting that any improvements in
the allocation process could have sizable retums since the total investment budget (DIP budget) for
public universities in 1995/1996 was roughly US$ 202 million. It is also worth noting that the
measures being introduced parallel some of the initiatives promoted by the Bank in its own efforts to
improve the design of projects and to ensure that the investments achieve their desired impacts.
3.22   The introduction of an accreditation system is also expected to lead to positive net benefits,
although again it is difficult to quantify them. The benefits would come through two effects. First, the
threat of not being accredited would induce both public and private universities to improve their
quality. Second, the information provided from the accreditation system could help prospective
students avoid making poor investments.
3.23   The BIHE and the BAN will pay close attention to the relation between the phasing of the
accreditation and investment programs. If standards for accreditation are set without regard for the
investments that are required to reach the standard, an excessive number of universities could be
declared substandard. This could induce students to leave or not apply to universities declared
substandard and could, thereby, harm the development of the less-established public universities.



- 20 -
D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
3.24   Organizational Structure. The Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE) under the
Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) will have overall responsibility for overseeing project
implementation. The National Accreditation Board (BAN) and the Board of Higher Education (BHE)
will be responsible for implementing their respective parts of the project. At the level of the six
individual target institutions, implementation responsibility will lie with Local Project Implementation
Units (LPIUs) which have evolved out of the University Task Forces which prepared the individual
universities' proposals. At the central level, a small Central Project Coordinating Unit (CPCU) located
within the BIHE Secretariat within DGHE will be responsible not for implementing the project, as in the
past, but only for providing training, monitoring, and technical assistance to the LPIUs. The CPCU is
de facto already established in the form of the existing Project Preparation Team within DGHE (see
Annex 7). The main relations between the DGHE and other implementing bodies are shown in Chart
1. Project implementation arrangements are described in detail in the Project Implementation Plan,
which is being circulated separately.
3.25  Implementation Schedule. The project would be implemented over about five and one half
years, as shown in Annex 7. For the six target universities, the five-year plan presented in each
winning university's proposal will be set forth in a five-year grant agreement between DGHE and the
individual university. The implementation performance of each target university would be monitored
frequently and evaluated annually, on the basis of the agreed proposal and the university's own targets
as set forth in the proposal, to determine whether the grant could be continued or even expanded, or
whether it should be delayed, reduced, or revoked, depending on the implementation performance in
the respective year.
E. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
3.26   A key feature of the project is that failure to achieve performance targets in any one year,
influences both the development strategy and the level of investment in subsequent years for each
university. As it will take some time for the investments to have an impact, over the first three years
the performance targets appearing in the grant agreements will be process indicators included to track
whether the investments are being carried out as planned. Targets will be set for each of the major
categories of activities financed under the Universities Development Program--civil works, equipment,
libraries, staff development, technical assistance, research grants, teaching grants, and project
management. The particular values of the targets can only be set once the universities to be funded are
selected and investment plans are finalized.
3.27   For the fourth and fifth years of the project, the performance targets that could trigger a
response are either directly related to impact or expected to be highly correlated with impact. Four key
project performance indicators would be used to monitor and evaluate the overall impact of the project.
To monitor quality, the BIE has developed an Institutional Benchmark Test which would be
administered annually to all students in the priority programs at the six target universities. It is expected
that by the fourth year of the project, the mean score of students taking the Benchmark Test will have
increased by 10% over the scores at the beginning of the project. To measure changes in the relative
attractiveness of the university, the scores on the National University Entrance Examination (UMFTN)
of those students enrolling in the six target universities will be compared to the scores of all students in
the respective province who take the UMPTN. If the universities could attract the relatively better
students from their own province, this would suggest that the relative attractiveness of the university
has increased.. By the end of the fourth year, the ratio of enrolled students test scores to those of all



- 21 -
students from the province should have increased by 5 percent. To monitor efficiencv, the target
universities and the CPCU would monitor the average time to graduate and the extent of dropouts. By
the fourth year of the project, the mean number of years required to graduate would be expected to
decline from 5.75 to 5.25 years. Dropouts would be measured as the percentage of those who begin
the academic year but do not complete it. By the fourth year of the project , the percentage of students
who drop out should decrease by five percent. Finally, to measure relevance, the target universities and
the CPCU will monitor mean job search time of graduates. By the fourth year, average waiting time to
employment will decline from 1.75 years to 1.5 years. Baseline information is being collected and will
be available when the universities' final proposals have been evaluated. Monitoring would be done
through the existing education monitoring system.
3.28   The time required to graduate and the waiting time to a job are directly related to the economic
rate of return (para. 3.15). Monitoring the time required to graduate is relatively inexpensive as the
data are already being collected. Monitoring the waiting time to a job is more expensive for it requires
tracer studies of graduates. The monitoring of the waiting time is justified not because it has
particularly large effect on the overall economic rate of return of the project, but because it is expected
to be correlated with the quality and relevance of the education. Previous tracer studies in Indonesia
have found that graduates in the more highly paid fields, who went to universities generally considered
higher quality, had shorter-waiting times to employment.
3.29   The major determinant of the economic rate of return is the effect of the project on earnings
once employed. The project does not use an effect on earnings as a performance target for several
reasons. First, there is no reliable way of estimating what earnings of the graduates of the university
would be in the absence of the project. In contrast to investments made in secondary education where
other schools that do not receive the investment may serve as an adequate control group, in this case
there is no adequate control group. Using the earnings of university graduates of previous years as a
control group is only legitimate if there are no significant changes in the socioeconomic conditions.
Second, even if an adequate counterfactual estimate could be constructed, the impact could not be
measured soon enough to serve as a performance target for the fourth and fifth years of the project. As
the effect of the project on earnings must be achieved through improvements in quality of the students
and improvements in allocative efficiency, the project uses the two quality indicators and the waiting
time to employment as proxies.
3.30   The performance indicators have been selected so as to minimize any possible adverse
incentive effects. For example, using the time to graduate alone as a performance indicator provides
the incentive to pass students through the system quickly, without regard to quality. Specifying
performance indicators related to quality provides a check on this incentive.  Similarly, using
performance indicators based on quality alone provides an incentive to restrict entry to the university,
perhaps to the point where there would be excess capacity. The check on this incentive is that
universities would lose tuition revenue, an important source of discretionary revenue.
3.31   The performance indicators used by the Bank to monitor impact will also be used by the Board
of Higher Education and the six target universities to monitor satisfactory progress in the investment
programs. In addition, a larger number of indicators, set forth in Annex 8, would be used during
project supervision by the CPCU and the LPIUs as well as by the Bank to monitor project
implementation performance. At the six target universities, both physical indicators (civil works
completed, equipment procured, number of fellowships awarded, etc.) and education indicators (mean
student grade point average, percent of faculty with advanced degrees, etc.) would be monitored, as
would financial and management indicators. Other indicators would be used to monitor progress in



- 22 -
establishing the BBE and making it operational, as well as following its output (e.g., production of a
long-term strategy for the higher education sector). Similarly, progress in establishing the BAN and
making it operational would be monitored, as would the number of study programs and universities
evaluated and accredited.
3.32   Annual Progress Report.  The CPCU will prepare, with the support of the BHE
Secretariat, the BAN Secretariat, and the LPIUs, annual reports at the end of every Government
fiscal year, summarizing: (a) the status of the programs being implemented by the selected less-
established universities based on the agreed indicators; (b) the activities of the BAN based on the
agreed input, process, and output indicators; (c) summaiy activities of the BIHE, including information
on the agreed indicators; (d) implementation progress and problems during the preceding year; and (e)
a revised implementation plan for the following year, setting out the measures recommended to ensure
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of project objectives during the following
year. During negotiations, the Government agreed to prepare such annual reports under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank and to furnish them to the Bank by June 30 of each year,
beginning June 30, 1997, and until completion of the project.
3.33   Mid-Term Review. In addition to the annual reports, the Secretariat of the BHE, assisted by
the CPCU, would prepare a mid-term review of the project. This review would integrate the results of
project monitoring and evaluation activities, including progress achieved in implementing the project,
and would set out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the project and the
achievement of project objectives during the remaining life of the project. The Mid-Term Review
would include, inter alia, (a) an assessment of the effectiveness of the BAN and its activities and (b)
the progress of the six target universities in carrying out their individual proposals.  During
negotiations, the Government agreed to carry out, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, such a mid-term review, to prepare and furnish to the Bank a report on the review on or
about June 30, 1999, to review the report with the Bank on or about September 30, 1999, and to
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement
of project objectives, based on the conclusion and recommendations of the report and the
Bank's views on the matter.
3.34  Implementation Completion Report. At the completion of the project, the Secretariat of the
BIE, assisted by the CPCU and the LPIUs, would compile an Implementation Completion Report
within six months of the closing date of the loan. This report will summarize, among other things, (a)
program activities in terms of input, process and output indicators for all project components; (b)
assessment of BAN effectiveness; (c) the project financial status; and (d) implementation issues and
recommendations.
3.35   Supervision Plan. The proposed supervision plan is set forth in Annex 9. Bank Resident
Staff in Indonesia (RSI) would provide day-to-day liaison with the CPCU and LPIUs and would help
resolve problems requiring immediate Bank action. Bank supervision missions from headquarters,
with RSI participation, would be conducted twice a year. It is anticipated that Bank involvement in
supervision will be straightforward because the CPCU will undertake continuous and detailed
supervision of the LPIUs' activities, which will include frequent site visits, training, and technical
assistance. Bank supervision missions will review this process, with visits to each of the six less-
established universities once a year.



- 23 -
F. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION
3.36    At the central level, the Project Preparation Team  consists of faculty members from  selected
public universities and is headed by the Dean of the Faculty of Computer Sciences at the University of
Indonesia. The team includes several officials who have had extensive experience in previous Bank-
assisted projects; these people have been selected to occupy key implementation posts in the CPCU for
the proposed project. At the university level, each of the six target universities has designated key
members of its Task Force to be the core of the university's LPIU. University administrators, teaching
staff, and students, as well as provincial and local government officials and other stakeholders are fully
aware of the shift in higher education policy, due to their participation in workshops conducted during
project preparation.
4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. COSTS
4.1     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$102.1 million equivalent (Rp 229.2 billion),
including physical and price contingencies. Table 4.1 summarizes the estimated cost by project
component. Detailed costs by year, purpose and component are provided in Annex 11.
Table 4.1: Summary of Project Costs by Component
%      / Total
Rp billion                   USS nillion          Foreign    Baseline
Component        Local    Foreign   Total       Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange    Cost
Universities Developmnent Program    61.1  81.0    142.1     27.2      36.1    63.3        57        69
Institutional Capacity Building
in Higher Education         10.5       3.7      14.2         4.7      1.7      6.4       26          7
Imnplementation of National
Accreditation Systen for    19.4       3.0     22.4          8.7      1.3    10.0        13         11
Higher Education
Competitive Domestic Fellowship    20.1  2.2     22.3         8.9       1.0     9.9        10         11
Program
Project Management             5.0      0.5       5.5         2.2      0.2      2.4        9          3
TotalBaselineCostsa/         116.1     90.4    206.5         51.7     40.3    92.0         44        100
Physical Contingencies         1.9      2.6       4.5         0.9      1.1      2.0       57          2
Price Contingencies           14.0      4.2      18.2         6.2       1.9     8.1       23          9
Total Project Costs a/       132.0     97.2    229.2         58.8      43.3   102.1        42        III
a/ Includes identifiable duties and taxes of USS4.4 million equivalent.
4.2     Bases of Cost Estimates. Baseline costs are estimated at February 1996 prices.  Costs for
international and domestic consultants are in line with recent education projects for appropriately
qualified experts. Unit costs for domestic fellowships range from US$4,000 to US$5,400 per staff-
year for long-term programs. Costs of overseas training and fellowships range from US$12,500 per
visit for short-term training to US$27,000 per staff-year for long-term programs. Operational costs are
consistent with current government practices and recent education projects. The size of each university
development grant program was estimated based on the grant proposals submitted by target
universities, which were based on individual universities' strategic plans.



- 24 -
4.3    Contingency Allowances. Project costs include a contingency allowance of US$10.1 million
equivalent, 11 percent of the baseline costs, for unforeseen physical conditions and for estimated price
increases. Physical contingencies (US$2.0 rnillion equivalent) represent about 2 percent and price
contingencies (US$8.1 million equivalent) about 9 percent of baseline costs. Price contingencies have
been calculated at 6 percent per year for local costs and at 2.4 percent for foreign costs for all
categories.
4.4    Foreign Exchange Costs.  Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$43.3 million
equivalent, representing 42 percent of total project costs and are based on the following percentages:
(a) international consultants and visiting scholars, overseas training and fellowships, equipment, and
books and journals - 80 percent; (b) civil works - 30 percent; (c) local consultants and visiting scholars,
and local training and fellowships - 10 percent; and (e) recurrent costs - 0 percent.
4.5    Taxes and Duties. Identifiable taxes and duties are estimated at Rp. 9.2 billion (US$4.4
million equivalent) based on the current 10 percent value added tax on all contracts for goods and
works.
B. FINANCING PLAN
4.6    The total project cost of US$102.1 million equivalent would be financed by a proposed loan of
US$65.0 million equivalent, covering 67 percent of total project costs excluding taxes (100 percent of
foreign and 37 percent of local expenditures) as shown in Table 4.2 below. The Government would
finance from its annual budget the remaining costs of US$37.1 million equivalent including taxes (36
percent of total project costs including taxes or 33 percent of total project costs excluding taxes).
Table 4.2: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Government                          IBRD
of       IBRD      Total        Share
Category of Expenditure      Indonesia                           (%)
Universities Development Grants      17.3       50.8      68.1          75
Civil Works                           0.1        0.4       0.5           80
Equipment                             0.2        0.7       0.9           80
Domestic Fellowships                  5.6        5.6      11.2           50
Non-Degree Training:
Overseas                             0.0       1.8        1.8         100
Domestic                             0.8       0.8        1.6          50
Studies                               0.0        1.6       1.6          100
Consultants' Services                 0.3        1.1       1.4           80
Project Management                    1.1        1.1       2.2           50
Incremental Recurrent Costs          10.6        0.0      10.6            0
Unallocated                           1.1        1.1       2.2
Total                  37.1       65.0      102.1          64



- 25 -
4.7    Incremental Recurrent Costs. Incremental recurrent costs are additional costs associated
with the BHE, the BAN, the Secretariats to the two bodies, and the new or enlarged study programs at
the target universities, which are expected to continue their functions beyond the project lifetime. It is
expected that incremental recurrent costs will account for less than 70/o of total investment costs and
that they will be easily sustainable from the MOEC's budget. All the project-related incremental
recurrent costs would be financed by the Government in order to ensure sustainability.
C. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
4.8     Procurement of goods, services and works under the proposed project would be carried out by
the Central Project Coordination Unit (CPCU) located within the Directorate General of Higher
Education (DGHE) and by the individual Local Project Inplementation Units (LPIU) located in the
target universities. In the CPCU; three experienced staff would be in charge of implementing
procurement activities. The loan proceeds would be used to finance the Universities Development
Grants and procurement of works, goods and services under the project. Procurement of works and
goods would be done in accordance with the Bank's 'Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and Credits" (dated January 1995 and revised in January 1996).  Procurement arrangements are
summarized in Table 4.3 and described below:
Table 4.3: Procurement
(US$ million)
Total Cost
Category of Expenditure         Procurement Procedures                    Including
NCB         Other /a        NBF        Contingencies
Universities Development Grants                      70.1                           70.1
(51.9)                         (51.9)
Degree and Non-degree Training                       14.7                           14.7
(8.2)                          (8.2)
Consultants' Services and Studies                    3.0                            3.0
(2.7)                          (2.7)
Office Equipment                         0.7         0.3                             1.0
(0.5)       (0.2)                          (0.7)
Civil Works                              0.5                                         0.5
(0.4)                                       (0.4)
Project Management                                    2.2                            2.2
(1.1)                          (1.1)
Incremental Recunent Costs                                          10.6            10.6
(0.0)          (0.0)
Total                                    1.2         90.3           10.6           102.1
(0.9)      (64.1)          (0.0)          (65.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts fuianced by the Bank.
N.B.F. - Not Bank Financed.
/a Includes selection of Universities Development Grant awardees in accordance with the criteria and procedures agreed with
the Bank, selection of fellows and their placement following the criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank, selection of
consultants in accordance with the Bank's guidelines, national shopping for office equipment, and project management
following the goverunent's administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank. The Universities Development Grants may incur
procurement of goods through ICB, NCB, shopping, and direct contracting.



- 26 -
(a)   Universities Development Grants (estimated total value: US$70.1 million equivalent,
including contingencies). The grant proposals submitted by the eligible universities
have been evaluated by an independent peer panel appointed by the DGHE and the
selection was made on a competitive basis, in accordance with the procedures and
selection criteria agreed by the Bank. The format of the draft grant agreements has
been reviewed and agreed by the Bank. Separate grant agreements would be signed
between CPCU and the target universities. Each grant agreement would specify that
the target university shall comply with any applicable procurement guidelines of the
Bank for the procurement of works, goods and services, and shall at all times exercise
such responsibility. The grant agreements could cover the financing of civil works,
management, overseas and domestic fellowships, overseas and domestic visiting
scholars, equipment, scientific literature and consumables. Each target university
would be responsible for the procurement of all goods, services and works included in
its grant agreement with CPCU. To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost US$250,000 equivalent or more
each. Target universities would submit procurement plans for goods, services and
works to be purchased as part of their annual review. These procurement plans would
be reviewed by the CPCU specialists/panel of experts. The CPCU would provide
guidance and advice, monitor the procurement activities periodically at target
universities, and ensure that the agreed procurement procedures are adhered to by the
target universities. In addition, technical audits (para. 4.13) will be carried out by
independent experts annually to ensure that the agreed procurement procedures are
adhered to by the target universities, and the findings of these technical audits will be
reported to the Bank.
(b)   Fellowships and Training (estimated total value: US$14.7 million equivalent, including
contingencies). Fellowships would be awarded to candidates on the basis of individual
applications as evaluated by CPCU/BHE in accordance with the criteria and
procedures agreed with the Bank. Training contracts with local training providers
would be in accordance with Government administrative procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
(c)   Office Equipment (computers, copying machines, etc.) for the National Accreditation
Board, the Board of Higher Education, and Project Coordination Unit (estimated total
value: US$1.0 million equivalent, including contingencies). Because of the small
package size in terms of value and quantity, office equipment would be procured
through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank.
National shopping would be used for equipment contracts estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$300,000 equivalent, with
quotations from at least three suppliers.
(d)   Civil Works (estimated  total value: US$0.5  million  equivalent, including
contingencies). Renovation of BHE and BAN offices would be awarded through NCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(e)   Consultants' Services and Studies (estimated total value: US$3.0 million equivalent.
including contingencies) include auditing and training specialists to assist BHE, BAN,
and the CPCU in project implementation and development of new paradigm, and



- 27 -
visiting scholars to provide academic expertise to universities and policy studies. The
consultants would be selected and contracted in accordance with Bank Guidelines for
Use of Consultants. All consultancy contracts would use the Bank's standard forms of
contract for consultants.
(f)    Project Management (estimated total value: US$2.2 million equivalent, including
contingencies) which includes expenditures by the CPCU for administration costs,
including honoraria, consumable materials, and travel would be met following
government administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.9    Bank Review. One of the explicit objectives of the project is to help strengthen the capability
of the Board of Higher Education to select and award educational development and university research
grants on the basis of agreed criteria and procedures, as well as to develop management capability of
regional universities. The Bank's prior review requirements are intended to monitor the selection and
award process, and the adherence to the agreed procedures by the awarded universities, rather than
review the details of individual activities. Review of procurement activity by the Bank would be
conducted as follows:
(a)    All contracts for goods estimated to cost US$250,000 or more per contract, the first
contract for civil works by each of the target universities, the first contract for civil
works under Components II and 111, the first contract for goods over US$50,000
under Components II and m, and Universities Development Grant agreements would
be subject to prior review. Roughly 80% of the contracts will be subject to prior
review, including procurement under the Universities Development Grants which will
be reviewed as part of review and approval process of Grant applications. Other
contracts will be subject to random post review. The CPCU will closely monitor
implementation progress under the grant agreements, in particular, universities'
adherence to the agreed procurement procedures and report to the Bank semi-annually.
Bank supervision missions and RSI staff will carry out post-review of various
procurement activities under the project. In addition, technical audits (para 4.13) will
be undertaken by independent experts, on an annual basis, to ensure, inter alia, that the
agreed procurement procedures under the Grant agreements are adhered to by the
target universities; the technical audit reports will be sent to the Bank.
(b)   All individual consultant contracts costing more than US$50,000 and contracts for
consulting firms costing more than US$100,000 would be subject to prior review.
Other consultants' contracts would be subject to random post review. However, all
terms of reference and single-source selection of consultants would be subject to prior
review. Other contracts would be subject to random post review.
(c)    Annual training plans for both overseas and domestic for each year would be furnished
as part of the annual report for review and discussion with the Bank;



- 28 -
D. DISBURSEMENTS
4.10   The proposed loan of US$65.0 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period of six
years (Annex 12). Disbursements are expected to be completed by September 30, 2002, the Loan
Closing Date. The disbursement schedule is based on the implementation schedule and the
disbursement profile for education projects in Indonesia. It is somewhat faster than the present profile
reflecting the readiness of this project and the past implementation experience of DGHE. Agreements
with six target universities would be for five years. Although the target universities at present lack
experience in dealing with the Bank, they do have experience in undertaking procurement and other
aspects of project implementation, and the incentive for them to learn rapidly--the possibility that they
will lose the grant money to competitor universities if it is not spent according to plan--is very high.
Disbursements estimated for FY97 are based on the proposed initial deposit into the project Special
Account and replenishment. Disbursements would be made as shown in Table 4.4.
Table 4.4: Disbursements
Amount           % of expenditures
Category               (USS million)      to be financed
(1)    Civil works                0.4            80% of total expenditures
not included under (5)
(2)    Goods                      0.7             100% of foreign expenditures,
not included under (5)                  100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and 65% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)    Training
not included under (5):
(a) Domestic               0.8            50%/0 of total expenditures
(b) Overseas               1.8            100% of total expenditures
(4)    Domestic fellowships       5.6             50% of total expenditures
not included under (5)
(5)    Universities Grants       50.8            75% of Grant amount
(6)    Studies not included       1.6             100% of total expenditures
under (5)
(7)    Project Management         1. 1            50% of total expenditures
(8)    Consultant' services not   1.1             80% of total expenditures
included under (5)
(9)    Unallocated                1.1
TOTAL                     65.0
4.11   Disbursements from the loan proceeds for the following contracts and agreements would be
made against full documentation: (a) contracts for goods costing more than US$250,000; and (b)
consultants' services with individual consultants costing more than US$50,000 and consulting firm
contracts costing more than US$100,000. All other disbursements would be made against statements



- 29 -
of expenditures (SOE) for which relevant documents would be retained by responsible agencies and
made available for review as requested by visiting Bank missions. To facilitate disbursements, a
Special Account in an amount up to US$5.0 million would be established at the Bank Indonesia or a
state commercial bank, to be used by DGHE under the direction of the Director General of the Budget,
Ministry of Finance, following established procedures. The proposed Special Account would be used
for all foreign and local expenditures. Replenishment to the Special Account would be made on a
monthly basis or whenever the outstanding balance is less than 80 percent of the initial deposit,
whichever comes first.
E. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
4.12  DGHE will establish separate project accounts for all project expenditures to be maintained in
accordance with sound accounting practices. Accounts and documentation supporting the Statement of
Expenditures and Special Account are to be maintained separately by DG Budget, MOF. The CPCU
will prepare a consolidated financial statement covering all project expenditures. The financial
statement will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit report will contain
a separate opinion by the auditors on the statement of expenditures used as a basis for disbursement.
Certified copies of the financial statement on the project for each Government fiscal year, together with
the auditors' statement, will be furnished to the Bank as soon as available, but not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year. During negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that the
project accounts, including the special account and SOEs, will be audited annually by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank and audit reports are to be furnished to the Bank within six months of
the end of the Government's fiscal year.
4.13  Technical Audits. To ensure accountability to the Government, the Bank, the academic
community, and the general public, a technical audit (Annex 13) of the various project
components will be carried out annually, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, and the technical
audit report will be furnished to the Bank not later than June 30 of each year. The technical
audit will be carried out by an independent consultant with no association with the project and
possessing specialists with expertise in (i) management and award of development grant programs; (ii)
university administration and finance; (iii) university accreditation; and (iv) graduate fellowship
programs. The goal of the technical audit is to provide an independent and impartial assessment of the
quality and adequacy of procedures and processes employed by the BHE and the BAN Secretariats and
the six target universities under the proposed project. For the BIHE, the audit team will examine the
efficiency and effectiveness with which the BIHE selected awardees, made awards, and monitored and
evaluated the implementation of the university grants under the project. In addition, the audit team will
examine whether BHE's personnel are performring as reported and whether equipment and facilities
available for the BHE Secretariat operations are adequate, as well as being used as reported. For the
BAN, the audit team will examine (I) the development of accreditation practices and procedures and
(ii) the timelines of the accreditation of selected academic fields and institutions. For the individual
universities, the technical audit will include a sample check of documentation for award as well as
selected site visits (about two per year) to check physical reality against the most recent report
submitted to the BEE Secretariat and compliance with accounting, procurement, and reporting
guidelines. The technical audit for the Domestic Fellowship component will include a sample check of
the selection process and the progress made by the selected candidates.



- 30-
5. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
5.1   The benefits from the project-supported phased implementation of the New Paradigm are
expected to be substantial. At the institutional level, the project is expected to have an economic rate of
return of 24% (para 3.16), arising from improvements at the six selected target universities in (a)
education quality, resulting in increased earnings for graduates, (b) the efficiency of teaching/learning
processes, resulting in a reduction in the time students take to graduate, and (c) the relevance of study
programs and curricula, resulting in a reduction in the time graduates must wait until they obtain
employment. Mean job search time is expected to decrease as individual institutions of higher
education foster relationships with local businesses and industries to improve the relevance of their
offerings, and as they restructure themselves to supply graduates in fields demanded by local
stakeholders. The project is therefore expected to contribute to regional development in the areas
surrounding the six target universities. Expected benefits of the sector-wide components include (d)
improved education qualitv throughout the higher-education system, as institutions respond to the
evaluation and accreditation process, as they undertake self-evaluation and compete for funds and
teaching staff, and as they have access to a larger pool of better-qualified teaching staff, (e) improved
efficiency as institutions acquire the responsibility and accountability for their use of resources and
therefore undertake evaluation and planning designed to improve their efficiency, and (f) increased
relevance, as the center increasingly focuses scarce resources on highest-priority needs and programs.
By raising the quality of university graduates, the project as a whole is expected to help Indonesia
compete in the international marketplace.
B. RISKS
5.2   Five risks have been identified in this project. A first risk is that the central Government may
be unwilling to implement the New Paradigm fully, i.e., it may be unwilling to devolve resources and
the responsibility for planning and implementation to the university level. This risk is considered
minimal, since during project preparation, substantial progress was made in building ownership of the
New Paradigm, both at the level of the central Government and at the level of the stakeholders. A
second risk is that funds made available from other sources would subvert the competitive allocation
mechanism introduced in this project. This risk would be mitigated because the BHE is committed to
the New Paradigm and will closely monitor. future funding decisions. A third risk is that the
accreditation process may be too ambitious for the newly established BAN to carry out in a meaningful
way, such that the results will be discredited. This risk will be minimized through careful planning and
a phasing in of the accreditation process as capacity is developed to carry out critical evaluations. A
fourth risk is that bottom-up planning, where individual universities determine what courses and
programs of study they will offer, may be incompatible with national requirements. This risk is also
considered to be minimal, since it is expected that universities will become progressively more
sophisticated in reading market signals and in determining their course offerings accordingly. A fifth
risk is that the six selected universities will not be able to implement their proposals adequately, since
they will be responsible for tasks which heretofore have been the responsibility of the center. This risk
would be mitigated through the provision by the Central Project Coordinating Unit of timely training
and technical assistance in all the various aspects of implementation, including procurement,
accounting, monitoring, and reporting.



- 31 -
5.3   Simulations presented in Annex 6 provide some indication of how failure to achieve the
performance targets would affect the estimated economic rate of return. Delaying all benefits by three
years would result in an economic rate of return of 14 percent. Achieving all other targets, while
making no progress in reducing the waiting time to employment, would result in an economic rate of
return of 20 percent. Achieving all targets but the reduction in time to graduate would result in an
economic rate of return of 21 percent.
C. SUSTAINABILITY
5.4   Financial Sustainability. At the level of individual institutions, the project introduces a new
measure to improve sustainability of investment inputs through the requirement that universities
develop their own investment proposals based on their institutional development plans and their ability
to sustain the proposed investments from their own self-generated resources. The guidelines used by
the six target universities in the preparation of their proposals explicitly limited the total amount that
could be requested by each individual university, based on that university's projections of self-
generated income (the budget on which the sustainability of the investment will depend). The project is
therefore expected to be sustainable, in terms of each target university's ability to sustain the
investment made. At the sector level, as the New Paradigm is phased in, all institutions of higher
education in Indonesia wilH be required to compete for resources--and to suffer the consequences of
bad planning. This should result in more realistic planning which is more likely to be sustained in the
long run.
5.5   Institutional Sustainabilitv. In terms of institutional sustainability, commitment to the New
Paradigm is evident among all stakeholders. Decision-makers at the center have already begun to
promulgate the legal framework for the New Paradigm and are moving towards a more rational
system for allocating resources. If for any reason the commitment among these decision-makers at the
center to moving towards a more decentralized system were to wane, the sheer size and complexity of
Indonesia's higher-education system would force continued movement in the direction of
decentralization. At the university level, the ten universities invited to undertake self-evaluation and
prepare proposals expressed enormous enthusiasm about the process and  believed that their
educational mandate was far more likely to be achieved successfully in the future, since they were now
involved in planning that mandate.
D. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
5.6   The proposed has an environmental rating of 'C'" no project activity is expected to have
adverse effects on the environment. There is potential for positive effects on environmental education
and research through improved scientific capacities in the selected universities and through the linkages
of study program development to regional and national needs related to economically sustainable.
E. IMPACT ON WOMEN
5.7   In 1992, women constituted 36% of undergraduates and 46% of diploma-program students,
with increasing proportions of women among the new intake every year. Research on gender has
shown that women face difficulties in attending universities far from their homes and families and that



- 32 -
there are higher forgone costs associated with educating females. This project will provide quality
higher education close to home and with greater efficiency, thereby reducing these constraints.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1   During negotiations, assurances were obtained that (a) the Governnent will provide grants to
target universities in accordance with procedures and on conditions agreed with the Bank (para. 3.3),
(b) the Governnent will implement the Universities Development component according to the
implementation plan furnished the Bank (para 3.4), (c) the grant agreements between the target
universities and the CPCU will include a requirement that the BHE prepare and monitor baseline and
target indicators and recommend to DGHE any ameliorative actions (paras. 3.4 and 3.6), (d) the
Government will maintain the BiE and its Secretariat in accordance with terms of reference, staffing,
and resources acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.6), (e) the Government will implement the BAN
component according to the guidelines, plans, and terms of reference provided to the Bank (para. 3.7),
(f) the current remuneration and incentive structure for university teaching staff will be analyzed and
the comments and recommendations of the analysis will be furnished to the Bank by October 30, 1997
(para. 3.8), (g) the Government will maintain, throughout implementation, a CPCU (para. 3.9), (h) by
June 30 each year, the CPCU will furnish an annual report for the Bank's review (para. 3.32), (i) the
Governnent will carry out a mid-term review on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank by
September 30, 1999 (para. 3.33), G) training contracts with local training providers will be in
accordance with Government administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.8), and (k) by
June 30 of each year, the CPCU will furnish to the Bank a technical audit report (para. 4.13).
6.2   Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$65.0
million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of five
years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate for currency pool loans.



- 33 -
ANNEXES






Annex 1
-35-                           Page I of 6
INDONESLIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
Data on The Higher Education Sector
Table 1: Student Enrollment in Higher Education
by Type of Institution 1984-1994
('000)
Type       | 1984    1985    1986   1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993           1994
S1
Public        399     448    417    448       427      435      433      433      428      436      445
Private       416     474     571    677      725      811      853      994     1004    1078      1170
Service'      na      na       na     na       na       na      116      143      110      115      120
Total SI                                                        1402    1571     1542    1629    1734
Diploma
Public      75      82      86      89       89       84       74      64       80       86       91
Private     na       na      na     na       na       199     223      248     269      300      325
Technical    na       na      na      na      na       na        16      19       16      20       26
Total   I__I I                         _         I__          312     331      365      405     442
Source: Directorate General of Higher Education. 1996. Developmentfor Undergraduate Education: Project
Proposal Document and University of Indonesia data. Note: "na" signifies data not available. Figures have been
rounded.
Table 2: Projected Enrollment Data on Indonesian Higher Education 2000-2020
(in '000)
2000    2005    2010    2015    2020
Public Sector Enrollment
Engineering             140      215     300      390      487
Other Science2          100      120      141     201      273
Social Sci &Humanities    340    350     375      385      400
Total                    580      690      820     980     1,160
Private Sector
Enrollment
Engineering             399      510     620      789      928
Other Science           258      360     414      473      608
Social Science         1,690    2,130    2,413    2,683    3,109
&Huranities
Total                   2,350    3,000    3,450    3,950    4,650
Teaching Staff
Public Institutions
Total                    62      73       87      104      123
S2 and S3               30       37       na       na      na
Private Institutions
Total                    76      97       na       na      na
S2 and S3                12      15       na       na      na
Source: University of Indonesia. Note: "na" indicates that estimated figures are not available.
IHigher education administered by other relevant Ministries
2 Also includes agriculture and health sciences.



INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
Table 3: Public and Private Resources and Unit Costs for 51 Public Higher Education Institutions
Institution           Enrollment        DIK 95/96       DRK 95/96        OPF 95/96       DIP 95/96       Unit Cost
D3     Si        (Rp. 1,000)      (Rp. 1,000)     (Rp. 1,000)     (Rp. 1,000)     (Rp. 1,000)
STKIP Gorontalo          99        766       5,478,846       798,483         366,697          1,659,343       7,815
ASTI Bandung             280       165       1,629,828       1,047,432       150,793         1,116,040        6,531
Inst. Pertanian Bogor     1,503    6,334     16,224,148      26,370,954      2,850,272       24,298,050       6,016
Inst. Teknologi Bandung  4,492     9,406     17,959,075      57,032,673      3,368,447       65,218,773       5,967
ASKI Padang Panjang       330      0         1,445,529       123,315         188,351          1,275,928       5,595
STSI Denpasar            0         497       1,648,425       355,075         384,897         2,102,798        5,102
Inst. Seni Indonesia     2         1,915    6,728,532        966,036         354,205         2,818,235        4,302
Inst. Tekn. Sepuluh Nop.  1,284    6,446     10,439,963      14,290,575      2,185,993       26,282,993       3,717
STSI Surakarta           282       683      2,503,589        370,454         252,949          1,920,744       3,380
Univ Cenderawasih        1,075    3,855     12,527,373       1,712,373       1,298,060       12,259,849      3,326
Univ Bengkulu            465       3,000    8,606,081        1,845,493       633,515         4,539,870        3,293
Uni Indonesia            4,940     12,915    25,816,340      26,435,009      3,526,523        10,713,116      3,167
IKIP Surabaya            889       5,338     12,439,636      5,314,270       1,151,034       5,216,884        3,070
Univ Brawijaya            1,531    9,235    ,12,999,826      15,026,149      2,883,133        12,363,262      2,951
STKIP Singaraja          570       1,652    5,616,742        595,065         159,484         1,432,662        2,913
IKIP Padang               1,415    6,237     13,927,642      5,671,605       1,220,881       4,055,887        2,745
IKIP Manado               1,026    3,846     10,529,989      1,439,976       918,681         5,340,014        2,722
Univ Airlangga           2,048     8,896     17,344,285      8,271,517       1,637,341       11,863,055       2,566
Univ Padjadjaran         2,725     14,104    20,942,976      19,100,678      1,802,116       15,718,410       2,552
Univ San Ratulangi       1,151    8,943     12,933,139       9,401,759       2,122,332       7,801,921       2,477
Univ Gadjah Mada          1,887    18,656    24,537,227      21,208,005      2,974,661       17,404,713       2,431
Univ Mulawarman          2,255     4,196     10,139,864      3,095,315       1,839,919       4,331,038        2,384
Univ Jambi               796       5,180    9,849,393        3,197,065       905,666         4,153,457       2,249
Univ Andalas              1,147    9,466     13,029,684      7,282,393       2,962,010       5,605,667        2,230                x
Univ Palangkaraya        4,932    844       8,711,325       2,681,985        1,980,486       3,605,945       2,205                 _
Univ Mataram             571       5,546    9,730,083       2,326,140        857,927         6,091,805       2,180
IKIP Bandung              1,807    8,672     15,902,283      4,822,925       1,640,043       4,366,932        2,163



INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
Univ Udayana              658      9,859     15,012,340       5,234,366       2,218,723        3,369,603       2,159
IKIP Malang               1,193    6,751     11,051,211       3,645,600       1,244,937        4,455,384       2,046
Univ Jember               1,522    6,814     10,703,728       4,137,951       1,789,578        4,664,148       2,034
IKIP Yogyakarta           498       8,755    11,775,765       5,808,459       819,187          4,499,380       2,023
Univ Lampung              1,445     7,112    10,594,447       4,818,301       1,345,735       4,395,543        1,995
IKIP Ujung Padang         1,152     5,958    10,837,640       2,087,516       955,696          2,819,036       1,979
IKIP Jakarta              1,895    8,079     12,849,660      4,349,231        1,407,407        14,007,214      1,964
Univ Sumatera Utara       3,575     14,382    17,233,911      14,345,731      3,210,791        4,906,387       1,957
IKIP Medan                1,753    7,247     12,653,175       3,511,170       1,070,016       4,731,156        1,952
Univ Hasanauddin          2,022     15,941    15,862,353      14,707,920      3,480,037       9,009,842        1,931
Univ Sriwijaya            1,630    9,883     13,315,995       5,998,685       2,440,134        3,139,481       1,909
Univ Jenderal Soedirman   1,798    6,831     9,349,472       5,348,892        1,292,762       5,193,601        1,895
Univ Haluoleo             652      6,181     7,502,528       3,136,353        1,240,071       8,322,612        1,826
Univ Tadulako             1,241    5,701     8,452,238       2,101,678        1,175,907        7,472,474       1,765
Univ Nusa Cendana         651      6,462     8,885,212       1,712,355        3,546,295       5,651,070        1,763
Univ Lambung Mangkurat    1,264    7,396     11,423,326      2,069,571        1,544,191       7,269,994        1,753
IKIP Semerang             1,876    7,355     11,154,389       2,874,606       1,302,416        5,452,546       1,702
Univ Riau                 1,036    9,711     10,850,658      6,864,379        1,034,778       4,003,254        1,696
Univ Tanjungpura          941      7,539     9,132,176       2,952,228        1,643,801       5,756,820        1,666
Univ Syiah Kuala          4,544    8,786     12,906,734       4,572,193       2,339,052       26,030,147       1,623
Univ Diponegoro           4,320     14,360    14,233,439      10,413,739      2,979,186        21,923,963      1,561
Univ aulimura             996      8,932     9,708,857       2,649,262        1,477,085       6,750,262        1,441
Univ Sebelas Maret        293      16,828    14,618,828      7,223,019        1,779,205       4,697,167        1,399
Univ Terbuka              10,251    68,930    12,331,656     45,391,126       710,524          1,122,688       739
Note: Unit Cost = (DIK+DRK+OPF+7%DIP)/(SI+D3)                    DIK = Routine Budget
Source: Moeliodihardjo, 1995. University of Indonesia            DRK = Budget from fees and income generation by public institutions
CD
Italicized entries are the 17 less established universities      OFP = Operation and Maintenance Budget
DIP = Development Budget                                0D



-38-                                   Annex I
Page 4 of 6
INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
Table 4: Twenty-Six Public Polytechnics
Polytechnic      Location        Number of         Number of Staff  Programs
Students                          Offered
ITB              Bandung          1548             98               E C    D3
POLMAN           Bandung          D2 197 D3 190   90                E
UI               Jakarta          1788              172             E C      D3
UNDIP            Semarang         1788              211             E C      D3
UNIBRAW          Malang           1474              203             E C      D3
UNSRI            Palembang        1449              150             E C     D3
USU              Medan            1816              166             E C     D3
UNAND            Padang           850               136             E   D2
UNSYIAH          Lhoksemawe       795               129             E C      D3
UNHAS            Ujung Pandang    1271              104             E C
UNUD             Denpasar         D2 332 D3 818    174              E C
UNMUL            Samarinda        D2 438 D3 48     72               E C
UNTAN            Pontianak        273              25               E   D2
UNLAM            Banjarmasin      287                               E   D2
UNSRAT           Manado           1609             66_              E C D2
UNPAT-TI         Ambon            341              24               E    D2
UNDANA           Kupang           242               11              E    D2
Dili             Dili             278               18              E    D2
ITS (Elect)      Surabaya        409               38               E         D3
ITS (Ship)       Surabaya        424               34               E         D3
UNANDLAS         Payakumbuh       540              66               A         D3
UNLAM            Lampung          491              71               A         D3
UNEJ             Jember           502               71              A         D3
UNMUL            Samarinda        373               32              A         D3
UNHAS            Ujung Pandang    438              42               A         D3
UNCEN            Kupang           413              48               A         D3
E=engineering              D3=3 year diploma
C=commerce                 D2=2 year diploma
A=agriculture



-39-                                     Annex 1
Page 5 of 6
INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
Table 5: Qualifications of Teaching Staff at Public & Private Universities
Public Universities        Private Universities
Si       S2/S3     Total    Si      S2/S3     Total
Engineering             4,469    1,781    6,250   7,384   1,002       8,386
Science                 1,773   1,468    3,241   2,343    330         2,673
Agriculture             4,368   3,282    7,668   2,464    661         3,125
Health                  2,651    1,548    4,199     852    284         1,136
Total Science Based    13,279   8,079   21,358  13,043   2,277        15,320
Social                  9,050   3,029   12,079  20,758   2,307       23,065
Education              10,580   2,718   13,298   6,255    471         6,726
Total Social Based     19,630   5,747   25,377  27,013   2,778        29791
Grand Total'           32,909  13,826   46,735  40,056   5,055       45,111
%                ~~~35.8%   15.1%    50.9%   43.6%    5.5%      49.1%
Source: Ministry of Education and Culture
lIncludes SPI and SP2 degrees (advanced degrees in selected professional fields).



INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
Table 6: Employment by Level of Education
Employment by Level of       Less than      Primary             High School                        Tertiary Education                    Total
Education                     Primary                      Junior        Senior         1-2 yrs college   3 yrs college   University
Census 1980
Labor Force                   35,116,186    11,143,005     2,708,545       3,018,002                       225,938        199,166         52,410,842
Employed                      34,656,381    10,943,948     2,631,488       2,893,563                       221,383        196,181         51,542,944
Unemployed                       459,805      199,057         77,057        124,439                          4,555          2,985           867,898
% Unemployed                       1.3%          1.8%          2.8%            4.1%                           2.0%           1.5%              1.7%
Census 1985
Labor Force                   35,253,516    17,496,160     4,607,609      5,627,114         168,501        329,792        342,923        63,825,615
Employed                      35,050,222    17,233,071     4,401,470      4,975,731         164,093        306,512        326,039        62,457,138    o
Unemployed                       203,294      263,089        206,139        651,383           4,480         23,280         16,884          1,368,477
% Unemployed                       0.6%          1.5%          4.5%           11.6%            2.6%           7.1%            4.9              2.1%
Census 1990
Labor Force                   33,062,105    23,312,378     6,780,166      9,006,080         302,063        584,117        866,041        73,912,950
Employed                      32,624,886    22,710,609     6,433,319      8,165,636         288,351        547,918        798,514        71,569,233
Unemployed                      437,219       601,769        346,847        840,444          13,712         36,199         67,527         2,343,717
% Unemployed                       1.3%         2.6%           5.1%            9.3%           4.5%            6.2%           7.8%             3.2%
Census 1994
Labor Force                   29,150,489    31,497,742     9,979,772      12,627,235        362,371        999,254       1,158,770       85,775,633
Employed                      28,923,766    30,736,528     9,352,542      10,814,028        330,565        893,777        986,903        82,038,109
Unemployed                       226,723      761,214        627,230       1,813,207         31,806        105,477        171,867          3,737,524
% Unemployed                       0.8%          2.4%          6.3%           14.4%            8.8%          10.6%          14.8%              4.4%
Proportion by Education
Labor Force                       34.0%        36.7%           11.6%          14.7%            0.4%           1.2%           1.4%            100.0%
Employed                          35.3%        37.5%           11.4%          13.2%           0.4%            1.1%           1.2%            100.0%
Unemployed                         6.1%        20.4%           16.8%         48.5%            0.9%           2.8%            4.6%            100.0%
CD 
ENTER YOUR NAME HERE
M:\DUE\ANNEXES\ANNEXIE.DOC



-41-                                       Annex 2
Page I of 1
INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
BANK GROUP-FINANCED EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECTS
Loan/         Year of       Year of                                                                             Amount
Credit         Board        Actual                                                                        (less cancellations) a!
Number        Approval       Closing                     Projects                        Agency               IBRD       IDA
------US$ million----
Projects with MOEC
219            1970       1976        First Education                                  MOEC /b                       4.5
387            1973       1981        Third Education                                  MOEC                         13.5
1237           1976       1981        Fourth Education                                 MOEC                24.1
1433           1977       1984        First Teacher Training                           MOEC                17.8
1486           1977       1984        Nonformal Education                              MOEC                 8.3
869            1978       1985        Polytechnic                                      MOEC                         49.0
1904           1980       1987        First University Development                     MOEC                43.1
2101           1982       1990        Second Teacher Training                           MOEC                79.1
2102           1982       1988        Second Textbook                                   MOEC                24.9
2290           1983       1990        Second Polytechnic                                MOEC               106.0
2355           1983       1990        Second Nonformal Education                        MOEC                43.0
2472           1984       1990        Secondary Education and Mgmt Training             MOEC                76.6
2547           1985       1993        Second University Development                     MOEC               147.0
2944           1988       1993        Higher Education Development                      MOEC               140.3
3158           1990           --      Second Secondary Education and Mgmt.              MOEC               154.2
3311           1991       1996        Second Higher Education Development               MOEC               150.0
3431           1991           --      Third Nonformal Education                         MOEC                59.6
3448           1992           --      Primary Education Quality Improvement             MOEC                37.0
3496           1992           --      Primary School Teacher Development                MOEC                36.6
3754           1994           --      University Research for Graduate Education        MOEC                58.9
3887           1995           --      Book and Reading Development                      MOEC               132.5
3979           1996           --      Secondary School Teacher Development              MOEC                60.4
Subtotal of Projects with MOEC                                     1399.4       67.0
a/ "The amount less cancellation" applies only to the projects which were closed (with "Year of Actual
Closing"). The amount for other ongoing projects was taken from the Staff Appraisal Reports.
b/ MOEC - Ministry of Education and Culture



-42-                          Annex 3
Page 1 of 16
INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
Identification and Selection of Less Established Universities
Over half of Indonesia's universities can be considered less established lacking both
focus and academic tradition. The Government of Indonesia believes that the necessity to
provide assistance to those less established universities has become urgent. To identify the
17 possible target institutions, the DGHE began with the existing 51 public universities and
excluded the following:
* the seven (7) universities and three IKIPs with large and established graduate programs
* the nine (9) IKIPs and STKIPs
* the nine (9) less established universities receiving sizable investments from other sources
* the five (5) art universities
* the one (1) open university
The universities listed below were the 17 eligible for participation in the DUE project:
Universitas Jambi, Universitas Bengkulu, Universitas Riau, Universitas Lampung,
Universitas Pattimura, Universitas Nusa Cendana, Universitas Cendrawasih, Universitas
Haluoleo, Universitas Tadulako, Universitas Lambung Mangkurat, Universitas
Palangkaraya, Universitas Mataram, Universitas Tanjungpura, Universitas Sam Ratulangi,
Universitas Jember, Universitas Jenderal Soedirman, and Universitas Sebelas Maret
The following criteria will be used in awarding grants to universities:
I. Leadership and institutional commitment
2. Efficiency and productivity
3. Relevance to local and national labor market needs.
4. Internal management and organization
5. Academic atmosphere
6. Sustainability of investments through the DRK upon project completion.
Participatory Process
To encourage participation at an early stage in the process, representatives from each of
the 17 universities were invited to participate in one of three workshops. Three day
workshops were held in Pekanbaru, Ambon, and Mataram in order to disseminate
information about the New Paradigm, to seek feedback on the New Paradigm from the
universities, and to provide guidance to the universities on the process of self evaluation that
they would carry out. Each university was represented either by the Rector or Vice Rector.
The workshops were facilitated by the Director for Academic Affairs of the DGHE and the
five World Bank Mission members.
In addition, sessions were also conducted with students in order to allow them to express
their concerns regarding their education. Students were generally open and articulate in



-43-                          Annex 3
Page 2 of 16
expressing their concerns over the lack of transparency in university management and the
lack of a reliable and secure mechanism to communicate with university management. It was
also discerned during these sessions that the Student Senate, which should provide an avenue
of communication between the students and the administration, does not serve this function.
Separate sessions were held with employers to obtain their assessment of the quality and
relevance of the current study programs and to solicit their ideas for strengthening the
linkages between higher education and the productive sectors.
Pre-proposal Preparation
As part of the pre-proposal process, each university was asked to prepare a self
evaluation upon which their pre-proposals and full proposals for funding would be based.
Self evaluations were asked to contain a description of existing available resources,
including academic staff, administrative staff, laboratory facilities (including major
equipment), class room space, teacher and administrative space, library facilities, land,
experimental fields, if any, student enrollment, and other relevant resources. The description
should indicate resources which have been acquired over the last 5 years, and sources of
funding. It is important that universities demonstrate the ability to recognize institutional
deficiencies in their self evaluations and to indicate actions taken to remedy them. In
addition, pre-proposals should contain the following information':
* Leadership and institutional commitment
* Efficiency and productivity
* Relevance to local and national labor market needs.
* Utilization of class rooms and laboratories
* Number of library transactions
* Internal management and organization
* Current budget, including the DRK, for the last three years
* Budget allocation mechanism
* Revenue generated from alternative sources
* Efforts to improve transparency in management.
* Efforts at Reducing bureaucracy
* Maintenance of equipment and physical facilities
* Sustainability of investments through the DRK upon project completion.
* Ratio between administrative and academic building space
* Academic atmosphere
*  Staff profile and teaching load
* Teacher attendance
* Student-staff ratio by study program
* Resource sharing among faculties, departments, and programs
* Introduction of staff evaluation by students and peers
* Production of student laboratory manuals
* Staff development
* Recruitment mechanism of new teaching staff.
The Annex contains a list of pre-proposal and proposal components. A more detailed explanation of
these components can be found in the Project Proposal Document in the divisional project files.



-44-                        Annex 3
Page 3 of 16
*  Incentives provided to high performing faculty
*  Innovations in curriculum implementation to meet local needs
*  Profile of incoming students
*  Average GPA of incoming and graduating students
*  Student drop out rate.
*  Average duration of study and skripsi
*  Waiting time of graduates before acquiring first job.
*  Study programs available and attempts at rationalization
*  Reentry program for new retumees



45                                Annex 3
Page 4 of 16
Preproposal Submission Process
DGHE            Advisory                Board of Higher Education
Call for
pre-proposal
October 17, 1995
PROCES
Pre-proposal
December
Invitation to
submit investment
proposal
(December)
Eligible Universities
Full Proposal Submission Process
Advisory
DGHE         ................         BOARD OF HIGHER
EDUCATION
Invitation to submit
full proposal                 Deadline for
December 12, 1995             submission                                            Desk Evaluation
February 10, 1996
Full proposal
Announcement
March 1996
March 1996
10 Selected universities



INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
Information on Seventeen Less Established Universities
Number of                                          Student/      DRK 95/96
Students               Number of Staff           Staff Ratio     Rp. 000                  Tuition/year
University               Science   Social     S-1         S-2         S-3                                        Science            Social
Univ Riau                  2,251    3,440     325         159         22         11.25        3,536,812          360,000            360,000
Univ Bengkulu                892    2,843     194         237         29         8.12         1,050,992          130,000            80,000
Univ Lampung               3,756    4,599     506         256         30         10.55        3,750,368          290,000            270,000
Univ Jambi                 2,065    3,556     449         112          5          9.93        2,073,035          200,000           200,000
Univ Sebelas Maret         3,255    9,934     976         329         33          9.86        5,474,790          360,000           300,000
Univ Jember                  989    7,757     415         152         21         14.87        2,852,531          210,000           210,000
Univ Jenderal Soedirman    3,559    5,997     490         199         22         13.44        2,931,233          360,000           360,000
Univ Tanjungpura           2,657    5,588                 747                    11.04        2,217,675          120,000            120,000
Univ Lambung Mangkurat    3,944    4,904      300         176         14         18.06        1,663,858          120,000           120,000
Univ Palangkaraya          1,754    2,906     306          51          4         12.91        1,724,269          180,000            165,000
Univ Sam Ratulangi         4,907    3,854     905         321         41         6.91         3,664,888
Univ Tadulako              2,940    4,095     545         178          5         9.66         1,721,518          240,000           210,000
Univ Haluoleo              1,139    4,527     311         151         18         11.80        2,110,280          180,000            180,000
Univ Pattimura             3,636    5,711     571         158         14         12.58        1,879,340          125,000        80,000/105,000
Univ Cenderawasih          1,155    2,918                403                     10.11         839,200       150,000/175,000        130,000
Univ Mataram               2,388    2,805     330         189         22         9.60         1,570,036      150,000/195,000        120,000
Univ Nusa Cendana          1,891    1,613     396                     12         6.65         1,401,649          208,000           208,000
Note: Number of students and staff are based on submitted pre-proposals
DRK data from DGHE
Staff by qualification is not available for Univ Tanjungpura and Univ Cendrawasih
Pattimura, tuition for Economics is Rp. 105,000/year and other Social Sciences are Rp. 80,000/year
Cendrawasih and Mataram: tuition for Engineering is Rp. 175,000/year and Rp. 195,000 per year.  Other Social Sciences: Rp. 150,000/year
x



INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
Origin of Incoming Students by High School Attended
Agriculture, Engineering and Sciences            Social Sciences, Humanities and Education
Java      Outer Island   % Outer Island            Java          Outer Island   % Outer Island
Univ. Riau                 35             513              93.6                59               1,025             94.6
Univ. Lampung              81             497              86.0               138    1          971               87.6
Univ. Benkulu              12             162              93.1                35               456               92.9
Univ. Jambi                 13            146              91.8                24               443               94.9
Univ. Jember               256            257              50.1               1449               30               2.0
Univ. Sebelas Maret        635            12                1.9               1728               19               1.1
Univ. Jenderal             564             8                1.4               679                11               1.6
Soedirman
Univ. Tanjungpura          39             410              91.3               151               908               85.7
Univ. Palangkaraya         55             245              81.7                136              289               68.0
Univ. Lambung              41             497              92.4                61               715               92.1
Mangkurat
Univ. Sam Ratulangi        61             593              90.7               160               670               80.7
Univ. Tadulako              19            378              95.2                41               517               92.7
Univ. Haluoleo              8             276              97.2                25               901               97.3
Univ. Pattimura            48             430              90.0                42               531               92.7
Univ. Cendrawasih           12            140              92.1                35               329              90.4
Univ. Nusa Cendana          12            164              93.2                35               358               91.1
Univ. Mataramr             126            376              74.9                69               514               88.2
-I.



INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
Parental Income of New Students at the Less Established Universities, 1995
Agriculture, Engineering and Sciences               Social Sciences, Humanities and Education
< Rp 500,000   Rp 500,000-1,000,000   > Rp 1,000,000   < Rp 5,000,000   Rp 500,000-1,000,000   > Rp 1,000,000
Univ. Riau                      64.6              29.2                6.2             72.2                23.4                4.3
Univ. Lampung                   82.9               15.1               2.1             82.3                15.2                2.5
Univ. Benkulu                   82.2               16.1                1.7            84.1                14.3                1.6
Univ. Jambi                     77.0              21.5                 1.5            80.1                16.7                3.2
Univ. Jember                    82.1               17.1               0.8              84.7               15.1                0.2
Univ. Sebelas Maret             77.0               21.5                1.6             87.4               12.3                0.3
Univ. Jenderal Soedirman        84.3               15.4               0.4             78.7                20.3                1.0
Univ. Tanjungpura               76.6               22.3               1.1             77.5                19.0                3.5
Univ. Palangkaraya              81.0               16.0               3.0             80.0                19.3                0.7
Univ. Lambung Mangkurat         76.4              23.2                0.4             79.3                20.8                0.0
Univ. Sam Ratulangi             54.0              45.1                0.9             64.9                33.5                1.6
Univ. Tadulako                  77.8              21.9                0.3             74.9                25.1                0.0
Univ. Haluoleo                  67.3              32.6                0.0             70.4                29.6                0.0
Univ. Pattimura                 71.3              28.0                0.6             77.8                22.2                0.0
Univ. Cendrawasih               75.0              25.0                0.0             79.4                20.3                0.3
Univ. Nusa Cendana              95.5               4.6                0.0             94.9                5.1                 0.0
Univ. Mataramn                  80.5               18.3               1.2             82.2                17.3                0.5
Source: National Entrance Exam Test Database
Note: Income is stated in Rh. per month and is based on student reporting.
(D    !,



.49-                                  Annex 3
Page 8 of 16
SUMMIARIES OF FULL PROPOSALS
SUBMITTED
BY THE SIX-SELECTED UNIVERSITIES
University of Jember (UNEJ)
Year Established: 1964
Location: Jember, East Java
Programs Offered: Six Faculties: Teacher Training and Educational Sciences, Agriculture, Law, Letters,
Economics, and Social and Political Sciences.
Staff Profile: 78% of teaching staff holds S-I Degree. Teacher attendance is not satisfactory at 82%.
Physical Fcilities: Utilization of classrooms is 70%, with some very large classrooms and not enough
space for academic staff offices.
Teaching Materials: There are only 15% of handout and laboratory manuals needed.
Student Profile: Incoming student body averages a score of 240 (raw score) for five subjects examined in
the university entrance examination. Students' GPA is low. Existing duration of study is 5.6 years.
Employability of Graduates: Only one percent of graduates was employed one year after graduation;
average waiting time for students to obtain their first job is 32 months.
Plan for Self-Improvement: The proposed program aims at assisting the faculties of Agriculture and the
Science Education Study Programn in the Faculty of Education, in addition to selected university-wide
activities, including staff development, improvements in the curriculum and in the teaching and learning
processes, and improvements of supporting facilities.
How to Achieve Improvements: Improve the qualifications of teaching staff, especially in the Faculty of
Agriculture and in the Science Education Study Program, and those of technicians, through postgraduate
studies, short courses and training both in-country and overseas. The teaching and learning processes will
be improved through the introduction of teaching and research grants. Also, skripsi grants for students will
be introduced. To enhance employability of graduates, a Center for Career and Opportunities, linked to the
Alumni Association, will be established. In addition, meetings with local private sector will be held in
order to make the curriculum more relevant, while practical work experience will be introduced in selected
courses. Supporting facilities will be improved, a new greenhouse built, and some classroom space will be
shifted to academic staff rooms.
Performance Indicators: Reduce average duration of study from 5.6 to 4.2 years; Reduce average
waiting time to first job from 32 to 22 months; Increase employability of graduates by 8%; Work towards a
goal of having   20%, 60%, 20% teaching staff with S-1, S-2 and S-3 qualifications; Increase attendance
of teaching staff; Increase Students' GPA; Attract higher quality students (raise average score from 240).
Amount Requested: A total investment of Rps. 8, 120,103 million is requested over the 5 years period.
Project Sustainability: Propose to share 7% of costs of program out of the DRK.



-50-                                   Annex 3
Page 9 of 16
University of Lampung (UNILA)
Year Established: 1965
Location: Bandar Lampung
Programs Offered: Seven colleges: Economics, Law, Education and Teachers Training, Agriculture,
Engineering, Social and Political Sciences, and Mathematics and Natural Sciences. UNILA offers 27
programs and three non-degree programs.
Staff Profile: Although the university recruits teaching staff from the outside market (no in-breeding),
staff qualifications are poor, with most staff holding S-1 degrees, low teaching experience (mainly because
of the young age of most staff), low competency and low specialization.
Physical Facilities: The university has sufficient space to and a resource sharing mechanism has been
introduced in 1992 to use facilities and resources more efficiently. Laboratory facilities are inadequate.
Existing facilities lack proper maintenance.
Teaching Materials: There is a lack of laboratory manuals, lack of teaching aids and limited electricity
and water supply. There is also a lack of capable technicians to operate and repair teaching aids.
Student Profile: Quality of incoming students is not good. Average duration of study is of 5.6 years
(1985-89) and that of the skripsi ranges from 7 to 14 months (against an appropriate time of 6 months).
Average score of students admitted to various programs in 1995 is between 473 (Civic Education) and 652
(Accounting).
Employability of Graduates: At present the waiting time for graduates to get their first job is 2-3 years.
In order to shorten this time span, a Job Placement Center has been recently set up with the assistance from
USAID. Average graduate GPA is below 2.5, which is too low even  for employment with the public
sector.
Plan for Self-Improvement: Includes improvements in relevance, improvements in the academic
atmosphere, improvements in internal management and organization, improving sustainability, efficiency
and productivity.
How to Achieve Improvements: Add flexibility to the curriculum and development of the language
laboratory and laboratory of engineering and basic sciences, increase involvement of staff in planning for.
academic activities, review and improve academic regulations, increase involvement of individual
departments in planning and budgeting, improve access to wider sources of funding and enable laboratories
to become self-funded by extending scope for cooperation with the private sector, improve the capacity of
administrative staff, improve teachers attendance and encourage students counseling activities
Performance Indicators: Relevance: Target is to shorten waiting time to get first job; Academic
Atmosphere: Target is to increase average score of graduate GPA and increase staff teaching load; Internal
Management: more transparency in management and shorter time of bureaucratic processes; Sustainability:
access wider sources of funding, strengthen autonomy and improve staff career development; Efficiency:
Increase productivity ratio and increase efficiency of facilities utilization.
Amount Requested: A total of Rps. 17,188,177 million is requested under the proposed project.
Project Sustainability: 10% of DRK is committed.



-51-                                   Annex 3
Page 10 of 16
University of Bengkulu (UNIB)
Year Established: 1982
Location: Bengkulu, Bengkulu Province
Programs Offered: The university has five faculties: Agriculture, Economics, Law, Political and Social
Sciences, and Teacher Training and Education Sciences, and offers 14 programs.
Staff Profile: The number of teaching staff in academic year 1995/96 is 459 as opposed to 444 in 1991/92.
While the number of academic staff has increased only slightly over the last five years, staff qualifications
have improved, with the number of staff with S-2 and S-3 degrees increasing from only 22.4% in 1991/92
to 57.8% in 1995/96. The Faculty of Agriculture has the highest number of staff holding S-3 degrees and
Currently, 58% of academic staff holds S-2 and S-3 degrees. Academic staff lacks research and extension
experience. Academic staff load is on average more than 12 FTE, and it is highest for staff holding S-3
degrees. Overall, teachers attendance is less than standard (90%). The university also has a total of 300
administrative staff. The supply of laboratory technicians is inadequate, with every technician serving
approximately 30 students. The ratio of academic staff to students is relatively high at 1;7, but differs
greatly among faculties and programs. Recruitment of academic staff is done at the national level through a
competitive process. The competitiveness of the social programs is generally higher than for natural
science programs, with an applicant/admitted ratio of about 0.12 and 0.20, respectively.
Physical Facilities: The university allocates 5 buildings for classrooms (3924 sq.m.), and accommodate
2950 students.  Currently, an additional 3500 sq. m. are under construction, and are expected to
accommodate an additional 2950 students. However, classroom utilization is not optimal. Utilization of
laboratories is high, due to the fact that laboratory equipment is uneavenly distributed. Although there is no
data on space ratio between academic and administrative space, this is obviously not appropriately
distributed as most academic staff do not have offices. Efforts to date to build office space for academic
staff have been constrained by unavailability of funds. The library building is large, but lacks adequate
library material.
Teaching Materials: Classrooms lack adequate teaching aids. The record system in the library is
incomplete and limited to the number of visitors and number of transactions. Laboratory equipment is
obsolete or lacking. In agronomy and basic sciences programs, student laboratory manuals are either not
available, or typed rather than published. Only relatively simple equipment can be properly maintained by
the university.
Student Profile: Number of applicants has remained relatively constant over the last few years. Most of
incoming students, especially in the Faculty of Agriculture, has low capabilities in basic sciences. Up to
January 1995, UNIB produced 2,831 S- I graduates. Overall average duration of skripsi is of more than 5.5
years, far above the length of study in the curriculum which is of 4 years. In certain faculties the duration
of studies is even higher i.e. 49.93% of students in the faculty of agriculture needs 6 or more years to
graduate. This is mainly due to the length of time involved in preparing the skripsi, as well as to the
inadequacy of teaching staff in the early years of study and the weakness of academic advisers. In order to
shorten the duration of studies, a new curriculum with less SKS (but still within the national standard) has
been recently introduced.Overall, average GPA of graduating students has been around 2.50.
Employability of Graduates: There is no data on employability of graduates. However, indications are
that local public and private sector requires graduates with at least a 2.75 GPA. Personal communication
with students has indicated that waiting time has been around 2 to 3 years.



-52-                                     Annex 3
Page 11 of 16
Plan for Self-Improvement: Improve relevance; improve academic atmosphere; improve internal
management and organization; improve sustainability; increase efficiency and productivity
How to Achieve Improvements: By revising curriculum in each study program and introducing
internships for students; improving library collections, providing students with counseling; stimulating
students to improve English proficiency by expanding English Center and its facilities; centralizing class
schedules at the university level, and conducting periodic evaluations at all levels and units within the
university; encouraging income generating activities by establishing a Small Business Development Center
providing consulting and research services; increasing student body and improving supporting facilities.
Performance Indicators: Increase percentage of teaching staff with S-2 and S-3 degrees to 80% over the
next few years; Distribute teaching load more equally among teaching staff; shorten average duration of
study to 4.5-5.0 years; increase number of transactions in library; accelerate graduation time and reduce
drop-out rate by offering tutorials; increase graduates' GPA from 2.50 to 2.75; shorten waiting time to
obtain first job from 2-3 years to I year.
Amount Requested: Total investment budget is of US$5,818,936.35.
Project Sustainability: Of the amount required for the investment, the University will fund USS 344,005
out of its DRK ( 5.91 %).
University of Nusa Cendana (UNDANA)
Year Established: 1962
Location: Kupang
Programs Offered: Five faculties: Animal Husbandry, Agriculture, Administration Science; Teacher
Training and Education; Law.
Staff Profile: The university has 677 academic staff and 711 administrative staff. The ratio between staff
holding S-1: S-2 : S-3 degrees is 39: 9: 1. 50% of staff holding doctorates is in the Faculty of Animal
Husbandry. Academic and administrative staff have to serve 6263 students enrolled in 26 programs.
Average teaching load of staff is of 3.05 credit hours per semester. The teaching load of staff with a
doctorate degree is of 5.0 credit hours per semester. The heaviest teaching load is carried out by Basic
Science staff. Teacher attendance ratio is of approximately 87.5%. Student-staff ratio varies across
faculties, but is particularly poor in the Physics Study Program ,as most staff are currently away attending
higher degrees.
Physical Facilities: The space occupied by administrative staff is twice as much as the space being used
for academic purposes. This is exhibited by the building space ratio between administrative and academic
of 4. 19/sq.m./person: 2.38 /sq.m./person. Some classrooms are in need of renovation. Although overall the
university has enough rooms to serve student needs both academically and administratively, the available
space has not been optimally utilized, especially as concerns academic purposes. The university is unable
to provide for proper maintenance of existing physical facilities because of limited resources. On average,
administrative facilities are better maintained than teaching facilities. Most laboratories are faced with
problems such as lack water and unstable electricity.
Teaching Materials: Equipment for student practices is insufficient, especially during the first year. All
laboratories except for the Chemistry laboratory are assisted by unskilled technicians.



-53-                                   Annex 3
Page 12 of 16
Student Profile: According to the UMPTN test criteria, students coming from NTF province are of
moderate quality with respect to those coming from other 26 provinces. Of these, the least able choose to
continue studies in NTT province and constitute the pool of applicants to UNDANA. Data on duration of
skripti is only available for the Faculties of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry (about 2 semesters).
Students spend on average more than 6 years to complete their studies.
Employability of Graduates: Waiting time for students to obtain the first job is between 6 to 30 months.
The shortest waiting time (6 months) has been registered for students in Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry,
and English. The longest waiting time has been registered for graduates in Social Sciences.
Plan for Self-Improvement: The program proposes to assist four programs: Agronomy, Animal
Production, Basic Science, and English Language Education. Selection of the four programs is aimed at;
improving quality of the programs, increase their relevance, enhance knowledge and skills of academic
staff, increase employability rate of graduates; and strive to offer more practical courses.
How to Achieve Improvements: Improve students input through matriculation, improve teaching and
learning process through provision of more practical learning experience such as practicum, tutorial, site
visits, class exercises, and assigning senior and qualified staff for teaching the first year students; improve
relevance of S-l education by designing local curriculum which accommodates the needs of local
communities; improve staff qualifications through S-2 and S-3 degree training, or training programs, both
overseas and domestic; optimize use of laboratories and classrooms, through reallocation and sharing of
resources; implement bottom-up planning in management and increase transparency; provide recognition
to students and provide incentives to staff with extra teaching load, provide staff with teaching grants
allocated on a competitive basis; generate income through marketing of staff expertise, university facilities
such as laboratories and buildings for external use.
Performance Indicators: Increased frequency of teaching staff attendance at respective department;
increase in frequency and quality of academic interaction and communication between teaching staff and
students; increase in GPA; reduce length of thesis writing; reduce length of study; increase in teaching staff
productivity; reduce administrative/academic staff ratio.
Amount Requested: A total of USS 6,007,598 is requested over five years.
Project Sustainability: The university has committed US$ 410,295, equal to 10% of the DRK over five
years.
University of Riau (UNU)
Year Established: 1962
Location: Pekanbaru
Programs Offered: Seven faculties: Fisheries, Agriculture, Engineering, Mathematics and Natural
Sciences, Social Sciences and Politics, Economics and Teachers Training and Education.
Staff Profile: Data on staff with advanced degree is not available. However, the overall percentage of staff
holding S-2 and S-3 degrees is low. Recruitment mechanism for staff is not transparent. Student-teacher
ratio is low in most faculties, in the order of '12:1. Most lecturers have high teaching loads and limited
teaching preparation. Most teaching staff and students lack English proficiency. Academic staff research is
often unrelated to local needs.



-54-                                    Annex 3
Page 13 of 16
Physical Facilities: Utilization of classroom is generally low. Laboratory space is limited or unavailable.
Teaching Materials: There is a lack of manuals for practice and laboratory exercises. Teaching aids are
limited and reproduction of teaching materials would greatly enhance the teaching-learning process. The
University library is not used effectively. Data on number of transactions is lacking. The library does not
have adequate and relevant collection in most of the scientific subject matters. Some of the faculties (i.e.
Agribusiness) have therefore established their own libraries, which have a slightly better collection than the
university library.
Student Profile: Quality of incoming students is generally low in all faculties and study programs,
although it is difficult to measure it in quantitative terms. Competitiveness among students through national
entrance examination is ]ow. Student drop-out rate is also high, but difficult to monitor because
administrative management, especially at registration, is not good. Graduate GPA is low. It varies across
faculties, but generally within the range of 2.2 - 2.5.
Employability of Graduates: Average time required for graduates to obtain their first job varies across
faculties, but it is overage of 2.0-2.5 years. There is a marked lack of information among students of the
job market.
Plan for Self-Improvement:  The scope of the proposed development program covers eleven study
programs-based activities and two university  wide activities as follows: Agribusiness (Faculty of
Agriculture); Chemistry (Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences); Physics (Faculty of Mathematics
and Natural Sciences); Mathematics (Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences); Aquaculture (Faculty
of Fisheries); Aquatic Resources Management (Faculty of Fisheries); Marine Sciences (Faculty of
Fisheries); Accounting (Faculty of Economics); Management (Faculty of Economics); Economic
Development (Faculty of Economics); English Education (Faculty of Teacher Training and Education);
Computer Center (University wide activities); Career and Entrepreneurship Development Center
(University wide activities). All activities proposed are aimed at increasing efficiency and productivity. In
particular, the actives could be classified in the following categories: improving human resource quality;
providing more adequate facilities;  providing teaching materials; improving academic atmosphere,
increasing relevance of the curriculum; and improving the internal and external management system.
How to Achieve Improvements: Staff from the selected study-programs will be sent for further training
both in-country and abroad. Training will include both degree (Masters and Ph.D. level) and non-degree
(short courses and study visits). In view of the limitations of equipment which UNRI has been facing since
1962, and in view of the importance of adequate equipment for improving quality and effectiveness of
education, the university proposes investments in laboratory and field equipment. In terms of civil works,
these will mainly comprise renovations of existing facilities. Some technical assistance will be required
during and after implementation of the investment. The assistance will be invited from overseas and
domestic experts. The proposal also includes provision of updated reading material and additional titles for
the library. The provision of research grants is also included for each study program, as a way to reduce the
duration of study for S- I students and to increase supervision of research projects for students skripsi.
Performance Indicators: Improvements in the curriculum to increase employability of graduates and
reduce waiting time (i.e. some faculties have set up Task Forces in charge of reviewing the curriculum i.e.
Agribusiness). Increase linkages with local industry through seminars and workshops. Improvements in the
quality of skripsi and in docent research. Enhanced relevance of research to local needs. Introduction of
more transparent management by increasing managerial skills and making budget allocation processes
clearer. Reduction in bureaucracy through rationalization of administrative processes and introduction of
bottom-up management.
Amount Requested: The total amount of the proposed investment is fUS$10,182,042.



-55-                                    Annex 3
Page 14 of 16
Project Sustainability: About 10% of five years UNRI's DRK will be allocated to support the
implementation of the project for a total amount of US$1,008,000.
Sebelas Maret University (aNS
Year Established: 1976
Location: Kenthingan (Surakarta)
Programs Offered:  The university has 8 faculties: Arts and Letters, Teacher Training and Education,
Law, Economics, Social and Political Sciences, Medicine, Agriculture, and Engineering. In addition, the
university comprises a main office, a laboratory center and a language center.
Staff Profile: The university has 1338 academic staff, of which 976 (72.9%) have S-l degrees, 329
(24.5%) are S-2 graduates, and 33 (2,5%) are S-3 graduates. At present, 226 of the 1338 academic staff are
working on their graduate degrees in a variety of universities, including domestic S-2 (167), overseas S2
(22), domestic S3 (34), and overseas S# (3). New teaching staff are recruited on the basis of GPA
(minimum 2.5 to 3.0), and achievements in performance and selection tests. In 1993, there were 17
vacancies with 157 applicants; in 1994 there were 12 vacancies with 36 applicants; and in 1995, there were
241 applicants for only 26 vacancies. Vacancies for teaching staff are publicly advertised and decisions on
selection are made in an open university top managers meeting. Main negative points in terms of staff
development is that none of the faculties or study programs have specified programs for returnees. Main
problem is that academic staff are not proportionately distributed .The overall student-staff ratio is of 1: 1 1.
In addition, faculties for which there is a high demand for graduates, such as Economics and Engineering,
lack senior and better qualified staff. There are currently 792 administrative staff. Average graduate GPA
varies across faculties. Although overall average GPA is improving, there are still a few study programs
where graduates have low GPAs (i.e. Faculty of Medicine, where average GPA over the last three years
was 2.3, 2.5 and 2.4 respectively).
Physical Facilities: The university has a large area of land, about 926.342 sq.m. The big problem is that
the land is not in one location, but spread in different locations throughout Surakarta. The ratio of
administrative and academic space is respectively I ;2.5. More academic space is badly needed. Of the 193
classrooms available, 39% have a capacity between 40 and 60 students, 20% are smaller classrooms for
less than 30 students, and the rest are larger classrooms for more than 60 students. To improve quality,
small group instruction needs to be encouraged. One positive aspect in the utilization of classrooms is that
sharing among many study programs is highly common. Almost each study program has at least one
laboratory. The intensity of laboratory utilization varies from one lab to another. In addition to its own
library, each faculty has its own library. Students and books ratio is 1:9 respectively. The average number
of transactions each month in all libraries is 14,000, compared to a number of 18,092 students, denoting the
need to assist the library and improve its utilization by both students and teaching staff.
Teaching Materials:  Although the library has a large collection, it mostly consists of BPK written by
UNS teachers. Recent books on particular fields, such as science and technology, are scarce and the library
needs more communication media and scientific journals. Provision of advanced equipment is also needed
for the laboratory center. Training is also needed in the use of more advanced equipment and technology,
particularly for students in the Engineering Faculty.
Student Profile: There are currently 18,092 students enrolled in the university, of which 14,816 are
regular degree students, 1197 are non-degree students, and 2,079 extension students. Quality of students is
good, and students admitted are among the top in the nation. In terms of average scores obtained by
applicants admitted, the university is ranked number 7 in the nation for science faculties (avg. score of



-56-                                     Annex 3
Page 15 of 16
668.85), number 4 for science education (avg. score 559.33), number 6 for non science faculties, and
number 2 for non-science education. Number of drop-out students is getting lower. In the Faculty of
Medicine the drop-out rate is the highest at about 6% per year> In other faculties, students drop-outs are
relatively low at about 1% to 3%.
Employability of Graduates: Waiting time for graduates to get their first job varies from I year (English,
Science and Math) to five years (other study programs). Waiting time for graduates from the Faculty of
Economics, General Medicine, Agriculture and Engineering is the lowest from 3 to 12 months.
Plan for self-improvement: UNS proposal request assistance for programs at basically two different
scopes: program -wide and university-wide areas. The selected programs are: the Engineering Program, at
the Faculty of Engineering, serving students at all the departments of the faculty, except those at the
Mathematics Program; the Basic Science Program, at the Central Laboratory with its sub-laboratories,
serving students learning Chemistry, Biology, Physics and the Agriculture, Engineering, Medicine, and the
Teacher Training and Education Facilities; and the Entrepreneurship Program, at the Faculty of Economics.
University-wide programs will include assistance for: the library program, the language program, the
computer progran and the administration program, all of which are serving the S-I students and the entire
faculties. The programs to be assisted under the proposed program, the Engineering and Basic Science
Programs especially, have been selected in view of their importance to national development and
Government's policy to increase output and quality of graduates in engineering and other scientific fields.
How to Achieve Improvements: Engineering Program: activities will include increase in relevance of the
curriculum and procurement of recent books and publications; improvements in the quality of academic
staff through post-graduate studies, technical assistance and visiting experts; improvements in staff and
students' ability in the use of high technology and improvements in the management system for the
teaching-learning process. Basic Sciences Program: activities will include: procurement of equipment in
quality, quantity and in variation, development of staff qualifications through both post-graduate education
and non-degree training; increase in practical sessions, improvement in the coordination between the Basic
Sciences Laboratories and the other units at UNS; improve efficiency by providing students with the
opportunity to perform practical work in the laboratories. Entrepreneurship Program: activities will
include: support for laboratories in entrepreneurship training and departmental on-the-job training;
improvements in the quality of education; and improvements in educational input factors through staff
training, teaching-leaming activities, construction of outdoors laboratories, and procurement of updated
reference materials, ; provision of intensive assistance for final assignment and skripsi writing. Assistance
to university-wide program swill include: improvements in the library collection and in the quality of
library services; provision of means and facilities for improving undergraduate students' proficiency in
English; provision of greater opportunities fro students to join computer courses and coordination of the
implementation of computer courses with facilities; and the development of a computerized administration
system for UNS administrative services..
Performance Indicators:  Increased relevance will be measured through improvements in the quality,
quantity and variation of updated equipment and teaching manuals and by increased opportunities for
students to participate in activities which are relevant to the job market; improvements in academic
atmosphere will be measured by improvements in teachers' attendance, increases in academic staff
qualifications, increased academic activities such as seminars and workshops, and stronger collaborations
with other institutions both in-country and abroad; increased efficiency and productivity will be measured
by increases in students intake, reduced drop-out rates, increased GPA for students and increased in
employability of graduates with shortest time-wait. Finally, increased sustainability will be measured by
increased DRK funds to match investment budget, and wider participation of individuals and units in UNS
in the designing and implementation of activities.



.57..                                Annex 3
Page 16 of 16
Amount Requested: The total proposed investment budget is of USS 23,068,220
Project Sustainability: The university plans to allocate 10%/a of DRK funds to support project activities,
for a total of USS 1,655,236.



-58-                             Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
The Board of Higher Education
The Government plans to strengthen institutional capacity both at the center and at
individual universities. At the central level, the Government is in the process of establishing
a new Board of Higher Education (BHE), to be supported by a permanent Secretariat. The
BHE will operate in four areas: (a) assist the DGHE in its task of overseeing the higher
education system by making recommendations on higher education policies, identifying
local and national needs and new programs to be financed, and providing a medium- to long-
term perspective to the DGHE; (b) undertake the competitive funding for research and
graduate education through the existing University Research Council (URC), which was
established to assist the implementation of the URGE project and which is to be merged into
the BHE; and (c) introduce competitive funding mechanisms for undergraduate education
and implement projects (including the proposed project) which support such activities. The
BHE will also have an important role in assisting universities by providing technical
assistance and training to strengthen decentralized capacity for academic planning and
management. These initiatives would be supported under the project through the provision
of technical assistance, training, policy studies, equipment for the BHE Secretariat,
incremental operating costs, and workshops and technical assistance at individual institutions
of higher education. The Board of Higher Education (BHE) is an expansion of the
previously established University Research Council (URC). The BHE will have two
executive commissions to carry out its activities: the University Research Council and the
University Education Council. In addition to these two councils a set of discipline based
commissions will also be established, as well as Special and Ad-hoc sub-commissions or
Task Forces when necessary.
Structure of the Board for Higher Education: The BHE will be chaired by the
Director General of Higher Education with three Vice Chairs: the Vice Chair for University
Research, the Vice Chair for University Education, and the Vice Chair for Higher Education
Development. The Vice Chair for Research will serve as the Chairperson of the University
Research Council, responsible for overseeing the research aspects in the BHE. The Vice
Chair for Education will serve as Chair of the University Education Council, responsible for
overseeing the education aspects in the BHIE. The Vice Chair for Strategy will serve as the
Chair for the Task Force for Strategy, responsible for overseeing the strategy aspects in the
BHE.
Board  for Higher Education  Membership:   The BHE  will consist of
approximately sixteen members who have been selected on the basis of recognized expertise,
such as personal research experience, maintaining a balance with respect to domain of
expertise and institutional affiliation. Individual members will be recruited from DGHE,
universities, the National Research Council (DRN), and BAPPENAS, as well as from private
universities and enterprises. The Chairpersons of the University Research Council, the
University Education Council, the Higher Education Strategy Council, and the discipline
based commissions will also be members.



-59-                              Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
BHE Secretariat: The existing University Research Council Secretariat will be
expanded to become the BHE Secretariat, with two Assistants: the Assistant for Research
and the Assistant for Education. The function of the BHE's secretariat will be integrated into
the existing sub-directorates within the Directorate of Academic Affairs and Directorate of
Research and Community Service Development. The supervision of project implementation
will be the responsibility of the Secretariat. Specific responsibilities of the Assistant
Secretary in supervising the DUE project include: (i) reviewing reports submitted by the
CPIU; (ii) initiating and administering evaluation activities to be carried out by the UEC;
(iii) initiating and administering site visits conducted by the UEC members; (iv) providing
data analysis and information acquired from the CPIU, LPIUs, and other sources for the
UEC.
University Research Council (URC) : The University Research Council will be a
modification of the previously established University Research Council, adjusting its
structure within the new BHE. The URC will focus its activities on research and community
services. It will be chaired by the Director for Research with a membership consisting of the
Secretary, the BHE Vice Chair for Education, the chairs of the discipline based commissions,
and other academics with outstanding reputations. Research proposals will be reviewed by
members of the discipline-based commissions and special commissions, if needed, can draw
membership from the URC and UEC.
University Education Council (UEC) : The UEC will oversee graduate,
undergraduate, and professional education and be responsible for reviewing institutional
funding proposals. Based on the disciplines, programs, and proposals reviewed, it can draw
members from the discipline based sub-commissions as peer reviewers. The UEC will be
chaired by the Director for Academic Affairs, with membership consisting of a Secretary, the
BHE Vice Chair for Research, the chairs of the discipline based commissions, and other
academics with outstanding reputations.
Higher Education Development Council (HEDC): Council members are assigned to
carry out specific tasks in higher education development with the primary responsibility of
developing, improving, and modifying the long-term strategic plan for higher education. This
task will be carried out by monitoring the implementation of the strategic plan, evaluating
the results, soliciting input from the stakeholders, and modifying the existing plan as
necessary. The HEDC will be chaired by a non ex-officio member with commissions
members assigned to carry out the relevant tasks. The HEDC will be supported by the BHE
Secretariat.
Discipline-based commissions:  Seven discipline based commissions will be
established from the existing discipline based consortia. Members in each commission will
be grouped to carry out specific tasks and special and ad-hoc sub-commissions can draw
their membership from the relevant group of discipline-based commissions.



-60-                        Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
The National Accreditation Board
Structure of the National Accreditation Board: Law No. 2/1989 of the National
Education System requires the establishment of the National Accreditation Board (BAN)
which was established by Ministry of Education and Culture decree No. 0326/U/1994 on
December 15,1994. The appointment of its Chair, Secretary, and members was carried out
by decree No. 0327/U/1994. Members are initially appointed for one four year term and can
serve a maximum of two terms.
NATIONAL
ACCREDITATION BOARD
DATABASE
Accreditation
Result
Data processing 
Institutional   Program
Evaluation    Evaluation
Form          Form                        Exception
report
Institution             | Site visit|
Membership of the National Accreditation Board: Ban will have 17 members: two
from the DGHE, seven from public universities, three from private universities, three from
industy, and two represent political parties in the country.
Roles and Responsibilities of the National Accreditation Board: The objective of
the BAN is to strengthen quality assurance within the higher education sub-sector in both
public and private institutions and to provide information pertaining to the performance of
higher education institutions and, when necessary, to recommend corrective actions. There
will be four levels of accreditation, A,B,C, and D, with A signifying the highest level of
accreditation. The primary task of the BAN will be to conduct periodic evaluations of study



-61-                                Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
programs and institutions and judge the quality of the programs and the efficiency with
which they operate. Ban has developed:
* a set of criteria for each level of accreditation;
* policies and evaluation criteria for deternining the level of accreditation for programs
and institutions;
*  strategy for assisting higher education institutions in carrying out self assessments.
Activities of the National Accreditation Board: The process of accreditation will be
carried out for all higher education institutions, including public, private, and other
government agencies' service programs1. The initial accreditation process will take quite
some time to complete given that there are approximately 1,300 institutions of higher
education in Indonesia and 11,000 study programs.
The BAN will evaluate the following nine components at each higher education
institution and in each program seeking accreditation: (1) quality of the curriculum, (2)
quality of the teaching staff, (3) quality of the students, (4) quality of the teaching and
learning process, (5) the infrastructure, (6) quality of the academic administration, (7) quality
of personnel, (8) efficiency of the financial administration, and (9) the structure of the
intemal organization.2
In order to test the accreditation mechanism and tools, a pilot project was carried out
at ten public and five private universities involving programs in the faculties of medicine,
dentistry, psychology, and law. A draft evaluation sheet, which was developed by the Task
Force for Accreditation, was used in the process. Based on the pilot, revisions were made to
the evaluation sheet3.
X These include higher education institutions under government agencies other than Ministry of
Education and Culture, e.g. Ministry of Religion, Ministry of Health, etc.
2   For a detailed description of the evaluation and accreditation methodology, and the evaluation criteria to be
used by the Accreditation Board, please refer to the relevant section in the Project Implementation
Plan.
The evaluation sheet can be found in the Project Proposal Document.



-62-                             Annex 6
Page 1 of 7
INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
The economic rate of return for the investments to be undertaken in the Universities
Development Program component is estimated to be 24 percent. This estimate was obtained
by solving for the internal rate of return that equates the stream of benefits and costs
resulting from the investment over a twenty year horizon. This annex describes how the
estimate was made and provides an indication of how sensitive the estimate is to the
underlying assumptions.
Benefits
As no estimates of the positive extemalities from public investment in higher education are
available, a difference in eamings is taken as a measure of the social benefits of the
investment. The investments are expected to lead to higher lifetime eamings by:
1. Reducing the time needed for students to graduate - from 5.75 to 5.25 years;
2. Reducing the time needed for graduates to find their first job - from 1.75 to 1.5
years; and
3. Increasing starting salaries of graduates once employed by an average of US$
120 a year, with the differential growing by 3 percent a year.
Once explicit quantitative assumptions about the effect of the project on these key variables
are made, the calculation of the economic rate of return is a straightforward exercise of
working through the implications of these assumptions. Thus, the key consideration in
judging the economic rate of return lies with the reasonableness of the assumptions of the
program effects. Below we discuss why and how the project investments could be expected
to have the assumed effect.
Reduction in time neededfor students to graduate
The estimate of the current average time needed to graduate (5.75 years) is the median value
reported in the investment proposals submitted by the ten universities that made it into the
second round of competition. Through a variety of actions, the universities expect to be able
to reduce the time needed to graduate while maintaining quality constant. One approach
mentioned by virtually all universities is to use the research grants to help finance student
theses, the skripsis. The long time required to complete the skripsi was identified as a major
cause of the delays in graduation. In addition, the universities proposed several actions that
would have the effect of raising the value of the university professors time to work in the
public university rather than work in their second of third jobs. The increased attention that
the students would receive should also reduce the time needed to graduate. Finally, starting
the fourth year of the project, there will be an important incentive to reducing the time to
graduate. Failure to make satisfactory progress would constitute a remedy within the
contract signed by the university and the Board of Higher Education. As a result of the both



-63-                               Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
the investments and the incentive, the universities expected to be able to reduce the time
needed to graduate to an average of 5 years. The calculations of the economic rate of return
adopt the more conservative assumption that the average time to graduate would be reduced
to 5.25 years as a result of the project.
Reduction in waiting time and increase in salary once employed
The effect of the project on the waiting time to the first job and the earnings once employed
would be achieved through three mechanisms: a) being able to attract higher quality
students to the university; b) improvements in allocative efficiency; and c) improvements in
the quality of a specific program. As with the reduction in time to graduate, the
improvements in the quality of students would be achieved by a combination of investments
and incentives. To the extent that the investments raise the quality of the university and the
improvements are perceived, the university could expect to become relatively more attractive
to the higher quality students in their province. Of course, this effect would probably not be
felt immediately, but might take three or four years to occur. Beginning with the fourth year
of the project, failure to make adequate progress in attracting high quality students or in
reducing the waiting time for a job would constitute a remedy within the contract signed by
the university and the Board of Higher Education.
In their proposals, the ten universities set as a performance target a reduction in the average
waiting time from 1.75 to I year. The calculations of the economic rate of return adopt a
more conservative assumption, that the average waiting time would be reduced from 1.75 to
1.5 years. The current estimate of the average waiting provided by the universities may be
high. However, the calculations for the economic rate of return are sensitive to the
difference in the waiting time with and without the project, not on the absolute values. Thus,
even if the average waiting time is overestimated, as long as the reduction is of the order of
three months, the calculations presented here would remain valid.
As will be seen in this annex, the largest source of benefits arises from the assumed increase
in salary of the graduates who benefit from the project. Our assumption that the project
could lead to an increase in earnings of $10 a month is based on two observations.
First, note that the universities could improve allocative efficiency by concentrating their
improvements in fields in which they have a comparative advantage and which the market
values highly. Simulations based on data from a 1994 Tracer study of SI graduates from
1989, 1990 and 1991 provides some indication of the magnitude of this effect. This study
covers the graduates of 10 universities in and outside Java. While the study is flawed in that
it is based on a select group of graduates who chose to return the mail questionnaires (less
than 33 percent), it is one of the few surveys that provides information on earnings by field
of study and is sufficient for our illustrative purpose. If half of the graduates who are
' The study found substantial variation in earnings and waiting tirne to employment by field (and also by
the quality of the university). The average earnings of graduates in the highest paying field was over three
times those of the lowest paid field. Similarly, the field with the longest waiting time was over three times
that of the shortest. The correlation between average earnings and length of waiting time was -0.66 - the
longer the waiting time, the lower the earnings, as one might expect.



-64-                             Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
employed in fields in the bottom fifty percent of earnings were instead to be employed in
fields in the top fifty percent of earnings, the average salary would rise by 12 percent. At the
mean starting salary reported by the ten universities of US$ 1,460 a year, a 12 percent
increase would amount to roughly $15 a month. This thought exercise overstates the case
somewhat because if students were to shift from lower to higher paying fields the change in
relative supply would have the effect of narrowing the wage differentials across fields.
Nevertheless, the simulation does suggest that if the selected universities were able to shift
students to higher paying fields, that effect alone could bring about an increase in wages of
the average graduate on the order of 10 percent. The substantial variation in earnings from
graduates of universities of different reputation suggest there is some scope for quality
improvements in the universities selected in this project to raise earnings. Any quality
improvements made in individual programs could also be expected to raise future earnings
Second, an increase of $10 a month is roughly compatible with a shift in the earnings of
graduates from the nth to the n+lOth percentile of earnings of university graduates in the
provinces in which the universities are located. We assume that the project investments
could bring about such a shift in the eamings of graduates. From the I 0th through the 70th
percentiles, earnings increase by approximately $15 a month for each ten points. The
percentile distributions are based on reported earnings from the 1992 Sakernas Labor Force
survey expressed in 1995 Rupiah, inflated using provincial price indices reported by BPS.
The mean starting salary reported by the ten universities was US$ 1,460 a year, which lies
between the 50th and 60th percentile of salaries averaged over the provinces where the
universities are located. Thus, what the universities report appears to be consistent with other
data. The 3 percent growth rate in the differential is included to reflect the widening of wage
differentials that tends to occur over time.
Effect on number of graduates
The investments are not expected to lead to an increase in the number of students enrolled in
any given year. In the Indonesian higher education system, there is an excess demand for the
places within public universities and positions are rationed. Even poor public universities
receive many more applicants than they can accept. Thus, the number of enrolled students is
not dependent on demand. It depends on administrative decisions made in the public
university system on how many students they. would like to have enrolled in any year. We
assume that the investments do not lead to an increase in the number enrolled in any year.
However, if the time that students take to graduate can be reduced, more students could be
admitted without affecting the number enrolled at any one time. Indeed, this ability to have
more students pass through the system is an important part of the expected gains from the
investment.



-65-                               Annex 6
Page 4 of 7
As indicated in the disbursement profile, the US$68.1 million investment is expected to be
spread out over six years, with 5 percent invested the first year, 10 percent the second, 30
percent the third, 22 percent in the fourth and fifth years and 11 percent in the sixth year.
After the six year period and in each year up to the end of the twenty year horizon, ten
percent of the original investment of US$68.1 million is expected to be spent on maintaining
the gains of the original investment. Although these expenses would be expected to come
out of other sources of funds and not from the project, they are included in the calculation of
the economic rate of return. The universities have provided for this 10 percent to come out
of their DRK budget.
The Calculations
A simulation model was used to project how the number of graduates employed each year
would vary with changes in the time spent to graduate and with changes in the waiting time
to a job as a result of the investments. In keeping with the assumption that enrollments
would not change, the simulation model assumes for all cases that the yearly inflow of
students would equal the yearly outflow. Because the number of students enrolled in any
one year is the same with or without the investment, the opportunity costs to being in school
will be the same with or without the investment. As the net benefits to the investment
depend on the difference in benefit and cost streams with and without the investment, the
opportunity costs will cancel out.
With or without the investments it is assumed that in any year 66,315 students would be
enrolled. This is equal to 80 percent of the current enrollment in the 10 universities. It is
expected that up to seven universities would be selected for funding. The figure of 80
percent was chosen (instead of 70 percent) because after reading the individual proposals it
appeared that some of the larger universities are more likely to be funded.
Based on the current mean time to graduate of 5.75 years, the implied yearly inflow and
outflow of students that would keep enrollment constant is 11,532 (66,315/5.75). The
simulation assumes that the time needed to graduate would decline gradually from 5.75 years
to 5.5 years. After the first year of the investments, the outflow of students would accelerate
steadily until it reached 12,628 which (except for some minor rounding errors) is equal to the
total enrollment divided by the target mean time to graduate (5.25 years).
The waiting time to employment is also assumed to decline gradually over time with the
investments. For simplicity, the simulation assumes that the waiting time is determninistic.
Without the investments, all graduates are assumed to wait 1.75 years before becoming
employed. With the investments, after the initial year the waiting time to employment is
assumed to decline steadily until it reaches 1.5 years after the fifth year of the investment. It
would be possible to make the waiting time a random variable, but this is unlikely to change
the results in any significant way.



-66-                             Annex 6
Page 5 of 7
The major source of benefits from the reduced waiting time is that, after the adjustment to
the change in time to graduate and waiting time, there are fewer graduates unemployed in
any one year. In the base case, there are 20,181 graduateswaiting to be employed in the
steady state. With the assumed changes brought about by the project, there would be 18,942
graduates waiting to be employed even with the higher outfolw of graduates.
Results
Given the assumptions related to the stream of benefits and costs, the economic rate of return
is estimated to be 24 percent. The numbers used in the calculation of the return are
presented in Table 1.
While the cost side is straightforward, it is of interest to see what the relative contribution of
the three sources of increased earnings are to total benefits. To calculate the relative
contribution, the stream of benefits from each source are first converted to their present value
(assuming a discount rate of 10 percent). The largest contribution to total benefits arises
from the increased salary after employment (81 percent), followed by the benefits from
reducing the time spent in school (11 percent) and the benefits from having fewer graduates
waiting for employment at any one time (8 percent). Even though the effect of the project on
the monthly earnings of any one graduate are small (US$10), there are many graduates who
would benefit. Moreover, the benefits would be received for many years. The benefits from
having fewer graduates waiting for employment are large because the opportunity cost of
having a potential worker idle are substantial. These costs are assumed to be US$ 1460,
which is equal to the mean of the starting salary reported by the ten universities.
The benefits from reducing the time spent in school makes a significant difference to the
total number of students who pass through the system. In twenty years, roughly 25,000 (7
percent) more students would graduate after 20 years if the mean time to graduate were to
decline from 5.75 to 5.25 years, with no change in the number enrolled at any given time.
Without the investments, these students would be expected to go to private universities
where previous econometric work has suggested that returns are 9 percent lower. The
calculations assume that the difference in earnings a student could obtain from going to an
improved public university versus the existing private university is US$190 (equivalent to
the difference between the 30th and 50th percentile of earnings of University graduates in the
provinces of the 10 Universities). This premium would be earned every year after
graduation.
Sensitivity to assumptions
In order to calculate the effect of different assumptions on the estimated economic rate of
return, several additional simulations were run. The results are as follows:



-67-                             Annex 6
Page 6 of 7
Change                                 Economic rate of return
Eliminate 3 % yearly increase in earnings    21 %
differential (stays constant at US$ 120 a
year)
Increase premium of improved public    25 %
university over existing private from US$190
to US$270
Reduce increase in salary once employed  12 %
from US$120 to US$ 60
Keep waiting time to employment at 1.75  21 %
years
Keep time to graduate from university at  20 %
5.75 years
Delay all benefits for three years without  14 %
delaying costs



Calculations of Economic Rate of Retum
Graduates from Univ    Difference in number Increase in graduates         Benefit from change Eamings from
without DUE         waiting for       employed with DUE   Increased eamings in number of   additional graduates
Year    Costs    (Base number of       employment                           to base number of graduates waiting for with DUE  Net benefits
graduates)          (with DUE)                _          graduates        employment
1 -34050000               11532               -274                 0          1383840          400040                0  -2421200
2 -20430000                11532               -15               806          2809195           -21900          153140  -3869565
3  -6810000                11532              277               1114          4277311           404420          369394  -15378875
4  -3405000                11532              604               1422          5789470           881840          650656  -7660034
5  -3405000               11532              1239               1731          7346994          1808940          999066   4827000
6  -6810000                11532              1239              1096          8951244          1808940         1237278   4506462
7  -6810000                11532              1239              1096         10603622          1808940         1482636   7085198
8  -6810000 ___       _    11532              1239              1096         12305570          1808940         1735355   9039865
9  -6810000                11532              1239              1096         14058577          1808940         1995656  11053173
10  -6810000               11532              1239               1096         15864175          1808940         2263765  13126880    a
11  -6810000               11532              1239               1096         17723940          1808940         2539918  15262798    x
12  -6810000               11532              1239               1096         19639498          1808940         2824356  17462794
13  -6810000               11532              1239               1096        21612523           1808940         3117327  19728790
14  -6810000       -_      11532              1239               1096         23644739          1808940         3419086  22062765
15  -6810000               11532              1239               1096         25737921          1808940         3729899  24466760
16  -6810000               11532              1239               1096         27893899          1808940         4050036  26942875
17  -6810000               11532              1239               1096         30114556          1808940         4379777  29493273
18  -6810000               11532              1239               1096         32401832          1808940         4719410  32120183
19  -6810000               11532              1239               1096         34757727          1808940         5069233  34825900
20  -6810000               11532              1239               1096         37184299          1808940         5429550  37612789
____ __  ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ __  ____ ___ ___ __   ___ ____ ___ __  ___ ___ ____ _   _ ___ _____  Econom ic    rate   of  24
return
2%
o 



-69-                             Annex 7
Page 1 of 11
INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
Project Implementation Plan
The Structure and Functions of the CPCU and the LPIU's
Organizational Framework - Overview: The implementation arrangements for the
project comprise a number of governmental as well as independent bodies, both at the
central level and at the level of individual universities. The Directorate General of Higher
Education  (DGHE) under the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) will have
responsibility for overseeing project implementation. In addition, DGHE will implement the
fellowship program. The BAN and the BHE will be responsible for implementing their
respective parts of the project. At the level of the six individual target institutions,
implementation responsibility will lie with Local Project Implementation Units (LPIUs)
which have evolved out of the University Task Forces which prepared the individual
universities' proposals. At the central level, a small Central Project Coordination Unit
(CPCU) located within the BHE Secretariat within DGHE will be responsible not for
implementing the project, as in the past, but only for providing training, monitoring, and
technical assistance to the LPIUs and for overall coordination of project activities. The
CPCU is de facto already established in the form of the existing Project Preparation Team
within DGHE. The structure, roles and responsibilities of the implementing agencies are
summarized briefly below.'
Structure of the Central Project Coordination Unit (CPCU): The proposed project will
be managed by the Central Project Coordination Unit (CPCU). The CPCU will report to the
Assistant Secretary for Education at the BHE Secretariat. The CPCU will comprise of a
CPCU Director, a financial officer, two procurement officers, and clerical staff. The CPCU
Director will be appointed by the DGHE.
Roles and Responsibilities of the Central Project Coordination Unit : The overall
responsibility of the CPCU is overseeing and managing the project implementation through
intensive monitoring and supervision. Specific responsibilities are:
*  to administer the grant agreement between the CPCU and the LPIUs;
*  to prepare the budget for the BHE and BAN activities, and handle the corresponding
financial matters;
*  to administer the Competitive Domestic Fellowship Program;
*  to prepare progress reports for the Bank;
*  to submit periodic reports to the Secretariat;
*  to monitor project expenditures by periodically collecting standardized format reports
from the LPIUs and prepare consolidated financial statements and submit audited
statements of accounts to the Bank;
For a detailed description of the structure, role and functions of the BHE and the BAN, please refer to
Annexes 4 and 5 respectively.



-70-                             Annex 7
Page 2 of II
*  to closely monitor procurement activities, take corrective actions for any deviation
found, and report it to the Secretariat as soon as possible;
*  to assist and supervise universities in reporting and collecting data for monitoring and
evaluation;
*  to provide necessary management training and technical assistance to the LPIUs;
*  to liaise with the LPIUs and the Bank on all project related matters.
Structure of the Local Project Implementation Unit (LPIU): The Implementing unit at
the target universities will be the Local Project Implementation Unit (LPIU). The Vice
Rector for Academic Affairs will be, ex-officio, become the Director of the LPIU. Due to
his/her routine responsibilities as the Vice Rector, however, an Executive Director will be
needed to carry out the day to day activities. The Executive Director will supervise two
deputies: Academic Affairs, and Finance and Administration. Officers in charge of the LPIU
will be appointed by the Rector after acquiring approval from the Education Commission.
Roles and Responsibilities of the Local Project Implementation Unit (LPIU): The LPIU
is responsible for project implementation at the target university level. The Vice Rector I will
chair the LPIU and an Executive Director will be appointed to oversee day-to-day
operations, the Executive Director will report to the Vice-Rector I on progress, problems
encountered and actions taken to resolve problems. Specifically the Executive Director will
ensure communication and cooperation between the Academic and Finance and
Administration units. Integration of the tasks of these two units is critical to successful
implementation. The Academic unit will conduct a needs analysis for equipment, civil
works, technical assistance and staff development and prepare appropriate terms of reference
and specifications and, in conjunction with the Finance and Administration unit, prepare
tender documents. The Finance and Administration unit will then conduct the tender process,
evaluate bids and prepare contracts based on standard Bank guidelines for procurement of
goods and services and guidelines for recruitment of technical assistance. Especially in the
procurement of equipment and civil works the two units will jointly assume responsibility
for checking equipment received and works carried out and for coordinating the installation
and commissioning process to ensure that equipment and civil works ordered, and received,
matches the needs identified by the end users.
In carrying out its task, the LPIU can draw expertise from other sources such as the CPCU,
technical assistance from universities which have already developed experience and
expertise in these tasks, and domestic as well as international consultants.
The organizational chart below shows the relationship between the various bodies involved
in the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the universities development program.
A Project Implementation Schedule detailing the timeframe for the various project activities
is attached.



UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM -
IMPLEMENTATION FLOW, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Evaluation and recommendation
for grant agreement renewal
DGHE                                     BHE
BHE
SECRETARIAT
OQ
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,
PIUiiI]        UNIVERSITIES



~~~~~~~~~~~~d*Sdh U M     & C    --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h-1-
In~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
C03                                              a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CA
I",
vi                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~ 
= ~~~~~~~~ 
0                                                                          W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ E
to
10
1.3
.. . .. . .. . .. . .. . . .. . .. ... . .. . . .. .... .. . .. . .. . . .. . .. .... .. . . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .. .. . .. ... . ... . .. ... . .. . .. . .. . . .. . .. . .. . .0. .
0.m
0co I
I Jo t, aftd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
L XOUUV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



1995           1996           1997           1998 |         1999 |          20001          2001
ID   Task Name                                   Duration    Start   Q3 Q4  1 Q2103f1Q94 Q1 IQ21Q3IQ4 Q1 102 03 1 4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4IQ1 1021031Q4 Q1IQ2JQ3JQ4
23       Project Executdons                          260w   1112/ 
24           Stage 1 execution                        52w   11/12/96
25           Report 1 from beneficaries                 Id    10/5/97       .     .20I5
26           Report 1 evaluation                      2.8w    10/7/97
27           Annual contract 1 preparation             2w   10/26/97              .
28           Annual contract 1 sign                    Id    11/9/97
29           Stage 2 execution                        52w   11/11/97
30           Report 2 from beneficiaries               ld    10/4/98
31           Report 2 evaluation                     2.8w    10/6/98
32           Annual contract 2 preparation             2w   10/26/98
33           Annual contract 2 sign                     Id    11/9/98
34           Stage 3 execution                        52w   11/10/98
35           Report 3 from beneficiaries               Id    10/3/99
613~~~~~~~-
36           Report 3 evalution                       2.8w    10/5/99       .                             .D.
37           Annual contract 3 preparation             2w   10/25/99
38           Annual contract 3 sign                    Id    11/8/99        .     .11
39           Stage 4 execution                        52w    11/9/99
40           Report 4 from beneficiaries               Id    10/1/00
41           Report 4 evaluation                     2.8w    10/3/00
42           Annual contract 4 preparation             2w   10/23/00
43           Annual contract 4 sign                    id    11/6/00                                                                                  11/6
44           Stage5execution                          52w    11/7/00
Task                                 Summary                               Rollbd Up Progress_ 
Date: 5/21/96                      Progress                             Rolled Up Task
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone O
Page 2



1995            1996            1997 [998]                       1999             2000|           2001
ID    Task Name                                      Duration     Start   Q31Q4                     Q        3JQ2JQ3|Q4  Q  IQI I3Q4 !Q1|Q2|Q3|Q41Q2|Q3|Q4 ! 1Q2|Q3|Q4
45            Final Report from beneficiaries               ld    10/7/01
46            Final report evaluation                       4w     10/9/01
47
48   Higher Education Council                             323w     8/28/95      .                          -
49        HEC Preparation                                 6.8w      1/2196
50            Finalize guideline of the HEC                 6w      1/2/96
51            Establishment of HEC                          ld    2/13/96
52            Establishment of HEC Secretariat              3d    2/14/96
53        HEC Activities                                 294w      3/17/96                 _                               -
54            Bechmarking                                294w      3/17/96           _.
55                Design questionnaires                     3w     3/17/96  
56                Design system test                        2w      6/9/96               .
57                Data collection 1                         5w      9/1/96
58                Data processing 1                         2w     10/7/96
69                Data collection 2                         5w      9/1/97
60                Data processing 2                         2w     10/6/97
61                Data Analysis 1                           2w    10/20/97
62                Data collection 3                         5w      9/1/98
63                Data processing 3                         2w     10/6/98
64                Data Analysis 2                           2w    10/20/98
65                Data collection 4                         5w      9/1/99
66                Data processing 4                         2w     10/6/99
Task                                    Summary                                  Rolled Up Progress_
Proje:t2/9                            Progress                                 Rolled Up Task
Milestone          *Rolled Up Milestone 
Page 3



1995           1996           1997            19981          1999         1 2000            2001
ID   Task Name                                    Duration    Start   03 0l4 01  1Q31Q4 011021031Q4 ! 1021Q3 104101 1Q21 Q3 0Q4 1Q1 Q2 10314 QQ1 2Q21Q3JQ4
67               Data Analysis 3                        2w   10/20/99
68               Data collection 5                      5w      9/1100
69               Data processing 5                      2w    10/6/00
70               Data Analysis 4                        2w   10/20/00
71               Data collection 6                      5w      9/1/01
72               Data processing 6                      2w    10/8/01
73               Data Analysis 5                        2w   10/22/01
74           Project Management Training                2w      7f7/96
75           Inter departemental mneeting               1w      6/9196
76           Overseas short visit 1                     1w    7/28/96
n7           Ovemeas short visit 2                      1w      8/3/97
78           Overseas short visit 3                     1w      8/2/98                                               I
79           Overseas short visit 4                     1w      818/99                                                               I
so           Overseas short visit 5                     1w      8/6/00                                                                              I
81       National Accreditation Board                 292w    8i28196            e                  -
82           Preparaton                                32w   8U28/95
83               Establishment of NAB Secretariat       8w    8/28/95
84               Design system of accreditalon          8w   10/23/95
88               Design questionaries                   4w   12/18/95
86               Trial run                              8w    1/15/96
87               Evaluation & impprovment               4w    3/11/96
88           Implementation                           260w      4/8/96             !   -
_ _x
Task                                  Summary                               Rolled UpPro,qress
Project:                            Progress                             Rolled Up Task
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone 0
Page 4



3~~~~~~~~~~~~~aa                              3  a1   L a                        a
*  -.         ~~~~~~-C                                              -C                                            P
ll~~ I  a > i                                                                                                                              S:::~~a
0
KPi 
~~~~~  Co                                                                                                                     U~~~~~~~~~~~-L  -.,CIi
M M                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA
3          ................................................................................................................................................................. 4  M
U  -
W' ~~ ~                  .................................................................................................................................. .....
0
~~~~~~~~~~.................                                ......................................................................................................
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ~~~~~~~                                   ~~                      ~          1
II  8 afed                                                                   -9L-
L xauv



.  1995          9             1997            1998           1999            2000            2001
ID   Task Name                                    Duraon       Start   Q3104 Q11|2Q103104 Q1 Q2103104 01 Q22Q3 04 01  2Q2l3 Q                     Q240 Q120304    |IQ2|I Q3104
111               Stage 3 Implementaton                 52w      4/98..
112                   Workshop I                          2d     4/6/98
113                   Data gatherng & processing 1       6w      4/6/98
114                   Data evaluatlon 1                  4w     5/18/98
115                   Desk evaluation 1                  4w    6/15/98
116                   Site visit I                      12w    7/13/98
117                   Workshop 2                          2d    10/5/98
lie                   Data gathering & processing 2      6w     10/5/98
119                   Dat evaluation 2                   4w    11/16/98
120                   Desk evaluation 2                  4w    12V14/98
121                   Site visit 2                      12w     1/11/99
122               Stage 4 Implmntatlon                  62w      4/5199
123                   Workshop 1                          2d     45/99         .
124                   Data gathering & processing 1      6w      4/5/99
125                   Data evaluation 1                  4w     5/17/99
126                   Desk evaluation 1                  4w    6/14/99
127                   Site visit 1                      12w    7/12/99
128                   Workshop 2                          2d    10/4/99
129                   Data gathering & processing 2      6w     10/4/99
130                   Data evaluation 2                  4w    11/15/99
131                   Desk evaluation 2                  4w   12/13/99
132                   Site vkit 2                       12w     1/10/00
Task                                  Summary                 __Rolled Up Progress                                                          CD 
Date 5/21/96 ~~~~~~Progress                                      Rolled Up Task X
Milestone         *                   Rolled Up Milestone 6
Page 6



1996           1996           1997            1998      1     999            2000           2001
IID   Task Name                                   Duraton    Start   Q3 I Q4 Q1|Q2IQ31Q4 Q1 1021Q31Q4   1Q21Q             4 Q|Q2|Q3|Q4 01 |2 Q3 Q4 !Q 42 Q3 |0Q4
133               Stage 6 Implementatlon               62w      4t3/00
134                  Workshop 1                          2d     4/3/00
136                  Data gathering & processing 1      6w      4/3/00
136                  Data evaluation 1                  4w    5/15/00
137                  Desk evaluation 1                  4w    6/12/00
138                  Site visit 1                      12w    7/10/00
139                  Workshop 2                          2d    10/2/00
140                  Data gathering & processing 2      6w    10/2/00
141                  Data evaluation 2                  4w   11/13/00
142                  Desk evaluation 2                  4w   12/11/00
143                  Site vlst 2                       12w      1/8/01
144  Domestic Fellowships Programs                   222.4w    9/22/96                              -              -               -
146      Preparation                                  16.2w    9122196
146          Developing guidelines                     12w    9/22/96
147          Development of eligible study program      4w   12/16/96
148          Announcement                                ld    1/13/97                          1/13
149      Stage I execution (Firt Batch)               148w    2t27197
150          Call for Applications                       Id    2/27/97                            2t27
151          Deadline Applications Submissions           I d    6/3/97
152          Selection                                  8w      6/4/97
153          Announcement                                I d    7/30/97                                 7/30
164          Execution (Master Program)               126w    7/31/97                PE
Task                                  Summary                              _Rolled Up Progress                                            0  CD
Date: 5t21196                      Progress                              Rolled Up Task_ 
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone O
Page 7



1995           1996            1997 1          1998           1999            2000 1          2001
ID   Task Name                                     Duration    Start   Q3I Q4 Q1 Q21Q31Q4 Q1|Q2|03|Q4 Q1102|Q3104 !Q1Q20Q30Q4 01|Q2103104101|Q2|Q3|Q4
155       Stage 2 execution (Second Batch)            147.4w    2128/98
156           Call for Applications                       1d    2/28/98                                            2t28
157           Deadline Application Submission             1d     6/1/98
158           Selection                                  8w      6/2/98                                       .z 1
159           Announcement                                1 d    7/28/98             .                                    ,7I28
160           Execution (Master Program)               126w    7/29/98
161   DUE PROJECT Preparation                          45.4w    1/26/96
162       Appraisal                                      4w     1/26/96
163       Negotiation                                    4w      5/6/96        .
164       Establishment CPCU                             4w      6/5/96
165       Establishment LPIU                             4w    11/12/96
|  |  Taskl                            Summaryw                        t    Rolled UpProgresP   8
Proje:rt29                          Progress                               Rolled Up TaskO 
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone                                                                                                         X
Page 8



-80-                               Annex 8
Page 1 of 9
Indonesia
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
Monitoring and Evaluation'
Introduction
1.     The basic goals of this project are to speed Indonesia's economic and social
development and enhance its ability to compete in an ever widening global marketplace.
Specifically, the project seeks to improve the quality of SI education and to assist the
Government of Indonesia take the first steps in operationalizing the New Paradigm which
emphasizes mechanisms to enhance bottom-up, decentralized planning and performance
based resource allocation for universities.  The project includes activities designed to
improve Indonesia's higher education system at both the sector level and at the university
level.
2.      As part of a five year effort, the monitoring and evaluation component plays an
important role in gauging the overall success of the new institutional framework as well as
efforts by less established universities to improve their overall quality, relevancy and
efficiency. Numerous and varied activities will be planned and implemented in the six target
universities. Each institution has prepared a self-evaluation and has submitted a limited plan
for its development. The challenge to the monitoring and evaluation component will be to
define a single set of cogent indicators that will allow us to track progress within institutions
and maintain validity, given the multiple groups responsible for gathering and processing
information. Monitoring and evaluation will be carried out by each LPIU as well as the
CPCU and the DGHE, at intervals sufficiently frequent to permit feedback and continual
program improvement.
3.      The tables that follow present the designated performance indicators to be used in
monitoring and evaluating the project components and to be used during supervision. There
is also a discussion of how and when they will be measured. The targets specified in the
monitoring and evaluation matrix are average figures. The indicators are not meant to be
applied to each of the institutions individually but to the average performance of the group as
a whole.
Monitoring tracks the process of carrying out activities necessary for program implementation. This can be
accomplished through recording and reporting from service delivery sites, supervisory sites, and periodic
program reviews. Monitoring is an integral part of evaluation; it is used to measure process objectives, that is,
to determine if and to what extent activities are being implemented as planned. Evaluation measures the progress
of the program to outcome objectives which specify changes in behavior or services as a result of the project
activities. The term evaluation also includes operational research designed to answer questions related to
interventions and services. For example, the effectiveness of two different approaches to teaching reading, or the
effectiveness of distance education compared to traditional classroom lectures.



Annex 8
-81-                             Page 2 of 9
The Nature of Education Indicators
4.     Indicators are typically quantified measurements that can be repeated over time to
track the progress toward the achievement of objectives. They are normally expressed as
numbers, proportions, percentages and ratios. Education indicators attempt to characterize
the success or effectiveness of an education system, institution or program by serving as a
proxy for some educational component or relationship.
5.    Caution  is necessary  when  evaluating  education  projects, especially  when
interpreting educational indicators. First, the interpretation of educational indicators is
innately subjective2. Typically, indicators are presented as being "value-neutral" measures
of performance while in reality they are based on some value judgment about the desired
effects of education. Windham (1992) gives the example of two institutions: one with a
statistic indicating an 80 percent graduation rate, and the other a 20 percent graduation rate.
The statistic does not become an indicator until it is attached to some goal. If the goal is
maximizing the rate of graduation, the first program would appear more successful. If
increasing the total number of graduates is the goal, the second program could also be
considered successful if for example, the population was less advantaged students who might
normally not graduate at all. It is critical therefor that the goals and objectives of a project
are stated clearly and that there is agreement with their interpretation.
6.     Second, education is more complex and difficult to summarize than activities in other
social sectors such as health and nutrition. It is relatively straightforward to evaluate the
results of a vaccination or feeding program, but providing better quality schooling is more
difficult to measure. For evaluating education programs, indicator sets are more valuable
than single indicators because issues such as cost, equity and learning effectiveness need to
be considered simultaneously to evaluate the true impact of an intervention.
7.     Finally, since education is a relatively long-term process, interventions must also be
long term. This increases the costs of monitoring and evaluation because these activities
must occur over the life of the project. A single time slice measurement is inappropriate,
when in fact, a programs' impact may not be seen for several years. In the case of higher
education, the impact may not be realized until the beneficiaries enter the labor market.
Project Monitoring
8.     During appraisal it was agreed that a core group of indicators would be utilized to
monitor and evaluate the impact of the overall project. Three indicators were chosen: one
each for quality, efficiency and relevancy
2 The section on educational indicators relies heavily on a paper by Douglas Windhamn. 1992. "Educationfor All"
Indicators: A Proposed Framework Manual, and Implementation Plan. A Report prepared for UNICEF.



Annex 8
-82-                        Page 3 of 9
9.    Benchmark Test. To monitor quality. a Benchmark Test will be administered at the
target institutions to all students at the beginning of the project, at mid-term evaluation, and
at project completion . It is expected that by the end of the project, the mean score on the
benchmark test will have increased by 10% over the score at the beginning of the project.
The test is currently being developed and will be administered and scored by the BHE.
Students will take the test at their respective universities.
10.   Decrease in Mean Cycle Cost. A decrease in the mean cycle cost by program will
be used to measure efficiency. Cycle cost was chosen because it takes into account both the
unit cost and the length of study. It is expected that mean cycle cost will decrease by 10%
over the life of the project. The LPIU at each university will be responsible for measuring
this indicator and forwarding it to the CPCU in its annual evaluation.
11.   Decrease in Mean Job Search Time. A decrease in the mean job search time of
graduates will be used to measure increased relevance of undergraduate education. By the
end of the project, it is expected that 50% of students will find employment in their
respective fields within six months of graduation. Although no baseline is presently
available, this target is believed to represent a substantial improvement over the present
situation.  Baseline information is being collected and will be available when the
universities' final proposals have been evaluated. Mean job search time will be monitored by
the LPIU and forwarded to the CPCU via the annual report.
Project Monitoring
12.   To implement the New Paradigm, the Government plans to strengthen institutional
capacity both at the center and at individual universities. The Board of Higher Education
(BHE) will make use of the existing MIS for monitoring the higher education system.
Lessons learned from the implementation and evaluation of the proposed project will be
applied to future higher education policies and practices. The CPCU will be responsible for
monitoring and assisting the LPIUs in implementing their respective projects and for
collecting and analyzing data from the target universities. They will also provide the
background information needed for the BHE.
Component Monitoring
12.   Less Established Universities. The objective of this component is to improve the
quality of S1 education in six of the less established universities. At the university level, the
Rector will establish (1) a Local Project Implementation Unit which will be responsible for
project implementation and monitoring, and (2) a Task Force whose responsibility will be to
gather information on established baseline indicators. The LPIU will prepare semi-annual
and annual reports on the indicators cited as well as any problems that might have been
encountered and actions to ameliorate them. These reports will be submitted to the
Education Secretariat CPCU of the Board of Higher Education
13.   As presented in the SAR, two sets of indicators will be used (paras. 3.24 - 3.26). The
first will consist of those which can be measured in the short-run: the Secondary School
Leaving Examination score of incoming students, student GPA, results on the UMPTN,



Annex 8
-83-                       Page 4 of 9
change in teaching practices, the proportion of civil works completed and the proportion of
goods procured. The second, which are long-term in nature, will be based on the results of a
tracer study and the established baseline indicators. These are outlined in the accompanying
grid. In addition to the generic set of indicators, process indicators for each institution will
be individually determined will be determined on a case by case basis and be linked to
specific proposals.
14.   Board of Higher Education. The DGHE will assign a technical auditing tearn to
monitor the activities of the BHE and the CPCU on an annual and semi-annual basis using
the indicators in Table 1.
15.   National Accreditation Board.  The CPCU will monitor the BAN. Annual
monitoring of established baseline indicators will occur



INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
Key Performance Indicators
Project Objectives        Key Performance             Baseline    Mid-term       Completion'
Indicators                   Year
Outputs   To improve in six selected
universities:
a)quality                 a) Improve quality:
i. Increase in the mean       X        X + 5%          X + 10%
BT score of students3
ii. Increase in the mean       Y        Y + 2%           Y + 5%
UMPTN score
b)efficiency              b) Improve efficiency:      5.75 years   5.5 years      5.25 years
decrease in the time
required to graduate
c) relevance              c) Improved relevance:         Z        Z - I months  Z - 3 months
Decrease in the mean job
search time of graduates
CPQ
~000
3tt  x
3BT is the Benchmarkc Test developed for this project. The BT will also be given to second and third year students to measure quality improvement.



Project Objectives            Key Pertormance Indicators   Baseline Year   Mid-Term    Completion
Inputs     To ensure the project is      a) Deviation from planned
carried out as planned        disbursements
b) Satisfactory technical
audit at each university4
c) Satisfactory technical
audit for the BHE and the
BAN.
d) Satisfactory technical
audit of the Competitive
Domestic Fellowships
e) Ratio of students
accepted to students
applied
00
~O00
4Process indicators and baselines to be determined for each university, based on their pre-proposals, as well as the BHE and BAN.



SUPERVISION MATRIX                   UPDATED AS OF:_
Project Component                    Baseline             Target           Present status        Comments
Less Established Universitiess                                                                   Component Objective: To improve the quality
Input Indicators                                                                                  of SI education in six less established
I . Student GPA                                                                                  universities
2. Incoming student's score on
National Entrance Examination
3. Cycle cost per graduate
4. Institutional strategy plan
developed
To be established at
Process Indicators                   Baselines to be      To be            negotiations
1. Percent of proposed civil works   determined and will  determined after
completed                         correspond to       establishment of
2. Percent of proposed goods procured  individual proposals  baselines
3. Percent of faculty and staff
participating in training and
receiving fellowships and grants in
the selected programs
4. Proportion of students enrolled in
S&T and engineering relative to
baseline enrollment
5. Employment tracer study of
graduates conducted (recommend
annually)
Output Indicators
I. Decrease in dropout and repetition                    tracer study
rates                                                 should be on-
2. Proportion of students ranking                         going
university as first school of choice                  (recommended
3. Job search time for graduates                          annually)
4. Duration of study
Board of Higher Education                                 It is                                  Component Objective: To assist the DGHE in        0
Input Indicators                                         recommended                             overseeing the higher education system, to      a
1. Decree established and BHE                            that the BHE                            provide policy advice, and to recommend and
promulgated                                           meet four times                        review university funding proposals.                x
2. Membership appointed                                   annually                                                                                o 00
5 Baseline and target indicators should be filled in by the LPIUs of the selected universities based on their final proposals.



Project Component                    Baseline           Target           Present status        Comments
Process Indicators                                      It is
1. Secretariat established and                          recommended
functioning                                          that
2. Frequency of Board meetings                          Commissions
3. Frequency of Commission meetings                     meet at least 4
times annually
Output Indicators
1. Production of a long term plan for
the higher education sector
2. Number of proposals submitted for
review
3. Number of programs approved
4. Time elapsed between submitting a
proposal and approval of funding
5. Percent of programs funded in
national priority areas
* Science
* Engineering
*  Management
*  Accountancy                       __
The National Accreditation Board                                                               Component Objective: To strengthen quality
(BAN!                                                                                          assurance mechanisms within the higher
Input Indicators                                                                               education sub-sector through establishing an
1. Decree established and BAN-PT                                                               accreditation system for both public and private
promulgated                                                                                institutions.
Process Indicators
1. Members appointed                                                                           Law No. 2/1989 of the National Education
2. Secretariat established and                                                                 System requires the establishment of the
functioning                                                                                National Accreditation Board. Decree No.
3. Peer review committees established                                                          0236/U/1994 established the Board and Decree
4. Frequency of Board meetings                                                                 No. 02371U/1994 appointed the Chair, the
5. Accreditation requirements for                                                              Secretary and all the members.
programs, faculties and institutions
6. Pilot accreditation program                                                                                                                 CD
completed                                                                                  Pilot accreditation program initiated and         0
completed on 15 programs in medicine and law.   x
Output Indicators                                                                                                                               ,o0oo
1. Number of accreditation decisions
made
2. Proportion of the number of
faculties, programs and universities



Project Component                    Baseline            Target           Present status        Comments
reviewed to the total number of
faculties, programs and universities                 Increase in the
seeking review                                       mean score on
3. Mean score of applicants on the                       the National
National Entrance Examination.                       Entrance
Examination by
10%
Competitive Domestic Fellowship
I. GOI to conduct a study of current                     By the end of
remuneration and incentive                           the first year, the
structures for teaching staff and the                study should be
role played by fellowships.                          completed and
results analyzed
to determine
efficacy of this
type of
fellowship
__component.    I
00
x0
xO0



-89-                               Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
Indonesia
Higher Education Support: Development of Undergraduate Education
Supervision Plan
Timing         Mission                Mission Purpose                   Team Composition
Duration                                                  (Staff Weeks [SW])
(Weeks)
July 1996             2        Review the plans for first year            Education planner (4 SW)
implementation including                   Economist (3 SW)
*  Project Launch Workshop                Implementation Specialist
*  Plans for data collection, staff       (4 SW)
development and training for the BAN-   Operations Officer2(3 SW)
PT                                     Total = 14 SW
Plans for project management by the
BHE
- Plans for university development
Plans for the fellowship component
Site visits to 3 or 4 of selected universities
January 1997          2                                                   Implementation Specialist (4
Review:                                    SW)
Procurement and processing of contracts   Educator (4 SW)
-  Monitoring and evaluation plans        Operations Officer (3 SW)
(including results of benchmark exam   Total = 11 SW
and initial baseline surveys)
-  Equipment procurement for universities
-  Availability and channeling of funds
-  Monitoring of fellowship program
Site visits to remaining 3 or 4 selected
universities
June 1997             2        Review and discuss the annual plans and    Education specialist (4 SW)
report; carry out post-review of contracts.  Implementation Spec .
Review project expenditures, implementation  (2 SW)
progress, annual plans for BHE, BAN-PT,    Operations Officer (3
universities and status of fellows. Update on   Total = 9 SW
performance indicators
November 1997          2                                                  Implementation Specialist
Review procurement plans, processing of   (4 SW)
contracts, availability of funds, project  Education Specialist (2 SW)
management. Update data on indicators. Site   Operations Officer (3 SW)
visits.                                    Total = 9 SW
May 1998              2        Evaluate results of mid-term benchmark test.  Education Specialist (4 SW)
Update data on indicators. Mid-term review    Economist (4 SW)
Implementation Specialist expected to be resident in Indonesia (RSI)
2   The Operations Officer resident at RSI will carry out post-mission follow-up/problem resolution, and assist in
issues related to local procurement and SOE review.



-90-                              Annex 9
Page 2 oT2
of procurement and project expenditures,  Operations Officer (4 SW)
training activities, assessment of universities   Total = 12 SW
Site visits
Education specialist (4 SW)
November 1998        2       Review procurement plans, processing of  Economist (2 SW)
contracts, availability of funds, project  Operations Officer (3 SW)
management. Update data on indicators.  Total = 9 SW
May 1999             2       Review and discuss annual plans; Update  Education Specialist (4 SW)
data on indicators. Evaluate project    Implementation Specialist
management                               (4 SW)
Operations Officer (I SW)
Total = 9 SW
November 1999        2       Review implementation procedures
including: data collection, staff development,  Education Specialist (4 SW)
BAN-PT, BHE and universities; update    Implementation Specialist
indicators.                             (4 SW)
Site visits to 3 or 4 of selected universities  Operations Officer (I SW)
Total = 9 SW
May 2000             2       Field Visits; Review and discuss annual  Education Specialist (4 SW)
plans; Review project expenditures and  Economist (2 SW)
disbursement; training activities; monitoring   Operations Officer (4 SW)
and evaluation results; final benchmark test;   Total = 10 SW
quality improvement at less established
universities
November 2000        2       Prepare for ICR. Site visits
Education specialist (4 SW)
Final review of:                        Economist (4 SW)
Procurement and project expenditures    Implementation Specialist
training activities                     (4 SW)
accreditation mechanisms                Operations Officer (3 SW)
evaluation of less established universities  Total - 15 SW
BHE
Field visits to all. Complete ICR



INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate
Technical Assistance Summary
Estimated Cost
Type of TA/ Activity  Purpose/Objective   Implementing       Total    Person-    Status of TOR (Date)     Short List (Dakt)   Standard Contract   Responsibility
Agencies/Units    (USS'000)  Month    Prepared   Expected   Prepared   Expected   Prepared (Y/N)    for Supervision
A. Institutional
Capacity Building
1. Visiting Scholars    Provide academic      LPIU         3,300                           Nov. 1996  Jan. 1997  Mar. 1997           Yes               RSI
expertise
B. Implementation
Support
1. Auditors (BHE)     Perform technical       CPCU           170        10 (1)*            Mar. 1997   June 1997 Sept. 1997          No                HQ
audit of BHE
2. Auditors (BAN)     Perform technical       CPCU           170        10 (1)*            Mar. 1997  June 1997 Sept. 1997           No                HQ
audit of BAN
C. Policy Support
1. Training Specialist  Support               CPCU           655      144 (L)*            April 1997   July 1997  Nov. 1997         Yes               RSI
development of
the New Paradigm
* These person-months figures are indicative only 
I = International
L = Local



Indonesia
Development Undergraduate Education
Project Cost Sumary
%     I Total
(Rn. Million)                    (USS '000)             Foreign    Base
Local    Foreain    Total       Local    Foreign    Total   Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                             770.4      330.2   1,100.5       343.0      147.0      490.0        30         1
B. Equipment                               451.0   1,633.3   2,084.3        200.8      727.2      928.0        78         1
C. Degree Training
2. Domestic Fellowship
Master Programs                  20,052.3   2,228.0  22,280.3   8,928.0         992.0   9,920.0         10        11
D. Non Degree Training
Overseas                                786.1   3,144.4   3,930.5       350.0   1,400.0   1,750.0          80         2
Domestic                              3.307.0      367.4  3.674.5   .472.4         163.6  1.636.0          10         2
Subtotal Non Degree Training             4,093.1   3,511.8   7,605.0   1,822.4   1,563.6   3,386.0             46        4
E. Technical Assistance
Overseas                                168.0      672.0      840.0       74.8     299.2      374.0        80         -
Domestic                              1.809.6      201.1   2.010.6       805.7       89.5     895.2        10         1
Subtotal Technical Assistance            1,977.6      873.1   2,850.6       880.5      388.7   1,269.2         31         1
G. Studies                               2,515.5      628.9   3,144.4   1,120.0        280.0   1,400.0         20         2
I. Universities Grants                  61,124.2  81,025.1 142,149.3  27,214.7  36,075.3  63,290.0             57       69
J. Project Management
1. CPIU
Honoraria                            783.3          -     783.3      348.8           -     348.8         -         -
Consumables                          400.2      44.5      444.7      178.2       19.8      198.0        10         -
Travel                               444.7          -     444.7      198.0           -     198.0         -         -
Operation and Maintenance        9.672.7271 -   2.S2.7   1.19.                       -   1.190.0         -1
Subtotal CPIU                         4.301.0       44.5  4.345.4  1.915.0          19.8  1.934.8            1        2
Total Investment Costs                      95,285.0  90,274.9 185,559.9  42,424.3  40,193.6  82,618.0             49        90
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operational Cost for Secretariat
Honoraria                             2,311.8          -   2,311.8   1,029.3            -   1,029.3          -        1
Consumables                           1,394.8      155.0   1,549.7      621.0       69.0      690.0        10         1
Travel                                4,346.0          -   4,346.0   1,935.0            -   1,935.0          -        2
Operation and Maintenance            12.760.6          -  12.760.6  5.s.,.l.-81.5       - - 5.61.5          -         6
Total Recurrent Costs                       20.813.2      155.0  20.968.2  9.266.8          69.0  9.335.8           1        10
Total BASELINE COSTS                        116,098.3  90,429.8 206,528.1  51,691.1  40,262.6  91,953.8             44       100
Physical Contingencies                      1,942.3   2,578.1   4,520.4        864.8   1,147.9   2,012.7          57         2
Price Contingencies                        13.999.4  4.208.0  18.207.4  6.233.0   1.873.6 8.106.6                 23         9
Total PROJECT COSTS                         132,040.0  97,216.0 229,256.0  58,788.9  43,284.1 102,073.0             42       111
- a
o X
0 _



Indonesia
Development Undergraduate Education
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs
(us$ '000)
Impl. of     Competitive
Universities  Institutional   National         Domestic                                  Physical
Development    Capacity    Accreditation  Fellowship          Project                Contingencies
Program     Bldg. in HE  System for HE    Program        Management      I Total    t.   Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                     -          105.0          280.0              -          105.0     490.0    10.0    49.0
B. Equipment                                       -          420.0          338.0              -          170.0     928.0      7.0    65.0
C. Degree Training
2. Domestic Fellowship
Master Programs                              -              -              -       9,920.0               -   9,920.0        -        -
D. Non Degree Training
Overseas                                        -         750.0        1,000.0               -              -   1,750.0        -        -
Domestic                                        -       1.396.0          240.0               -              -   1.636i 0       -        -
Subtotal Non Degree Training                       -       2,146.0        1,240.0               -              -   3,386.0        -        -
E. Technical Assistance
Overseas                                        -         204.0          170.0               -              -     374.0        -        -
Domestic                                        -         655.2               -              -         240.0      895.2        -        -
Subtotal Technical Assistance                      -         859.2           170.0              -         240.0   1,269.2         -        -
G. Studies                                         -       1,400.0               -              -              -   1,400.0        -        -
I. Universities Grants                     63,290.0               -              -              -              -  63,290.0      3.0 1,898.7
J. Project Management
1. CPIU
Honoraria                                    -              -                             -         348.8      348.8        -       -
Consumables                                  -             -               -             -          198.0      198.0        -       -
Travel                                       -              -              -              -         198.0      198.0        -       -
Operation and Maintenance                    -             -               -             -        1.190.0  1.190A  0        -       -
Subtotal CPIU                                                  -              -              -       1.9348    1934.8          -       -
Total Investment Costs                          63,290.0        4,930.2        2,028.0        9,920.0        2,449.8  82,618.0      2.4 2,012.7
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operational Cost for Secretariat
Honoraria                                       -         366.3          663.0               -              -   1,029.3        -       -
Consumables                                     -         330.0          360.0               -              -     690.0        -       -
Travel                                          -         285.0        1,650.0               -              -   1,935.0        -       -
Operation and Maintenance                       -         412.0        5.269.5               -              - -5,681.5         -       -
Total Recurrent Costs                                  -        1.393.3        7.942.5              -              -   9.335.8        -        -
Total BASELINE COSTS                             63,290.0        6,323.5        9,970.5        9,920.0        2,449.8  91,953.8      2.2 2,012.7
Physical Contingencies                          1,898.7           39.9           51.7              -           22.4   2,012.7        -        -
Price Contingencies                            4.870.6           591.0       1.092.5        1.197.9           354.6  8.106.6       1.8   143.5 L .
Total PROJECT COSTS                              70,059.3        6,954.4       11,114.6       11,117.9        2,826.8 102,073.0      2.1 2,156.1
Taxes                                           4,203.6           87.4           97.9              -           48.6   4,437.5      3.0   133.0           tJ C
Foreign Exchange                              38,867.1        1,738.9        1,406.1        1,041.5          230.4  43,284.1       2.8 1,198.6          0



Indonesia
Development Undergraduate Education
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Impl. of     Competitive
Universities  Institutional   National       Domestic
Development    Capacity    Accreditation  Fellowship        Project
Program     Bldg  in HE  System for HE    Program      Management      Tot.alK
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                   -          116.2         309.9              -         116.2     542.2
B. Equipment                                     -         459.2          367.1              -         186.7   1,013.0
C. Degree Training
2. Domestic Fellowship
Master Programs                            -             -              -      11,117.9              -  11,117.9
D. Non Degree Training
Overseas                                      -         792.2        1,052.8             -              -   1,845.0
Domestic                                      -       1.482.1          262.1             -              -   1,744.2
Subtotal Non Degree Training                     -       2,274.3        1,314.9             -              -   3,589.2
E. Technical Assistance
Overseas                                      -         219.5          180.1             -              -     399.5
Domestic                                      -         702.5              -             -          282.9     9852 4
Subtotal Technical Assistance                    -         922.0          180.1             -          282.9   1,384.9
G. Studies                                       -       1,557.7              -             -              -   1,557.7
I. Universities Grants                    70,059.3             -                            -              -  70,059.3
J. Project Management
1. CPIU
Honoraria                                  -             -              -             -         411.0      411.0
Consumables                                -             -              -             -         231.1      231.1
Travel                                     -             -              -             -          233.5     233.5
Operation and Maintenance                  -             -              -             -       1.365.4  1365.4
Subtotal CPIU                                 -             -              -             -       2.241.0  2L241.0
Total Investment Costs                        70,0P9.3       5,329.3        2,171.9      11,117.9        2,826.8  91,505.3
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operational Cost for Secretariat
Honoraria                                     -         432.1          740.0             -              -   1,172.1
Consumables                                   -         385.2          399.0             -              -     784.2
Travel                                        -         328.6        1,860.7             -              -   2,189.3
Operation and Maintenance                     -         479 2        5,943.0             -              -  6,422.2
Total Recurrent Costa                                -       1 625.0        8.942 7              -             -  10 567 7
Total PROJECT COSTS                            70,059.3       6,954.4       11,114.6      11,117.9        2,826.8 102,073.0
Taxes                                         4,203.6          87.4           97.9              -          48.6   4,437.5
Foreign Exchange                             38,867.1       1,738.9        1,406.1       1,041.5          230.4  43,284.1



Indonesia
Development Undergraduate Education
Expenditure Accounts by Years
(US$ '000)
Base Cost                                        Foreign Exchange
1QQ6       1997      1998        1999       2000       2001       2002       Total       t      Amouint
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                              490.0          -          -          -          -          -           -     490.0      30.0    147.0
P. Equipment                                728.0          -          -      200.0          -          -          -      928.0      78.4    727.2
C. Degree Training
2. Domestic Fellowship
Master Programs                           -   2,000.0   4,000.0   2,960.0        960.0           -          -   9,920.0      10.0    992.0
D. Non Degree Training
Overseas                                     -     700.0      525.0       450.0       75.0          -          -   1,750.0       80.0  1,400.0
Domestic                                420.0      536.0      536.0        86.0       52.0        6.0 --------   1.636.0         10.0    1634.6
Subtotal Non Degree Training                420.0   1,236.0   1,061.0        536.0      127.0        6.0           -   3,386.0      46.2  1,563.6
E. Technical Assistance
Overseas                                  68.0       68.0       68.0       68.0       68.0       34.0          -      374.0      80.0    299.2
Domestic                                     -     372.6      372.6        45.0       45.0       45.0       15.0      895.2      10.0      89.5
Subtotal Technical Assistance                68.0      440.6      440.6      113.0      113.0       79.0       15.0   1,269.2       30.6    388.7
G. Studies                                   50.0      490.0      360.0      160.0      260.0       60.0       20.0   1,400.0       20.0    280.0
I. Universities Grants                   4,490.0  17,300.0  20,620.0  11,900.0   6,340.0   2,640.0                -  63,290.0       57.0 36,075.3
J. Project Management
1. CPIU
Honoraria                             18.0       63.0       63.0       63.0       63.0       63.0        15.8     348.8          -         -
Consumables                            9.0       36.0       36.0       36.0       36.0       36.0         9.0     198.0      10.0      19.8
Travel                                 9.0       36.0       36.0       36.0       36.0       36.0         9.0     198.0          -         -
Operation and Maintenance            2.0        160.0 ..20.0         - 1600Q    210.0       160.0        35.0   1190.0           -         -
Subtotal CPIU                           291.0      2         345.0                   4           5          68.8   1.934.8        1.0      198
Total Investment Costs                        6,537.0  21,761.6  26,826.6  16,164.0   8,145.0   3,080.0           103.8  82,618.0       48.6 40,193.6
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operational Cost for Secretariat
Honoraria                               149.3      199.2      199.2      199.2      199.2       66.6        16.7   1,029.3          -         -
Consumables                              87.0      132.0      132.0      132.0      132.0       60.0        15.0     690.0       10.0     69.0
Travel                                  267.9      344.4      416.4      479.4      389.4        30.0        7.5   1,935.0          -         -
Operation and Maintenance               775.5   1.022.0   1.229.5   1437.0   1,.146.5            58.0       13.0   5.681.5 --------- L-       -
Total Recurrent Costs                        1.279.7   1.697.6  1.,977.161.11224.6   1,866.1                       52.2   9.335.8        0.7      69.0
otal BASELINE COSTS                           7,816.7  23,459.2  28,803.7  18,411.6  10,012.1   3,294.6           155.9  91,953.8       43.8 40,262.6
Physical Contingencies                         234.7      519.0      618.6      3-1.0      190.2       79.2           -   2,012.7      57.0  1,147.9
Price Contingencies                             43.4      766.0   2.267.7   2.381.3   1.855.0         737.6       55.6   8.106.6       23.1  1.873.6
Dtal PROJECT COSTS                            8,094.7  24,744.2  31,690.0  21,163.9  12,057.3   4,111.4           211.5 102,073.0       42.4 43,284.1
Taxes                                          408.1   1,115.9   1,378.3        854.9      470.5      206.8        2.9   4,437.5           -        -
Foreign Exchange                             3,531.2  11,378.9  13,719.4   8,465.5   4,384.7   1,795.3             9.0  43,284.1          -         -            cqh
Co



Indonesia
Development Undergraduate Education
Expenditure Accounts by Years
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996      1997       1998       1999       2000       2001       2002       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                             542.2           -         -          -          -          -          -      542.2
B. Equipment                               781.8           -         -      231.2          -          -          -   1,013.0
C. Degree Training
2. Domestic Fellowship
Master Programs                          -   2,085.4   4,406.4   3,445.3   1,180.7              -         -  11,117.9
D. Non Degree Training
Overseas                                    -      716.5      554.2      490.0       84.3          -          -   1,845.0
Domestic                                42.30      558.9      590.5      100.1       64.0        7.8         1- L744.2
Subtotal Non Degree Training               423.0   1,275.4   1,144.7        590.1      148.2        7.8          -   3,589.2
E. Technical Assistance
Overseas                                 68.3       69.6       71.8       74.0       76.4       39.4          -     399.5
Domestic                                    -      388.5      410.5;      52.4       55.3      58.5       20.2      98r.4
Subtotal Technical Assistance               68.3      458.1      482.2      126.4      131.7       97.9       20.2   1,384.9
G. Studies                                  50.3      509.6      394.2      184.5      315.8       76.8       26.4   1,557.7
I. Universities Grants                   4,646.8  18,333.1  22,690.4  13,601.6   7,529.2   3,258.4               -  70,059.3
J. Project Management
1. CPIU
Honoraria                             18.1       65.9      69.8       74.0       78.4       83.2       21.6      411.0
Consumables                            9.1       37.5      39.6       41.9       44.2       46.7       12.1      231.1
Travel                                 9.1       37.6      39.9       42.3       44.8       47.5       12.3      233.5
Operation and Maintenance           256.9      167.3      232.7        187.9    261.5      .a211.2     47.9   1.365.4
Subtotal CPIU                           293.2      308.3      382.1     346.1       429.0     388.6       93.9   2.241.0
Total Investment Costs                       6,805.5  22,969.9  29,500.0  18,525.3   9,734.7   3,829.5           140.5  91,505.3
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operational Cost for Secretariat
Honoraria                               150.4      208.3      220.7      234.0     248.0        87.9      22.8   1,172.1
Consumables                              87.6      137.6      145.3      153.5      162.2       77.9      20.1      784.2
Travel                                  269.9      360.1      461.4      563.1     484.9       39.6       10.3   2,189.3
operation and Maintenance               781.3 1.. ..0.4A  1.36J2.5   1.688.0  1.427.6           76.6      17.8  6.422.2
Total Recurrent Costs                        1.289.2  1.774.4  .2.120.0Q  2.638.6  2.322.6            281.9       71.0  10S.67.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                           8,094.7  24,744.2  31,690.0  21,163.9  12,057.3   4,111.4           211.5 102,073.0
CD
o X
-a-



Indonesia
Development Undergraduate Education
Project Components by Year
(US$ '000)
Ba&E Cost
1996      1997       198        1999 _   2000Q        2001    -2022-        To2tal--
1. Universities Development Program                    4,490.0  17,300.0  20,620.0  11,900.0   6,340.0   2,640.0               -  63,290.0
2. Institutional Capacity Bldg. in HE                    949.2   1,904.2   1,699.2        746.6      637.6      314.6       72.2   6,323.5
3. Impl. of National Accreditation System for HE   1,861.5   1,915.0   2,094.5   2,415.0   1,684.5                  -          -   9,970.5
4. Competitive Domestic Fellowship Program                    -   2,000.0   4,000.0   2,960.0        960.0          -          -   9,920.0
5. Project Management                                    516.0      340.0      390.0      390.0      390.0      340.0       83.8  2.4499.
Total BASELINE COSTS                                       7,816.7  23,459.2  28,803.7  18,411.6  10,012.1   3,294.6          155.9  91,953.8
Physical Contingencies                                    234.7      519.0      618.6      371.0      190.2       79.2          -   2,012.7
Price Contingencies                                        43.4      766.0   2.267.2   2.381.3 12iSS0            737.6       55.6   8.106.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        8,094.7  24,744.2  31,690.0  21,163.9  12,057.3   4,111.4          211.5 102,073.0
Taxes                                                      408.1   1,115.9   1,378.3       854.9      470.5      206.8        2.9   4,437.5
Foreign Exchange                                        3,531.2  11,378.9  13,719.4   8,465.5   4,384.7   1,795.3             9.0  43,284.1
Indonesia
Development Undergraduate Education
Project Components by Year
(US$ '000)
Totals Includina Contingencies
1996      1997       1998       1999       2000       21         2002       Ttal
1. Universities Development Program                    4,646.8  18,333.1  22,690.4  13,601.6   7,529.2   3,258.4               -  70,059.3
2. Institutional Capacity Bldg. in HE                    987.6   1,978.3   1,858.8        854.7      771.6      405.9       97.4   6,954.4
3. Impl. of National Accreditation System for HE   1,922.2   1,992.2   2,302.7   2,806.0   2,091.5                  -          -  11,114.6
4. Competitive Domestic Fellowship Program                    -   2,085.4   4,406.4   3,445.3   1,180.7             -          -  11,117.9
5. Project Management                                    538.2      355.2      431.       456.3      484.3      447.1     114.0   2.826.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       8,094.7  24,744.2  31,690.0  21,163.9  12,057.3   4,111.4           211.5 102,073.0
o X
0'Ne



Annex 12
-98-                          Page-1 of 1
INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year    Amount per     Cumulative            Disbursement Profile a/
and semester         semester        amount                       (%)
----------(US$ million)-----------    %
FY97
1              3.0b/           3.0          5               0
2               2.0             5.0         8               0
FY98
1              4.5             9.5          15              3
2               4.5            14.0         22              6
FY99
1               5.5            19.5         30             10
2               5.5            25.0         38             22
FY 00
1              6.0             31.0         48             34
2               6.0            37.0         57             42
FY01
1               6.0            43.0         66             54
2               6.0            49.0         75             66
FY02
1              6.0             55.0         85             74
2               6.0            61.0         94             82
FY03
1              4.0             65.0        100             90
Project Completion Date:  March 31, 2002
Project Closing Date:  September 30, 2002
a/ Latest standard disbursement profile for education projects in Indonesia (1995)
b/ An estimated initial deposit to the Special Account



-99-                         Annex 13
Page 1 of 6
INDONESIA
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
Technical Audit Terms of Reference
To ensure the accountability to the Government, the World Bank, the academic
community, and the general public, a technical audit of the various project components
would be conducted annually. The technical audit would be carried out by an independent
consultant with no association with the project and possessing specialists with expertise in (i)
management and award of development grant programs; (ii) university administration and
finance; and (iii) university accreditation. The goal of the technical audit is to provide an
independent and impartial assessment of the quality and adequacy of procedures and
processes employed by the seven beneficiary universities and the BHE Secretariat. The
technical audit will be used as a tool to improve management of the DUE project and will
complement both the university-level auditing practices and the monitoring and evaluation
carried out by the BHE Secretariat.
The objective of the technical audit is to ensure that the proposal review and
selection process carried out by the BHE Secretariat as well as program implementation, are
in compliance with its policies and operating guidelines and terms contained in the
Guidelines for Full Proposal submission. The audit should also ensure that the grantees are
undertaking activities in compliance with grant agreements and award conditions.
Scope of Work and Procedures
Scope:
1. Evaluation of selection procedures and results, award procedures and results and
program implementation for the seven university grants initiated during 1996/97.
2. Review of all university grants
3. Assessment of the effectiveness and efficiency of the BHE Secretariat in implementing
its responsibilities for the DUE project.
4. Assessment of the effectiveness, efficiency and timeliness of the BAN in accrediting
tertiary education institutions and study programs.
5. Evaluation of selection and award procedures under the graduate fellowship program.
Procedure:
1. Broad summary review of compliance with selection procedures and a check of all
documentation required for award; and
2. Site visits to check (a) physical reality against the most recent report submitted to the
BHE Secretariat; and (b) compliance with procurement requirements.
Location
1. Beneficiary Universities: TO BE DETERMINED
2. BHE Secretariat                     Jakarta
3. BAN Secretariat                     Jakarta



-100-                       Annex 13
Page 2 of 6
The selected seven universities
Contracting Body for the Audit
Project Implementation Unit
Department Pendidikan dan Kebudayaan
Development of Undergraduate Education Project/DUE
Gedung C Lantai 18, Depdikbud
Jalan Jenderal Sudirman Senayan, Jakarta Pusat
Kotak Pos 4920/JKP 10049
Supporting Data
WORLD BANK Documentation:                    -Staff Appraisal Report
-Procurement Guidelines
BHE Secretariat Documentation:               -Annual Report Fiscal Year 1996/97
-Proposal and other material provided
by the beneficiary Institution
BAN Secretariat Documantation:               -Annual Report Fiscal Year 1996/97
Expected Outcome and Duration
A draft report should be submitted to the PIU for review and comments not later than five
months after commencement of project activities and a final report not later than six months
after commencement of project activities. The audit shall commence not later than April 1,
1997.
Description of Tasks
Five distinct tasks would be carried out as part of the technical audit: (1) audit of selection
documentation and award procedures and results for the university development grants and
examination of program implementation; (3) examination of grant implementation; (4)
assessment of efficiency and effectiveness of the BHE Secretariat; (5) audit of selection
documentation and award procedures and results for the domestic fellowships program; (6)
assessment of efficiency and effectiveness of the BAN, including review of criteria and
procedures applied in accrediting institutions; and (6) preparation of the final report.



-101-                        Annex 13
Page 3 of 6
L     Audit of Selection documentation and award procedures (University Grants)
This represents the first stage of the audit. For each beneficiary institution, the Team shall
verify that:
1.    proposal review and selection documents were consistent with BHE's operating
guidelines and in line with the Guidelines for Proposal Submission.
2.    documentation for each university was adequate and accessible. This will include
documentation relating to information flow between relevant parties, for
recommendation or decision at each required stage.
3.    the required review and selection processes were adequately undertaken for each
university in a manner consistent with available information. Any departure from
this practice should have a documented explanation.
4.    operating guidelines of the BHE Secretariat were not violated
5.    Peer reviewers were involved at all relevant review steps.
]L    Examination of Program Implementation
Program implementation is conducted by the Secretariat and the DUE project staff,
and consists of a number of activities. The second stage of the Technical Audit is limited to
an examination of (i) progress reports and site visits of beneficiary institutions, and (ii)
documentation of program monitoring and evaluation.
For each beneficiary institution visited, the Team will identify specific elements of
the reported progress or activities that should be verified during the site visit. Specific
elements to be audited at each university will depend on the contents of the individual
institution's proposals. These elements will be added to the general items listed in III below.
Prior to conducting site visits, the Team shall obtain documents describing the monitoring
and evaluation activities carried out by the appropriate staff, in conjunction with World Bank
mission or separately, as appropriate. Significant actions taken by the-BHE Secretariat or
DUE CPIU staff resulting from monitoring and evaluation activities should be followed up
during the site visits as well.
ImL    Examination of Grant Implementation
Grant implementation under the DUE project is carried out by beneficiary
institutions through the activities specified in the terms of their grant agreement and the
contract between the CPIU and LPIU at the beneficiary university. The Team shall visit all
beneficiary institutions. The purpose of the site visits is to confirm that expenditures and
related financial procedures are being executed according to the terms of the grant
agreement. In addition, the Team shall seek to verify that reported activities and progress can
be sustained.
To conduct this portion of the audit, the Team should prepare site visit procedures to address
the specific items in Parts III-A and Ill-B below.



.-102-                            Annex 13
Page 4 of 6
To tailor the procedure to each site being visited, the Team will also incorporate elements
identified in Part II above. Thus, each site visit will have a common core, with award
specific items added to extend the utility of the visit.
A.    Conformance with terms and conditions of grant agreement. For each award, the
Team shall evaluate the appropriateness, efficiency, and/or adequacy of the following:
1.    Procurement procedures and documentation
2.    Funds expended according to budget; permission required from the BHE
Secretariat to modify spending beyond 10% fungeability ceiling.
3.    Major procurement and hirings occurred according to schedule
B.    Verification of activities reported in progress reports. For each grant award, the Team
shall summarize the available evidence regarding the consistency between reported activities
and those observed during the site visit:
1 .    Personnel are performing the reported tasks and at the reported level of effort.
2.    Equipment and instrumentation important for execution of grant activities are
being used as reported and at the reported rates.
IV.   Assessment of Efficiency and Effectiveness of the BHE Secretariat
The Team shall review all findings from Parts I-III and prepare a statement summarizing the
efficiency and effectiveness with which the BHE Secretariat selected beneficiaries, made
awards, and monitored and evaluated the implementation of the university grants under the
DUE project. In addition, the Team shall also examine whether:
I .    Personnel are performing the reported activities and at the reported level of effort;
2.    Equipment and facilities available for the BHE Secretariat operations are adequate,
as well as being used as rcported and at the reported rates.
This section of the audit should focus on the performance of proposal selection and
awarding, and program monitoring and evaluation. It should not focus on the technical
details of other functions of the BHE Secretariat. When appropriate, the audit statement shall
also include recommendations for improvement of the BHE Secretariat in relation to the
DUE project.
V.    Audit of Selection Documents and Award Procedures (Domestic Graduate
Fellowships Program)
For each program beneficiary, the Team shall verify that:
1.    Review a random selection of applications and other documents for consistency with
the program's selection criteria and application requirements;



103                 ~~~~~Annex 13
103                         Page 5 of 6
VI.   Assessment of Efficiency, Effectiveness and Timeliness of the BAN
The Team shall review the processes and criteria used by the BAN to evaluate
institutions and study programs for the purpose of accreditation and prepare a statement
summarizing the efficiency, timeliness and effectiveness with which the BAN carried out its
tasks as an accreditation body. In addition, the Team shall also examine whether:
1.    Staff of the BAN is performing the reported activities and at the reported ;level of
efforts;
2.    Accreditation is granted only upon the conduct of all necessary assessments by the
BAN; and
3.    Accreditation is awarded after an institution or a program has complied with the
minimum criteria.
VII.  Preparation of the Final Report
The Team will prepare a final report at project completion. The confidential report is
intended for dissemination to the DUE project staff and World Bank staff. It shall contain
detailed summaries for each development program at the selected universities and a of
review of: i) documentation of selection and award procedures for the university
development grants; ii) grant implementation; iii) implementation of the domestic graduate
fellowship program; iv) and an assessment of the BAN's performance in conducting
accreditation. This report should also contain the summary of BH-E S cretariat efficiency
report in Part IV above.
Contractor Identification and Qualification
The contractor must be an independent body with no association with the DUE project and
must be able to assemble specialists with expertise in: i) management and award of
development grant programs; and ii) university administration and finance.
Qualifications of members of the Team:
The members of them Team must have appropriate qualifications, and demonstrated
expertise in one or more of the areas identified above.
Requirements
1.    Submit a signed curriculum vita, legalized by supervisor (except as freelance),
and a copy of diploma
2.    Submit a letter of acceptance to act as a member of the Team on a legal paper.
3.    No other job commitment during the period of the contract.



104                           Annex 13
Page 6 of 6
The Contract
A contract will be signed between the CPIU and the selected audit team and be in effect from
April 1, 1997 to October 1, 1997. The contract will be extended for the duration of the
project upon successful completion of the first six month period.



-105 -                        Annex-14
Page I of I
Indonesia
Higher Education Support Project: Development of Undergraduate Education
Selected Documents Available in the Proiect File
1.    Project Proposal Document
2.    Project Implementation Plan
3.    Sixteen (16) Pre-proposals from less established universities
4.    Ten full proposals
5.    Asian Development Bank study on Private Higher Education in Indonesia
6.     Tracer study of University Graduates in Indonesia a
7.    Employer Survey a
8.    Study on The Effectiveness of the Overseas and In-Country Fellowship Program
9.    Private University Development Strategy, Final Report Draft a
10.    Unit Cost of Education, Final Report a
11.   Financing Higher Education in Indonesia: Issues for Strategy and Reform a
12.   A draft study entitled Labor Marketsfor D3 and SI Graduates '
13.   Terms of Reference for the National Accreditation Board (BAN)
14.   Guidelines and Procedures for Accreditation (BorangAdreditasi Program Studi and
Pedoman Cara Penilaian Akreditasi Program Studi).
15.   Model Grant Agreement between the CPCU and the LPIU.
Note: Indicates a study commissioned for the project



INDONESIA
I)EVELOPMENT 1OF UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATI ON P'ROJECTI
ORGANIZAT IONAL DIAGRAM
Accreditationi Restilt         |Nationall
Director General ofAcrdtioBad
Hglgher Education* 
Advisoty
Directorate For           Directorate for
Academic Affairs       Research and Community
Service
BHE Secretariat                                                    Board for Higher Education
CPIU DUEProjecIu URtiversity                                                                    Un sty
CPIU DUE Project          CPIU UJRGE Project                              Council                 Council
Discipliined-Based
Commissions



MAP SECTION






IBRD 27823
h-; IJTEtAILAND                                            "D
4aondO~h J - Svouth China Sea                                                                         ,,J* 4  ,                                             PHILIPPINES *
,,,MALAYSIA
VGO \      kan ,o XtQ)SINGAPORE
5Tu 4 r E<, \                                 1 0                                              <                                               IHALMAHE 6Qu
r   Pb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
ID -_.'=                            2 1XA> >1                                                                                                X
,,                                                                                                                      I 5UATR 3AA  \-                                                                                                                           7J9  Uj S\    e  
12 SUAIR  UTAR                                                                                                                                                                                      -        ~                
1~~~~~                          ~~ 5, KAMATN   eGAi'2        on     d     u   4                                                                     or                      ~                             
6.daULAWESlnENGAH                               /     -6E 5S                                                                                                         >   D              o        Lf/               sir=furokLW
20  S KJ*AYE SLARTAN                                                        r          Eg 2o, doo.  FRIf. nghr
2  1AWAESIT                                                                                            D - ~  e                                                                 _     /
23AWA TENGAR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I R  I A 
a DI YOGYAK(AKTA
5 JAWATIMUR                                                   BINIAN                                        * S2  Ai T2
6  LAMPUNO BJAYA 1
7 BIEOKULU                         .               A
9RLAI                                   L.                                                                                          t% rJ                                                                       ~            ~     {1    _
6aSUM.ATERA SELATANI                            B-nder                      J- -2 
9 RdAU(UR,EABR                                                                                                             IN O ESAmpaneo                                                                                                       wo        00      40        0
010 AaBI                                                                                                                    U                                                               Bend.
IiSUMATERBARAAT                   ~N
12 SUMATERALUTARA N
I13D DI ACEHRC
14 S9LIMARTN (URANSI R0Le
i   MAJANTAN TENGAMI                                           2Ff-
1 6KALJMAAQAN SELATAN6                                               J       WA
17KAUJWT  TMR                                                                         .           -CA,ehn S-e
I NSULAWESN TENCENI K                                                                                              *
I 9 SLAWESI J ARA(
20  SULAWESI SELATAN@ 
21  SULAWESI TENGGARA
22  BAUiDeoer                                                                                                         Ln                                   o
i    2   NUSATENGGARAA  ARATTE                                                                                                                           F- 24     PS
25 LAMBUNGMANRATIMU                                               INDIAN OCEAN
27 TIMORTIMFUR                                                                                                                                                 C)LI
I        IAULK  UTAjPL                                                                                    f,      NAIOA CA ITA                                                                            h   oudrC    oo.dno h    n   n   fhrihr
UNiVSRSMEFS
RIAU (UNRJ), PEKANBARU                                                                                                      INDONESIA                                                                                       was on                                 4C 21 tdo  5,o
2JlAMBi (UNJAUF. JdAMBI
3EGUU IS)B, REFOKUUU                                                                     HIGHER EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT                                                                                          0M.              20                                 O
LA-FFUNG (UNILA). RANDARLAPN
5J ENDERAL SOEDIRMAN ( UNSOED, PYURWOKA  'RO                                                   Development of Undergraduate Education
6  SE BEIP MARET IONS), SOLO
7 JEMAER)IJNEI, EMBER
6 aMATARdAM (UNRAMFI, MATARAM                                                                                               NVRIISIVTDTOSBIFR    RPSL
9NRUSS CENDANA (UNCEN), KUPANIG                                                                                    *       UNRr    NIE   OSBI  R    RPSL
I U TANJUNGPURA (UNTAN), PONT1ANAX
Ii IP61.ANOGKAAYA 6UPRPM).PALANGKAMAYA                                                                                      UNIVERSITIES INVITED TO SUBMIT FULL - PROPOSALS
72 LA%tRUNG MANGKURAT (UNLAMI, BANJjA$Jt6SIN
12 3SAM  ATUJLANGI IUNSRAT2, MANAD                                                                                  (D      PROVANCE HEADQUAETrERS
II I 6ADU)AKO (UNTAI), PALU                                                                                                 NATiONAL CAPITAL                                                                       The b-ader,ee  mode,. dee6e6eed eny etherifenat
15~. OILEO (0UNHALUI, KENSARi                                                                                                                                                                                     *hewn   eh6. rep de net -ply., ee te pert a! Th. World Reek
6  PATMrA (UNPATTII. AMBON                                                                                         -      PROVINCE BOUNDARWES                                                                      repan   dgenen6.lgI  eee   laptrir,e  n
17CRDUARWAASIH (UNCEI, JA UAINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                            ceeemete -npen  a! sac! beendeie
dMJL1 196









IMAGING
Report No:      15498 IND
Type: SAR



