Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4043 IND
                             Loan Agreement
           (Higher Education Support Project - Development of
                         Undergraduate Education)
                                between
                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                  and
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated August 12, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4043 IND
                             LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 12, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project; and
     WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and condi-
tions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
Page  2
          "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
          no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures
          in the territories of any country which is not a member of
          the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
          such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
          persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such
          payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited
          by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
          under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
     (c)  In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph
(l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
          any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
          with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's
          Articles of Agreement."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "BAN" means Badan Akreditasi Nasional, the Borrower's National
Accreditation Board established by Ministerial Decree No. 0326/U/1994;
     (b)  "CPCU" means the Central Project Coordination Unit established
in the Secretariat of DPT, responsible for monitoring the Project and
providing training and technical assistance to the LPIUs;
     (c)  "DGHE" means the Directorate General of Higher Education in the
Borrower's Ministry of Education and Culture;
     (d)  "DPT" means Dewan Pendidikan Tinggi, the Borrower's Board of
Higher Education (BHE) established by Ministerial Decree No. 0121/U/1996;
     (e)  "Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the Borrower's fiscal year commenc-
ing April 1 and ending March 31;
     (f)  "Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the
Borrower, partly out of the proceeds of the Loan, to a Target University
for a Sub-project (both as hereinafter defined);
     (g)  "LPIU" means the Local Project Implementation Unit within each
of the Target Universities, and "LPIUs" means the Local Project
Implementation Units, collectively;
     (h)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
     (i)  "Sub-project" means a specific development program to improve
the quality of undergraduate education, the effectiveness of the
educational process and the relevance of the study program offered, to
be carried out by a Target University under Part A of the Project; and
     (j)  "Target Universities" means the following six universities,
namely, Universitas Bengkulu, Universitas Jember, Universitas Lampung,
Universitas Nusa Cendana, Universitas Riau, and Universitas Sebelas
Maret; and "Target University" means any one of the Target Universities.
                               ARTICLE II
                                The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
sixty five million dollars ($65,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of
the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Page  3
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement (i) for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project (other than Part A thereof) described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
(ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the
Borrower on account of Grants made under Part A of the Project and in
respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia or in a state commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including, in the case of a state commercial
bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2002, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
               date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
               Period in which this Agreement is signed.
          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
               borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
               to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
               may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
               interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.
         (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
               months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
          of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
          rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
          plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
          shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
          during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
Page  4
          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
          Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
          "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on
          January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
                              ARTICLE III
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through DGHE, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admini-
strative, educational, financial and technical practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achieve-
ment of the objectives of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
Page  5
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made,
               all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such expendi-
               tures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.
                               ARTICLE V
                              Termination
     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VI
              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          c/o Directorate General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P. O. Box 1139
          Jakarta 10710
          Indonesia
          Cable address:                Telex:
               FINMINISTRY              45799 DJMLN-IA
               Jakarta                  44319 DEPKEU-IA
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
Page  6
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                248423 (MCI)
               Washington, D.C.          64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
               By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar, Ambassador
                                                  Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Russell Cheetham
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                      East Asia and Pacific
                              SCHEDULE 1
               Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated           % of
                          (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)  Civil works              400,000         80%
     under Parts B and
     C of the Project
(2)  Goods under              700,000         100% of foreign
     Parts B and C                            expenditures,
     of the Project                           100% of local
                                              expenditures
                                              (ex-factory
                                              cost) and 65%
                                              of local
                                              expenditures for
                                              other items
                                              procured locally
(3)  Training
     under Parts B and
     C of the Project:
     (a) Domestic             800,000         50%
     (b) Overseas           1,800,000         100%
(4)  Domestic               5,600,000         50%
     fellowships
     under Part D
     of the Project
Page  7
(5)  Grants under          50,800,000         75% of Grant amount
     Part A of the Project
(6)  Studies under          1,600,000         100%
     Part B of
     the Project
(7)  Project                1,100,000         50%
     management
(8)  Consultants'           1,100,000         80%
     services
(9)  Unallocated            1,100,000
                            _________
          TOTAL            65,000,000
                           ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "Project management" means expenditures by the CPCU
for administrative costs, including honoraria, consumable materials and
travel.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i)
civil works; (ii) contracts for goods costing less than $250,000; (iii)
training, fellowships and Project management; (iv) Sub-projects under
Grants; and (v) contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued
at less than $100,000 equivalent each, and contracts for the employment
of individuals valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in improving
the quality of undergraduate education, the effectiveness of the
educational process and the relevance of the study programs offered,
through provision of support for the first phase of the implementation of
the Borrower's decentralization program for universities.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Universities Development Program
     Strengthening undergraduate education at Target Universities through
the carrying out of development programs to provide fellowships for
teaching staff, training programs for teaching and administrative staff,
provision of teaching and research grants, provision of technical
assistance through visiting scholars, provision of books, journals,
teaching materials, and equipment, and rehabilitation and upgrading of
facilities.
Page  8
Part B:  Institutional Capacity Building in Higher Education
1.   Development of the capacity of DPT to carry out its functions of
assistance to DGHE in (i) overseeing the higher education system, by
making recommendations on higher education policies, identifying local
and national needs and new programs to be financed, and providing a
medium- to long-term perspective to DGHE; (ii) providing competitive
funding of research and graduate education; (iii) establishing
competitive funding mechanisms for undergraduate education; and (iv)
providing assistance to institutions of higher education to strengthen
their capacity for academic planning and management; including the
provision of technical assistance and equipment, staff training, and
renovation of office space.
2.   Carrying out of policy studies, including the carrying out of a
comparative analysis of the remuneration and incentives structure for
university teaching staff.
Part C:  National Accreditation System for Higher Education
     Strengthening of the capacity of BAN in establishing accreditation
mechanisms and carrying out of accreditation of institutions of higher
education and of study programs in such institutions, including the
provision of technical assistance and equipment, staff training in
management and program evaluation, and renovation of office space.
Part D:  Competitive Domestic Fellowship Program
     Provision of domestic fellowships for master's degree programs, on
a competitive basis, to university teachers and to candidates for
university teaching positions.
                                * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2002.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                          Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in dollars)*
March 1, 2002                                 1,260,000
September 1, 2002                             1,305,000
March 1, 2003                                 1,350,000
September 1, 2003                             1,400,000
March 1, 2004                                 1,445,000
September 1, 2004                             1,495,000
March 1, 2005                                 1,550,000
September 1, 2005                             1,605,000
March 1, 2006                                 1,660,000
September 1, 2006                             1,715,000
March 1, 2007                                 1,775,000
September 1, 2007                             1,840,000
March 1, 2008                                 1,905,000
September 1, 2008                             1,970,000
March 1, 2009                                 2,040,000
September 1, 2009                             2,110,000
March 1, 2010                                 2,185,000
September 1, 2010                             2,260,000
March 1, 2011                                 2,340,000
September 1, 2011                             2,420,000
March 1, 2012                                 2,505,000
September 1, 2012                             2,590,000
March 1, 2013                                 2,685,000
September 1, 2013                             2,775,000
March 1, 2014                                 2,875,000
September 1, 2014                             2,975,000
March 1, 2015                                 3,075,000
September 1, 2015                             3,185,000
March 1, 2016                                 3,295,000
Page  9
September 1, 2016                             3,410,000
________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
     as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
     Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                         Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
     Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable
                                   to the Loan on the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                    0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                    1.00
     maturity
                               SCHEDULE 4
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B.
     (a)  Grouping of contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment shall be grouped
in bid packages estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
Page  10
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
     (c)  Notification and Advertisement
     The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8
of the Guidelines.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     (a)  Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, provided,
however, that under Parts B and C of the Project the aggregate amount
shall not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent.
     (b)  Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
2.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that under Parts B
and C of the Project the aggregate amount shall not to exceed $300,000
equivalent.
3.   Direct Contracting
     Publications which are of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank's
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the first contract for civil works by
each of the Target Universities, the first contract for civil works
under Parts B and C of the Project, and the first contract for goods
over $50,000 under Parts B and C of the Project, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
Page  11
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individuals raising the contract value to $50,000 equi-
valent or above.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                       Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall maintain the Secretariat of DPT, including the
CPCU, until completion of the Project, in accordance with terms of
reference, staffing and resources, acceptable to the Bank.
2.   The Borrower shall make Grants in accordance with the procedures
and on the conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
3.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, by June 30 of each year, commencing June 30,
1997, and until completion of the Project, a report integrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project during the preceding year and setting out
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the year
following such date;
     (c)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, on or about June 30, 1999, a report integrating
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
     (d)  review with the Bank, on or about September 30, 1999, or such
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in para-
graph (c) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required
to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations
of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
4.   The Borrower shall:
Page  12
     (a)  cause technical audits of Project implementation to be carried
out, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, in each Fiscal Year during
implementation of the Project; and
     (b)  furnish to the Bank for comments as soon as available but not
later than three months after the end of each such year, a copy of such
audit.
5.   In carrying out Parts B, C, and D of the Project, the Borrower
shall carry out the training in accordance with training programs
acceptable to the Bank.
6.   In carrying out the comparative analysis referred to in Part B.2
of the Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than October 30, 1997, furnish to the Bank for
comments the recommendations of the analysis; and
     (b)  promptly thereafter, prepare and carry out an action plan
taking into account the comments of the Bank on the recommendations.
                             SCHEDULE 6
                Procedures and Conditions for Grants
                     under Part A of the Project
1.   Each Grant shall be made by the Borrower only:
     (a)  to a Target University which shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower, on the basis of criteria and procedures
acceptable to the Bank, that said Target University has the
organization, management, staffing and other resources required for
the efficient carrying out of the Sub-project; and has prepared an
acceptable plan for the carrying out of the Sub-project, and
     (b)  for a Sub-project: (i) which is determined by the Borrower,
on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, to be technically
feasible and cost effective, and to have been designed in accordance
with appropriate educational standards, and (ii) which has been
reviewed and approved by the Bank.
2.   Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain,
through a single written agreement with each Target University, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
including the right, as applicable, to:
     (a)  require the Target University to establish, prior to the
signature of the Grant agreement and, thereafter, maintain until
completion of Part A of the Project, a LPIU, with competent staff in
adequate numbers;
     (b)  require the Target University to carry out and operate the
Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound educational, technical, financial and managerial standards and
to maintain adequate records;
     (c)  require the Target University to maintain policies and
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the
Bank, the carrying out of the Sub-project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof;
     (d)  require that: (i) the goods, works and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and
(ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Sub-project;
     (e)  inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works,
plants and construction included in the Sub-project, the operation
Page  13
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
     (f)  require that the Target University shall insure or make
adequate provision for the insurance of the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation. Any indemnity for such insurance shall be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Target University to replace or repair
such goods;
     (g)  obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the benefits to be
derived from the Sub-project; and
     (h)  suspend or terminate the right of the Target University to
the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Target
University to perform its obligations under its agreement with the
Borrower providing for the Grant.
3.   When presenting a Sub-project to the Bank for review and approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a draft Grant agreement, in
form satisfactory to the Bank, together with a description of the Sub-
project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
                             SCHEDULE 7
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (8)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or
exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the  Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the  Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
               Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
Page  14
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
               payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
               shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
               Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
               as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
               been shown by said documents and other evidence to have
               been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
               expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
               Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
               shall have been justified by said documents and other
               evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
Page  15
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
