Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4668-KG 
GRANT NUMBER H534-KG 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Energy Emergency Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
POWER PLANTS COMPANY OF THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
 
Dated February 1, 2010  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4668-KG 
GRANT NUMBER H534-KG 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 1, 2010, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and POWER PLANTS COMPANY 
OF THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (“Project Implementing Entity”) (“Project Agreement”) 
in connection with the Financing Agreement for additional financing for the Original 
Project (“Financing Agreement”) of same date between the KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
(“Recipient”) and the Association.  The Association and the Project Implementing Entity 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or 
the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, and 
shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise 
agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - TERMINATION 
 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
4.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Representative is its Director-General. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
4.02. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
 
4.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
Joint Stock Company (JSC) Electric Power Plants 
326, Jibek Jolu Avenue 
720070, Bishkek 
Kyrgyz Republic 
 
Phone: 
     Facsimile: 
 
+996-312-661101 
   +996-312-663409 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
AGREED at Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Roger J. Robinson    
 
Authorized Representative 
 
POWER PLANTS COMPANY OF THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC  
 
By /s/ Sapar Balkibekov   
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section I
.
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall implement the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Operational Manual.
 
2. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Project Implementing Entity 
shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project Operational Manual, if, in the 
opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially or adversely affect 
the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the Project objectives. 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain adequate functions, staffing and 
resources, satisfactory to the Association, for the overall purpose of carrying out the 
Project.
 
4. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall:
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by April 15, 2010, or such later date as the Association and the 
Project Implementing Entity shall agree, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by April 30, 2010, or such later date as the 
Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall agree, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views 
on the matter.   
 
Page  6
-
5
-
B. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions
.
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
D. Safeguards
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall: (i) take all action relating to the carrying 
out of the Project, including the preparation and submission of an Environmental 
Management Plan acceptable to the Association; (ii) carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of the Environmental Management Plan; and (iii) not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the 
Project. 
 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
such Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished 
to the Association not later forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall provide to the Recipient not later than 
three (3) months after the Closing Date, for incorporation in the report referred to in 
Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions all such information as the Recipient or the 
Association shall reasonably request for the purposes of such Section.  
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system 
and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the 
operations and financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, including the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
Page  7
-
6
-
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have the financial statements of the 
Project, referred to above, audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) 
of the General Conditions. The audited financial statements shall be furnished by the 
Project Implementing Agency to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
reporting period agreed with the Association.
 
3. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project 
Report not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
Section III
.
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement. 
 
