Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4668-KG 
GRANT NUMBER H534-KG 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Energy Emergency Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 1, 2010 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4668-KG 
GRANT NUMBER H534-KG 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 1, 2010, entered into between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and 
the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, the 
Original Financing Agreement, or this Agreement.  
 
1.03. 
The Original Financing Agreement is amended as set out in Section II of the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant and a credit (collectively, 
“Financing”) in the following amounts to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”): 
 
(a) 
an amount equivalent to one million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,300,000) (“Grant”); and 
 
(b)  
an amount equivalent to one million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,300,000) (“Credit”). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is US Dollars. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project are carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the 
Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely, that an 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient 
and the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
(b) 
The Project Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Association, 
 
has been adopted by the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: 
 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding 
upon the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance 
with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
58 Erkindik Blvd. 
Bishkek City, 720040 
Kyrgyz Republic 
 
Telex:  
Facsimile: 
 
245-156 NUR KH 
(996-312) 661645 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable:   
 
Telex:   
 
        Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI)   
        1-202-477-6391  
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC  
 
By /s/ Marat Sultanov 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Roger J. Robinson 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient, in accordance with the 
Recipient
’s Energy Emergency Mitigation Action Plan (EEMAP), to increase the 
Recipient’s volume of energy supply, especially, the supply of thermal power in the 
winter season, within the Kyrgyz Republic, and to improve the sustainability of such 
energy supply. 
The Project consists of the Original Project.   
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I
.
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project to be implemented by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operational 
Manual. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not, and 
shall cause the Project Implementing Entity not to, amend or waive any provision of the 
Project Operational Manual, if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or 
waiver may materially or adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the 
achievement of the Project objectives.  
2. 
The Recipient shall at all times ensure that the Project Implementing Entity has 
adequate functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association.
 
B. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary 
agreement between the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and 
conditions approved by the Association (“Subsidiary Agreement”).  
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of 
its provisions
.
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. Safeguards. 
 
The Recipient shall: (i) take all action, including the preparation and submission 
of an Environmental Management Plan acceptable to the Association, as well as ensuring 
the provision of funds, facilities, services, and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
for the carrying out of the Project; (ii) cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental 
Page  8
-
7
-
Management Plan; and (iii) not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project. 
 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and to prepare Project Reports in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
agreed with the Association.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
quarter, and shall be furnished by the Project Implementing Entity to the Association not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Association not later 
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have the Financial 
Statements of the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of 
the General Conditions. The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to 
furnish the audited financial statements to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the reporting period agreed with the Association.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
Page  9
-
8
-
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular 
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Methods 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding subject to the modifications set forth in paragraph 3 
below. 
 
(b) Shopping 
 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
3. 
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding shall be carried out by using 
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association, subject to the following 
provisions: 
 
1. 
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be 
declared ineligible for contracts financed by the Association for reasons other 
than those provided in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines. Exclusion 
from participation as a result of debarment should result from violation of 
clearly identified grounds of misconduct and in accordance with a fair and 
transparent process.   
 
2. 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents 
acceptable to the Association.  
 
3. 
An extension of bid validity, if justified by exceptional circumstances, shall be 
requested in writing from all bidders before the expiration date and for a 
minimum period required to complete the evaluation or award contract.    
Page  10
-
9
-
4. 
No national preferences may be applied on the basis of the origin of products 
or labor. 
 
5. 
Entities in which the State owns a majority shareholding shall not be invited to 
participate in tenders for the Government unless they are and can be shown to 
be legally and financially autonomous and they operate under commercial law. 
 
6. 
Pre-qualification shall be conducted for large works contracts and shall be 
applied upon the Associat
ion’s agreement;  
 
7. 
The pre- and post- qualification criteria shall only pertain to past contract 
performance, financial, managerial and technical capabilities of bidders.  
 
8. 
Joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their obligations. 
 
9. 
State unit costs shall not be used for contract budgeting and evaluation for civil 
works contracts.    
 
10. 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for their 
submission. No bids can be rejected at bid opening and under the 
circumstances referred to Article 6 of the Recipient’s Public Procurement Law. 
 
11. 
No bids shall be rejected solely because they exceed the estimated price. Bids 
can be cancelled and new bids invited, only if the conditions of paragraph 2.62 
of the Procurement Guidelines, are met. 
 
12. 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be quantifiable in monetary terms. 
 
13. 
Qualification criteria for bid evaluation shall be applied on a pass or fail basis. 
 
14. 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidder having submitted the lowest 
evaluated substantially responsive bid and no negotiations shall take place prior 
to the contract award. 
 
15. 
There should be an effective and independent protest mechanism allowing 
bidders and interested parties to protest and to have their protest handled in a 
timely manner.  
 
16. 
Advance no objection of the Association is required for any modifications in 
the contract scope/conditions during contract implementation. 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Least Cost Selection 
 
(b) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualification
s
(c) Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
(d) Single-Source Selection 
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association.
 
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
 1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from 
time to time by the Association and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to 
such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit and of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. To the extent 
Page  12
-
11 - 
practicable and relevant for Category (1), the proceeds of the Grant shall be disbursed 
before disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit: 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(expressed in 
SDR) 
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
 
(1)  Goods and works 
1,300,000               
1,162,000
100% 
(2) Consultants’ 
Services, including 
audit 
 
138,000 
100% of local 
expenditures; and 
90% of foreign 
expenditures 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
1,300,000
1,300,000
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for consultants’ services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; and 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient for consultants’ services supplied from the territory of the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed one million ten thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 1,010,000) equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after September 1, 2009, for Eligible Expenditures.   
2.
 
The Closing Date is May 31, 2011. 
 
Page  13
-
12 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage) 
 
On each May 15 and November 15: 
 
commencing May 15, 2020 to and including 
November 15, 2029 
 
1% 
commencing May 15, 2030 to and including 
November 15, 2049 
 
2% 
Page  14
-
13 - 
APPENDIX 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Recipient’s environmental 
management plan for the Project, furnished to the Association on September 14, 
2008, in accordance with criteria and procedures acceptable to the Association, 
as such plan may be updated from time to time in agreement with the 
Association, setting forth the mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures to 
be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to offset or 
reduce adverse environmental, natural habitats and cultural property impacts to 
levels acceptable to the Association. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
6. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the Financing Agreement for the Energy 
Emergency Assistance Project between the Recipient and the Association, dated 
December 22, 2008 (Credit Number 4524 KG; Grant Number H429 KG). 
7. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
8. 
“Original Project Agreement” means the Project Agreement for the Energy 
Emergency Assistance Project of even date with the Original Financing 
Agreement, and entered into between the Association and the Power Plants 
Company of the Kyrgyz Republic. 
9. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
10. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated November 3, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Page  15
-
14 - 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
11. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Recipient’s Power Plants Company, or 
any successor thereto. 
 
12. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Edict of the President of 
the Kyrgyz Republic, No. 38, dated January, 21, 2000, including any 
amendments thereto or any succeeding legislation. 
 
13. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the project operational manual for the 
Project, referred to in Section 5.01(b) of this Agreement, setting forth the 
principles and procedures governing the implementation of said Project. 
 
14. 
“Recipient’s Public Procurement Law” means the Recipient’s Law on State 
Procurement, No. 69, dated May 24, 2004, including any amendments thereto or 
any succeeding legislation. 
15. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make part of 
the proceeds of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
Section II
.
Amendment to Original Financing Agreement
The Original Financing Agreement is amended as set forth below. 
Paragraph B.4 of Section IV in Schedule 2 of the Original Financing Agreement 
is amended to read as follows: 
“4.
 
The Closing Date is May 31, 2011.” 
Section III
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the Association, 
dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
 
1. 
Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
Page  16
-
15 - 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdra
wn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (i) of Section 6.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 6.02. 
Suspension by the Association 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Association or the Bank has declared the Project 
Implementing Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the 
Association or the Bank or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Association or 
the Bank, as a result of a determination by the Association or the Bank that the 
Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing 
made by the Association or the Bank.” 
 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
 “‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
