                                     Document of
                               The World Bank


                                                     Report No: ICR2476



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
               (IDA-45240 IDA-46680 IDA-H4290 IDA-H5340)

                                        ON

   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION CREDIT AND GRANT

    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7 MILLION (US$11 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       AND

                    AN ADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT

   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.3 MILLION (US$2.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                  AND AN ADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANT

   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.3 MILLION (US$2.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                             KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

                                     FOR THE

                ENERGY EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT


                               September 27, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2012)

                           Currency Unit = KGS
                            KGS 46.83 = US$ 1
                            US$ 1.55 = SDR 1

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 – December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     The Asian Development Bank
AF      Additional Financing
bcm     Billion cubic meter
CHP     Combined Heat and Power Plant
EA      Environmental Assessment
EEAP    Energy Emergency Assistance Project
EEMAP   Energy Emergency Mitigation Action Plan
ESP     Electro static precipitators
FM      Financial Management
FMM     Financial Management Manual
Gcal    Gigacalorie
GOKR    Government of Kyrgyz Republic
GWh     Gigawatt hour
IDA     International Development Agency
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
JCSS    Joint Country Support Strategy
JSC     Joint stock company
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
kcm     Kilo cubic meter
kWh     Kilowatt hour
LSRFO   Low sulphur residual fuel oil
MW      Megawatt
MWh     Megawatt hour
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PDHRP   Power and District Heating Rehabilitation Project
PPC     Power Plants Company
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
      Vice President: Philippe Le Houerou
   Country Director: Saroj Kumar Jha
     Sector Manager: Ranjit Lamech
Project Team Leader: Mirlan Aldayarov
ICR Primary Author: Jann Masterson / Fan Zhang
                                         KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                   Energy Emergency Assistance Project



                                                       CONTENTS




Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information ....................................................................................................... i
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
  i. Rating Summary ........................................................................................................... i
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
  E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................... ii
  F. Results of Project Performance in ISRs ..................................................................... ii
  G. Ratings of Project Perfromance in ISRs ................................................................... iii
  H. Restructuring............................................................................................................. iv
  I. Disbursement Profile ....................................................................................................v



  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 18
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 20
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 21
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 23
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 24
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 25
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 28
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 29
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Emergency Energy
Country:                Kyrgyz Republic         Project Name:
                                                                         Assistance
                                                                         IDA-45240,IDA-
Project ID:             P101392                 L/C/TF Number(s):        46680,IDA-
                                                                         H4290,IDA-H5340
ICR Date:               09/27/2012              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         THE KYRGYZ
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                         REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        XDR 7.00M               Disbursed Amount:        XDR 9.56M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 9.56M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 JSC Power Plants
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       08/15/2008     Effectiveness:             02/26/2009       02/26/2009
                                                                                 11/05/2009
Appraisal:            10/03/2008     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 05/26/2011
Approval:             11/25/2008     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   04/30/2010       03/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Satisfactory       Overall Borrower    Satisfactory


                                                i
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Energy efficiency in Heat and Power                                   50                   50
Thermal Power Generation                                                                   50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                100               100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Saroj Kumar Jha                      Annette Dixon
Sector Manager:            Ranjit J. Lamech                     Charles M. Feinstein
Project Team Leader:       Mirlan Aldayarov                     Mirlan Aldayarov
ICR Team Leader:           Mirlan Aldayarov
ICR Primary Author:        Peggy Janice Masterson
                           Fan Zhang


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the Project is to urgently increase the volume and
reliability of the national energy supply, especially, thermal power in the winter season,
thereby supporting the implementation of the Kyrgyz Government's Energy Emergency
Mitigation Action Plan (EEMAP).




                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objective was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target       Completion or
                                              documents)          Values        Target Years
                  Additional thermal power output during the winter season 2008/09 in GWh
Indicator 1 :
                  (cumulative).
Value
quantitative or   492.00                      536.50                          730.10
Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2008                05/31/2011                           02/29/2012
Comments          The actual additionally generated electricity output is about 240 GWh (39%
(incl. %          higher than the planned value in 2009, 10% in 2010, 8% in 2011, and 28% in
achievement)      2012).
Indicator 2 :     Additional heat output during the winter season 2008/09 in GCal (cumulative)
Value
quantitative or   1291.50                     1381.50                         1990.80
Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2008                  05/31/2011                      02/29/2012
Comments
                  The actual additionally generated heat output is about 700 GCal (21% higher
(incl. %
                  than the planned value in 2009, 8% in 2010, 13% in 2011, and 41% in 2012.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                 approval                          Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Plant Factor (# of hours operated at installed max. capacity per year).
Value
(quantitative     739.00                      739.00                          1293.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2008                  05/31/2011                      02/29/2012
Comments
                  The Bishkek CHP's operating time increased (so called plants factor) by 75%
(incl. %
                  over the baseline.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     07/28/2009             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   1.60

                                                  iii
  2    03/26/2010        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 9.83
  3    12/03/2010        Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory         10.17
  4    06/27/2011        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                12.33
  5    03/31/2012        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                13.92


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Additional IDA Grant of SDR
                                                     1.3 million (US$2.0 million
                                                     equivalent) and additional IDA
                                                     Credit of SDR 1.3 million
                                                     (US$2.0 million equivalent)
                                                     were approved to cover the
                                                     costs associated with (i) a
                                                     scale-up of Project activities for
                                                     the provision of equipment,
 11/05/2009       N       S       S           4.40   materials, and spare parts to
                                                     increase thermal power
                                                     generation and heat output at
                                                     the Bishkek combined heat and
                                                     power plant (Bishkek CHP) for
                                                     the 2009/10 winter (under
                                                     Component I); and (ii)
                                                     corresponding scale up of the
                                                     support for Project management
                                                     (under Component II).
                                                     The closing date was extended
                                                     due to the significant (7-
                                                     months) delay in the
                                                     effectiveness of the EEAP AF
 05/26/2011       N       S     MS           11.77   due to the change of the
                                                     Government in April 2010 and
                                                     the subsequent unrest in May-
                                                     July 2010 that delayed
                                                     implementation.




                                          iv
I. Disbursement Profile




                          v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Context. At the time of appraisal in 2008 the Kyrgyz Republic was
highly dependent on hydroelectric resources for meeting its conventional energy needs.
Of the total installed capacity of 3400 MW, hydroelectric capacity accounted for about
80% and the remaining was Combined Heat and Power (CHP) capacity of about 700 MW
(in Bishkek and Osh CHP plants). However, in actual production, the dependence on
hydroelectricity was almost 90% since the operable capacity of the CHPs was down to
less than 200 MW. In addition, the Naryn hydroelectric cascade accounted for 90% of
hydroelectric capacity, with the large Toktogul reservoir - with a storage capacity of 19
billion cubic meters (bcm) - being the main reservoir that enabled the regulated operation
of the cascade. In short, the water level in the Toktogul reservoir was the crucial
determinant of the energy availability in the country.

The Toktogul Reservoir was built during the Soviet times and was designed to operate in
accordance with the natural water cycle of the Naryn River (which is largely glacier-fed
and forms the Syr Darya river by merging with Kara Darya). The inflows were highest
during the summer period (inflows of about 12 bcm with a peak of 5 bcm in the July-
August period in a normal year) due to snow melt; and dwindled to half the summer
capacity during the winter time. Accordingly, the reservoir was designed to operate in an
irrigation mode in the summer vegetation period (April to September) releasing a
minimum of 6 bcm in that period and would release 3-4 bcm during the winter.
Associated electricity was generated with the water releases, and in the summer the
electricity so produced was in excess of Kyrgyz’s needs and was normally exported
mainly to Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, in exchange for fuel supplies of coal (from
Kazakhstan) and gas (from Uzbekistan) in the winter to meet both the electricity and heat
generation needs as well as gas supply to the population and industries. Winter electricity
production was however consumed entirely in the country, as the electricity demand
peaked in the winter resulting in shortages of about 400-500 MW in the winter each year.
The Naryn river experienced the normal hydrological cycles of ‘wet’ and ‘dry’ years,
which respectively meant higher and lower than normal water flows in the rivers. These
cycles usually lasted for a year, but multi-year cycles were not uncommon.

Emergency Situation. There were two main reasons explaining the emergency situation:
(i) insufficient water stored at the Toktogul dam to be released in the winter period, and
(ii) uncertainty on fuel supply and prices. In the first case, the water inflows into
Toktogul in the summer of 2007 were 1.7 bcm lower than the average of the previous 15
years causing shortage of hydroelectricity, which was aggravated by the sporadic supplies
of gas. The Kyrgyz Republic muddled through the 2007/08 winter by depending on the
hydro system. As a result of this, the water level in the Toktogul reservoir on April 1,
2008 was 7.2 bcm, some 5 bcm lower than the average between 2002 and 2007). This
caused the Kyrgyz authorities to ration electricity consumption from April through July
to conserve water. Water was released only to meet irrigation needs with the hope that
summer water flows would be normal (i.e., the dry period would be a short one).


                                            1
Unfortunately, the dry cycle continued into the summer of 2008, and the water level as of
August 1, 2008 was 40% lower than the average level of 13 bcm of that date. The
expectation was that by October 1, 2008 (the end of the vegetation season) the reservoir
level would be a maximum of 9.5 bcm, compared to the required minimum of 12 bcm. In
other words, there would have been 2 bcm less water to be released in the winter period
and this meant the electricity energy availability during the winter would have been 2
billion kWh less than previous winters, in addition to the 400-500 MW capacity shortage
that already existed in the winter.

In the second case, the Kyrgyz Republic also had thermal power stations using mainly
imported gas and coal. As mentioned earlier, summer electricity exports enabled Kyrgyz
to have the funds to buy the gas and coal. However, due to lower water levels in the
reservoir, the exports had been only a quarter of the normal level of 2.5 billion kWh per
annum, which also meant that winter fuel supplies were uncertain. Rapid increases in fuel
prices were causing additional uncertainty; gas prices in the region, which for a long time
were much lower than world market prices, were rapidly catching up. The import price of
gas was $145/kcm and was expected to double, while the coal price increased from
$20/tonne to $44/tonne. Increased gas prices would have also affected the supply and
consumption of natural gas as a primary fuel (which accounted for about 21% of the
primary energy balance of the country). Accordingly there was an emergency in fuel
supply as well, due to rising prices as well as uncertainties of supply. Furthermore, the
country was suffering from food as well as fuel insecurity.

During project preparation, in the face of a potentially overwhelming crisis, the country
faced a substantial risk of freezing and bursting of heat and hot water supply pipes. If that
happened, the majority of Bishkek residents would lose the heat supply and would start
using electricity for heating purposes. The existing electricity cables and transformers
would not withstand such a load, causing outages. Without heat and electricity supply,
the population faced a real danger of freezing.

The Government and the Donors Response. The GOKR recognized the emergency and
acted swiftly. In summer 2008, responding to the pre-crisis situation, the GOKR
requested support from the donor community and, with support of the Bank team,
developed the Energy Emergency Mitigation Action Plan (EEMAP) aiming to: (i) sustain
thermal power and energy supply for heating in the shortest possible time frame; (ii)
initiate preparatory actions for the following two winters (2008/2009 and 2009/2010)
when the energy supply was likely to remain insufficient; and (iii) identify medium- and
long-term actions to improve country energy security.

The Action Plan called for:
(a)   Limiting water withdrawals from the Toktogul reservoir. This implied reduced
      consumption of hydropower produced by the Naryn Cascade.
(b)   To complement reduced water releases from Toktogul, additional actions were to:
      (i) increase thermal capacity and reduce heating load on electricity; (ii) increase
      gas imports; (iii) increase electricity imports; (iv) purchase fuel oil when the gas
      supply decreased (and for some power and heat generation); and (v) purchase
      electricity and gas grid equipment; and


                                             2
(c)    Managing consumption in a responsible way – the priority was given to the
       population and social infrastructure; and load management actions were taken.

These actions were introduced urgently in 2008 on GOKR’s own initiative, and the Bank
team provided informal technical advice. While this resulted in some slight
improvements in management of the severely reduced supply of energy in summer, the
reduced water flows during the summer caused the most concern.

GOKR began implementation of the EEMAP, including appealing to neighboring
countries to help with imports of electricity, gas and fuel oil, and paying off debts to
allow more natural gas imports. The GOKR also reduced the supply of electricity for
industrial and commercial use. The EEMAP identified further needs, for which GOKR
appealed to the donor community including the World Bank for assistance.

The EEMAP was financed from various sources including Kyrgyz Republic’s own
resources – Power Plants Company’s cash flows and assistance from the budget as well
as financing from the Bank, other international financial organizations, and donors. The
Asian Development Bank (ADB) allocated about US$5 million; KfW allocated additional
financing, primarily for electricity equipment (through reallocation of funds from on-
going projects). The United Nations Flash Appeal was prepared to be processed in case
of further deterioration and possible emergency. It covered supplies for humanitarian
needs (water and food supply, health, etc) and included supply of oil and materials for
Bishkek.

The Bank Support. The Bank’s response to the GOKR’s request to help manage the
energy crisis was immediate. An energy team arrived within days of the Government’s
request and assisted it in preparing a structured emergency response, i.e. the EEMAP.
The Bank was naturally placed to take the lead due to the extensive dialogue with GOKR
in the energy sector and ability to provide a donor coordination role.

The Bank re-prioritized the IDA program and allocated $11 million to provide financial
assistance to handle the emergency and to finance the most urgent priorities in the
EEMAP. A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$5 million was extended and used
for advance purchase of brass pipes, coal handling equipment, and low sulfur fuel oil.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. The Project was consistent with the 2007 Joint Country
Support Strategy (JCSS) for the Kyrgyz Republic, and addressed one of the strategic
objectives of the JSCC, which underlined that “there is an urgent need to stem the
deterioration in key infrastructure and social services that will reduce non-income
dimensions of poverty? and that there was a clear “need to support the government’s
efforts to ensure and enhance the provision of, and access to, essential public services?.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators.

The development objective of the project, as captured in the Emergency Project Paper
(EPP), was to urgently increase the volume and reliability of the national energy supply,
especially, thermal power in the winter season, thereby supporting the implementation of


                                            3
the GOKR’s Energy Emergency Mitigation Action Plan. 1 For the purposes of the ICR,
the PDO statement from the Emergency Project Paper (EPP) was presented for the Board
approval and used throughout project implementation.

This project objective would be achieved by “…increasing, to the extent possible,
thermal power generation and heat supply from existing assets in the shortest possible
timeframe and initiating institutional and technical measures to increase the amount and
reliability of energy supplied to the population during the next two winter seasons…?

The key performance indicators were:
   • Additional thermal power output during the winter seasons
   • Additional heat output during the winter seasons
   • Plants operating time

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised. During the first year of project implementation the results
baselines were refined. During the EEAP AF preparation the results intermediate
indicators and targets were correspondingly altered to include the scaled up activities.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The beneficiaries of the project were expected to be the entire Kyrgyz population
(estimated at around 5.0 million in 2010). The benefits included the prevention of a
potential humanitarian emergency, the improved reliability of electricity and heat supply
especially during winter time, and the enhancement of the population’s living standards.
Households in Bishkek would particularly benefit from the project, given that most of
them were connected to the heat and hot water supply services provided by Bishkek CHP.
Small and medium enterprises would also benefit from increased economic activities and
income through the improvement of electricity supply. Power Plants Company (PCC)
benefitted from a better trained staff that acquired knowledge and experience in
monitoring and managing emergency situations and implementing donor funded projects.

1.5 Original Components

The project had the following two components:

        (a) Component I:      Rehabilitation of the Electricity and Heat Systems.
            Carrying out the rehabilitation of the electricity and heating systems of the
            Recipient’s Power Plant Company, including the rehabilitation of electrostatic


1
  The development objective, as stated in the Financing Agreement, slightly differs from the EPP and was
to assist the Recipient, in accordance with the Recipient’s Energy Emergency Mitigation Action Plan
(EEMAP), to increase the Recipient’s volume of energy supply, especially, the supply of thermal power in
the winter season, within the Kyrgyz Republic and to improve the sustainability of such energy supply.



                                                   4
           precipitators and the provision of low sulfur fuel oil to the Bishkek and Osh
           combined heat and power plants as well as the provision of brass pipes and
           coal handling equipment, such as bulldozers, in support of such rehabilitation.

       (b) Component II:        Project Management and Capacity-Building. Strengthening
           the institutional capacity of the Recipient's Power Plant Company to carry out
           project management, monitoring and evaluation, including the capacity to
           carry out activities pertaining to environmental management and safety,
           procurement, disbursement and financial management.

1.6 Revised Components

The Project components were not revised although an Additional Financing was provided
in 2009. The EEAP AF was provided to cover the costs associated with a scale-up of the
activities that were envisioned under the original project. These activities focused on the
rehabilitation of Bishkek CHP infrastructure and provision of parts and equipment to
ensure the plant’s urgent rehabilitation and preparedness for the 2009/2010 winter.

1.7 Other significant changes

Additional Financing for project scale-up. In November 2009, an Additional IDA
Grant of SDR 1.3 million (US$2.0 million equivalent) and additional IDA Credit of SDR
1.3 million (US$2.0 million equivalent) were provided to cover the costs associated with
(i) a scale-up of Project activities for the provision of equipment, materials, and spare
parts to increase thermal power generation and heat output at the Bishkek combined heat
and power plant (Bishkek CHP) for the 2009/10 winter (under Component I); and (ii)
corresponding scale up of the support for Project management (under Component II). No
major changes were introduced in the EEAP design, except that Project indicators were
altered to include the scale up and the Project closing date was extended by a year until
May 31, 2011. The Additional Financing (EEAP AF) supported GOKR efforts to address
urgent needs related to the 2009/10 winter through additional technical rehabilitation
works at Bishkek CHP. Specifically, EEAP AF covered funds (Component 1) to supply
spare parts, materials, and works to repair and rehabilitate five boilers (with the aim of
bringing at least three boilers into full working condition for the 2009/2010 winter), and
related assets and supply coal-handling equipment. Managing additional activities also
required some additional financing for the PIU through the Project Management and
Capacity-Building component (Component 2).

Schedule. In May 2011 the project closing date was extended from May 31, 2011 to
March 31, 2012. The extension was caused by a significant delay in the effectiveness of
the EEAP AF and was necessary to complete all the planned activities under the EEAP
AF. While the EEAP AF was signed on February 1, 2010 it only became effective on
August 5, 2010. This delay led to cancellation and re-tendering of a number of
procurement activities that had already started. The reason for the delay was that, in April
2010, soon after signing of the EEAP AF, anti-government demonstrations flared up in
various cities of the Kyrgyz Republic. The protests culminated in riots in Bishkek and
several other cities in the Kyrgyz Republic on April 7-8, a violent crackdown by the
government, the subsequent removal of the president from office, and the formation of an

                                             5
interim administration headed by a coalition of opposition political and civic leaders. In
June 2010, violent inter-ethnic clashes took place over three days, particularly in the
cities of Jalalabad and Osh. The two cities and some neighboring areas erupted in a
spasm of ethnically-directed violence and targeted arson. The interim president estimated
that over 2000 people died and nearly 400,000 were displaced.

Final cancellation. On July 31, 2012, the remaining undisbursed balance of SDR
37,194.83 (about 0.4% of the total amount) resulting from savings achieved under the
audit contract was cancelled.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of Background Analysis: Project background analysis was thorough and
aimed at identifying priority needs to avoid an imminent energy crisis, and reform efforts
in the medium- and long-term to avoid similar crises in the future. The project design
drew upon (1) extensive sector knowledge the Bank had gained from previous operations
in the Kyrgyz Republic, including Power and District Heating Rehabilitation Project
(PDHRP, Cr.2868 KG and Cr. 2868-1 KG) and Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 3389
KG) in 1997-2006, (2) lessons learned from the Bank’s regional and global experience in
supporting recovery from emergencies and disasters, including a similar US$15 million
Energy Emergency Recovery Assistance Project in Tajikistan (Grant H372 TJ) in 2007,
and a US$3 million Emergency Drought Assistance Project in Tajikistan (Cr. 3240-1 TJ)
in 2001, and (3) extensive discussions held with other donors including United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP), Asian Development Bank (ADB), USAID, and others
to develop an effective approach to address the emergency through a separate
coordination group.

Assessment of Project Design: The project design was appropriate and simple and
focused on reflecting the country’s priorities in face of an imminent energy emergency.
The project fit the priorities of the JCSS. Specifically, the project design involved the
following strategic choices:

   •   Implementation arrangements were structured to be straightforward and
       responsive to the emergency situation. The operation was designed in a way to
       ensure that the government took the lead in the emergency management, but also
       received opportunity to strengthen its capacity for responding to future crisis and
       project implementation. Throughout the emergency response, the government
       received technical and implementation support from the Bank in particular and
       the donor community at large.
   •   In order to attract contract bidders in a timely manner in a difficult environment
       (especially given its remote location), considerable efforts were paid to streamline
       procurement packaging, including clearly specifying technical specifications for
       most activities, using tested and simplified procurement documents, and early
       procurement training to staff of the project implementation unit.



                                            6
   •   The Bank team realized that the main challenge for this emergency recovery
       operation was smooth and timely implementation, which increased the need for
       close monitoring and supervision. Due to the weak capacity of energy utilities,
       close management attention and adequate resources were allocated for
       supervision to support implementation and the provision of global knowledge and
       experience.

Adequacy of Government’s Commitment, Stakeholder Involvement and
Participatory Processes: The Government demonstrated its strong commitment to the
Project and its objectives. The client's strong commitment was a key factor that not only
helped formulate the Project concept/design, but also facilitated its implementation.
Stakeholders (GOKR, donors, energy companies) were closely involved in the design and
preparation of the Project. An extensive participatory process was followed during
project design and preparation to ensure constant interaction and information sharing.
This approach helped in successful project implementation even during the time of
significant changes in the Government.

However, after the April 2010 events, almost a year of political struggle resulted in a
change of constitution, power reshuffle, and new Presidential and Parliamentarian
elections. All of these distracted the GOKR’s focus from the project implementation and
resulted in the delayed effectiveness of the EEAP AF.

Adequacy of Risk Assessment. The Bank team correctly identified the following risks
at appraisal and various measures were taken to reduce these risks:

   (1) Delays in the delivery of emergency materials and equipment. To address the risk,
       a Project Preparation Advance Agreement for US$ 5 million equivalent was
       signed between the Bank and the Recipient to allow early start of procurement.
       Simpler “shopping? method was agreed, but all the tender packages were subject
       to prior review by the Bank. Quick procurement training was provided to the
       project entity’s procurement staff. Furthermore, Procurement documents were
       prepared and reviewed by the Bank before the project became effective. The Bank
       team closely monitored the procurement progress.
   (2) Inadequate financial management due to the lack of qualified staff within the PIU,
       weak internal controls, relatively poor accounting and reporting practices of the
       Company. The risk was mitigated by providing technical assistance and capacity
       building to support the financial management function of the PIU (component II
       of the project). Additionally, only direct payments and reimbursement
       arrangements were allowed as disbursement methods. Being an emergency
       project and the special disbursement procedures adopted, it was agreed that the
       external audit at the project completion would be acceptable. During the EEAP
       AF preparation, these arrangements were revised to annual audits, which were
       adhered to by the PIU. Due to high FM risk a designated account was not allowed.
   (3) Despite the emergency measures, winter energy crises may continue to threaten
       the country due to harsher winter, lower gas supply and other factors outside the
       control of the project. To mitigate the risk, GOKR adopted a comprehensive
       EEMAP that focuses on increasing thermal capacity, reducing energy loss and


                                           7
       diversifying the source of energy supply. However, the risk remained relevant and
       did materialize as evidenced by the need for the EEAP AF.

The April 2010 uprising ousted the president and the government and ethnic clashes and
related political unrest caused delay in the project implementation. These events could
not have been predicted at project appraisal.

2.2 Implementation

Project activities were implemented satisfactorily under both the main project (EEAP)
and its Additional Financing. The urgently needed materials and goods – fuel oil, brass
pipes, bulldozers, and spare parts for electrostatic precipitators – were delivered and
installed right on time, before arrival of cold weather. The coal handling and
transportation equipment was delivered and repair of five heat boilers at Bishkek CHP
were completed. As a result, the Project has contributed to substantial increase of power
and heat outputs at Bishkek and Osh CHPs in winters, far exceeding the targeted
indicators. In addition, procurement and financial management specialists were hired and
provided technical support under component 2.

Project implementation of the original project proceeded mostly on schedule, and the
activities under the original project were completed by the original closing date of April
30, 2010. The Bank provided additional financing one year after the approval of the
original project on November 19, 2009. The AF resulted from the need to respond to
continued precarious situation in the 2009/2010 winter, with a high risk of serious power
and heat supply interruptions due to the following: (a) uncertain fuel supply and prices;
(b) extreme deterioration of Bishkek CHP equipment; and (c) insufficient water supply at
the Toktogul dam for release during the winter. However, the effectiveness of EEAP AF
was delayed significantly, and finally became effective on August 5, 2010. The delay in
effectiveness led to cancellation and re-tendering of a number of procurement activities
that had started in advance of effectiveness. However, all scheduled activities were
implemented satisfactorily by the close of the project.

The following key factors impacted the implementation of the Project:
   • Solid project design, incorporating lessons learned from regional and international
       experience of similar emergency recovery projects;
   • Sustained GOKR commitment;
   • Existing and committed implementation unit at PPC.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design. The key performance indicators reflected the project development objective. The
monitoring system was simple and based on measurable outputs. Due to expedited
project preparation the baseline data was obtained and baseline indicators were refined at
effectiveness. The targets were clearly defined at the beginning of the project.

Implementation. The project indicators and targets were altered during the EEAP AF
preparation to reflect the scaled up activities. PPC and Bishkek CHP regularly collected


                                            8
data concerning the indicators, and the actual figures were compared to the target values
and were available to IDA in both the quarterly FMRs/IFRs and during the supervision
missions.

Utilization. This M&E data was used to measure the achievement of project targets.
Moreover, PPC and the Ministry of Energy (MOE), throughout the project
implementation, provided information on water inflow/outflow at Toktogul HPP and coal
and fuel oil stock balances at Bishkek and Osh CHPs on a daily basis allowing both the
GOKR and the Bank teams to take preventive measures. The M&E arrangements are
expected to sustain beyond the project implementation period as the daily monitoring
practices have been institutionalized and are regularly used internally within PPC.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

No deviation and/or a waiver from the Bank safeguards/fiduciary policies and procedures
were sought/granted.

Environmental Safeguards. The Project fully complied with the environmental
management plan (EMP) and with the Bank procedures. At appraisal, the project was
classified under the environmental category “B? (Limited Assessment), as it would have
limited and manageable impact on the environment. The works involved routine civil,
mechanical and electrical rehabilitation, concerning existing structures only. No
additional structures were built and no land was acquired. The EMP was prepared to
address the main environmental issues of the project: diligence in transport and handling
of the fuel, safe storage at the power station site and the availability of permits for its
combustion and related emissions. The EMP requirements were part of the work
contracts.

In addition to ensuring that the energy supply system did not collapse, the proposed
project actually had positive indirect impacts by avoiding emissions from improvised
individual multi-fuel stoves and degradation of natural resources (cutting forests and trees
for energy needs). The rehabilitation of electrostatic precipitators (ESPs) in coal fired
Bishkek CHP substantially decreased particle emissions and had a direct positive impact
on air quality in the areas near the TPPs. For example, ash emission was reduced by
about 1,000 tonnes during the winter period 2.

Financial Management(FM). The financial management capacity assessment,
conducted at project appraisal, concluded that the existing FM arrangements of the
implementing entity would not fully meet the Bank requirements. An Action Plan was
developed and followed during project implementation, resulting in the PIU fully
complying with the FM requirements during project implementation. A qualified and
experienced financial specialist was recruited to handle accounting, reporting and
disbursement functions. Financial reports were prepared regularly and timely. Audits of



2
    Bishkek CHP Environmental Screening Reports.



                                                   9
the project financial accounts were carried out by auditors acceptable to the Bank and
with timely submission of all the reports. The audit reports were found satisfactory and
acceptable for the Bank. The Bank’s FM specialist regularly conducted financial
management supervision to ensure compliance with the Bank requirements.

Procurement. Procurement for the project was carried out in accordance with the Bank’s
“Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits? (dated May 2004; and
revised October 2006); and “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers? (dated May 2004; and revised October 2006), and the provisions
stipulated in the Financing and Project Agreements. The primary method of procurement
proposed was shopping on a prior review basis. Procurement performance under the
Project was mixed - most contracts were awarded according to the agreed procurement
schedule but a few packages suffered delays due to low capacity of both the
implementing agency and the bidders. The performance has significantly improved once
an additional experience procurement specialist was selected for PIU under the AF.
Another main challenge was that interest from potential suppliers/contractors in bidding
was weak, due to the remote location of project sites and transportation difficulties,
especially in winter. Following the Bank recommendations, the implementing agency
hired a qualified local procurement specialist with international procurement experience,
which significantly improved the procurement performance and facilitated completion of
procurement activities on time.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The equipment supplied under the Project, while helping to address the particular
emergency situation, has a long operation life period (up to 15 years) and would therefore
be durable and sustainable. The coal handling bulldozers and transporter belt had not
been replaced since the construction of Bishkek CHP in the 1970s and had been fully
depreciated by the time of the project. The repaired boilers are expected to operate for
about 5 years and the established ESPs would contribute to a longer operational life of
pipes. The staff of JSC Power Plants is fully trained in both the operational performance
monitoring to take preventive measures as well as in project management practices. An
emergency plan is in place and is updated annually.

Given the high economic and social relevance of the energy sector and continued
balancing on the crisis edge, it was important for the Bank to remain engaged. Following
further emergencies caused by the riots and related social unrest in 2010, the Bank
provided an emergency support (US$70 million Emergency Recovery Project; Cr.4825
KG and Gr.H618 KG) to help restoring provision of the basic energy (power/heat/gas)
services with a focus on the affected areas so as to support economic output and provide
adequate heating to the population during the winter. In 2011, to support policy actions
implemented between April 2010 and June 2011, in particular, aimed at strengthening
governance and improving transparency in the energy sector, the Bank approved a US$30
million Economic Recovery Support Operation (Cr. 5009 KG and Gr. H7300 KG).
Currently, the Bank is preparing a Development Policy Operation to support the
Government efforts in improving energy sector financial viability and increasing



                                           10
transparency and accountability. This continued engagement with the Bank and other
donors would help ensure sustainability of the project outcomes and the overall sector.

This project aimed to address the immediate emergency situation. At appraisal, the team
correctly noted that, over the medium- to long-term, the sustainable solution for the
Kyrgyz Republic's energy sector would be to have its own thermal power and heat
capacity to reduce its overdependence on hydroelectricity in the winter. The GOKR
adopted a medium-term energy sector strategy in 2012 and plans to develop a long-term
strategy for Bishkek CHP. A number of other reforms, notably aiming to increase
transparency of sector operations and governance practices, were initiated by the new
Government. Large transmission projects were initiated in 2011 and 2012 with funding
from Chinese ExImBank that would help to meet the load demand.

Despite the above recent developments, a number of important policy reforms still need
to be implemented. From the fiscal point of view, the energy sector remains
unsustainable as a cost-recovery tariff level has not yet been achieved and chronic sector
problems such as high technical and commercial losses and low collections have not been
fully resolved. Unless these issues are properly addressed, the overall sustainability of the
sector, and therefore the project assets, remains at risk.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The PDO was highly relevant to government strategies and country conditions at
appraisal. The project supported government response to a power crisis in the winter of
2008. The objective of the project was fully consistent with the Bank’s Joint Country
Support Strategy wherein one of the strategic objectives was to stem the deterioration in
key infrastructure and social services that will reduce non-income dimensions of poverty.

The project objective remains highly relevant to the current national priorities in the
Kyrgyz Republic as the power system of the Kyrgyz Republic continues to be prone to
external shocks including harsh winters and lower-than-usual water inflow limiting the
hydro-generation in recent years. The Interim Strategy Note (ISN; FY12-13) focuses on
the country's recovery and stabilization needs, while paving the way for support for long-
term development. The need for an interim strategy approach is underscored by the
current fragile political, social and economic situation in the country. The project focus
also fits well within the country’s Medium Term Development Strategy (MTDS) and the
Energy Sector Development Strategy (ESDS) adopted in June 2012.

The project design was highly relevant. One of the key causes of the recent winter
energy crisis in Kyrgyz Republic is the country’s overreliance on hydroelectricity. By
improving thermal power capacity, the project aimed to reduce the vulnerability of
energy supply to winter hydrology conditions. The project was designed to be simple and
straightforward to deliver quick wins under an emergency situation. This approach indeed
proved to be relevant during project implementation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

                                             11
The project surpassed the PDO targets for improving thermal power and heat output
during winter seasons and increasing plants operating time at Bishkek and Osh Combined
Heat and Power Plants (CHPs) (Table 1). With increased power and heat generation at
the Bishkek and Osh Combined Heat and Power Plants (CHPs) the project has
contributed to implementation of the Kyrgyz Government's EEMAP. It has eased the
energy emergency that the Kyrgyz Republic faced starting in 2007/08 and, ultimately,
contributed to the increased amount of water stored in the Toktogul reservoir.

The project has increased both the reliability and volume of power and heat generation by
ensuring
   • uninterrupted handling of coal (through supply of coal handling equipment - truck
       lifts, bulldozers, and coal conveyor belts),
   • greater efficiency and reliability of the repaired heat boilers at Bishkek CHP, and
   • reduced operational inefficiencies through rehabilitating Electrostatic
       Precipitators (ESPs).
More specifically, during the last three winters the project resulted in:
• additionally generated electricity output of about 240 GWh (39% higher than the
  planned value in 2009, 10% in 2010, 8% in 2011, and 28% in 2012).
• additional heat output of about 700 GCal (21% higher than the planned value in 2009,
  8% in 2010, 13% in 2011, and 41% in 2012).
• increasing plants’ operating time (so called plants factor) by 75% over the baseline.
• significantly reducing ash emission (over 1,000 tonnes per season) due to fully
  rehabilitated Electro-Static Precipitators (ESP).

Table 1 Key results achieved under EEAP and EEAP AF
                       Baseline     Target Value                      Actual Value
Project Outcome        Value
Indicators             2005/2006-   2008/09   2009/10    2010/11      2008/09    2009/10   2010/11   2011/12
                       2007/2008
1.1.     Additional
thermal     power                   +44.5                              +191.5     +98.4     +103.0    +238.1
output during the      0            (536.5                            (683.5     (590.4    (595.0    (730.1
                                              ≥+60.0     ≥+80.0
winter      season     (492 GWh)    GWh                               GWh        GWh       GWh       GWh
2009/10 in GWh                      total)                            total)     total)    total)    total)

1.2. Additional heat
output during the      0
winter       season    (1,291.6     +90.0     ≥+115.0    ≥+120.0      +272.7     +197.4    +300.3    +699.3
2009/10 in GWh;        GWh)

1.3. Plant Factor (#
of hours operated at
                       739          ≥739      ≥739       ≥739         1027       887       894       1,293
installed capacity)

1.4 Increase in the
BCHP        boilers’
output available in                 +160      +380                     +160       +160      +320      +320
                                                         +320 (275)
tons/hour                           (135)     (325)                   (135)      (135)     (275)     (275)
(GCal/hour)



3.3 Efficiency


                                                        12
Due to the emergency preparation and as allowed by the bank policies, the economic and
financial analysis was not computed for this emergency support operation. However, the
economic value of the electricity and heat generation infrastructure that was urgently
rehabilitated under the project is indisputable. The economic cost including loss of jobs
due to disruption of energy supply to industries, small and medium enterprises and
commercial customers would have been huge. The GOKR estimated that the economy
could seriously slow down during the crisis, due to curtailment of electricity supplies and
concomitant reduction in economic activity. More importantly, in the absence of the
emergency response, the entire city of Bishkek could be freezing. The resulting welfare
loss could be huge. The project costs are considered reasonable compared to the achieved
benefits and recognized norms. The Project benefits have been realized in a cost-effective
manner and were comparable with recognized norms. The Bishkek and Osh CHPs have
been able to secure energy supply at adequate levels for the economy and the population,
even during periods of fierce political conflict.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory.
The overall outcome is rated ’satisfactory’ in view of the relevance of the PDO to the
country situation and the appropriateness of the components, the efficiency of
implementation under very difficult circumstances, and the over-achievement of project
outputs and assets within the planned budget. The PDO remains highly relevant to the
priorities of both the GOKR and the Bank ISN for FY12-FY14. The Project significantly
surpassed its development objective and the intermediate outcome indicators have also
been fully achieved. The project was timely and addressed the urgent needs of the
country.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project’s focus was on ensuring provision of a basic level of electricity and heat
services and preventing a full scale emergency for the entire population of the Kyrgyz
Republic. While there were no specific poverty or gender impacts monitored, the
availability of hot water, heat and electricity supply services is expected to have had a
positive impact on women allowing improved living conditions, better household
maintenance, washing and cooking practices. The poor, who migrated from the rural
areas and live in the outskirts of Bishkek, were directly and positively impacted by the
availability of these services.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The Bank’s engagement with Power Plants and the GOKR in the energy sector over
many years, beginning with the Power and District Heating Rehabilitation Project
(PDHRP) in 1996, significantly contributed to the operational and institutional capacity
of the energy companies and the energy sector as a whole. Under the Project, JSC Power
Plants gained additional, and highly relevant in such a hydro-dependent country,
experience in handling emergency situations. The Power Plants Company has set up a
monitoring system collecting the status of hydrology on a daily basis. Such daily reports
continue to be provided to a wide range of policy makers as well as donors. The PPC

                                              13
staff was trained in Bank procedures for financial management, procurement, and
disbursement.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The pollution monitoring reports indicate a significant positive environmental impact of
installing the electro-static precipitators (ESP) as evidenced by the achieved results.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
The risk to the development outcome is rated substantial. The onset of the winter
energy emergency highlighted the vulnerability of energy supply and the chronic
investment deficit of the energy sector in the Kyrgyz Republic. Both government and the
general public have realized the urgency of the issues. Since the new Government came
to power following the April 2010 events, a number of important initiatives were
launched, among which the most notable was the introduction of the Energy Sector
Transparency Initiative aiming at improving management and governance of the sector.
A new sector development strategy was developed and was adopted in 2012. A number
of critically important transmission projects were launched and a special surcharge was
introduced to service the associated debt. The Bank plans to remain engaged in the sector
and a loss reduction and transparency improvement project is under preparation.
However, the energy sector is still characterized by poor performance and weak
governance under an equivocal regulatory environment. Commercial losses remain high.
Electricity tariffs remain below cost recovery levels largely due to political economy
related constraints. Unless important reform measures are taken to address the
governance and tariff issues, the commercial viability of utility companies is unlikely to
be improved, and the risk to the development outcome would remain substantial.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank performance during identification, preparation and appraisal of the project is
rated Satisfactory. The Bank team responded quickly to the pre-crisis situation and the
project was prepared in a record time, with 2 months from the Concept Review to Board
approval, with minimal budget costs. The Project design took into account experience of
similar projects in the region. The Bank mobilized a team with diverse skills and included
staff with long working experience in the energy, finance/financial management and
environment sectors in the Kyrgyz Republic. The Bank closely coordinated its efforts
with other donors and recognized each donor’s comparative advantage.
(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

                                                   14
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank’s performance during the implementation of the Project was satisfactory. The
team made adjustments during supervision as required. Sufficient budget and staff
resources were allocated, and the project was adequately supervised, with a
comprehensive skill mix. The TTL was based in the country ensuring continuous support.
The Procurement and Financial Management functions were also provided by staff based
in the region, ensuring real time responses. The Bank was flexible and prompt in
responding to government requests and the changed political conditions. The EEAP AF
was prepared on time and project restructuring, such as extension of the closing date, was
processed quickly. The results framework including the indicators and targets were
adjusted correspondingly to the scaled up activities under the EEAP AF.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
There were no major shortcomings in the Bank performance. The project was prepared in
close consultation with the GOKR, donors, other stakeholders and the beneficiaries. The
project was closely supervised by a competent and problem solving Bank team and was
clearly successful in managing the pre-crisis situation. Bank management was fully
supportive of the project task teams supervising this difficult project.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
The GOKR recognized the emergency and acted swiftly to formulate the EEMAP for
addressing the crisis. The national level emergency committee was established before the
project started and provided excellent supervision to the initial implementation of the
project, helping to address issues and remove bottlenecks. In particular, it ensured (i)
timely effectiveness of the project and (ii) adequate allocation of resources to the project.
The only notable shortcoming during project implementation was that, following the
forced change of the Government in April 2010, a protracted period of lack of leadership
negatively impacted the implementation of the Additional Financing activities for about 7
months. However, the 2010 events were clearly unexpected and outside the government’s
control.
The GOKR still needs to act on serious policy issues the energy sector is facing and take
long-pending decisions to reform the sector and improve its operational performance and
financial viability. While this is beyond the scope of this emergency operation, without
strong policy actions from the government, emergencies in the sector may be inevitable.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.
The project was implemented by the PPC PIU, which worked efficiently to avert the
crisis. To save time, PPC was able to mobilize adequate resources to initiate procurement
and make advance payments. Procurement activities were carried out in accordance with



                                             15
the guidelines. The audit reports were submitted timely and accepted by the Bank. The
reasons for the delay in EEAP AF effectiveness were beyond the PPC’s control.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.
Overall, the Government and the implementing agency (JSC Power Plants) were strongly
committed to the project, and more generally to mitigate the consequences of the
emergency situation. The GOKR and PPC are to be commended on two particular counts:
the effective leadership in addressing the pre-crisis situation and mobilization of the
resources required for the initiation of procurement.

6. Lessons Learned
   •   Projects such as EEAP, that are prepared in a short time frame in response to an
       emergency, have to be designed to be as simple as possible, in order to deliver
       quick wins and rapidly respond to evolving needs on the ground. Emergency
       operations are necessarily more resource intensive than traditional operations.
       Implementation support should allow a substantially larger involvement of
       country office staff in day-to-day follow up and advisory support. A country
       based team with a trusted local representative with knowledge of the local
       environment and language is an essential element of a successful emergency
       response.
   •   Procurement arrangements should also be tailored to the specific circumstances of
       emergency operations with considerable built-in flexibility. Project Preparation
       advance and advance procurement are some of the instruments to expedite
       procurement processes.
   •   Close coordination of donors and clear delineation of responsibilities is important
       in ensuring a comprehensive response from the donor community. It contributes
       to effective and timely response and lack of duplication of efforts. The specific
       responsibilities need to be assigned early in the process and need to be based on
       each institution’s comparative advantage.
   •   Government commitment and an experienced and motivated counterpart are of
       paramount importance to ensure speedy preparation and timely implementation.
   •   Although emergency operations are not designed to address long-term policy
       issues, they serve as good entry points for a longer term engagement. As such, it
       would be prudent for emergency operations to be followed by a longer-term
       engagement, as was the case in this project.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The implementing agency prepared an informative Borrower's ICR and the ICR team
concurs with its findings about the outcome of the project. Integrating project
management capacity into the company's regular operations in order to build capacity
that is sustained after the project rather than creating a separate project management
entity was the preferred solution, and in fact resulted in institutional strengthening of the
Implementing Agency. Based on the financial management assessment of the

                                             16
Implementing Agency during project preparation, in order to comply with its fiduciary
requirements, the Bank could only allow disbursements by direct payments and special
commitments, and not by using a Special Account.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A




                                         17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) EEAP - Project Cost by Component (in USD Million)
                                                    Actual/Latest
                              Appraisal Estimate                                Percentage of
         Components                                Estimate (USD
                                (USD millions)                                   Appraisal
                                                      millions)

Rehabilitation of Electricity and
                                    6,000,000.00       5,627,765.93                 93.80
Heat System
Project Management and Capacity
                                            0.00                 0.00               0.00
Building
             Total Project Costs    6,000,000.00       5,627,765.93                106.04
PPF                                 5,000,000.00       5,301,803.90                   0
     Total Financing Required       7,000,000.00      10,929,568.83                 99.36


(b) EEAP AF - Project Cost by Component (in USD Million)
                                                  Actual/Latest
                              Appraisal Estimate                                Percentage of
Components                                       Estimate (USD
                                (USD millions)                                   Appraisal
                                                     millions)

Rehabilitation of Electricity and
                                    3,840,000.00        3,974,141.14               103.49
Heat System
Project Management and Capacity
                                      160,000.00             56,469.13              35.29
Building
Total Project Costs                 4,000,000.00        4,030,610.27               100.77
Total Financing Required            4,000,000.00        4,030,610.27               100.77



(c) Combined EEAP and EEAP AF Financing
                                                 Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage
                                Type of
      Source of Funds                             Estimate        Estimate        of
                              Cofinancing
                                              (SDR millions) (SDR millions) Appraisal
Borrower                                     0.00            0.00            0.00
International Development
                                             15,000,000.00      14,960,179.10       99.73
Association (IDA) Financing




                                             18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component I: Rehabilitation of the Electricity and Heat Systems. This component
increased the thermal power generation and heat supply from existing assets in the
shortest possible timeframe to increase the amount and reliability of energy supplied to
the population during the 2008 and 2009 winter seasons.

    Under the original project (EEAP) – There were four major contracts - fuel oil and
coal-handling equipment - completed. The project created immense relief for the people
of the Kyrgyz Republic, in particular, citizens of Bishkek and Osh, in meeting the winter
hardship, as evidenced by project performance. The following goods and materials were
supplied:
    • Supply of coal handling equipment (bulldozers)
    • Procurement of brass pipes of different diameters
    • Procurement of parts and components for rehabilitation of the electrostatic
        precipitators
    • Procurement of Low Sulphur Fuel Oil

    Under the Additional Financing (EEAP AF) – The project helped repair the Bishkek
CHP boilers and attached assets such as eight exhausters at four boilers, and supply of
coal-handling equipment such as lifts and conveyer belts for six conveyers. The
component increased the amount and reliability of energy supplied to the population
during the 2010 and 2011 winter seasons.
    • Supply of spare parts for the heat boilers
    • Supply of pipes 133x10 12X1MF for steam pressure/temperature reduction device
    • Supply of coal handling conveyor bands
    • Supply of truck lifts
    • Supply and installation of relay protection and control system storage battery
    • Supply of pulverized coal pipes 325x10 50 tones and 426x12 - 160 tones
    • Rehabilitation of heat boilers and supply of related materials (Metal-Sheet St.3)
    • Supply of metal-sheet St.3 of different thickness for rehabilitation of the plant's
        installations
    • Supply of boilers' feed-water economizers
    • Supply of boilers' steam super-heater
    • Supply of metal-sheet St.12Х18?10Т for burners rehabilitation
    • Supply of Electrostatic Precipitators (ESPs)
    • Supply of boiler's air heater cubes, II st.
    • Supply of office equipment

Component II: Project Management and Capacity-Building. The component is rated as
satisfactory.
    • Consultant services of procurement specialist
    • Consultant services of financial management specialist
    • Consultant services of audit companies




                                           19
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

N/A




                                    20
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                    Responsibility/
          Names                        Title               Unit
                                                                      Specialty
Lending
Raghuveer Sharma        Program Team Leader               ECSSD Energy specialist
Mirlan Aldayarov        Task Team Leader                  ECSSD Task team leader
Andrea Kucey            Country Officer                   ECCU8 Operational
                                                                Support
Marat Iskakov           Energy Specialist                 ECSSD Engineer
Kenneth Mwenda          Senior Counsel                    LEGEM Lawyer
Sally Zeijlon           Regional Operations Advisor       ECSPS Operational
                                                                Support
Yuling Zhou             Senior Procurement Specialist     ECSPS
Nurbek Kurmanaliev      Procurement Specialist            ECSPS Procurement
Irina Goncharova        Procurement Analyst               ECSPS
Agnes Kiss              Regional Safeguard Coordinator    ECAVP Safeguards
Wolfart Pohl            Senior Specialist Environment &   ECSSD
                                                                Safeguards
                        Geosciences
John Ogallo             Senior Financial Management       ECSPS Financial
                        Specialist                              Management
Galina Alargardova      Financial Management Specialist   ECSPS Financial
                                                                Management
Sodyk Khaitov           Consultant                        ECSSD Operational
                                                                Support
Aida Japarova           Program Assistant                 ECCKG Administrative
                                                                support
Yukari Tsuchiya         Program Assistant                 ECSSD Administrative
                                                                support
Supervision/ICR
Mirlan Aldayarov        Task Team Leader                  ECSSD Task team leader
                                                                Financial
Galina Alagardova       Financial Management Specialist   ECSO3
                                                                Management
Marat Iskakov           Consultant                        ECSS2 Engineer
Sunil Kumar Khosla      Senior Energy Specialist          ECSS2 Engineer
Nurbek Kurmanaliev      Procurement Specialist            ECSO2 Procurement
Yuling Zhou             Lead Procurement Specialist       EASRP Procurement
                        Senior Specialist Environment &
Wolfart Pohl                                              ECSSD Safeguards
                        Geosciences
                                                                Administrative
Zhanetta Baidolotova    Program Assistant
                                                                support
                                                                Administrative
Yolanda Gedse           Program Assistant
                                                                support
Fan Zhang               Energy Economist                  ECSS2 ICR Author
Jann Masterson          Operations Officer                ECSS2 ICR Author



                                        21
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY09                                    24                          72.281
                          Total:          24                          72.281
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                    23                          69.681
  FY10                                    18                          53.567
  FY11                                    24                          71.949
  FY12
 86
                                          21                          63.757
                          Total:          86                         258.954




                                       22
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                      23
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                   24
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                               Implementing Agency of the
                           Energy Emergency Assistance Project
                            Joint Stock Company Power Plants

                                            REPORT


For the period from September 2008 up to July 2012 the Power Plants Company
implemented the Energy Emergency Assistance Project (EEAP). The Project objective
was to increase the volume and reliability of generating the national energy and heating
supply by CHPs of Power Plants Company.

Main project financing in amount of USD11 mln made substantial and tangible
contribution to ensure uninterrupted and reliable work of our company during the very
difficult situation associated with insufficient water stored in the Toktogul dam during the
2008-2009 autumn-winter period. The situation with insufficient water reserve was
worsened by unsecured supply of nature gas supply and expected price increases. The
funds under the original financing ensured payments for the alternative fuel – 20
thousand tonnes of low-sulphur fuel oil but also critically important equipment, spare
parts and materials that substantially supported the company in ensure reliable work of
CHPs in Bishkek and Osh cities to generate power and thermal energy during the crisis
period. Additional Financing funds at the amount of USD4 mln served the same
objectives of the original financing and made additional input regarding to increasing the
volume and reliability of the thermal power generation and heat output at the Bishkek
City combined heat and power plants (CHPs).

Additionally, beyond providing very critically needed support for purchasing fuel,
urgently needed materials (steel sheets, pipes and others) to repair and restore boilers, the
Project has also contributed to a longer term sustainability of the company and the heat
and power generation. It is reflected by that fact that the project financed expensive
equipments that would serve a longer term, spare parts and units, for procurement of
which the company did not have own resources. These include:
 • Three high-capacity bulldozers (405 h.p.) to handle coal at the coal-storage yards
     and ensure its continuous loading to the boiler. Existing bulldozers were fully
     dilapidated and there was a high risk of interruption on coal loading that would lead
     to interruption of boilers operation. New bulldozers helped to mitigate this risk and
     ensured the continuous fuel supply;
 • Conveyor belts to supply coal to boiler units. The last time these belts were replaced
     about 15-20 years back;
 • High-capacity accumulating batteries to replace failed storage batteries ensuring
     normal equipment efficiency of the secondary circuits at emergency operations;
 • The second stage water economizer and the first stage boiler super-heater to replace
     units that have been fully worn out;



                                             25
 •   Spare parts and accessories to replace electrostatic ash-collecting filters (electro-
     static precipitators) to reduce emissions of harmful substances into atmosphere and
     protect the chimney pipes from the ash abrasive impact.

 In overall, the project has provided immense support both for the country and the
 company and, therefore, we would rate the project outcome as highly satisfactory.

However, based on project implementation experience received, we wanted to note a few
issues that would need to be taken into account for future projects:

1. A need for a separate PIU

The Project implementation has been implemented by one of the Power Plants company
units – the External Affairs and Project Implementation Unit (hereinafter “the Unit?), that
was implementing similar projects before. A separate PIU has not been established given
that the Power Plants Company had already some experience in implementing projects,
including the World Bank «Rehabilitation of Bishkek City PHP-1» completed in 2007.
However, by the time of emergency, the bulk of experienced unit staff has left and the
new staff had relatively less experience. Given the emergency situation the Government
and the management made a decision the existing unit with its staff would be responsible
for the project implementation. The World Bank team provided trainings on procurement
procedures and also provided continuous support during the project implementation.
From financial management point, a separate FM specialist was expected to be hired.
Additionally, a number of trainings have provided by the World Bank on procurement
and disbursement procedures.

Despite all the efforts and trainings provided the PIU experienced difficulties in project
implementation due to lack of sufficient experience. The procurement activities have
been conducted under tight schedule and it required working overtime. Due to limited
availability of qualified financial management consultants in the market and lack of
interests of qualified staff to work for a project for a short time, several attempts of
selection FM specialist failed. Hence, during the early implementation of the project, all
the FM functions were carried by the existing staff of PIU. Finally, the FM specialist was
only selected in the end of 2009, however, the qualification was sub-par. Same happened
with the selection of procurement consultant – very limited number of qualified
consultants on the market and their limited interest led to failed attempts to select an
additional procurement specialists. It led to the need for the existing staff of PIU to carry
the main load, which was substantially higher given the emergency nature of the project,
and ultimately led to overstretch of the PIU capacity.

To address this, the Additional Financing provided additional allocation for procurement
and FM consultants, which selection failed twice. With support of the Bank team, two
separate single sources selection were carried that resulted in having consultants finally
selected in September 2009. It substantially reduced the workload of the existing staff
and ensured the continuous on-the-job training of the existing PIU staff. However, given
the procurement consultant was involved in implementation of his other project, limited
his time to spend on this project. Therefore, there is a clear recommendation that such


                                             26
projects require a full-time experienced staff of PIU to complement the existing staff.
Furthermore, it may be worth spending time on setting up a separate, fresh PIU and staff
it with highly-qualified staff with higher financial incentives. We realize that setting up a
separate PIU would require some time initially, but we believe it can be caught up later.

2.   Need for a Special (Designated) Account

Since the project was implemented under emergency, some of the procedures have been
simplified that positively affected the project implementation. However, disbursement
procedures have not been so flexible and contributed to longer implementation. For
example, we were not allowed to have a project special account.

As a result of initial FM assessment only direct payments, special commitments, and
reimbursement method were allowed. All of them imply that request for funds are sent to
the Bank and processed by the Bank. Whole this process takes a long time that
contradicts the notion of an emergency situation. Use of direct payments meant
preparation and review of withdrawal applications that usually took about a month for
each payment. In case of errors, the process was supposed to start all over again. This
method surely could not help in paying customs fees, etc. where you are requested to pay
as soon as you have the good delivered, or for small contracts. It forced to use the
company’s own limited resources. Similarly, use of special commitments was also time
consuming, requiring six weeks to process a payment.


In overall, the above two aspects have affected both the project implementation and
relations with bidders and suppliers due to delayed payments. Therefore, in future
projects, these aspects need to be taken into account, especially allowing more
expeditious ways for disbursement. Having special counts would help significantly and
the project implementation could take even shorter time.




                                             27
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    28
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   •   Emergency Project Paper (Report No. 46321-KG)
   •   Project Paper (Report No. 50848-KG)
   •   Financing Agreement between Kyrgyz Republic and IDA, dated December 22,
       2008
   •   Financing Agreement between Kyrgyz Republic and IDA, dated February 1, 2010
   •   Project Agreement between IDA and Power Plants Company of the Kyrgyz
       Republic, dated December 22, 2008
   •   Project Agreement between IDA and Power Plants Company of the Kyrgyz
       Republic, dated February 1, 2010
   •   Project Restructuring Paper (Report No. 61978-KG)
   •   Implementation Status Reports
   •   Mission Aide-Memoires




                                        29
                                                                                72E                                               74E                                           76E                                           78E                                                80E




                                                                                                                                      K A Z A K H S TA N                                                                                                                                      44N


                                               KYRGYZ
                                               REPUBLIC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                      To                                                                                       Ushtobe
                                                                                                                  Burylbaytal                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Panfilov




                                                                                                                                                        Chu
                                                                                                                                    BISHKEK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   u M
                                                                                                                                  Kara-Balta                      Tokmok                                     ata                                Tyup
                                                                  Kirov                                                                                                                        ey        -Al    Cholpon-Ata
                                           To
                                        Shymkent
                                                                                         T
                                                                                         Talas
                                                                                          alas                                          CHUI                                          K    ung                                                  Karakol
                                                                                                                                                                                              Balykchi      Lake Issyk-Kul
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Peak Pobedy
                                                                                  TA L A S                                         Tunuk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ISSYK-KUL                                      7439 m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Barskaun                             Enilchek                    42N
                 42N
                                                                 tkal
                                                              ha                   Toktogul               Toktogul
                                                             C                                                                                  Chaek
                                                                                  Reservoir                                                                                                                                                            Shyirak
                                                                 JALAL-ABAD                                                             T i Lake Sonkul
                                                                                                                                               a n                                                n
                                                                                                                                                                         S      h         a
                                                                                                   Kara-Kul                                                                                                                      Kara-Say
                                                                                                                                                   N a ry n
                                                                                       Tash-Kumyr                                                                                     Nar yn
                                                                                                                                                                                      Naryn
                              U Z B E K I S TAN                                                                                                         NARYN
                                                                                                                                                                At-Bashy
                          To
                       Tashkent
                                                                                                              Jalal-Abad                                                                    say
                                                                                                                                                                                          Ak
                                                                                                                                                                Lake                                                                        0       25       50     75       100 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                              Charyi-Kel'
                                                                                                                     Kurs
                                                                                                                         hab
                                                                                                     Osh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0               25       50           75 Miles

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    78E                                                80E
                                                                                                                        Gul'cha
                    To                                                                Kyzyl-Kiya
                  Bukhoro
                 40N
                                  Sulyukta                                                                OSH                                                                                                          40N
                                                   Batken
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                                   B AT K E N                                                    Sary-Tash
                                                                                                                                                                         To

                                                                                 Daraut- K
                                                                                           yz    yl Suu                                                                 Hotan                  CHINA                                                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                 Korgan                                                                                                                                                                OBLAST CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIVERS

                                                            TA J I K I S TA N                                                                                                                                                                          MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                              Murghab                                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                              RAILROADS
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33430
                                                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                OBLAST BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                     70E                                  72E                                                   74E                                                 76E
