                                       Document o f
                                   The World Bank

                            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                      Report No: 50848-KG




                                    PROJECT PAPER

                                          ON A

                  PROPOSED ADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT

                       I THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.3 MILLION
                       N

                           (US$2.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

              AND A PROPOSED ADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANT

                       I THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.3 MILLION
                       N

                           (US$2.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                                  KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

                                        FOR THE

                  ENERGY EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                    November 5,2009




Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. I t s contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective - October 3 1, 2009)


                     CurrencyUnit     =   KGS
                     KGS43.7196       =   US$1
                     US$1.589890      =   SDR 1

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 - December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AF      Additional Financing
CHP     Combined Heat and Power Plant
EA      Environment Assessment
EEAP    Energy Emergency Assistance Project
EEMAP   Energy Emergency Mitigation Action Plan
ESPs    Electrostatic Precipitators
                                 '


FM      Financial Management
FMM     Financial Management Manual
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA     International Development Association
JCSS    Joint Country Support Strategy
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PMU     Project Management Unit
PPF     Project Preparation Facility




                                                                    -
                    Vice President:       Philippe H. L e Houerou
                  Country Director:       Motoo Konishi
                  Country Manager         Roger Robinson
                   Sector Manager:        Ranjit Lamech
                 Task Team Leader:        Mirlan Aldayarov          -
                                                                                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                     TABLE OF CONTENTS




      PROJECT PAPER DATA
                       SHEET

      I Introduction ...................................................................................................................... 1
        .
      I1. Background and Rationale for Additional Financing ..................................................... 1
      111. Proposed Changes.......................................................................................................... 3
      I V . Consistency with the Joint Country Support Strategy (JCSS) ...................................... 6
      V I . Expected Outcomes ....................................................................................................... 9
      VI1. Benefits and Risks........................................................................................................ 9
      VI11. Financial Terms And Conditions For Additional Financing .................................... 11
      Annex 1: Rehabilitation Works Schedule at Bishkek CHP ............................................... 12
      Annex 2: Energy Emergency Mitigation Action Plan (EEMAP) ...................................... 13
      Annex 3: Revised arrangements for results monitoring.................................................... 19
      Annex 4: Procurement Plan............................................................................................... 22




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization .
                                PROJECT   DATA
                                      PAPER  SHEET


Country: K y r g y z Republic                   Sector Director: Peter Thomson




Bank policies?




'Combined disbursement schedule based on the expected disbursement under the original EEAP and
EEAP AF.
1. Introduction

1.     This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an
Additional Financing in the amount o f SDR2.6 million (US$4.0 million equivalent) to the
Kyrgyz Republic for the Energy Emergency Assistance Project (EEAP), P101392 (IDA
Credit 4524-KG and IDA Grant H429-KG). This operation will be processed under OP
8.00 "Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies" The proposed Additional Financing
would help finance costs associated with the following: (i) a scale-up o f Project activities
for the provision o f equipment, materials, and spare parts to increase thermal power
generation and heat output at the Bishkek combined heat and power plant (Bishkek CHP)
for the 2009/10 winter (under Component I);      and (ii)corresponding scale up o f the
support for Project management (under Component 11). N o major change i s anticipated in
EEAP design, except that Project indicators would be altered to include the scale up and
the Project closing date would be extended by a year until May 3 1,2011.

11. Background and Rationale for Additional Financing

   A. Context and Prior I D A Involvement

2.      The Kyrgyz Republic has been facing severe winter energy shortages for the last
several years. The situation became critical in 2007, when the winter was very severe and
the Government faced strong criticism for not being able to mitigate this hardship. This
had serious socio-economic consequences. Managing the supply o f electricity and heat
during the winter became more difficult because the water level in the main hydro power
station reservoir (Toktogul) was extremely low. By agreement with other Central Asian
countries, Toktogul i s responsible for providing the main water supply during summer
crop season, which affects water availability for power generation during winter. The
thermal facility (BCHP l), which provides a portion o f the winter electricity and heating
needs, i s severely dilapidated. This thermal facility provides the largest share o f heat and
part o f the electricity needs for Bishkek. Only one-third o f BCHP 1 boilers are now
operable for the 2009/10 winter. Available funding i s sufficient to repair only one boiler
to full operational capacity; the capacity o f the other four boilers could be increased by
20 to 30 percent after rehabilitation.

3.      In 2008, responding to the pre-crisis situation, the Kyrgyz government developed
the Energy Emergency Mitigation Action Plan (EEMAP) with the following objectives: (i)
sustaining thermal power and energy supply for heating in the shortest possible time
frame; (ii) initiating preparatory actions for the following two winters (2008/2009 and
2009/2010) when the energy supply i s likely to remain insufficient; and (iii) identifying
actions to be implemented over the medium- and long-term to improve the energy
security o f the country. These efforts must be continued to mitigate severe human
hardship and enhance efforts to fill Toktogul reservoir to sustainable operational levels.

4.    Proceeds o f the original EEAP IDA-financed Project (SDR 7.0 million) have been
made available to respond to the Kyrgyz Government's urgent request to support
implementation of the Government's EEMAP and improve energy security in the country.
The Project was approved in November 2008 and became effective in February 2009.
The Project development objective ". . .to increase the volume and reliability o f the
national energy supply, especially thermal power in the winter season, thereby supporting
implementation of the EEMAP" has been met: The provision o f coal handling equipment
(bulldozers), fuel oil, and brass pipes under the original project enabled the increase o f
power and heat output as well as to substantially improve reliability o f both Bishkek and
Osh plants. This subsequently allowed reducing hydro generation when water level in the
Toktogul reservoir was critically low. Thus under the original project, in comparison with
the preceding three winter seasons, the power and heat output o f Bishkek and Osh plants
increased respectively by 39% and 21% in the 2008/2009 winter season. The Bank
continues to provide Government with analytical and policy advice as needed on
managing energy supply, including improving reservoir management at Toktogul,
thereby addressing priority needs for energy supply and avoiding similar crises in the
future. The volume o f the Toktogul reservoir has increased from 6.5 bcm in April 2008 to
 12.5 bcm in September 2009 (compared to 9.5 bcm in September 2008).

     B. Rationale for Proposed Additional Financing

5.      Government efforts, with support from the Bank and other donors, eased the
energy emergency and increased the water supply stored in the Toktogul reservoir.
However, conditions for the 2009/2010 winter remain precarious, with a high risk of
serious power and heat supply interruptions due to the following: (a) fuel supply and
prices are uncertain; (b) extreme deterioration o f Bishkek CHP equipment; and (c)
insufficient water supply at the Toktogul dam for release during the winter.

6.      The proposed Additional Financing would scale up the original Project by
providing U S 4 . 0 million for further urgent rehabilitation o f the Bishkek Combined Heat
and Power Plant (CHP). The proposed Additional Financing would help the Bishkek
CHP to: (i) increase power generation and heat production and (ii)      increase Bishkek CHP
steam boiler reliability. A scale-up o f the EEAP to expand the emergency rehabilitation
of the Bishkek CHP i s appropriate because this i s within Project development objectives
and aligned with the 2007 Joint Country Support Strategy (JCSS).

7.      The proposed Additional Financing i s fully consistent with the ongoing Project
and i s a logical scaling up o f Project activities. Because activities proposed for the
Additional Financing reflect urgent and immediate needs, neither a repeater Project nor a
new investment operation would be suitable; these alternatives would cause unnecessary
delay in the face o f rapidly approaching winter, and unnecessary expense for Project
preparation. Ongoing Project funding w i l l be completely used before year-end, except for
one contract to supply Electro-Static Precipitators, which i s now pending delivery.

8.      The original Project was assigned an environmental category B (Limited
Assessment); the Environmental Review was disclosed at the time o f the original Project
preparation. Additional works involve routine civil, mechanical, and electrical
rehabilitation o f existing structures only. N o additional structures or buildings are planned
and no land will be acquired for any Project activities. The planned works under the
Additional Financing are deemed within environmental category B, and existing EA
documents for the EEAP remain valid.

                                              2
9.     The original Project implementation i s progressing satisfactorily. The Project,
which became effective on February 26, 2009, will have reached almost 85 percent
disbursement by the end o f 2009, with Project Preparation Facility (PPF) refinancing
being processed. Of the four major contracts, three-fuel         oil and coal-handling
equipment-have been completed, and the remaining contract i s expected to be
completed shortly. The Project has already created immense relief for the people o f the
Kyrgyz Republic, in particular, citizens o f Bishkek and Osh, in meeting the 2008/2009
winter hardship, evidenced by Project performance.

      Table 1: Interim Monitoring of the Results o f the TPPs Winter Performance.
                                                                 TareedActual Values
                                                 Baseline
              Result Indicators                (average o f
                                                                   200812009 Target    200812009 Actual
                                                200512006-
                                                200712008)
 Additional thermal power output                     0                  +44.5               +191.5
 during the winter season 2008109              (492,O GWh            (536.5 GWh          (683.5 GWh
 in GWh (cumulative)                               total)               total)              total)
 Additional heat output during the
                                                     0                  +90,000            +272,654
 winter season 2008/09 in GCal
                                             (1,291,587 total)     (1,381,587 total)   (1,564,241 total)
 (cumulative)
 Plant Factor (# o f hours operated at             739                   2739                1027
 installed rnax. capacity per year)


10.     Many actions included in EEMAP for implementation in 2008/2009 have been
successfully implemented and completed. Electricity consumption has been rationed; and
winter demand-side management measures, such as school closures and changing to
single-phase electricity supply for heating (from three-phase) have been implemented.

111. Proposed Changes

      A. Project Activities

1 1.    The design, components, and development objectives o f the EEAP would not be
modified under Additional Financing; however the Project indicators and targets would
be slightly altered to include scaled-up activities in accordance with the updated EEMAP.
See Annex 3 for details o f updated Project indicators and targets.

12.        The original Project consists o f the following parts:

      Part 1 :         Rehabilitation o f the Electricity and Heating Systems

           Carrying out the rehabilitation o f the electricity and heating systems o f the
           Recipient's Power Plant Company, including the rehabilitation o f electrostatic
           precipitators and the provision o f low sulfur fuel oil to the Bishkek and Osh



                                                     3
         combined heat and power plants and the provision o f brass pipes and coal-
         handling equipment, such as bulldozers, in support o f such rehabilitation.

      Part 2:     Capacity-Building to Support Project Implementation

          Strengthening the institutional capacity o f the Recipient's Power Plant Company
          to carry out Project management, monitoring and evaluation, including capacity to
          carry out activities pertaining to environmental management and safety,
          procurement, disbursement, and financial management.

13.      The proposed Additional Financing would support Government efforts to address
urgent needs related to the upcoming 2009/10 winter through additional technical
rehabilitation works at Bishkek CHP. Specifically, Additional Financing would cover
funds (Component 1) to supply spare parts, materials, and works to repair and rehabilitate
five boilers (with the aim o f bringing at least three boilers into full working condition for
the 2009/20 10 winter), and related assets and supply coal-handling equipment. Managing
additional activities will also require some additional financing for the P M U through the
P M U Project Management and Capacity-Building component (Component 2).

14.    Technical specifications for most activities are ready; standard simplified
procurement documents from EEAP w i l l be used. However, satisfactory implementation
will require an extension o f the original Closing Date by 12 months, to May 31, 201 1.

15.       The total cost o f activities to be financed under Additional Financing i s estimated
at US$4.0 million equivalent, including taxes. Tentative cost estimates and indicative
financing plan are shown in Table 2, below.

                 Table 2: Estimated Project Cost and Indicative Financing Plan
                                         (in US$'OOO)

                           Component                      Total Cost funded   IDA of total
                                                               by IDA

         Component I.Rehabilitation o f the electricity         3,840            100%
         generation and heat production systems


         Component 11. Project Management and                    160             100%
         capacity-building


         TOTAL AMOUNT                                           4,000            looo/o




      B. Government Counterpart Contribution

16.    The World Bank i s continuing to support implementation o f the Government
EEMAP and the Project will finance discrete elements o f i t while the rest o f the EEMAP
will be financed from Government resources. The current expectation i s that no foreign

                                                      4
consultants will be used. However, if the need arises, Government will fund ten percent
o f foreign consultancy expenditures.

      C. Disbursements

 17.   Disbursement procedures used for the original Project would continue to be used
for Additional Financing. Details o f minimum application size and documentation to be
submitted for disbursement are provided in the Disbursement Letters. Retroactive
financing i s not to exceed an aggregate amount o f SDR 1,010,000 (40 percent) o f the
Additional Financing and would be reimbursed once a Withdrawal Application i s
submitted, promptly upon the Effectiveness o f the Additional Financing. All contracts
procured under retroactive financing would follow procurement procedures acceptable to
the World Bank.

 18.    Table 3 shows: (i) Categories o f Eligible Expenditures that may be financed from
the proceeds o f the Additional Financing; (ii) allocations o f Additional Financing to each
Category; and (iii) percentage o f expenditures to be financed with IDA finds for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.

                                     Table 3: Disbursement

         Category
                                                                            Expenditures to
                             Amount o f the Credit   Amount o f the Grant
                                                                            be Financed by
                              Allocated (in SDR)      Allocated (in SDR)
                                                                                  IDA




 (2) Consultants' Services                                                    100% (local
                                                           138,000           expenditures)




      TOTAL AMOUNT                 1,300,000              1,300,000



      D. Other Changes

19.      A summary o f other changes i s shown in Table 4, below:




                                                5
                  Table 4: Summary o f Other Complementary Changes

           Description                                     Re marks

                                Additional Finaicing o f US$4.0 million
  2          Closing Date       Closing Date extended from May 3 I,2010 to May 31,201 1
  3          Implementation     Implementation o f additional activities might require about nine
             Schedule           months, which would require the Project closing date to be
                                extended by one year.
  4          Financing Terms    40 Year IDA Credit with ten years grace period and IDA Grant
  5          External Audit     Audited Project financial Statements submitted to the Bank within
                                six months o f each fiscal year end, and at Project closing.

20.     For Environmental and Social Safeguards, current practices and procedures w i l l
continue to apply. The original Project was assigned an environmental category B
(Limited Assessment); the Environmental Review was disclosed at the time o f the
original Project preparation. Additional works involve routine civil, mechanical, and
electrical rehabilitation on existing structures only. N o additional structures or buildings
are planned; no land w i l l be acquired for any Project activities. PS JSC i s proposing to
carry out repairs o f Electrostatic Precipitators (ESP) bodies for four o f five boilers
selected for rehabilitation under the proposed AF Project. A contract for spare parts for
the electrostatic precipitators (ESPs) was signed under the ongoing Project and deliveries
are expected during early winter. According to the World Bank assessment, the ESP
operating capacity after rehabilitation would be fully recovered. Separate indicators and
targets are included in the monitoring Table in Annex 3 and will be subject to Bank
routine monitoring and evaluation. Therefore, planned works under Additional Financing
remain within the environmental category B, and existing EA documents for the EEAP
remain valid. The expected minor updates to the EA documents will not require repeat
disclosure, and the proposed scale-up does not trigger any new safeguard policies.

IV. Consistency with the Joint Country Support Strategy (JCSS)

21.     The EEAP was designed to provide emergency support to the Kyrgyz
Government and i s built on previous World Bank experience gained in assisting the
energy sector in the Kyrgyz Republic. The proposed Additional Financing i s fully
consistent with the 2007 Joint Country Support Strategy for the Kyrgyz Republic, and
addresses a strategic objective o f the JSCC that emphasizes.. . ". ,.an urgent need to stem
the deterioration in key infrastructure and social services that will reduce non-income
dimensions o f poverty.. ." and a ". ,.need to support the government's efforts to ensure
and enhance the provision of, and access to, essential public services."

V. Appraisal o f Restructured o r Scaled-up Project Activities

22.     Technical Issues. Due to continued uncertainty o f winter hydropower production,
supporting thermal power production at the Bishkek CHP i s critical because this facility
provides both power and heat to the capital city, which i s key to mitigate the cold season.
Bishkek CHP i s the major heat provider for Bishkek district heating system, and uses
coal as the primary fuel and natural gas and/or fuel oil as secondary fuel. Assets included

                                              6
in the Project were built 20 to 30 years ago and have considerably deteriorated due to
lack o f financing and maintenance. The Project would repair CHP boilers and attached
assets such as eight exhausters at four boilers, and supply coal-handling equipment such
as l i f t s and conveyer belts for six conveyers. Works sequencing i s planned to ensure
parallel operation o f boilers with first boiler #3 to become operational in early-December
2009, second boiler # I 4 in end-December 2009, and the third boiler #22 in end-January
2010. No technical difficulties are expected from the proposed civil works.

23.     Implementation Arrangements. Proposed activities under Additional Financing
will be implemented by the same Project Implementation Unit within the JSC Power
Plants, which gained experience implementing the EEAP activities. The PIU team has
been strengthened by adding experienced Financial Management and Procurement
Specialists.

24.    Economic. Economic losses due to energy and heat shortages would be
substantial because power supply to industries and other energy users would be restricted
during winter; almost one-fifth o f the Kyrgyz population would suffer insufficient heat
supply. Assets proposed for rehabilitation were selected with the primary objective o f
ensuring reliable Bishkek CHP operation and thus, help ensure access to basic heat
supply services for more than a half a million Bishkek citizens. Power tariffs in the sector
are low and do not allow the sector entities to recover cash expenses let alone long-run
marginal costs o f electricity supply. A tariff study i s required to determine longer-term
development costs, taking into account future domestic needs, and eventually power
export objectives. These issues will be considered through the proposed parallel
development policy operation.

25.     Financial Management Arrangements. The financial management (FM)
functions under the Additional Financing including the flow o f funds, staffing,
accounting, reporting, and auditing, will be handled by the PIU within the JSC Power
Plants. Existing FM arrangements would remain, except for some changes to auditing
arrangements.

26.     The FM arrangements for the Energy Emergency Assistance Project P101392
(IDA Credit 4524-KG and IDA Grunt H429-KG) implemented by the JSC Power Plants
PIU are moderately satisfactory; their system o f recording Project accounting transactions
needs some improvement. The October 2009 Project FM assessment rates PIU FM
arrangements as moderately satisfactory. Risk mitigation measures included using Direct
Payment method without opening a Designated Account. However, improvements in
existing financial management arrangements included the following: (i) adoption o f the
Financial Management Manual (FMM) describing the basic FM arrangements under the
Project and internal control system; (ii) submission o f Interim Un-audited Financial
Reports (IFRs) satisfactory to the Bank on a quarterly basis covering the quarter. The PIU
has already appointed a Financial Specialist, who meets minimum position requirements,
responsible for overall Project financial management, including maintaining accounting
records in Excel spreadsheets. Overall residual Project FM risk i s Moderate.



                                             7
27.     Some changes were made to the original EEAP audit arrangements. The audited
Project consolidated financial Statements o f EEAP and the Additional Financing will be
submitted to the Bank within six months o f the end o f the two reporting periods as
follows: (i) for the period beginning at first disbursement and ending December 31,
2009; and (ii) the period beginning January 1, 2010 until the Project closing, if the
               for
total duration does not exceed 18 months. The Project audit will be conducted by
independent auditors using terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank, and procured by
JSC Power Plants. Audit costs will be financed from proceeds o f Additional Financing.
Project management-oriented IFRs will be used for Additional Financing monitoring and
supervision. Existing IFR formats will be used and the PIU of JSC Power Plants will
produce a full set o f IFRs every quarter throughout the l i f e o f the Project and will submit
them to the Bank within 45 days after the end o f each calendar quarter.

28.    Procurement Arrangements. Procurement for the Additional Financing would
be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published in May 2004 and revised in October 2006
(Procurement Guidelines); "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" published in May 2004 and revised in October 2006
(Consultants Guidelines); and also in accordance with provisions stipulated in the
Financing Agreement. The World Bank Guidelines on Preventing and Combating fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credit and Grants dated
October 15, 2006, will also apply. The Project would include procurement o f boiler
rehabilitation works, pipes, metal sheets, among other equipment and materials.

29.     Streamlined NCB Procurement Procedures: Streamlined procedures would apply
for the civil works contract for rehabilitation o f boilers to be procured under the National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) method within 2009. Bidders would be allowed at least 21
days instead o f 30 days for bid preparation and submission. All other procurement
arrangements under the Additional Financing remain the same as the original Project.

30.     The detailed procurement plan has been prepared for entire Project and i s attached
in Annex 4. Retroactive financing up to US$1.6 million would be allowed under the AF
and the procurement plan includes contracts subject to retroactive financing. This will
allow the contractor for rehabilitation o f boilers (contract #Kg EEAP AF 007) to mobilize
quickly and launch temporary rehabilitation works that are urgently needed. The essential
equipment (truck lift, contract #Kg EEAP 004) and materials (pipes, metal sheets,
contracts #Kg EEAP 001, 008 and 009) would be procured by 2009 year end. The
procurement process for supplying a truck lift was prior reviewed by the Bank and the
process aligns with Bank Procurement Guidelines. Procurement o f any contract, for
which the Retroactive Financing i s applied, would follow Bank Procurement Guidelines.

3 1.   Procurement performance under the original Project has been mixed so far-some
contracts were awarded according to the agreed procurement schedule but a few packages
have suffered slight delays due to low capacity at the implementing agency. Following
Bank recommendations, the implementing agency hired a qualified local procurement


                                               8
specialist with international procurement experience, which i s expected to strengthen the
implementing agency procurement capacity and facilitate completion o f pending
procurement activities under the original Project, and procurement under Additional
Financing. However, overall procurement risk remains "High."

32.    Environmental and Social. Proposed additional activities do not require a
modification o f the Environmental Category, which remains "B". Safeguard issues are
minimal and related to both positive and adverse environmental impacts. The most
important identified positive Project impact i s improved air quality, achieved through
more efficient, rehabilitated boilers and installing new electrostatic precipitators (ESPs).
Reducing electricity shortages will reap substantial social benefits. Works for additional
Project activities involve routine civil, mechanical, and electrical rehabilitation o f
existing structures only. N o additional structures or buildings are planned and no land
will be acquired for any Project activities, therefore planned works under Additional
Financing remain within environmental category B, and existing EEAP EA documents
remain valid; the proposed scale up does not trigger any new safeguard policies.

33.     The environmental measures required for boiler rehabilitation are fully covered by
the environmental management provisions established in the original Project design. The
Borrower's implementation agency has confirmed that rehabilitated boilers will comply
with Kyrgyz national emission standards ( i f combined with compatible ESPs), avoiding
additional negative impacts on ambient air quality in the CHP area. The rehabilitated
boilers would not substantially increase fuel consumption but would increase reliability
o f operation. In this context, initiating operation o f the rehabilitated boilers i s contingent
on the ESPs being installedhehabilitated and operational. The team agreed with the
Borrower that appropriate covenants to this effect will be provided by the Borrower in the
Project Operational Manual.

VI. Expected Outcomes

34.    The Additional Financing will affect Project outcome indicators and expected
outcomes. The increased available capacity of five boilers to be rehabilitated i s expected
to be about 73 MWe and 124 MWt, which will deliver about 185 GWh o f power and 315
GWh o f thermal energy next winter-the equivalent o f serving about 10,600 households
with the required quantity o f heat. See Annex 3 for a detailed results framework with
both original and additional Project indicators and targets.

VII. Benefits and Risks

3 5.   The proposed Additional Financing would support Government efforts to address
urgent needs related to the upcoming 2009/10 winter through rehabilitation o f Bishkek
CHP. Additional Financing would cover funds to supply spare parts, materials, and works
urgently needed to rehabilitate five boilers o f Bishkek CHP (with at least three boilers
becoming operational during the 2009/2010 winter). Since the alternative to winter heat
supply from the rehabilitated Bishkek CHP i s the use o f water for generating power from
the Toktogul reservoir, the Project would support Government efforts to raise the water in


                                               9
the Toktogul reservoir to an acceptable level over the medium term for long-term
sustainable operations. However, the impact on the Toktogul reservoir would be small.

36.     The major risk, identified during preparation o f the original Project, remains the
potential for delays in delivering emergency materials and equipment. However, it i s
expected that this risk will be mitigated through the combination o f several advanced
Project preparation actions-early finalization o f the procurement plan and bidding
documents, and an early start to procurement activities; use o f simplified procurement
procedures; the agreement between the Power Plants Joint Stock Company and the
Government to contribute some funds for advance payment, before Project effectiveness
(up to 40 percent o f the Additional Financing i s expected to be retroactively financed by
the IDA funds); and partial funding o f initial Project activities under the ongoing EEAP
Project, among others actions to speed up delivery o f urgently needed materials.

37.     Most Bishkek CHP equipment was produced in the former Soviet Union during
the Soviet era. Consequently, only the original suppliers have technical diagrams and
designs for necessary spare parts and only a few suppliers remain. Implementationo f the
original Project highlighted a related risk o f potential supplier reluctance to accept the
Bank bidding documents and requirements, such as Bank guarantees. I t i s proposed that
this risk be mitigated by providing briefings early on to potential suppliers about World
Bank bidding documents standard rules and requirements. Simplified bidding documents
will be used to increase flexibility.

38.    Earlier existing Project risks o f inadequate financial management and overall
Project management capacity are considered mitigated by an experienced PIU that has
been strengthened with skilled staff and equipped with procurement experience using
Bank guidelines and Bank-reviewed and approved tailored bidding documents. Another
important risk i s that, despite these efforts, the energy situation could remain precarious
due to events beyond Project control and scope. For example, the winter may be harsher
than expected, contracted gas and fuel oil supplies may be inadequate, and so forth.

39.     The Table below summarizes identified risks and risk mitigation measures:

                 Risk                   Rating        Suggested Risk Mitigation Measures
                                         (after
                                       mitigation)
  Delayed delivery o f emergency       Moderate      Government provides retroactive bridge
  materials and equipment                            financing to facilitate early start to
                                                     procurement (before Board approval o f AF).
                                                     Simplified bidding documents are agreed
                                                     upon for all tender packages prior-reviewed
                                                     by the Bank.
                                                     Forms of the bidding documents used in
                                                     EEAP will also be used for AF
  Contractors from the former Soviet   High          Advance payments (up to 30 percent) could
  Union (FSU) countries reluctant to                 be applied
  follow Bank standard procedures                    Retroactive financing to be used for direct
                                                     contracts
                                                     Simplified and faster procurement


                                                10
                  Risk                     Rating              Suggested Risk Mitigation Measures
                                            (after
                                          mitigation)
                                                               procedures are discussed and agreed with
                                                               procurement team
                                                               PIU holds early briefings for contractors
  PIU capacity inadequate to carry out    Moderate             Project builds upon ongoing EEAP with
  fiduciary functions                                          additional funds allocated to existing Project
                                                               Management and Capacity-building
                                                               component in this Project.
                                                               Procurement and other fiduciary teams have
                                                               been involved from the beginning o f Project
                                                               preparation.
                                                               In addition, only direct payments and
                                                               reimbursement arrangements will be
                                                               allowed, plus annual external audit of the
                                                               financial Statements and upon completion o f
                            ~~
                                                               the Project will help to alleviate such risks.
  Despite efforts, the energy situation   High            Government has adopted and i s constantly
  may still be precarious due to events                   updating a comprehensive EEMAP that helps to
  beyond Project control and scope                        mitigate and manage this risk. However, until
                                                          sustainable measures, such as new thermal
                                                          capacity and long-term fuel/gas supply contracts
                                                          are put in place, the country will face this risk in
                                                          full or partial levels. The financial sustainability
                                                          would be a priority target under the proposed
                                                          development policy operation.

40.    Additional Financing will continue to be implemented in an environment o f
perceived high risk. Although adequate measures are in place, including implementation
arrangements, regular financial reporting, regular financial management supervision, and
external audits, supplemented by in-depth reviews o f internal, administrative, and
operational controls, the current overall risk rating for the Project, including the
Additional Financing, i s "High."

VIII. Financial Terms And Conditions F o r Additional Financing

41.    Additional Financing would be provided through an IDA Credit (US$2.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms (40 years including 10 years o f grace) and an IDA
Grant (US$2.0 million equivalent).

42.    Covenants o f the original Financing Agreement will remain unchanged. The
additional condition o f effectiveness for this Additional Financing will be an amended
Subsidiary Credit Agreement between the Ministry o f Finance and JSC Power Plants.




                                                     11
w   ww   w
I        I
    CI       m   n
C
.-
Y
 0
2
2
C
8
x
g
C
e,
.-
 V
e
e,
7
e,
cc
0
.-
Y
-E
.-
e,
5
B
u
e,
X
e,
+
0
C
 0
-0
x
e,
5
4
v)
C
.-
Y
 0
 m
.-
 N
 C
m
F
e
Y
8-k
-0
a
D
I
        Y
        &   m
        c   .E
        g.5 g
      a3 =
    c c Dc
    0
    .
    -
m
W
    x,
    N
d   n   03
m   7   m
N   m
d   d
r
L
0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0
P
u
0
F
c
    s
L
    0       C
        N
        C
        u
        0
        n
        $
        u
