                    Document of
                  The World Bank




                                                 Report No: 26233

        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                    (IDA-32940)

                       ON A

                LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 3 MILLION

                TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                    CAPE VERDE

                      FOR A

PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT




                    May 30, 2003

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective )

                  Currency Unit =

                        FISCAL YEAR


            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



                 Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
      Country Manager/Director:   John McIntire
       Sector Manager/Director:   Brian Levy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Helene Grandvoinnet

                                        CAPE VERDE
                                PUBL.SEC.REFORM SUPP


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P057998                                                      Project Name: PUBL.SEC.REFORM SUPP
Team Leader: Helene Grandvoinnet                                         TL Unit: AFTPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 26, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: PUBL.SEC.REFORM SUPP                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-32940
   Country/Department: CAPE VERDE                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Sub-national government administration (64%); Central government
                            administration (18%); Law and justice (18%)
                  Theme: Administrative and civil service reform (P); Regulation and
                            competition policy (S); Macroeconomic management (S); Judicial
                            and other dispute resolution mechanisms (S); Public expenditure,
                            financial management and procurement (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    03/24/1999                                        Effective: 03/09/1999              03/09/1999
   Appraisal:    05/08/1999                                            MTR:                           10/15/2001
    Approval:    11/23/1999                                         Closing: 12/31/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF CAPE VERDE/MINISTRY OF FINANCES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               John M. Mcintire                               Mahomood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:                 Brian David Levy                               Emmanuel Akpa
Team Leader at ICR:             Helene Grandvoinnet                            Joseph W. B. Bredie
ICR Primary Author:             P. Dooh-Bill and
                                H.Grandvoinnet


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Introduction

The second Public Sector Reform project was prepared as a "bridge" project, which aimed to consolidate
the reform of the public sector accomplished under the first PSRCBP while preparing the way for a third
project that would further deepen the reforms. It was thus designed as a modest-sized 2-year operation.

As is not uncommon, the project started slowly, with a 6-month delay in effectiveness. In part, the slow
start can be accounted for by two consecutive elections that changed the political leadership in the country,
As the first political transition since the political liberalization of the early 1990s, the change in government
created disruptions in project management because all the ministers and most component managers
changed, and further delays were recorded.

The change of government brought about some changes in the details of activities, in particular for the legal
and judicial component. Initially, these changes were undertaken with the intent of continuing the efforts
through a third project, but it was later decided to include the public sector agenda in an upcoming Poverty
Reduction Support Credit (PRSC), and thus not to prepare a third project.

Original Objective:

This was the second project designed to further the process of reforming the government from one
that implements economic activities to one that provides an enabling environment conducive
for private sector-led growth and is responsive to citizens' needs. Under the first project (Public
Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project [PSRCBP]), the government reformed the public
sector by: (i) modernizing        public administration through training, early retirement, and
voluntary departure; (ii) decentralizing administrative functions to the municipalities closer to
beneficiaries; (iii) strengthening economic management by using a macroeconomic model for
economic planning, developing a public investment program, and creating the National Institute of
Statistics (NIS) to provide timely economic data; (iv) improving public finance by passing a local
finance law, delegating specific financial responsibilities to the municipalities, and developing the public
resources management system; and (v) strengthening the judicial system by passing new legislation for
notary, registry, and commercial transactions.

The reforms accomplished by the first project strengthened administrative capacity. But in order to cope
with the increasingly complex economic environment, the decentralized public finance system, and the
inadequate legislation to regulate securities, the government decided that: (i) macroeconomic
planning, public resources management, and the judicial system must be further strengthened;
and (ii) the modernization of public administration to respond to the needs of the private sector
and citizens must be continued during a second phase of public sector reforms.                 The need to
continue public sector reform was emphasized in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), and
resources to accomplish this objective were included in the country program.

The second project had two development objectives: (i) to consolidate and deepen the reform of the public
sector accomplished under the PSRCBP in the areas of economic and financial management, regulatory,
and legal reforms; and (ii) to prepare, through analytical studies and some pilots, the next phase of public
sector reform to achieve the government's vision of an efficient, productive, and modern public sector.



                                                         - 2 -

The objectives were clear and central to the government's and the Bank's strategy of assistance to
the country. The project was explicitly designed to respond to an assessment conducted by the
government regarding its capacity for undertaking economic management: the assessment identified a
significant competency gap, both in terms of human skills and technology.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives remained unchanged through the life of the project.

3.3 Original Components:

Project Component 1-US$ 2.62million (total cost of component)

Economic Financial Management and Legal/Regulatory Reform

1.Improve data collection and the processing and methodology of national accounts and macroeconomic
modeling and management, including the expansion of input-output models and the enhancement of
timelines and reliability of statistical data through the provision of technical advisory services training and
acquisition of goods and equipment.

2.Design, install, and implement a national and municipal financial information system to enhance budget
and expenditures control, including strengthening fiscal management in selected municipalities through
the provision of goods equipment, electronic networks, technical advisory services, and training.

3.Carry out a study to assess the current state of the judicial system in Cape Verde, including inter alia the
need for specialized courts as well as the modernization and the compilation of labor legislation through the
provision of technical advisory services and training.

4.Design and implement a computer system for the borrower's court system in order to improve access to
legal information, through the provision of technical advisory services and training.

5.Strengthen the borrower's legal and judicial capacity to implement its legal framework, inter alia,
in the areas of labor, finance, banking, investment, trade, and industry through the provision of
technical advisory services and training.

Project Component 2-US$ 0.91million (total cost of component)

Preparation of the Next Phase of Public Sector Reform

Preparation of the next phase involves strengthening the borrower's capacity to further develop its public
sector through (i) carrying out an assessment of the Borrower's public sector, (ii) carrying out a
comparative analysis of the structure and functions of the public administration system, (iii) reviewing
the organization and staffing of the public administration system, including pilot reforms of the
ministries of Finance and Justice, and (iv) preparing a strategic framework and action plan to guide the
next phase of civil service reform--all through the provision of technical advisory services, studies and
training.

The design of the above two components was based on institutional assessments conducted by the



                                                       - 3 -

government. Inclusion of the assessments' results in the project contributed to their ownership
by government. The assessments signaled a willingness by the government to (i) consolidate and
expand public sector reforms and (ii) identify and design options for the further development of the Cape
Verdean public sector. In the absence of administrative resource constraints, the "Preparation of the
Next Phase of Public Sector Reform" component would have been a separate free-standing project as its
technical content is quite different from the other component. This would have contributed to a
more focused set of interventions and mitigated project complexity.
3.4 Revised Components:

An amendment to the project was made at the time of the first extension--June 2001--to take into account
the changes to the judicial and legal component requested by the Minister of Justice.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The second PSRCBP was designed to be executed over 2 years. This judgment (which proved after the fact
to be wrong) was based on the fact that the same basic unit that implemented the first project
stayed on to implement the second project. Beyond the initial start-up difficulties, two elections within 1
year and the high turnover of component managers, which largely paralyzed public administration,
affected the pace of implementation.

Quality at entry was characterized by: (a) solid preparation, in that the first project both identified
activities that needed some more assistance and pointed to the need for a "next generation" public
sector strategy and (b) strong ownership by government and good cooperation with the Bank. At entry, the
design of individual components was straightforward, albeit ambitious in the scope of intended
achievements (for instance, pilot reforms of Ministry of Finance and Justice, to be based on an analysis of
human resources and processes, all within a 2-year timeframe). Taken as a whole, the design can
be faulted for not having properly anticipated the institutional intensity of implementation and the
demands it placed on core government agencies. The diversity of subcomponents and of participating
agencies also strained the capacity of government to carry out an integrated implementation
of the project. The integrated management of the project by a single project management unit
under the Ministry of Finance (MOF) called for a level of interagency coordination that proved
problematic during execution. This problem was only partly resolved by establishing a coordination
commission to harmonize and follow up on activities. On the basis of these considerations, quality of
entry is rated as marginally satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The second PSRCB project can only usefully be assessed for its overall performance when taking
into account the fact that it built on and consolidated the first PSRCB project: it was intended to
deepen the results of the first project, further its sustainability, and render the administration more open
and efficient.

The overall performance of the project is satisfactory. The second PSRCB project demonstrably achieved
some of its objectives: continuing civil service reform, assisting the decentralization process, strengthening
the legal and accountability framework for the private and public sectors, and strengthening the statistical
and planning capacity within the Ministry of Finance. The second component--preparation of the next
phase of public sector reform--did not yield the expected results for multiple reasons. First, in the absence
of a reliable database on public servants, it was not possible to carry out an assessment of the



                                                       - 4 -

public service workforce. The project aimed to address this gap by financing a comprehensive civil
service census.
Second, delays during the pre- and post-electoral period made the implementation of some of the activities,
which should have been sequenced during the 2 years, impossible to achieve. Finally, and
more importantly, the change of government was not conducive to an immediate follow-up on this
strategic component because it came very early in the learning curve of the new administration. Even so,
the inclusion of a comprehensive assessment of the judiciary led to the preparation of a detailed
implementation plan for the reform of this sector. And the various studies carried out through the
project (a survey on citizen expectations, a study on the one-stop-shop, and a census of civil
servants) provide a strong analytical basis to pursue public sector reform.

There were no significant changes of project content or design during the project as its short duration did
not allow for any significant adjustment. Instead, Bank supervision focused on the need for tighter and
better project management. Furthermore, the Bank appealed for a greater level of commitment on the part
of the government, which was hesitant about moving from studies to policy and organizational change.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Economic Financial and Legal Reform Component

The legal and judiciary reform component has been successful.             It can take credit for having
supported much of the substantial improvements, particularly in staffing, that have taken place in the sector
over the last decade. It also has gained high visibility in the country, and stakeholders that have been
interviewed have expressed their satisfaction with the project.

A major re-focus took place with the launching of a high profile "Study Assessing the Judicial System in
Cape Verde." The goal of the Minister of Justice to combine different sector and project components into a
comprehensive reform strategy was highly appreciated. In a number of aspects, the project
suffered significant delays due to this revised approach. However, a majority of the planned
outputs has been achieved. The strategy is now being implemented.

A participatory workshop was held with stakeholders, which led to a final draft new Labor Code that was
adopted by the Council of Ministers and is expected to be presented to the National Assembly.

Computers destined to the judiciary have been installed in the various courts across the islands.
The Ministry of Justice and RAFE (unit for financial and administrative reform) have agreed to put the
design of court software on the RAFE (State Financial Administration Reform ­ Project) agenda for
2003, and a commission to accompany the process has been formed. In addition, the DGRNI
(Notary and Registry) was computerized, which included the installation of software and training of
staff. The operationalization of the system is ongoing.

The quality and efficiency of legal services was improved,          including in-service training for
lawyers, judges, court officials (such as bailiffs and court clerks), and other staff involved with the
administration of justice (such as prison administrators and prison guards), and short study tours abroad
and long-term training were provided.

In particular, a new Criminal Code, a new Criminal Procedure Code, a new Civil Procedure Code, and a
new Code of Registries were finalized. A new Industrial and Intellectual Property Code was also finalized.
Furthermore, the project financed the publication of the code of ethics and conduct of the Ministry of



                                                       - 5 -

Justice and the newly created Bar Association at their request.

The setting up of law libraries in each court are forthcoming. The project also included
establishing bilateral links between Cape Verde institutions and those of other countries. The impact on the
whole has been positive.

This component also aimed at strengthening macroeconomic and public finance management, inter
alia through the improvement of data collection and reform of national accounts.

As for data collection, efforts were made to strengthen the National Statistics Institute (INS) so that it
would deliver more reliable and timely statistics and national accounts. Reports on the new methodology
for national accounts were elaborated, as well as a detailed action plan for 2002-2005. Further work on
this topic will benefit from the support of Afristat, which Cape Verde joined as a member recently. The
software ERETES has been translated into Portuguese.

The creation of a national database for Cape Verde has progressed steadily during the lifetime of
the project.    It entails three phases: diagnosis and creation of the structure (completed),
analysis and identification of meta-information (dimensions and types of data) and definition of the
reference database (completed), and integration of all the NIS databases, plus other existing
individual databases in Cape Verde. FNUAP (United Nations Fund for Population) is expected to
finance the third phase and negotiations with FNUAP are being formalized. Meanwhile, the NIS
has already signed various protocols with other government agencies to prepare for implementation of
the third phase.

Regarding the improvement of macro-economic and public finance management, a planning manual
was approved by the government, an information system for current economic situation analysis
was created, including a choice of indicators, and a letter of information was developed.
The training of staff concerned with economic management was completed, and, although fewer
staff participated than was originally planned, the training contributed to bringing about a
culture of professional excellence and greater readiness for change in economic management
practices.   By and large, this subcomponent was achieved and was the basis for the preparation of the
national development plan.
The purchase of 300 computers and other IT equipment was financed through the project. They were all
configured and installed by RAFE. It raised the number of users connected to the government network
from 1,200 to 2,000.      The system has already had an enormous impact on internal
communication within the government as the whole central administration is now connected.               It also
enables the installation of various modern management tools.

Preparation of the Next Phase of Public Sector Reform Component

A survey of civil servants was completed, and around 11,000 individual processes were entered
into the database that has been installed in the Secretariat of State for Public Administration.
Contract staff, supervised by civil servants, will continue to input data. Not much progress was
made on the creation of a Database Institutionalization and Integrated Management System for
Public Administration (SIGAP). However, to help fill the institutional gap in database management, a
draft decree that clarifies the roles of various institutions in the management and updating of the database
has been prepared, as well as an administrative manual to accompany the decree.
.
A survey targeting civil servants, citizens, and businessmen was completed and served as input for the



                                                        - 6 -

study on administrative simplification.
Technical assistance for fiscal management systems in the municipalities was provided, which included a
proposal for a Code on Municipality Tax on Patrimony, since the Technical Assistance (TA)
pointed at inconsistencies in the municipal fiscal legislation. Training was provided on fiscal and
financial affairs to the staff of all municipalities.

Following technical assistance, two workshops were organized on "Decentralized Cooperation" and
"Partnership with Civil Society" to discuss draft laws in these areas.

A modified citizens' guide on administrative simplification was adopted, and a training seminar and
workshop were held for dissemination of the work. Substantial follow-up will be required, however, to
have a concrete impact.

Creation of a "one stop shop" for citizens has been studied and is under consideration by government. This
would provide citizens with a single point of entry for requesting administrative services.

A 2-day seminar on the role of the state in Cape Verde was held with stakeholders from the central and
local governments, civil service, and civil society in preparation for a report on the role of the state.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

This short TA project was successful in building technical capacity for macroeconomic analysis
and statistics in the legal and judicial sector and in the municipalities. It also was instrumental in
completing the networking of the central administration, supporting an easier and less hierarchical mode of
communication, and supporting various applications to speed and secure processes. The mid-term review
highlighted the need for appropriate institutional measures to ensure that activities would have a
sustainable impact and that concrete steps were taken to ensure follow-up. But the project, by design (as a
modest-sized, "bridge" operation) and by duration, did not systematically address issues of rules
and incentives that would harness the acquired technical capabilities.

Two weaknesses need to be acknowledged. First, some of the TA was not followed by positive
policy decisions that would have allowed their implementation (for example, the study on the
one-stop-shop). In some cases, such as the law on decentralized cooperation or the labor code, this is
explained by the lengthy process necessary to present the law to the Parliament. Since both
issues are sensitive and need broad support, a participatory process was undertaken to reach a
consensus with representatives from municipalities and NGOS in the forner case and trade unions in
the latter. Second, the TA financed a range of analytical studies and support for various
systems--in particular communication systems--to be installed. To some extent, the time and capacity to
implement the results of these studies or to give staff the capacity to use the systems has been
underestimated. Thus, the institutional development impact is rated as modest.




                                                      - 7 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

At the time the project was launched, legislative and presidential elections were imminent. All decisions
requiring the Minister of Finance and Planning's intervention had to wait until the new
government had been sworn in , which occurred in February 2001.           Decisions on the component for
the Public Sector Reform, which required strategic orientations from the new government, were
especially delayed.    The installation of a new government put extra demands on the project, in
particular for maintaining contact and building ownership for the project. Thus, despite intensive
consultations during the preparation phase, the project did not take off as rapidly as expected. Further,
the new government inherited big budget deficits which led to a financial crisis. These factors implied
significant capacity limitations and constraints to institution building and development that were
beyond the control of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and outside the short-term control of the
government.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

During preparation, the project was located in the office of the Vice Prime Minister. A change in
the government structure at the time of the start of project implementation suppressed this
office.  Consequently, because the project had a strong component supporting economic and financial
management and because the Ministry of Finance is a natural counterpart for IDA, project leadership was
attributed
to the MOF.     Additionally, the government appointed a supervision commission in order to
harmonize project implementation by the different parts of the administration, avoid overlap,
and encourage involvement of all relevant agencies. However, regular meetings of the commission
proved difficult to organize. Various supervision missions raised the issue.        The Country Portfolio
Performance Review highlighted the need         to either revitalize the process or find new ways to
ensure   intersectoral communication in order to ensure that the PIU did not operate in isolation from the
government and public administration. But coordination continued to be ad hoc, and the PIU operated in
relative autonomy. The MOF mainly focused on the economic and financial management of its
own department, thereby overlooking other parts of the project. The second component, "Next Phase of
Public Sector Reform," did not receive sufficient attention due to the Ministry of State Administration's
overstretched capacity.

High turnover in the administration, and among component managers, is another factor detrimental to the
project. This was mainly linked to the change of government, but not solely, as turnover of head and senior
officers in the Cape Verdean administration is very high.

Delays in implementation were also attributed to assorted shortfalls in the managerial capacity of the PIU
also under government's control, as described in the findings of the Bank supervision mission and
Mid-term Review of October 2001. Project management was later seen by Bank supervision as
marginally improved, and was helped by the weekly transmission of an updated procurement plan.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The lead agency was the MOF, which managed implementation through the PIU. The PIU was responsible
for coordinating and implementing project activities. It had to deal with a number of ministries and units
and various public agencies and municipalities, as well as manage a wide range of different activities.



                                                      - 8 -

Two main shortcomings can be noted. First, it was realized during the second supervision mission that
some delays in procurement were linked to a problem with evaluation commissions, as seen in the
delays occurring in these commissions' work. This was due in part to the fact that, at appraisal, an amount
of US$200 (fully financed by counterpart funds) was allocated per evaluation commission. The way this
was interpreted provided for an allocation of Cape Verdean Escudos (ECV) 20,000 (that is, around
US$160) per member of the commission, including the PIU staff when it participated ("double
dipping"). Since the amount given to each participant was significant, meetings of the commissions
were delayed until all participants could assist. This item was discussed during the 2001 Country
Portfolio Performance Review.

Second, one of the main roles of the PIU was to coordinate various activities, especially when they could
benefit from synergies. This was not always done satisfactorily (for instance, collaboration between the
authors of the Study Assessing the Judicial System in Cape Verde and the authors of the Study on the
Reform of Court Clerk Services ("Secretarias").

5.4 Costs and financing:

During the life of the project, several internal reallocations shifted the financing towards
well-performing components.

The PIU overran its operational cost. Part of the overrun was explained by underestimation of some budget
items at appraisal (office rental, electricity), and part was attributed to the PIU's lack of monitoring budget
items.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the capacity created through training is contingent on three factors: the adequacy of
training relative to the needs of the administration, the quality of training, and the stability of the staff that
benefited from the training. The training provided was well anchored on assessments of various
departments' needs, training evaluations proved satisfactory, and when followed by exams, training
courses had a good rate of success.          One caveat was that the training for fiscal management for
the municipalities could not be done on the job as planned. However, taking into account the level
of turnover in the country, the risk of turnover or departure is substantial, in particular for staff with rare
skills (such as IT) or for senior level staff.

The technical capacity and management tools financed by the project will be sustained if
the staff involved in their implementation are continually involved, and supported at managerial and
political levels.     Some of these tools have not been fully deployed yet, but their
implementation is ongoing, with adequate financing and technical support and strong support from
the ministerial level (for example, software for the DGRNI). The sustainability of the database for civil
servants, however, remains contingent on actions by the Government to ensure its updating and
proper institutionalization. Despite repeated discussions on this in country, it is still not clear whether this
will be
done in time.

IDA support for public sector reform will be continued through a PRSC, which will allow
continuous dialogue on the sustainability of the activities financed thus far through the project (for



                                                       - 9 -

instance, how to retain capacity, how to build internal capacity for training, and how to better link IT
investment with necessary     change management and prior organizational and institutional changes).

At this early stage after implementation, sustainability remains unlikely, and will continue to depend on
further external assistance.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The various ministries involved have prepared or are preparing a follow-up plan to pursue the activities.
Future assistance from the Bank will be through a PRSC. As for institutional development, the PRSC will
need to pay close attention to the political environment, and provisions will be needed to ensure that the
rules and incentives are in place to enable economic policy and implementation to be consistent with
poverty reduction results.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The World Bank's performance was satisfactory in the "upstream" phase of the project--in preparation
and launching. The design flaws such as the complexity, multiplicity of implementation agencies,
unrealistic achievement targets, and location of project management can only be ascertained in
retrospect, as at the time they reflected widely accepted practices. As project execution advanced,
some of these flaws became more evident, and management attempted to deal with them.

7.2 Supervision:

Supervision of the project by the Bank is rated highly satisfactory. During the life of the project,
the Task Team Leader (TTL) attended periodic review meetings and responded quickly to
those matters that required immediate attention. Over the course of implementation, the
Bank      adapted      to     the evolving institutional reform priorities of the government,
periodically approving reallocations of committed                resources     towards      high-performing
components. A close working relationship emerged between the government and the Bank,
especially on issues of policy, legislation, and reform strategy. Aide-Memoires were
regularly prepared and transmitted, which alerted the government to problems with project
execution and suggested remedies that conformed with Bank procedures.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The benefits of the Bank's innovative approach to design, as well as its highly client-oriented approach to
project implementation, outweigh the problems associated with project complexity. Overall performance
by the Bank is rated as satisfactory. Bank performance in providing technical support during supervision
missions was consistent across all components.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Performance by the borrower during preparation was satisfactory, in that the government and the project
unit from the first public sector reform project worked diligently with the Bank's preparation



                                                    - 10 -

team. Together, they produced a very useful institutional diagnosis of the situation in Cape Verde.
Government commitment to the goals of the project at the start was unequivocal, but became weaker during
the latter part of project execution.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Legislative and presidential elections took place at the beginning of 2001. The lengthy election period and
the subsequent change of government had a detrimental effect on project implementation and
created delays. Three points contributed to the delays: the new government inherited a project that it did
not help design, the government was tackling a fiscal crisis, and the government had been in the opposition
for more than 10 years.

Delays following the election period prevented some activities from taking place, and coordination between
the PIU and the new government was not always timely. As implementation advanced and policy
action was required by the government, commitment seems to have weakened, according to supervision
reports. To some extent, the government pushed for a timely closing of the project (hence, the
first extension of the project was only requested for 6 months, despite discussions encouraging the
government to request a 9-months extension), in order to continue the collaboration with the World Bank
through another type of support.

But the government remained committed to the policy goals that underpinned the project. The government
requested modification of some activities (to which the Bank responded positively by
drafting an amendment) to better fit its program. Counterpart funds were forthcoming when required and
were never a hindrance to project implementation.

Difficulties in implementation were attributable to a combination of shortcomings on the side of both the
PCU and the government. On the basis of these observations, performance by the government
during implementation is rated marginally unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Several problems and weaknesses were associated with the PIU. The better working conditions enjoyed by
the PIU created tensions with the existing staff of the public service and ownership problems. In
Cape Verde, this situation was compounded by the fact that an exemption from Bank policy--recently
formally abandoned--was granted to enable staffing of the PIUs, and allowed employees to retain
their civil servant status. Furthermore, in a context where most top-level civil servants changed after the
elections, the fact that the PIU staff remained made the situation even more challenging. Hired by the
former administration, they were perceived as outsiders by the new government, which did not facilitate
swift progress in implementation.

As noted previously, two specific shortcomings are linked with the evaluation commissions
for procurement activities and coordination of various consultancies.

Given these shortfalls, implementation by the implementation agency is rated unsatisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Delays in project execution can mainly be attributed to i) the inoperability of        the government
during elections, ii) a 6-month delay in declaring the credit effective, and iii) delays in the



                                                     - 11 -

procurement process linked to the evaluation commission. During supervision, communication at the
highest level of government was encouraged and facilitated, and a clear policy dialogue emerged from the
various encounters.
In the course of supervision, problems were brought to the attention of the government and the PIU, and
some corrective measures were carried out. The lack of responsiveness on the part of the
government on the issue of coordination--between ministries and with the PIU--was a significant
shortcoming. Also, toward the end of the project, interest in the project by the new government seemed
to drop off, and instead of focusing on ongoing activities, interest was focused on the possibility of starting
a new project, and later on the possibility of continuing support for public sector reform through a PRSC.

Given these shortfalls, implementation by Government is rated marginally unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


While Cape Verde has shown better implementation effectiveness than many other African countries, there
is a limit to how much more can be delivered with the existing capacity. The Bank should therefore guard
against overestimating the borrower's capacity to implement. Specifically, project designs should be
simple. The components should reflect only the highest priorities of the government and not lump together
all desirable   public sector issues to be resolved in one project in a country where implementation
capacity is limited. Also, in a very weak institutional setting, it is important to limit the number of studies
in a project because of inadequate capacity to implement the studies. The priorities could then be grouped
and sequenced into
short, medium, and long-term plans. The length of the project implementation period should allow for a
longer    period of implementation in projects where many activities are to be accomplished. The
current project activities, which were planned to be implemented over a period of 2 years,
could never realistically have been accomplished in this short implementation period. Furthermore,
given such a short implementation period, the opportunity that is usually offered by a mid-term project
review is lost, and therefore the midstream revision of project design--taking into consideration external
circumstances--does not take place.

Ensuring ownership and commitment of the borrower is a recurring theme in Bank projects. It remains very
difficult to ascertain ownership and commitment beyond the desire of most borrowers to obtain
needed funds for projects. Staff turnover on both the Bank's and the borrower's sides generally
complicates matters, as newcomers' guiding ideas are not always in line with their predecessors'
ideas. Involving more people on the borrower's side in project preparation, through workshops and other
means of information, may help reduce dependence on a few key staff members and gain greater support
for project objectives. Political commitment is linked to project ownership as changes that are anticipated in
the project have an effect on the political environment and vice versa. The electoral process that occurred
during project implementation contributed to delays in implementation of project activities,
and necessitated the extension of the project twice for a period of 6 months each.

The relatively better job conditions offered by the PIU in comparison to the public sector made its staffing
vulnerable to political intervention. In Cape Verde, this situation was compounded by the
previously noted Bank policy exemption--now abandoned--regarding civil servants' status, and led to a
lack of cooperation by the public sector. At election time, this became a national issue.

When implementing a Public Sector Reform Project that may be politically sensitive and can have
adverse social implications for public service employees, special attention should be paid to the timing of



                                                     - 12 -

implementation of the project in relation to the political electoral cycles of the country. For such a project, a
significant period of implementation should not coincide with the election period. At least 3 years of
project implementation outside of an election year would mitigate the political risks and ensure commitment
to reform.   It is necessary to ensure that the design of capacity building programs is flexible and relevant
to the needs of the agencies involved in a project and that the agencies give adequate priority to
this task. The capacities of implementing units and competing priorities have significant impacts on the
interaction between an agency and its consultants and eventually on the consultants' usefulness.             In
some agencies involved in the project, the staff was very busy carrying out routine activities, and so
competing priorities played a significant role. Staff members also move frequently to other assignments,
and new staff members with fewer commitments to a particular topic are assigned. Capacity building
is a long-term process and can be affected by changes in government policy, leadership, or key staff. It is
also important to provide support to building capacity of local training institutions for the continual
training of the public service workforce rather than relying on consultants and training overseas.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
No formal comments have been received to date. A draft Government ICR has been transmitted informally
to the Task Manager, and the final draft is expected in July 2003.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Expanded macro-economic model and              Planning manuals updated and completed in Planning manual basis to prepare National
improved collection and analysis of data for   the perspective of the PRSP; national          Development Plan.
policy formulation.                            account reform is ongoing with technical
                                               assistance from INE Portugal (establishment National account report being discussed for
                                               of an implementation plan covering the period finalization.
                                               2001-2004, is to comply with SCN93
                                               methodology; methodology for national
                                               accounts and specific training on private
                                               sector accounting.
Performed timely monitoring and control of     Thirty-nine staff received modular training, 7 Networking of the central administration has
budget and expenditure data through a          staff received a certification (i.e., attended improved communication. Financing
Financial Management Information System        and passed the test for the four modules),     searched for linking up islands.
that links central and municipal governments and 14 received a module certificate.
electronically.                                The macroeconomic situation analysis is        Financial Managemetn System used to
                                               ongoing. The macroeconomic scenario has        prepare the 2003 budget.
                                               been finalized and discussed at the Direction
                                               of Planning
                                               Network already installed. Equipment
                                               furnished through the project increased the
                                               number of users networked by 800 (from
                                               1,200 to 2,000). Only the municipality of
                                               Praia has been networked; the networking of
                                               other municipalities requires more
                                               investment.
                                               Financial Management Information System:
                                               Design of the system almost final; legal
                                               framework not in place yet to allow for its
                                               implementation.
Legal/Regulatory Reform: Adopted,
Legal/Regulatory Reform: Adopted,              Activity cancelled for lack of funding; and
published, and enforced legal codes that       because an industrial property code was
promote businesses.                            already prepared by Ministry of Trade (but
                                               has not yet been presented to Parliament).
Established new asset registration and
intellectual property codes and updated labor
code. Asset registration codes prepared at     Labor code upgraded and enforced.              Code is finalized and expected to be adopted
the end of the project.                                                                       by June 2003.
Intellectual property code adopted and
enforced.
                                               Code of Commercial Companies
About 20 staff of the MOJ trained in the       disseminated (workshop in Praia and Sao
above codes and their enforcement.             Vicente) .

                                               Eleven training courses are being conducted All training courses completed (Planning and
                                               for staff of the Ministry of Justice. Eight    leadership, archiving, public, accountancy
                                               courses have already taken place               guardians, quality of service, leadership,
                                                                                              productivity of public service. )
Public Administration: (i) Established         Computerization of the Court awaits
electronic links between the courts and the    conclusion of a report on court clerks.
Ministry of Justice;
                                               Draft report of the Study on Justice and the   Implementation plans for following up on
                                               Study on Court Clerks are being finalized.     study recommendations prepared, budget
                                                                                              already secured.

(ii) Conducted regular consultations and       A draft Law on Framework for decentralized
analysis culminating in an action plan for the cooperation has been finalized. Draft law on
next phase of public sector reform and         Partnership with Civil Society is being
modernization.                                 finalized. Both have been discussed with
                                               stakeholders.


                                               Two reports on Implementation of fiscal




                                                                   - 14 -

                                            management systems in municipalities,
                                            training of staff from all municipalities in Praia




                                            Administrative procedures simplified
                                            First report and workshop completed.              Follow-up through implementation working
                                                                                              group planned.

                                            Single-service window established
                                            Study tour and report finished. No decision
                                            yet on implementation


                                            Cancelled (time constraints and unavailability
                                            of basic information such as human
                                            resources database).


                                            Updating of survey on citizen expectation
                                            Final report presented at a seminar in
                                            November

                                            Creation of HRM database
                                                                                              Ongoing ( data input ongoing; draft proposal
                                                                                              for SIGAP being completed but not adopted
                                                                                              yet.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Economic Management & Financial Mgmt:
Timely and accurate preparation of national
accounts;
Economic Management & Financial:
Networked computer system installed by the
end of the Project.
Economic Management and Financial:
integrated recurrent and investment budgets
and a fully operational public expenditure
management system
Legal/Regulatory Refors: Adopted, published
and enforced legal codes that promote
businesses
Legal/Regulatory Reforms: Established
electronic links between the courts and the
Ministry of Justice

1End of project




                                                                 - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Component 1
Strengthen Macreconomic Management                           0.45             0.60
Strengthen Public Finance Management                         0.48             0.78
Expand Legal/ Regulatory Reforms                             0.80             0.37
Component 2
Prepare Strategy Public Administration Reform Action         0.20             0.74
Plan
Project Coordination Unit                                    0.04             0.39


Total Baseline Cost                                          1.97             2.88
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.10
 Price Contingencies                                         0.01
                        Total Project Costs                  2.08             2.88
                  Total Financing Required                   2.08             2.88


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.99            0.08         0.03          0.00         1.10
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         1.87                       1.87
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)            ()         (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.03          0.00         0.03
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            0.99            0.08         1.93          0.00         3.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00


                                                - 16 -

                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  2. Goods                                 0.61               0.00              0.12             0.00              0.73
                                             ()              (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              2.10             0.00              2.10
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)               ()             (0.00)           (0.00)
  4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.03             0.00              0.03
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.61               0.00              2.25             0.00              2.86
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.




                                                          - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               11/20/1998


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               06/15/1999
               10/04/1999

 Supervision

               11/10/2000                 3   TTL (1); CONSULTANT Public            S               S
                                              Sector Management (PSM) (1);
                                              PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
               05/19/2001                 5   TTTL (1); CONSULTANT PSM              S               S
                                              (1); FINANCIAL
                                              MANAGEMENT (1);
                                              PROCUREMENT (1),
                                              STATISTICAL (1)
               10/23/2001                 5   TTL (1); LAWYER (1);                  S               S
                                              PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                              (1); FINANCIAL
                                              MANAGEMENT (1),
                                              CONSULTANT PSM (1)
               05/14/2002                 5   TTL (1), LAWYERS (2),                 S               S
                                              PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                              (1); FINANCIAL
                                              MANAGEMENT (1)


 ICR
               09/30/02                  2     TTL (1), CONSULTANT                  S               S
                                               PSM (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    23.9                         63425
  Supervision                              45.8                        103000
  ICR                                         6                         18000
  Total                                    75.7                        184425




                                               - 19 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document
Various BTORs
Mid-term Review Borrower's Report
Government ICR (to be received)




                                      - 22 -

- 23 -

