Report No. PID7939
Project Name                     Cape Verde-Second Public Sector Reform and...
Capacity Building Project
Region                           Africa Region
Sector                           Public Sector Reform
Project Number                   CVPE57998
Borrower                         The Government of Cape Verde
Implementing Agency              The Office of the Vice Prime Minister
Date this PID Prepared           July 1, 1999
Appraisal Date                   May 17, 1999
Projected Board Date             November 1999
1.      Country & Sector Background. This is the second project designed to
continue the process of reforming the public sector in Cape Verde. Efforts
to reform the public sector began as far back as 1983 with programs to
improve the public sector enterprises. These efforts continued with a program
in 1990 to privatize these public enterprises. In 1992, public sector reform
took on a different direction when the Government decided to adapt public
administration and the judiciary system to a new vision that would reduce the
role of the public sector in the economy and create an enabling environment
for private sector development. The process of reforming public
administration and the judiciary system began in earnest that year when the
Parliament approved a reform program designed to achieve three specific
objectives: (i) improve and modernize public administration; (ii) strengthen
the municipalities; and (iii) improve the legal environment for the private
sector. Public sector reform became one of the four pillars of the
Government's economic development plan. The other three were: opening the
country to external investment and liberalizing the economy; making the
private sector the engine of growth; and, reducing poverty and protecting the
environment.
2.      IDA has been supporting public sector reform in Cape Verde since the
beginning. In response to the 1992 change in the Government's reform
policies, the Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project-PSRCBP (Cr.
2566-CV) was approved in 1994. Under this project, the Government reformed
the public sector by: (i) modernizing public administration through training,
early retirement and voluntary departure; (ii) decentralizing administrative
functions to the municipalities; (iii) strengthening economic management by
developing a macroeconomic planning model, a Public Investment Program and
creating the National Institute of Statistics; (iv) improving public finance
by passing a Local Finance Law, delegating fiscal and financial
responsibilities to the municipalities, and developing the public resources
management system; and (v) strengthening the judicial system by passing codes
for notary, registry and commercial transactions. The first project will
close in December 1999 with most of its objectives accomplished.
3.      The reforms accomplished so far have strengthened administrative
capacity. But in order to cope with the increasingly complex economic
environment, the decentralized public finance system, and the lack of codes
to protect the environment and regulate securities, the Government decided



to: (i) further strengthen macroeconomic planning, public resource
management, and the judicial system; and (ii) continue the modernization of
public administration and possibly complete it during a next phase of public
sector reform. Resources to accomplish these two objectives are not
available and require a second project.
4.      Project Objectives.   The second project has two development objectives
that aim to: (i) deepen the reform of the public sector accomplished under
PSRCBP in the areas of economic and financial management, and regulatory and
legal reforms; and (ii) prepare the next phase of public sector reform to
achieve the Government's vision of an efficient, productive, and modern
public sector.
5.      Project Description.   The second project has two components:
(a)     A first component designed to deepen the first reform in the areas of
macroeconomic planning, public resource management (including RAFE - Reformas
da Administra6ao das Finan6as do Estado), and the regulatory framework. It
is estimated to cost about US$ 2.6 million. The component is organized into
three subcomponents: (1) Strengthen macroeconomic planning (US$ 0.5 million)
to improve the quality and availability of economic and social statistics,
the analysis of recent macroeconomic developments, the medium term
macroeconomic modeling projections, and the dissemination of information
about key economic indicators to the public. (2) Design and install an
administrative and financial information and monitoring system (RAFE) (US$
0.88 million) which will enable the exchange of information on all related
financial, administrative and regulatory subsystems maintained by the central
and municipal government and autonomous institutions. The RAFE will establish
communications and information systems at all levels of the Government. It
will also integrate the recurrent and investment budgets by establishing a
unique public accounting and integrated management information system at the
Ministry of Finance. (3) Prepare codes and regulations, computerize the
courts/tribunals, and network the courts and the Ministry of Justice (US$ 1.2
million). The codes and regulations will be in three areas: (i) private
sector promotion (business, intellectual property and financial securities
registration, and the labor code); (ii) the environment; and (iii) external
aid coordination. The three subcomponents will be fully integrated into the
RAFE, and the RAFE unit will review all aspects of the subcomponent
activities and monitor their timely implementation.
(b)     A second component designed to pilot the next strategic reform program
in the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and prepare a plan to implement the program
subsequently in other ministries and municipalities. It is estimated to cost
about US$ 0.53 million. The component is organized into three subcomponents:
(1) update and maintain the Government's personnel data bank (US$ 0.09
million); (2) reform the structure, functions, information systems and human
resources of the MOF as a pilot exercise, and develop a reform model program
for the rest of the Government (US$ 0.385 million). This subcomponent will
also include the simplification of administrative procedures including those
for business creation, and the design of a single-window administrative
services office; and (3) develop the implementation plan for the next reform
program, including timetables, costing and resource allocation,
implementation arrangements and responsibilities (US$ 0.05 million).
- 2 -



6.      Cape Verde is an active member of the lusophone task force in the
regional Partnership for Capacity Building (PACT). PACT is supported and
managed by the Africa Capacity Building Foundation (ACBF). Under the second
project, PACT is expected to support a set of parallel activities comprising
institutional assessment of the Ministries of Finance and Justice and
training of the public sector reform task force members in the management of
public administration reform.
7.      Project Financing.    The estimated total cost of the project is US$ 3.5
million. The project is expected to be financed by a contribution from the
Government of US$ 0.5 million and a proposed IDA Credit of US$ 3.0 million. A
parallel financing of US$ 0.15 million is envisaged for the PACT activities
comprising institutional assessment of the Ministries of Finance and Justice
and training in reform management abroad and in-country.
8.      Project Implementation. The Deputy Finance Secretary will have overall
responsibility for the second project on behalf of the Government. He will
monitor implementation through the RAFE and receive quarterly progress
reports prepared by the project coordination unit (PCU). The PCU will be
responsible for the day-to-day management of implementation, maintaining the
project accounts, and managing procurement. The PCU accounting and financial
system will comply with the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI)
once the measures identified at appraisal will have been completed.
9.      Project Sustainability. The sustainability of the activities to be
undertaken by the project is high for two reasons. First, these activities
build on practices and functions that already exist. Second, there is a
demand for these activities among the civil servants responsible for them and
among the citizens and businesses that are likely to benefit from them.
10.     Lessons Learned From Previous IDA Involvement. Projects with limited
objectives and few components have a greater chance of successful
implementation. Construction and other activities that require imports are
costly in Cape Verde because of high transportation and transaction costs.
Similarly, technical assistance, training and studies are also relatively
expensive due to language constraints and high transaction and travel costs.
These lessons have been addressed in the design of the project in the
following ways: (i) the goal and objectives are based on existing,
politically acceptable and locally owned policies; (ii) the components are
limited to two and build on activities that are on-going and successful;
(iii) there is no construction involved, and equipment that needs to be
procured can be supplied and serviced through local suppliers; and (iv)
technical assistance and training will be sourced largely from local
expertise, by using non-resident Cape Verdians, and by making use of the
emerging distance learning opportunities.
11.     Poverty Category.   Although poverty reduction is not an explicit
objective, the citizens and businesses of Cape Verde will benefit from better
government services such as water and sewerage, property registration,
business licenses and social services.
12      Environmental Aspects. The project is expected to have a beneficial
environmental impact, as it will support the development of codes to protect
the environment. Few environmental codes and regulations exist at this time,
while the expansion of tourism and urbanization is beginning to pose a threat
-3 -



to country's delicate environment. There is an urgent need to regulate the
environment.
13.     Program Objectives   Categories.    Public sector reform.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 9, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 4 -



