Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19824-CV
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.3 MLLION
(US$3.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
FORA
SECOND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
October 26, 1999
Macroeconomics 5
Country Department 14
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 19,1999)
Currency Unit = Cape Verde Escudo (CVE)
US$1 = 102.45 CVE
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCV:                Bank of Cape Verde (Central Bank)
CAS:                Country Assistance Strategy
EC:                 European Commission
ERSO:               Economic Reforms Support Operation
GEP:                Gabinete de Estudos e Planeamento (Studies and Planning Unit)
ICB:                International Competitive Bidding
IMF:                International Monetary Fund
LACI:               Loan Administration Change Initiative
MOF:                Ministry of Finance
MOJ:                Ministry of Justice
NCB:                National Competitive Bidding
NIS:                National Institute of Statistics
PCU:                Project Coordination Unit
PIF:                Preinvestment Fund
PIP:                Public Investrnent Program
PPIP:               Programa Plurianual de Investimento Puiblico (Mutli-year Public
Investment Program)
PSRCB:              Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project
RAFE:               Reforma da Administracdo Financiera do Estado
(Public Finance Management Reform Group)
SOE:                Statement of Expenditure
UC-RAFE:            Unidade de Coordinacao da Reforma da Administracdo Financeira do
Estado (Coordination Unit for RAFI)
UNFP:               United Nations Fund for Population
VDP:                Voluntary Departure Program
Vice President:              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:            Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Director:             Emmanuel Akpa
Task Team Leader:            Joseph Bredie



Cape Verde
Second Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objectives ............................2
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators   .2
B. Strategic Context                               ..2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project          .2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy              .3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices.        4
C. Project Description Summary                           .7
1. Project components                           .7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project  .7
3. Benefits and target population                    .8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements            .8
D. Project Rationale                               .8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                  8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development
agencies .10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .11
E. Summary Project Analysis .11
1. Economic .11
2. Financial .12
3. Technical .12
4. Institutional .12
5. Social .12
6. Environental assessment .12
7. Participatory approach .12



F.  Sustainability  and  Risks ............................................................................................................ 13
1. Sustainability ..................... 13
2. Critical risks .....................                                      13
3. Possible controversial aspects .....................                      14
G. Main Credit Conditions ...........................                              14
1. Effectiveness conditions .................. 14
2. Other .................. 14
H  Readiness for Implementation ........................                           14
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                          15
ANNEXES
Annex i             Project Design Summary .16
Annex 2             Detailed Project Description .19
Annex 3             Estimated Project Costs .22
Annex 4             Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
Summary .23
Annex 5             Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entitites, orFinancial
Summary .25
Annex 6             Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .27
Table A           Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .33
Table Al          Consultant Selection Arrangements .34
Table B           Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .35
Table C           Allocation of Loan Proceeds .36
Annex 7             Project Processing Budget and Schedule .37
Annex 8             Documents in Project File .38
Annex 9             Statement of Loans and Credits .39
Annex 10            Country at a Glance .41
Annex 11             Letter of Sector Policy .43
Map (IBRD 27215)



Cape Verde
Second Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
Africa Region
Country Department 14
Date: October 26, 1999                                      Task Team Leader: Joseph Bredie
Country Director: Mahmood A. Ayub                            Sector Manager: Emmanuel Akpa
Project ID: CV-PE-PO57998  Sector: Public Sector Management  Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan                Program of Targeted            [X] Yes  [1  No
Intervention:
Project Financing Data                  [] Loan        [X] Credit        [] Guarantee        [] Other [Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$ 3.0 million/SDR 2.3 million
Proposed terms:          IDA Credit       [    Multicurrency       [x ] Single currency
Grace period (years): 10            [    Standard Variable   [x] Fixed              []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard IDA
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$ m):
Source                                                        Local               Foreign            Total
Government                                                     0.5                   -                0.5
IDA                                                            0.9                  2.1               3.0
Total          1.4                 2.1               3.5
Borrower: Government of Cape Verde (GOCV)
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Vice Prime Minister's Office
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                   2000        2001       2002
Annual             1.0          1.6       0.4
Cumulative             1.0         2.6        3.0
Project implementation period: 2 yrs Expected effectiveness date: 01/10/2000    Expected closing date: 12/31/2001
Implementing Agency:  Unidade de Coordina,ao do
Segundo Projecto "Reforma e Capacita,ao do Sector Publico"
Caixa Postal No. 728 - Praia
Repuiblica de Cabo Verde
Contact Person:       Edna Mascarenhas
Address:              Caixa Postal No. 728 - Praia
Republica de Cabo Verde
Telefone: (238) 61-47-38 ou 61-47-63
Fax: (238) 61-20-88



Page 2
A:   Project Development Objectives
1.    Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
This is the second project designed to continue the process of reforming the Government from one that
implements economic activities to one that provides an enabling environment conducive for private
sector-led growth. Under the first project (Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project-
PSRCBP), the Government reformed the public sector by: (i) modernizing public administration through
training, early retirement and voluntary departure; (ii) decentralizing administrative functions to the
municipalities closer to beneficiaries; (iii) strengthening economic management by using a
macroeconomic model for economic planning, developing a Public Investment Program, and creating the
National Institute of Statistics (NIS) to provide timely economic data; (iv) improving public finance by
passing a Local Finance Law, delegating specific financial responsibilities to the municipalities, and
developing the public resources management system; and (v) strengthening the judicial system by passing
new legislation for notary, registry and commercial transactions.
The reforms accomplished so far have strengthened administrative capacity. But in order to cope with
the increasingly more complex economic environment, the decentralized public finance system, and the
inadequate legislation to regulate securities, the Government decided that: (i) macroeconomic planning,
public resources management, and the judicial system must be further strengthened; and (ii) the
modernization of public administration to respond to the needs of the private sector and citizens must be
continued and possibly completed during a next phase of public sector reforms. The need to continue
public sector reform was emphasized in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and resources to
accomplish this objective have been included in the country program.
The second project would thus have two development objectives: (i) consolidate and deepen the reform
of the public sector accomplished under PSRCBP in the areas of economic and financial management,
regulatory and legal reforms; and (ii) prepare the next phase of public sector reform to achieve the
Government's vision of an efficient, productive, and modem public sector.
Progress towards achieving the objectives would be monitored by assessing the attainment of the
following key performance indicators: (i) improved availability and quality of economic and social
statistics for policy analysis and planning; (ii) integrated recurrent and investment budgets and a fully
operational public expenditure management system; (iii) adopted, published and enforced legal codes that
promote businesses; (iv) established electronic links between the courts and the Ministry of Justice; and
(v) regular consultations and analysis culminating in an action plan for the next phase of public sector
reform and modernization.
B:   Strategic Context
1.    Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
(see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17206-CV. Date of latest CAS discussion: December 23, 1997.
IDA has been and continues to assist government programs aimed at: (i) establishing a viable and stable
macroeconomic framework; (ii) developing the private sector; and (iii) reducing poverty and developing
the social sectors. Assistance with the macroeconomic frarnework includes supporting local capacity
building for macroeconomic modeling and policy analysis, and supporting efforts to adjust public



Page 3
expenditures to a sustainable level by addressing the causes of excessive spending. Private sector
development includes further support for improvements of the legal and regulatory framework.
The project is consistent with the CAS and will provide assistance to expand capacity in macroeconomic
management and statistics, as well as to develop and install an effective system and procedures for public
finance management to ensure a balanced budget. In private sector development, the project will
continue to assist in expanding the regulatory framework (securities, industrial and intellectual property);
it will also facilitate computerization of the courts. In addition, at the request of the Government, the
project will support consultation and analysis to produce an action plan to implement the Government's
vision for an efficient and modem public sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
In 1994, the Government decided to adapt public administration and the judiciary system to a new vision
that would reduce the role of the public sector in the economy and create an enabling environment for
private sector development. The process of reforming public administration and the judiciary system
began in earnest that year with the formulation of specific objectives to improve and modernize public
administration. These were approved by the National Assembly, making public sector reformn one of the
four pillars of the Government's Third Development Plan. The other three were: opening the country to
external investment and liberalizing the economy; making the private sector the engine of growth; and
reducing poverty and protecting the environment.
The specific objectives formulated by the Government for public sector reform and capacity building
aimed to: (i) enhance capacity to formulate public policies; (ii) improve the utilization of public
resources; (iii) modernize public administration; (iv) strengthen democracy through capacity building of
local municipal governments; and (v) modernize the legal and judicial system. The Public Sector Reform
and Capacity Building Project (PSRCBP) became effective in 1994 and has been assisting the
Government in transforming and modernizing the Ministries of Finance, Justice and Public
Administration, and the municipalities; the laws supporting and the personnel staffing these bodies have
also been transformed.
The PSRCBP has made progress in modernizing the civil service through extensive technical and
computer training, a first phase of early retirement, and a successful pilot for voluntary departure of civil
servants. Public administration has been streamlined by early retirement (about 400 persons), voluntary
departure (about 200 persons), transfer of civil servants (about 250 persons) to municipalities, and better
recruitment practices. However, completion of the Voluntary Departure Program (VDP) has been
delayed due to lack of donor financing and competing demands for financing investment and social
programs. Another 260 civil servants are ready to depart, further reducing the public payroll, if funds can
be found to pay for their separation. Since the streamlining of public administration has been the prime
focus of departmental managers, this has left them little time to improve personnel systems and services.
This will be the focus of the strategic plan of the next modernization phase under the second project.
The PSRCBP has strengthened economic management through training and computerization of key
ministries. A macroeconomic model (RMSM-X) has been installed, as well as a management
information system for the Public Investment Program (PIP). The National Institute of Statistics (NIS)
has been established with a broader capacity and mandate to coordinate statistical analysis across
government agencies. New local public finance and budget framework laws were passed in 1998 to
regulate fiscal decentralization and accountability. A legal framework for planning is under preparation
to integrate investment and recurrent budgets at the central and local levels. The PSRCBP has also built
local capacity. Capacity of the municipalities to manage social and economic programs has been



Page 4
strengthened with the delegation of revenue generation and financing authority, accompanied by training
and transfer of key civil servants from central to municipal governments.
In legal and judicial reform and in the modernization of the justice system, the PSRCBP has supported
the drafting of new regulations to promote private sector activities and the training of staff of the Ministry
of Justice and the courts in computers and legal areas. Economic management is now firmly governed by
laws, including the law on the budget preparation process and execution, the public procurement law, the
laws on domestic debt reduction and the related overseas trust fund, the emergency and economic
development fund law, and the protocol regulating currency convertibility arrangements with Portugal.
The PSRCBP will close on December 31, 1999. At that time, most of the project's objectives will have
been achieved except for the VDP, and the training of personnel in the NIS and the municipalities.
3.    Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The PSRCBP has helped to strengthen capacity for democratic economic management. However, the
economic and political situation has become more complex. Pressure is growing to make adequate trade-
offs among competing development programs and investments in the context of limited public resources.
At the same time, the evolving democratic processes require decision making with a high level of
involvement of the Parliament and civil society. These growing complexities, together with the ongoing
decentralization of authority to the municipalities, and the lack of funds to complete the VDP, have
placed an increasingly heavy demand on the economic, financial and regulatory capacity of the
Government. To address these current difficulties, the capacity building in economic and financial
management, begun under the PSRCBP, will have to be deepened, and the development of the regulatory
framework for private sector development accelerated. These immediate needs cannot be addressed
under the PSRCBP because they require additional resources.
In the longer term, more rapid changes in the political-economic situation are expected and will require
further reformns of the public sector to increase policy and economic management capacity, as well as
accountability and responsiveness to the private sector and constituencies. Given the short and longer
term needs, the Government wants to use the second project as a bridge to deepen the economic
management and regulatory reforms begun under the PSRCBP, and undertake analytical and planning
studies to determine what needs to be done in a next phase to establish an efficient, effective and
responsive public sector.
Macroeconomic Management. To deal with the increasing complexities of macroeconomic
management, the Government will further strengthen capacity, systems and procedures in three areas: (i)
economic data collection and processing for national accounts statistics, (ii) economic planning and
policy analysis, and (iii) publication and dissemination of data on economic performance. To improve
the quality, availability and consistency of economic data, the project will help to revise and update the
methodology for production of the national accounts statistics; strengthen the capacity of the NIS to
collect, process and maintain national accounts statistics and other economic data; and establish a shared
on-line data base. To improve macroeconomic analysis, projections and policy formulation, the project
will support the strengthening of national capacity to analyze data on economic performance and to
improve the use of the RMSM-X model at the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank and the NIS.
Macroeconomic performance will be monitored on a quarterly basis in order to take timely decisions on
macroeconomic policy measures to maintain economic stability. To improve public information about
social and economic policies and the performance of the economy, the project will help to increase the
availability and frequency of economic reports and the use of the media to inform the general public and
economic operators. Better public information is expected to increase the confidence of consumers,



Page 5
producers, investors and donors in macroeconomic management, in transparency of public policies, and
in the accountability of the public sector. Improvements in these three areas will be accomplished
through training, equipment and technical assistance for the NIS and economic ministries.
Public Finance Management. Following the February 1999 IMF Article IV Consultation mission, the
Government decided to expand the coverage of the public finance management reform program (RAFE -
Reforma da Administrapdo Financeira do Estado) started in 1998. RAFE aims to improve public
resource management throughout the central, local and autonomous institutions of government. More
specifically, RAFE is designed to: (i) improve the quality and availability of public finance data;
(ii) increase the accountability of the use of public resources by all public institutions; (iii) improve the
management of external and internal debt; and (iv) develop capacity to manage public resources at the
municipalities, which acquired financial authority with the 1998 Local Finance Law. To coordinate the
many activities of RAFE, the Government has established a coordinating unit (UC-RAFE - Unidade de
Coordenagdo) at the Ministry of Finance. The main task of the UC-RAFE is to develop the framework,
computer systems, procedures, and institutional capacity for effective public resource management.
Through technical assistance provided by the Ministry of Finance of Portugal and the IMP, progress has
already been made in strengthening the legal framework and developing a new public accounting system.
The main task ahead is to connect all institutions of government through an integrated Financial
Management Information system (FMIS), and undertake the related training activities. The Government
has secured financing for the training activities from the African Development Bank and the Swiss
Development Cooperation. The UC-RAFE has designed the information system and is charged with the
task of installing it. The FMIS has already been installed at the Ministry of Finance's (MOF) departments
of Internal Revenue, Customs, and Treasury, and at the General Directorate for Planning. It is currently
being installed at several autonomous public institutions, including the NIS, and at selected
municipalities. The project will support the: (i) installation of the FMIS at selected government
departments and other autonomous institutions and municipalities; (ii) upgrading of the existing debt
management system and linking it with the PIP and the recurrent budget monitoring system; and (iii)
strengthening of capacity for public resource management at the municipalities. To accomplish these
tasks, the project will provide training, goods, equipment, electronic networks, and technical assistance.
Legal and Regulatory Framework In 1994, the legal and judiciary branches of Government were
singled out as key in creating the enabling legal enviromnent for private sector-led growth. The existing
legal framework, including the company code, the investment code, the labor code, the property code and
codes that regulate the private sector, were seriously outdated. In addition, regulations that would govern
bankruptcy did not exist. In the PSRCBP, headway has been made in preparing new codes. Most
notably, the commercial, civil procedures, notary and registry codes have been adopted. However, much
remains to be done. Codes for assets registration and intellectual property protection need to be adopted.
The Labor Code also needs to be modernized and enforced. The second project will provide the technical
assistance for the drafting and adoption of these codes.
Although, staff of the Ministry of Justice (MOJ), the courts and magistrates have received training in
these new codes and their enforcement, this effort is far from complete. The MOJ has recently reviewed
the achievements so far, as well as the ongoing efforts in capacity building in the Ministry and the courts.
The review indicates the need for the Ministry to continue to build regulatory and judicial capacity
through training in the areas of finance, banking, trade, industry, tourism and services. The second project
will provide technical assistance and access to local and overseas training to build this capacity. In
addition, the project will support a study to determine the need for specialized business courts, establish
criteria for commercial and industrial litigation, and define the role and required expertise of magistrates
for these courts.



Page 6
The MOJ has been largely computerized and staff have been trained to become computer literate.
However, computerization of the courts has not yet begun. As a result, the regional courts have no access
to the legal data bank and the upgraded legal library in the Ministry. For the courts to access this
information and to facilitate consultation among the courts and the Ministry, the Government will
computerize the regional courts and connect them through an electronic network. The network will also
improve recordkeeping and monitoring of court proceedings which, in turn, will improve transparency
and accountability in the judiciary. The second project will support the design, installation and operation
of a computerized network system. It will also finance the training of staff to become proficient in using
the system.
Future Public Administration Reform. Reorganization and strengthening of the economic ministries
and devolution of specific administrative responsibilities to the municipalities, coupled with the early
retirement program and the VDP, have been the major improvements of public administration under
PSRCBP. These accomplishments, together with extensive technical and computer training of civil
servants, have led to an improvement in public administration efficiency and productivity. However, the
public and businesses want more responsive, transparent services and simpler administrative procedures,
and the Government expects greater accountability and flexibility.
The MOF has already made several changes in its organization and staffing in order to better fulfill its
mandate to execute the Government's economic policies, maintain economic stability and promote
growth. Additional reforms are under way to strengthen macroeconomic management and improve
public finance management supported under PSRCBP, and to be continued under the second project. The
Government will use the reform of the Ministries of Finance and Justice as a pilot exercise to derive
lessons and best practices and to develop a reform model and procedures that can be followed by the
other ministries, municipalities and autonomous institutes during a next phase of public sector reform.
The second project will provide technical assistance and training for the pilot in the Ministries of Finance
and Justice.
The MOF and MOJ pilots will be undertaken during the life of the project and will produce a model to
reform the rest of the Government institutions during a next phase of public sector reformn. To prepare for
this phase, the Government will review the following aspects in all the sector ministries as well as the
municipalities: (i) mandates and functions; (ii) information systems, computers and networks and
administrative procedures and regulations; and (iii) staff requirements and capacity. The reviews will
include study visits for the reform manager and selected public and private sector stakeholders to the
Canary Islands, Macao and Singapore to compare the structure and functions of these governments with
Cape Verde. The reviews will also include the simplification of the presently arduous administrative
requirements and obligations of citizens and businesses concerning registrations, licenses and public
services, and the establishment of a single-service window on a pilot basis in Praia. The reviews, study
visits and simplification of administrative services will culminate in the preparation of a detailed Strategic
Public Administration Reform Action Plan for approval by the Government. The plan will specify not
only the reform program for the central ministries and municipalities, but also the timetable for the reform
activities, the resources in terms of cost of equipment, recruitment, training, technical assistance and
responsibilities for implementation. The plan should be ready by the end of the project. The project will
support all aspects of the preparation of the plan, the MOF and MOJ pilots, studies, travel, technical
assistance, consultation with social partners and stakeholders, publication of interim and final reports, and
the plan itself.



Page 7
C:    Project Description Summary
1.    Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a
detailed cost breakdown):
Cost ieL      % of    Bank         % of
Co m      t         category   Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank
(USS m)                         financing
Strengthen              Institutional      2.62        74       2.20        73
Macroeconomic and       development
Public Finance          & capacity
Management and expand  building
Legal! Regulatory
Reforms
Technical assistance,
training and equipment to
improve macroeconomic
planning and statistics and
public finance controls;
develop new legal codes,
and network the courts.
Prepare Strategic Public  Govemance        0.91        26       0.80         27
Administration Reform    &
Action Plan             Institutional
A tour to study         development
government structures in
comparable countries.
Technical assistance for a
pilot reform of the MOF
and MOJ, and to develop
an action plan to establish
a better and more
accountable public
administration.
Total                                      3.53        100      3.00        100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Policy reforms would include better macroeconomic planning, more transparency of public finance and
budgeting at the central and municipal levels, and establishment of proper controls over expenditures.
This will enable the Government to maintain economic and financial stability, make better informed
macroeconomic decisions and, in general, manage the economy better. In addition, the regulatory
framework for investment and private sector development will be refined to improve the climate for
private sector-led growth. In the longer term, two policy changes will be pursued to further
democratization. One will improve access to government services by citizens and businesses. The other



Page 8
will be to complete the transfer of fiscal, financial and social services to the municipalities, bringing these
closer to the intended beneficiaries.
Institutional reforms will include further strengthening of the planning and finance departments of the
Ministry of Finance, the National Institute of Statistics, the municipalities, the Ministry of Justice and the
courts.
3.    Benefits and target population:
The intended beneficiaries are the citizens and businesses of Cape Verde who will benefit from
government services ranging from water and sewerage to property registration, business licenses and
social services. The target population is the civil servants working in central or municipal government
offices. They will be given better tools and resources to do their work, but will be expected to become
more efficient, accountable and responsive to the businesses and public they serve.
4.    Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The institutional arrangements established for the implementation of the PSRCBP are functioning
efficiently, and the Government wants to maintain these for the second project with the exception of the
those for the Reform Advisory Implementation Monitoring Board (RAIMB). The RAIMB met
infrequently and contributed little to implementation. The Government decided instead to establish an
inter-sectoral committee comprising the Vice Prime Minister as the chairman, the Minister of Finance,
the PCU coordinator, the administrator of the Economic Reforms Support Operation (ERSO), and
selected representatives from the technical ministries and the private sector. The committee will meet
quarterly. The existing Project Coordination Unit (PCU), which operates under the Vice Prime Minister's
Office, will be maintained with a reduced staff. The PCU has acquired experience with project
implementation, Bank procedures, financial management, procurement and reporting requirements,
which should help to keep implementation of the second project on track.
The PCU's accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements include the use of accounting
software that satisfies most of the Bank's minimum financial requirements. However, the PCU does not
have an adequate project financial management system that can provide reasonable assurance and
accurate and timely information on the status of the project as required by the Bank for PMR-based
disbursement. To make the project comply with the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI), the
following activities will be undertaken before Credit Effectiveness: (i) updating the accounting software;
(ii) installing the LACI version of the software available by early 2000; (iii) designing a simplified
procurement and physical monitoring system; and (iv) additional training for the project accountant in the
use of contract management and report monitoring software modules. The PCU will: (i) coordinate the
preparation of annual work programs and budgets for the project components; (ii) maintain and
consolidate all project accounts; (iii) prepare the documentation for withdrawals of proceeds from the
Credit; and (iv) arrange for the annual audit of project accounts and Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
The PCU will also monitor project outcomes and maintain the reporting procedures established under the
PSRCBP to keep the Bank informed about implementation progress.
D:   Project Rationale
1.    Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Two alternatives have been examined. They are: (1) completing PSRCBP, and not having a project for
strengthening macroeconomic and public finance management and legal reforms, and for the preparation
of a future public sector reform plan; or (2) extending the PSRCBP and adding the strengthening of



Page 9
macroeconomic planning and public finance management, legal reforms, and the preparation of a future
public administration reform action plan.
Not having a project to strengthen macroeconomic and public finance management and to promote legal
reforms is not an option because the Government needs to have a better macroeconomic planning
capacity now to manage the growing number of public debt, investment and aid programs and to manage
public resources better to avoid overspending. Also, modernizing legal codes is critical in order to
accelerate investment and business development, necessary to sustain growth. Furthermore, preparing a
future public sector reform plan now is necessary in order to bring together and complete the
administrative changes in the central and municipal governments and to determine what remains to be
done to establish an effective, competent and accountable public administration. These activities need to
be done, and the Govermment requires additional resources to obtain the technical assistance, conduct the
training, and purchase the needed equipment.
The option of extending PSRCBP was rejected because most activities will have been completed by the
closing date of December 31, 1999, and there is no need for an extension. Also, all funds will have been
used and there would be no resources left to finance the needed management strengthening and reform
planning activities.



Page 10
2.    Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned):
,<~~~~~~~~~~~Prges(P                                        Oeciiie (DO)U:;
A. Bank-financed
Privatization          Privatization Technical             Closed            Closed
Assistance Project
(Cr. 2377-CV)
Improving Government's  Public Sector Reform and            HS                  S
efficiency             Capacity Building Project (Cr.
2566-CV)
Private Sector         Capacity Building Project for         S                  S
Development            Private Sector Promotion
(Cr. 2864-CV)
Macro-economic Support Economic Reforms Support              S                  S
Operation
(Cr. 3027-CV)
Private Sector         Privatization and Regulatory          U                  S
Development            Capacity Building Project
(Cr. 3121-CV)
B. Other development
agencies
GTZ (Germany)          Agricultural development
Swiss Development      Employment generation;
Cooperation            entrepreneur development
UNFP (United Nations    Family planning services
Fund for Population)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)



Page I 1
3.    Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons learned from completed and ongoing Bank and other Donor-assisted projects suggest that
although project management and implementation capacity is evolving, it is in need of better
coordination. Projects based on well-established policies with limited objectives and few components
have a greater chance of successful implementation. Also, construction and other activities that require
imports are costly in Cape Verde because of high transportation and transaction costs. Similarly,
technical assistance, training and studies are also relatively expensive due to language constraints and
high transaction and travel costs. These lessons have been addressed in the design of the project in the
following manner: (i) the goal and objectives are based on existing, politically acceptable and locally
owned policies; (ii) the components are limited to two and build on activities that are ongoing and
successful; (iii) there is no construction involved, and equipment that needs to be procured can be
supplied and serviced through local suppliers; and (iv) technical assistance and training will be sourced
largely from local expertise, by using non-resident Cape Verdians, and by making use of the emerging
distance learning opportunities.
4.    Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has indicated its commitment by including the objective of improving public
administration in its National Development Plan (1997-2000), as confirmed by the Vice Prime Minister's
letter of January 12, 1999. The role and performance of the public sector is an issue subject to public and
political scrutiny. Although there is vested interest to safeguard the public sector, the need to reform the
sector has been adopted as a priority and gains have been made in this area.
5.    Value added of Bank support in this project:
As far back as 1991, the Bank has helped the Government address the sensitive issue of reforming the
public sector which had become an unsustainable burden. In its support, the Bank has communicated to
the public at large the purpose of what was initially an unpopular reform. It has also brought to bear its
experience with public sector reforms in other countries and helped to secure technical assistance and
donor coordination where needed. The experience the Bank has in working with key stakeholders and
local authorities should make further Bank support in this area beneficial to the country.
E:    Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file,
see Annex 8)
1.    Economic: (supported by Annex 4):
[ I Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV-US$   million; ERR=   % [ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[X] Other:
A cost-effectiveness analysis was done of the early retirement and voluntary departure programs. It is too
early to do a firm assessment of the effectiveness of these programs since they are not yet completed.
The project is likely to produce some savings in the medium term as a result of the increased efficiency
and productivity of the civil service. It is likely to have a much greater impact on the ability of the
Government to maintain economic stability and control public expenditures. These benefits will be
important and timely although hard to measure and quantify.



Page 12
2.    Financial (see Annex 5):
The financial impact of the project is likely to be positive because it has as one of its objectives the
improvement of the government's management and control of public finances. Similarly, the impact of
the project on fiscal performance is likely to be beneficial because it will assist with the formulation and
enforcement of registration and property codes which, in turn, will facilitate tax collection.
3.    Technical:
The project will help to build technical expertise in areas where the need is urgent in the short term. It
will expand technical capacity in economic modeling, essential in view of the new debt, trust fund, and
pre-investment fund programs that have to be coordinated and managed to maintain economic stability.
It will also establish a capacity to control public expenditures by central and municipal government
agencies, and strengthen the regulatory capacity of the Ministry of Justice and the courts.
4.    Institutional:
Executing agencies. The activities of the project will be executed by the respective central ministries and
municipalities as is being done effectively in the PSRCBP. The executing agencies will be given the
technical assistance or training they need to acquire or expand the skills needed to implement the
activities efficiently. While this arrangement works well, it does require extensive coordination and
follow-up. This will be done by the Office of the Vice Prime Minister, which is responsible for the
execution of all foreign-aided projects. This office is assisted by a project-specific coordination unit
(PCU).
Project management. The day-to-day management of the project will be in the hands of the existing
PSRCBP Coordinating Unit (PCU). The PCU has benefited from project management, procurement and
public sector reform training and should be able to manage the project efficiently.
5.    Social:
The contribution of the project to social development will be primarily at the municipal level where the
rights of citizens and businesses will be codified, and in the courts where these rights will be protected
and enforced.
6.    Environmental assessment: Environmental Category  [ I A   I I B    [ XI C
The project is expected to have no impact on the environment.
7.    Participatory approach:
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups. The project will affect a relatively small group of
civil servants in the justice and economic ministries, the municipalities, and the courts. They are already
responsible for the activities central to the project and have actually asked for the resources (technical
assistance, training, computers and networks) that the project will provide. The secondary beneficiaries
are the people of Cape Verde who will benefit from a stable political-economic environment, fimded
social programs and services and communities that are govemed by the rule of law, enforced by the
courts.



Page 13
Other key stakeholders. Other stakeholders are the business enterprises of the country who will be able
to operate more efficiently in a well-regulated environment where their assets are protected and their
proprietary rights regulated.
F:    Sustainability and Risks
1.    Sustainability:
The sustainability of the activities to be undertaken by the project is high for two reasons. First, these are
activities that build on practices and functions that already exist. Second, there is a demand for these
activities among the civil servants responsible for them and among the citizens and businesses that are
likely to benefit from them.
2.    Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
-isk                                     R§k    Risk M-ni-izatkon M-asure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Political stability is not maintained and economic   N    PSRCBP-II will actually help to maintain
leadership will change.                           economic stability; it will be executed by the
Office of the Vice Prime Minister, who is the
architect of the current political economic
program.
Ownership and commitment of the central and  M    The affected agencies have identified the tasks that
municipal govermment agencies to the objectives   need to be done and the technical assistance,
of the project weakens.                           training and resources they would need to
undertake these tasks. They stand to benefit from
getting involved and acquiring new skills.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Project staff in the PCU, ministries and     M     Staff will have incentives to remain in posts, e.g.,
municipalities will transfer to other posts.      training and study tours. Also, the skills acquired
are specific and not easily transferred to other
positions.
Implementation of the second project encounters    N    The project is planned to be implemented over a
delays.                                           two-year period. This is enough time considering
that there are only two sets of activity components.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 14
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The only controversial aspect may be the expenditure control instruments that would be developed and
installed under the project. Central and municipal government agencies may dispute the obligations this
imposes to stay within budget allocations, or they may question the authority of the Ministry of Finance
to impose limits and exercise control over spending.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1.    Effectiveness Conditions:
(i)   the Borrower shall have established a computerized accounting and financial system for
the Project, satisfactory to the Association;
(ii)  the Borrower shall have appointed the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01
(b) of the Development Credit Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement:
(iii)  the PCU has been established in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I (b) of
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(iv)  the Project Account has been opened and the Initial Deposit referred to in Section 3.03
(b) of the Development Credit Agreement has been deposited therein; and
(v)   the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual referred to in paragraph 2
of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
2.    Other:
(i)    Mid-term review and annual reviews throughout the project implementation period.
H.   Readiness for Implementation
The PCU has acquired experience under the PSRCBP in managing the procurement of goods and
selection of consultants. A capacity assessment was done during appraisal and a training program to
strengthen procurement and financial management capacity will be undertaken and completed before the
project becomes effective (see Annex 6). The PCU has used standard procurement documents, standard
letters of invitation and procedures for the selection of consultants, managed regular audits, and prepared
annual procurement and work programs. These and related project implementation documents used under
PSRCBP were collected during preparation and compiled into a draft administrative and accounting
procedures manual. The draft manual was completed during appraisal and was submitted before
negotiations.
The procurement procedures for the PSRCBP stipulate ICB for individual contracts for goods over
US$100,000 and grouping of items in packages of no less than US$100,000. All contracts for goods of
US$100,000 and above are subject to prior review. Procurement procedures for individual consultants'
contracts are currently subject to prior review for all contracts of US$25,000 and above. These



Page 15
procedures were reviewed during appraisal and the team assessed that the capacity, procedures and
oversight are acceptable to allow raising the prior review threshold to US$30,000 for contracts.
However, all Terms of Reference and short lists for consultants will still need to be cleared by the Task
Team Leader, prior to inviting bids.
The February 1999 Disbursement Department mission found that internal controls are good and the
accounting system computerized. During appraisal, the financial management system and capacity was
assessed and an action plan prepared to bring the system up to LACI standards. Also, the PCU
accountant will receive additional training in accounting software and systems before the project becomes
effective.
I.    Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader
Joseph Bred
p   re
Sector    er
Emmanuel Akpa
Country Director
Mahmood A. Ayub



Page 16
Annex 1 - Project Design Summary
Cape Verde: Second Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project
NarrativeSuninmay                K    Performance  Indicaors    Monitorngand eCritical Assumpions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                (Goal to Bank Mission)
Restore macroeconomic stability to   Maintain revenue collection; reduce    Office of the Vice  Political stability is
foster private sector-led growth  capital and recurrent expenditures;  Prime Minister, IMF   maintained and economic
supported by quality human       reduce domestic debt; complete     consultations and   leadership will stay at the
resources.                       divestiture of State-Owned         World Bank           helm.
Enterprises; increase educational  monitoring of CAS.
attainment and reduce poverty.
Project Development Objective:                                                           (Objective to Goal)
Continue the process of changing  Citizens and businesses have access to  Office of the Vice  Quality and capacity of
the role of the Government from  and are informed about laws, codes  Prime Minister and    civil and legal services
implementing to regulating       and regulations.                   periodic reports from   staff continue to improve
economic activities and promoting    Gradual reduction in the backlog of    the Project  and working conditions
private sector- led growth, social    administrative requests and legal cases  Coordination Unit    and incentives remain
sector development and poverty   as shown by the records of the     supplemented and     attractive to invite
alleviation.                     administrative and legal services and   confirmed by World   qualified professionals into
institutions.                      Bank missions.      government service.
Outputs:                                                                                (Outputs to Objective)
Economic and Financial
Management and Legal]
Regulatory Reforms:
.  Expanded macro-economic       Timely and accurate preparation of  Progress reports from   Ownership and
model and irnproved collection   national accounts. Some 15 staff in   the Project   commitment of the central
and analysis of data for policy   the MOF, Central Bank and NIS will   Coordination Unit    and municipal public
formulation.                 be trained.                        and Bank supervision  admninistration to produce
reports.            and use information and
*  Timely monitoring and control  Networked computer system installed                    have adequate staff
of budget and expenditure data  by the end of the project . All central              available with proper
through a Govt. Financial    government agencies and                                 incentives.
Management Information       municipalities linked and responsible
System that links central and  staff trained to operate the system.
municipal governments
electronically.
.  New asset registration and   Asset registration codes prepared by    Progress reports from   Council of ministers or
intellectual property codes and  the end of the project.        the PCU and regular   Parliament approves codes.
an updated labor code.       Intellectual property code adopted and  supervision reports
enforced.                         from World Bank
Labor code upgraded and enforced.    missions.
About 20 staff of the MOJ trained in
the above codes and their
enforcement.
Courts computerized and linked with                     Adequate computer



Page 17
Narrative Summary               Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Networked legal and judicial    MOJ by the end of the project.  Progress reports from   maintenance system for the
system to provide better records  About 40 staff of the courts and MOJ   the PCU and regular   courts in place.
of enforcement of laws and  trained in using the system.      supervision reports of
regulations.                                                  World Bank
missions.
Strategic Public Administration
Reform Action Plan:
•  Review of the role changes in   Pilot reform of the MOF/MOJ    Publication in official Adequate consultation with
public sector staff and current   completed by the end of the project.    Government gazette.  stakeholders and open
functions of central and    Study tour completed.                                  discussion at all levels of
municipal governments in    Administrative procedures simplified.                  public administration,
relation to the govermnent's    Single-service window established.                 private sector and civil
vision of the public sector.  Strategic plan drafted for review by                 society.
Govermment.
*  Strategic framework and action  Strategic plan discussed and approved
plans for the next phase of  by the Government by the end of the
public sector reforms prepared,  project.
discussed and approved by the
Government.
Project Components/Sub-         Inputs: (budget for each                              (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2 for    component)
project description)
Economic and Financial
Management and Legal!
Regulatory Reforms:
Timely implementation of
*  Improve the macroeconomic                                      Quarterly Work      the components that means
model by expanding the input-  Economic and Regulatory Reform:  Programs of the   that terms of reference and
output models and imnproving                                  Project Coordinating   shortlists are prepared and
the timeliness and reliability of  Training                   Unit that are        processed in a timely
statistical data.                                             monitored and        manner.
Technical Assistance              reviewed by the     Project staff in the
Bank.               ministries, institutions and
in the PCU will remain in
place.
* Establish a national financial
information system to improve   Equipment
financial control over budgets
and expenditures at the national  Training
and municipal levels.
Technical Assistance
*  Develop codes for assets
registration, intellectual  Legal reforms
property, and upgrade the labor
code.                       Training
Technical Assistance



Page 18
Narive Summary                    Ky Perfornce  nditors    Monitoring and    Crtical Assumptions
Computerize the courts to
improve access to legal       Equipment
information and to improve
records of enforcement of
codes and regulations.
Preparation of the Next Reform
Phase:
*  Analysis and studies to        Future Reform
determine the status and
performance of the public     Technical Assistance
sector.
Training
*  Preparation of strategic
framework for civil service
reform and the accompanied
action plan.



Page 19
ANNEx 2: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Cape Verde: Second Public Sector and Capacity Building Project
Project Component 1 - US$2.62 million (total cost of component)
Economic and Financial Management and Legal/Regulatory Reforms Component: Under
the Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project (Cr. 2566-CV), the Government initiated
a process of strengthening economic and financial management. National accounts have been
updated up to 1997, an economic model has been installed and a Pre-Investment Fund
established.
Also, the Government has drafted a new local finance law that regulates the partial transfer of
financial authority to the municipalities as part of the decentralization effort. While much has
been achieved to improve macroeconomic performance, a number of activities remain to be done
to deepen the reforms achieved to date. Changing economic conditions, including declining aid
and remittance flows and slower than expected investments, have led to rapid increases in
domestic debt. The Government has revised fiscal and financial allocations in response to this,
but now needs to carefully monitor public expenditures to avoid further increases in domestic
debt through unbudgeted expenditures.
To deepen the on-going reforms in economic and financial management and respond to the need
for better management of public finances, debts and investments, the project will:
(i)   Improve Macroeconomic Modeling. To improve economic modeling will require better
and more comprehensive collection and analysis of data. To achieve that, the NIS will be
assisted to develop instruments to collect more complete and comprehensive social and economic
data for the national accounts and other economic reports the Government produces. To increase
the efficiency of the collection and use of the statistical data, the NIS will establish a
computerized data base and network that will enable other agencies to access and use the data in
real time. The methodology of the national accounts will also be upgraded. NIS staff will be
trained in the design of these instruments and in the analysis and maintenance of the data sets.
The installed macroeconomic general equilibrium model allows the Government to review trends
in revenues and expenditures and develop scenarios and projections for the national budget and
sector allocations. However, the model is based on a simple set of variables and its usefulness to
guide fiscal and financial policies is limited. The Government wants to expand the model,
especially the input and output sub-models. This will require improvements in the collection and
analysis of financial statistical data and information. To assist the Government with this, the
project will finance technical assistance for computer programming and statistical analysis, and
training of selected staff of the Ministry of Finance, the Office of the Vice Prime Minister,
Central Bank and NIS in macroeconomic planning and economic modeling. Selected staff of
technical ministries will also be trained in statistical analysis. In addition, the project will support
efforts under way to publish a quarterly newsletter to keep the authorities abreast of the changes
in the fiscal and financial situation. However, the audience for this newsletter will be expanded



Page 20
and a computerized version, instead of a paper one, will be developed. Similarly, a proposal to
establish a specialized library for financial affairs will be developed.
(ii)   Expand Financial Information and Monitoring System  With the implementation of the
new local finance law (1998), the system of budgeting and expenditure control has been
decentralized. A new layer of fnancial agents has been created in the municipalities. They now
have the authority to raise revenues and spend money from these revenues and from budget
allocations from the central Government for services. The current control and monitoring
systems are barely adequate to assure timely allocations and control among the central ministries
and Government units. The control is largely manual, relying on collection of data through
questionnaires. To establish an effective budget allocation and expenditure system, the
Government wants to install a computer-based system that is networked to all ministries,
departments and the municipalities. A system would have to be designed which would allow the
different branches of Government, executive and legislative, to access it for different purposes,
i.e., policy analysis, financial control, expenditure reviews, updating the status of accounts and
balances.  In addition, fiscal administrative services will be strengthened in selected
municipalities and their staff trained in this area. The project will finance technical assistance to
design and install the system as well as train the staff who are to operate it.
To deepen the modernization of the legal system and create a regulatory environment conducive
to private sector development and investments, the project will:
(iii)   Prepare New Codes. The legal and regulatory system has become much more responsive
to the private sector's needs. Under the on-going project, a business corporation code has been
drafted and approved by the Government and business registration procedures have been
streamlined. However, the Government and businesses have identified the need for additional
codes and regulations to govern assets registration and intellectual property. These regulations
are essential now that the small stock exchange is about to become operational, and investors are
introducing new technologies and products that need to be protected from illegal copying. The
project will finance the technical assistance for drafting these codes and training legal staff in
their interpretation and enforcement. The existing labor legislation needs to be modernized to
reflect changes in the labor market, and the various laws and regulations need to be compiled into
a comprehensive package of labor legislation. In addition, the project will support a study to
determine the need for specialized courts.
(iv)   Computerize the Courts. All courts have been equipped with basic computers and staff
have received initial training. Computers are now used to process most of the activities of the
courts but are not yet programmed to provide full access to the existing and new body of laws,
codes and regulations. Also, the computers are not yet connected, and it is therefore not possible
to exchange information between the courts and, for instance, the Ministry of Justice. To
accelerate the modernization of the courts and increase their efficiency, the project will finance a
survey to determine the software and equipment required to upgrade the computer systems as
well as the requirements for networking the courts and the ministry. The survey will also assess
the additional training that would be needed to familiarize the staff with the new system. In
addition, the project will finance the actual upgrading, networking and training.
Project Component 2 - US$ 0.91 million (total cost of component)
Preparing the Next Phase of Public Sector Reform Component To prepare for the further
streamlining of the Government and the upgrading of capacity, the project will: develop the



Page 21
strategic framework for the next phase of reforms. The Government has a vision of the modern,
accountable and professional public administration it wants to establish. To determine what
needs to be done to get there, it wants to take stock of the changes that have taken place, the
structure, performance and capacity of the public sector in relation to the current functions at the
central and municipal levels. It wants to define what the functions of the Government are likely to
be in the 21st century and determine what needs to be done in terms of reform and capacity
building to establish a modern, accountable, responsive and professional public sector. A reform
task force will undertake a study of the structure and functions of government in a few
comparable countries to help with the process of defining the functions of the Government. A
number of reforms in this direction have already been instituted in the Ministry of Finance
(MOF). The Government wants to build on that experience and use the MOF and the Ministry of
Justice as pilot ministries to test-out specific reform measures. The stocktaking, comparative
analysis, pilots, and preparation of the strategic plan itself will be done under the project.
The project will finance the preparation of terms of reference for analytical studies in these
areas, the technical assistance to produce the study reports and support the pilots and study tour,
and the development of a strategic framework and action plan to guide the next phase of civil
service reform.



Page 22
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Cape Verde: Second Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project
Project Component                                       Local           Foreign      Total
--------US$ million-----------
Component 1:
Strengthen Macroeconomic Management                      0.32            0.45         0.48
Strengthen Public Finance Management                     0.38            0.48         0.86
Expand Legal/Regulatory Reforms                          0.32            0.80         1.12
Component 2
Prepare Strategic Public Administration Reform           0.29            0.20         0.49
Action Plan
Project Coordination Unit                                0.34            0.04         0.38
Total                                                    1.36            1.97         3.33
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                0.06             0.10        0.16
Price Contingencies                                   0.03             0.01        0.04
Total Project Cost                                       1.45            2.08         3.53



Page 23
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(Indicate currency, units, and base year)
Not Applicable
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows                      Fiscal Impact
Economic           Financial
Analysis           Analysisl           Taxes              Subsidies
Benefits
Costs
Net Benefits:
IRR:
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Main Assumptions:
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by taxes and
subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g., "The value of financial benefits is less than that of economic
benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."



Page 24
Annex 4 A - Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Not Applicable
(Indicate currency, units, and base year)
Present Value of Flows                      Fiscal Impact
Economic           Financial
Analysis           Analysisl          Taxes               Subsidies
Project Costs
Summary of benefits and costs:
Main Assumptions:
Cost-effectiveness indicators2
I If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by taxes and
subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g., "The difference between financial and economic costs arises
from price controls on the inputs."
2 These indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e.g., unit project costs of alternative project designs or
international standards.



Page 25
Annex 5, Table A: Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
Not Applicable
Years Ending           : 19   through
(In Mhllions of Current           )
19            19            19          l9  2       20       Average Annual
Growth
Actual                                 Forecast
Income Statement Items
Unit Volume (000's)
Revenues
Operating Income
Net Income
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources
Borrowings
Equity Investments
Total Sources
Capital Expenditures
Working Capital Increase
(Decrease)
Debt Service
Total Applications
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets
Less Current Liabilities
Net Fixed Assets
Total Assets
Debt
Equity
Total Liabilities and
Equity
Financial Ratios3,4
Operating Income as a
% of Revenue
Net Income as a
% of Revenue
Return on Average Invested
Capital
Debt Service Coverage
Percent of Total Capital
Expenditures financed by
Internal Sources
Current Ratio
Debt as % of Total
Capitalization
Main assumptions:
i Data for each year should be defined as Actual or Forecast.
2 Select key years after the start of normal operation of the project (e.g., when debt servicing burden is highest).
3 When feasible, comparative data on other enterprises in the same industry should be shown.
4 Guidance on financial ratios for financial intermediaries is given in OD8.30 Annex A and in an FSD note on
performance indicators ("The Use of Sectoral and Project Perfornance Indicators in Bank-Financed Sector Operations," March
1995).



Page 26
Annex 5 - Table B: Financial Summary
Cape Verde: Second Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project
Years Ending 2004
(US$ OOOs)
Implementation Period        Operational Period
2000    2001    2002         2002  2003  2004
Project Costs
Investment Costs   1,164.5  1,740.0  509.2       68.0  68.0  68.0
Recurrent Costs      29.9    57.4   28.0
Total          1,194.3  1,797.4  537.2
Financing Sources
(% of total project
costs)
IDA               85.7     85.7    81.4
Cofinanciers        .        -        -
Government         14.3     14.3    18.6
User Fees           -        -       -
Total           100       100     100



Page 27
Annex 6 - Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Cape Verde: Second Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project
I.    Procurement
A.    General
There is no Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Cape Verde. Thus far, experience
shows that procurement procedures in Cape Verde are in line with Bank Guidelines. Cape Verde's
procurement practices give priority to IDA procedures to take precedence over local regulations.
Therefore, no special exceptions, permnits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The project components by disbursement category, their
estimated cost and procurement methods for the first two years are summarized inTable A of this annex.
Works and Goods financed by IDA, or contracts financed by other donors administered by IDA, will be
procured in accordance with Bank "Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995,
revised in January 1996, August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 respectively). Domestic
Preference would apply to the procurement of goods under International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures, in accordance with the provisions of Appendix 2 of the Guidelines. A General Procurement
Notice (GPN) was advertised in UN Development Business (UNDB) at negotiations and will be updated
annually. National Competitive Bidding (NCB), advertised locally in at least two local newspapers of
wide circulation, would be carried out in accordance with Cape Verde's procurement laws and
regulations, acceptable to IDA provided that: (i) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard
bidding documents will be submitted to IDA for review; (ii) all bidders are given sufficient time to submit
bids (four weeks); (iii) bid evaluation and bidders' qualification are clearly specified in bidding
documents, and are not applied arbitrarily (iv) preference margin is granted to domestic manufacturers;
(v) eligible foreign firms are not precluded from participation; (vi) bid award will be made to the lowest
evaluated bidder in accordance with pre-determined and transparent methods; and (vii) bid evaluation
reports will clearly state reasons to reject any non-responsive bid.
Consultant Services. Contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with Bank "Guidelines
for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised in September 1997,
and January 1999 respectively). The standard Request for Proposal, as developed by the Bank, will be
used for appointment of consulting firms. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments,
i.e., those not exceeding six months, carried out by firms or individual consultants During negotiations
the Government submitted a GPN for expressions of interest which will be issued in Development
Business, Issue No. 521 of October 31, 1999. The Government was briefed during appraisal, and
received additional clarification during negotiations, about the features of the new Consultants
Guidelines, in particular with regard to advertisement and bid opening. Consultant selection methods and
thresholds for procurement methods and prior review are summarized in Tables Al and R
B.    Goods
To the extent possible, contracts for goods subject to ICB, related to computers and networks, equipment
for ministries, municipalities and National Institute of Statistics would be procured through packages and
lots which are in line with the Bank Guidelines. Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 per contract up to an amount of US$100,000 would be procured through NCB in accordance
with national procedures. To facilitate project implementation, these procedures are summarized in the



Page 28
Manual of Procedures, and are acceptable to IDA. For contracts procured under NCB procedures, the
PCU will use open competition subject to post-qualification of the lowest evaluated bidder. The
qualification criteria will be included in the bidding documents. No foreign bidder will be precluded
from bidding, and all responsive bids will be evaluated. Before the final contract award, only the
qualification of the lowest evaluated bidder will be reviewed. Should the lowest evaluated bidder not
meet the qualification criteria, the second evaluated bidder would be considered. Contracts for small
equipment locally available off the shelf at competitive prices, which would be difficult to package and to
procure following NCB procedures and costing less than US$30,000 each, up to an aggregate of
US$0.07 million, would be subject to prudent National Shopping procedures, on the basis of quotations
obtained from at least three reputable suppliers. The Government of the Republic of Cape Verde
proposes to select CROWN AGENTS for the procurement of the updated version of the software for the
Treasury Department (DGT) not exceeding US$100,000. Direct Contracting may be used for the
procurement of small items under US$2,000, provided that the aggregate amount of such contracts does
not exceed the equivalent of US$30,000 over the project life.
C.    Consultant Services
Consulting services financed by IDA would include short-term consultancies, long-term technical
assistance, training services, accounting systems, financial management supports, and audits.
Consultants financed by IDA, or financed by other donors administered by IDA, totaling US$1.6 million,
would be hired in accordance with the Bank "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants". They would be procured through competition among qualified short-listed firms in which
the selection would be based on Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). For financial audits and
other services of a standard nature, the Least-Cost Selection (LCS) would be the most appropriate
method. Consultants services for training, (less than US$100,000 per contract and up to an aggregate of
US$0.3 million, will be based on Consultants' Qualifications (QC). Services for technical supervision,
surveys and small studies, which can be delivered by individuals and do not need team work or back-up
supports, would be selected by comparison of qualifications (CVs) of Individual Consultants (IC).
D.    Short Lists
Short lists of consultants for contracts estimated under US$50,000 may be comprised of national
consultants, if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are locally available at competitive
costs. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest for those contracts, they will not be excluded.
This would particularly apply to contracts for training services and small studies. To obtain expressions
of interest, the PCU has included a list of expected consulting assignments in the GPN. Large
consultants' contracts above US$100,000 will be advertised in Development Business. The PCU would
also advertise a procurement notice in the local newspapers, to seek expression of interest for carrying out
consulting assignments, at least one month prior to establishing short lists. The PCU will maintain and
update a roster of consultants, which they will use to establish short lists, or select firms with the required
qualifications.
E.    IDA Reviews
Contracts for goods financed by IDA, of equivalent or above the threshold of US$ 100,000 will be subject
to IDA's prior review procedures (Table B). Selective post review of contracts awarded below the
threshold will apply to about one in four contracts and will be carried out by Bank staff, auditors, and
other consultants, as appropriate. Bank staff will also review the selection process for the hiring of
consultants proposed by the Borrower. Prior IDA review for the selection of consultants will include the
review of terms of references, proposed budgets, short lists, selection procedures, requests for proposals,



Page 29
evaluation reports, contract awards, and negotiated contracts. Prior IDA review will not apply to
contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost less than US$100,000
and US$30,000 equivalent, respectively. However, the exception to prior IDA review will not apply to
the Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless of their value, to single-source hiring, to
assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA, or to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value above the prior review thresholds. For contracts for consulting firms equivalent or above
US$100,000, opening the financial envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-
objection to the technical evaluation. For contracts less than US$100,000 and above US$30,000, the
borrower will notify IDA of the results of the technical evaluation prior to opening the financial
proposals. Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by
the borrower for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. Training abroad and in-
country, proposed programs containing names of candidates, costs estimates, content of courses, periods
of training and selection of training institutions, will be reviewed by IDA annually.
F.    Capacity Assessment, and Proposed Management Arrangements
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been established as a separate entity under the Office of the
Vice-Prime Minister. The semi-autonomous status of the PCU allows its Coordinator to make payments,
by co-signing checks with the Senior Program Officer or Accountant, and transferring orders, without
being submitted to numerous clearances. An assessment of the current capacity of the PCU to handle
procurement was carried out as part of appraisal, and an action plan to address weaknesses has been
proposed and will be implemented before effectiveness. The PCU has acquired experience by carrying
out similar operations; and has benefited fromproject management, procurement and public sector reform
training under the first PSRCBP. However, it requires further improvement in the area of bidding
document preparation. Given the limited number of contracts to be handled, it was agreed during
appraisal, that there was no need to hire additional staff to handle procurement. The proposed
arrangement is that the Senior Program Officer in charge of the Macroeconomic component would be the
focal point for all procurement matters. Specifically, he would handle procurement processing, including
planning, preparation of bidding documents, bidding process management, bid evaluation and contract
award, with the assistance of the administrative assistant for document processing. He has acquired
significant experience in the area of procurement under the first PSRCBP, and took the Bank-sponsored
course on the Procurement of Goods in 1994. However, he would need additional training (a refresher
course) in the preparation of bidding documents and in the new features of Bank procurement guidelines
for selection of consultants. The Program Officer in charge of the Social Sector Program, who has been
handling contract administration under the first PSRCBP, would continue assisting in this area and
providing back-up. The PCU capacity is envisaged to be reinforced through: (i) training of a Senior
Program Officer (the Bank-sponsored course "Procurement of Goods and Equipment" held in Dakar,
Senegal is recommended); (ii) additional support through procurement supervision and guidance by the
Dakar Resident mission Procurement Specialist, as required.
G.    Procurement Planning and procurement arrangements
During negotiations, the Government submitted and agreed with IDA on: (a) a draft two-year project
procurement plan (as shown in the MIP, Chapter III), which would be updated annually as necessary;
(b) a revised version of the Manual of Administrative and Accounting Procedures (MAAP) and
additional actions required to finalize it, and (c) a detailed training plan. The Government also gave
assurance that it would: (i) finalize the MIP. The final version of the MIP, acceptable to IDA, will be a
condition of credit effectiveness; (ii) use the Bank Standard Bidding Documents both for ICB and NCB,
the Standard Request for Proposals for the selection of consultants, and the Standard Bid Evaluation
reports; (iii) apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above; (iv) update the



Page 30
procurement planl on a regular basis during annual reviews with IDA, to compare target dates and actual
completion dates, and transmit it to IDA, during implementation, with all procurement-related documents;
and (v) carry out, during annual reviews, an assessment of the effectiveness of bidding procedures and
performance, as they relate to the program's procurement plan, and propose for IDA's consideration any
modification to the current procedures to the extent that it would accelerate procurement, while
complying with Bank Procurement Guidelines and maintaining adequate control over contract awards
and payments. The Government also gave assurance at negotiations that it would take all necessary
measures to ensure that procurement steps do not exceed the following target dates:
Procurement Phases          Maximum number of weeks
Preparation of bidding documents  4 (6 for large contracts)
Preparation of bids by bidders  4 (6-10 for ICB)
Bid evaluation                   2 (4 for large contracts)
Signature of contracts                    2
Payments                                  3
'Indicating compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement, revised cost
estimates for individual contracts and the total program -- including best estimates of allowances for
contingencies, as well as revised timing of estimated procurement actions.



Page 31
I.   Disbursement
H.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds
The proposed IDA Credit will finance the Second Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project in
Cape Verde. It will be disbursed over a period of two years, according to the categories presented in
Table C. The Credit will follow the standard disbursement profile for Cape Verde.
I.    Use of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
The PCU has set up and will maintain project accounting procedures as agreed with IDA. It will be
responsible for preparing SOEs, maintaining and consolidating all receipts, and reconciling the Special
Account on a monthly basis. For all expenditures below the threshold of US$30,000, disbursements will
be made on the basis of SOEs certified by the Project Coordinator and the Accountant. The PCU will
maintain all required supporting documentation for at least one fiscal year beyond the year in which the
last withdrawal from the credit account will have taken place, and will make it available for review by
IDA staff and independent auditors upon request.
J.    Special Account
To facilitate disbursements, the Government would also open a Special Account (SA) at the Banco do
Cabo Verde (Central Bank) in Praia for IDA's share of eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation
would be the equivalent of US$300,000, representing about three months of disbursement. IDA would
make an initial deposit of US$150,000 equivalent upon credit effectiveness, and the remaining balance
will be made available as soon as cumulative disbursements reach US$1,200,000. IDA would replenish
the SA upon receipt of appropriate documentation satisfactory to IDA for incurred eligible expenditures.
Each replenishment request will be accompanied, as appropriate, by an up-to-date bank statement and a
reconciliation statement. IDA would carry out, at the end of the first year of implementation, a
comprehensive assessment of the Program's financial management to determine its adequacy and
readiness for a new enhanced disbursement method, to be discussed with IDA at that time. A second
assessment would be carried out at the end of the third quarter of the second year of implementation to
evaluate the effectiveness of the transition to the new enhanced disbursement mode (LACI).
K.   Counterpart Funds, Program Account, and IDA support for Operating Costs
Government's counterpart funds will cover the share of investment not financed by IDA and will be
deposited in a Project Account (PA). Payment of the first tranche of US$25,000 is a condition of
credit effectiveness. Thereafter, Government will maintain the counterpart funds in the PA.
L.    Financial Management Arrangements-Audits
To ensure that the PCU has the financial management capacity required by OP 10.02 and the Loan
Administration Change Initiative Implementation Handbook, an in-depth assessment of the financial
management system in place was carried out during appraisal. The project accountant has an acceptable
educational background and has gained experience in project accounting and Bank procedures.
However, he needs additional training in the use of the new accounting software, which will be provided
by the software vendor. The accounting software satisfies most of the PCU's needs under the proposed
project in terms of accounting. However, it does not satisfy all LACI requirements, particularly in the



Page 32
field of procurement and physical progress monitoring. The software vendor is working on the LACI
version, which will be installed when available (expected in early year 2000). In the interim period
between now and early 2000, the existing software will be adapted to the proposed project by: (a) setting
the parameters to keep track of project expenditures by components, sub-components, activities,
expenditure categories and sub-categories; and (b) designing the format of the reports. At the same time,
a simplified system will be designed to monitor procurement and physical progress.
With the assistance of a consultant, the PCU will prepare a Manual of Administrative and Accounting
Procedures, including a precise description of all major transactions, job descriptions, internal control
procedures, reporting arrangements. The Manual will also describe the planning and budgeting process,
which is not in place yet. Based on the availability of the LACI version of the software in early 2000, the
PCU will be expected to use PMR-Based Disbursement from January 2001. Project accounts including
SOEs will be audited annually. Audit reports will be submitted to the Bank not later than four months
after the end of each fiscal year. The bidding documents, including the terms of reference for the
selection of the project auditor, were prepared and sent to the Bank for approval prior to Negotiations.
The selection of the project auditor will be completed prior to credit effectiveness



Page 33
Annex 6 -Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent, including contigencies)
Cape Verde: Second Public Sector Reforn and Capacity Building Project
Expenditure Category                           Procurenent Method                    Total Cost
ICB         NCB          Other       N.B.F                           .
1. Goods
1.1. Computers & software             0.41        0.06         0.03                        0.5
(0.37)      (0.05)       (0.03)                     (0.45)
1.2. Computer Network                 0.69                                                 0.69
(0.62)                                              (0.62)
1.3. Office equipment &                           0.04                                     0.04
furniture                                 (0.03)                                  (0.03)
2. Services
2.1. Consultants                                                1.59                      1.59
(1.57)                     (1.57)
2.2. Training                                                  0.30                        0.30
(0.30)                     (0.30)
3. Operating Costs                                             0.04         0.37           0.41
(0.03)                     (0.03)
Total Project Cost                 1.1          0.10        1.96         0.37           3.53
Total financed by IDA             (0.99)       (0.08)       (1.93)       (H)           (3.0)
Note:
Other = Items listed under "other" include consulting services and local shopping and direct purchasing of goods.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes salaries of administrative staff other operating costs financed by the Government).
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.



Page 34
Annex 6 - Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent, including contingencies)
Cape Verde: Second Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project
Consultant                                                                          Tovces  Totait
Expendituretgat, C;;j; A:;ta; W Ath; a              X                                 S aSa 00 S 0egory  ;     X  X Cost
_______________ QCBS  QBS  SF13   CS   "QOhrNBF.
A. Firms
General                     1.51                                    -                   1.51
Audits & standard nature     -                        0.02                              0.02
services
Training                                               -       0.3                      0.30
B. Individuals                        -                -        -     0.07              0.07
Total                       1.51                      0.02     0.3    0.07              1.90
Note: QCBS  =       Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  =       Quality-Based Selection
SFB          Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS   =      Least-Cost Selection
CQ           Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other        Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
and Single Sourcing
N.B.F.       Not Bank-financed



Page 35
Annex 6 - Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(amounts in US$)
Cape Verde: Second Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project
Expenditure       Contract   Procurement                 Contracts Subject to
Category         Value         Method         Prior Review I Estimated Total Value
Threshold                             Subjet to Prior Review
1. Goods           $100,000 and  ICB             Prior review.
above
Between      NCB              Post review.
$30,000 and                  Aggregate $100,000
$100,000            _                      _
Below        3 quotations     Post review.
$30,000 and   (national)      Aggregate $70,000
above $2,000
Below        Direct           Aggregate $30,000
$2,000       Contracting
Below        Direct           Prior Review.
$100,000     Contracting     Aggregate $100,000
2. Consulting Firms  $100,000 and  QCBS + Short   Prior review.
above        List             Issue an advertisement in the Development
Business to get expression of interests.
Technical evaluation receives IDA non-
objection before opening financial proposals.
Aggregate $0.8 million.
Between      QCBS + Short   Post review.
$100,000 and  List            Score of technical evaluation transmitted to
$30,000      CQ for training   IDA before opening financial proposals.
LCS for audits   Aggregate $1 million.
Below        QCBS + Short   Post Review. Short lists may be comprised
$50,000      List             entirely of national firms if there are at least
three reliable national finns.
3. Individual      $30,000 and   Other:          Prior review.
Consultants      above         (Comparison of
at least three 3
CVs)
Below        Other:           Post review.
$30,000      (Comparison of
at least three 3    Aggregate: $70,000.
CVs)
4. Miscellaneous    NA           NA              NA
Total Value of                                   $1.1 million.
Contracts Subject to
Prior Review.



Page 36
Annex 6 -Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Cape Verde: Second Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project
AXXunt financed by
Exp;     enditure Category                IDA0 It0:, :t0PDA Fin cing:
(i US$ million:, net of            Pecea
1. Goods                                      1.00                100% of imported goods
and 90% of local purchases
2. Consultants and Training                    1.70                         100%
3. Operating Costs (a)                        0.03                         50%*
4. Unallocated (b)                            0.28                          N.A.
TOTAL                                       3.00
(a) Operating costs of the PCU are financed mainly by Government, they include incremental operating
costs incurred on account of program implementation, management and supervision, including office
supplies, office equipment and vehicle operation and maintenance, travel and allowances including those for
trainers and trainees, but excluding salaries of officials of the borrower's civil service.
(b) Includes investment activities to be allocated in accordance with agreed financing plans.



Page 37
Annex 7 - Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Cape Verde: Second Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project
A. Project Budget (US$000)                    Planned                   Actual
145,000
B. Project Schedule                           Planned                   Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)    12 months                7 months
First Bank mission (identification)           11/20/1998              11/28/1998
Appraisal mission departure                  06/15/1999               05/16/1999
Negotiations                                  10/04/1999              09/20/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                01/10/2000
Prepared by: Vice Prime Minster's Office
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                   Specialty
Joseph W.B. Bredie                     Task Team Leader, AFTH4
Jennifer Edwards                       Project Officer, AFTl2
Gradimir Radisic                       Country Economist, AFTM5
Ahmadou Moustapha Ndiaye               Financial Management Specialist, AFMSN
Felly Kaboyo                           Program Assistant, AFT2
Amadou Tidiane Toure                   Procurement Specialist, AFMSN
Jose Femandes                          Financial Analyst, Consultant
Pascale Helene Dubois                  Sr. Counsel, LEGAF
Marcos Sugar                           Sr. Disbursement Officer, LOAAF
Rogerio Pinto                          Principal Public Sector Management Specialist, AFTI2
Peer Reviewers:
David Steedman, Lead Public Sector Management Specialist.
Operations Support Review: Philippe Beuzelin (Financial Management Specialist); Florent Agueh
(Sector Manager); Bemard Abeille (Principal Procurement Specialist); Siaka Bakayoko (Financial
Analyst).
Comments from: Rogerio Pinto (Principal Public Sector Management Specialist); Philippe Beuzelin
(Financial Management Specialist); Nadjib Sefta (Sr. Procurement Specialist).



Page 38
Annex 8 - Documents in the Project File*
Cape Verde: Second Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project
A.    Project Implementation Plan
Al.   Project Implementation Manual
A2.   Project Accounting and Administrative Procedures Manual
B.    Bank Staff Assessments
Appraisal Mission (May 15-30, 1999), Back-to-Office Report and aide-memoire dated June 14,
1999
C.    Other
Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project-Module B-Program of Activities for a
supplementary Credit, October 1998.
*Including electronic files.



Page 39
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Cape Verde: Second Public Sector Reformn and Capacity Building Project
Status of Bank Group Operations in Cape Verde
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Jul-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                              disbursements a/
Project ID    Year              Borrower                   Purpose
IBRD       IDA    Cancellations   Undisbursed           Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 5
Active Projects
CV-PE-40990    1999   GOVERNMENT OF CAPE VERDE   ENERGY AND WATER                           0.00        17.50        0.00           16.73             0.00      0.00
CV-PE-432      1999   GOVERNMENT OF CAPE VERDE   SOCIAL SECTOR DEVT.                        0.00        16.10        0.00           15.92             0.00       0.00
CV-PE-55467    1999   GOVERNMENT OF CAPE VERDE   PRIVATIZATION & REGULATORY CB              0.00         9.00        0.00            8.24             0.45      0.00
CV-PE-55468    1999   GOVERNMENT OF CAPE VERDE   EDUC & TRAINING CONSOLIDATION              0.00         6.03        0.00            6.02             0.00      0.00
CV-PE-50956    1998   GOVERNMENT OF CAPE VERDE   ECONOMIC REFORMS SUPPORT                   0.00        30.00        0.00           14.59            15.25      0.00
CV-PE-438      1996   GOVERNMENT OF CAPE VERDE   C.B. FOR PRIVATE SECTOR PROM.              0.00        11.40        0.00            4.10             2.09      0.00
CV-PE-426       1995   GOVERNMENT OF CAPE VERDE   BASIC EDUCATION AND TRAINING              0.00        11.50        0.00            0.73             0.69       0.00
CV-PE-437      1994   GOVERNMENT OF CAPE VERDE   PUB. SEC. REFORM 6 CAP. BLDG.              0.00         8.10        0.00            1.37             1.12       1.12
CV-PE-435       1993   GOVT., ENAPOR, ASA            TRANSPORT AND INFRASTRUCTURE           0.00        12.50        0.00            1.63             1.68       0.00
Total                                                                                       0.00       122.13        0.00           69.33            19.90       1.12
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   49.78               23.40                73.18
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                 0.89                0.89
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  122.13               20.31              142.44
Amount sold                                        0.00                0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :                69.33                0.00                69.33
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Jun-99.



Page 40
ANNEX 9 A - STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Jul-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Cape Verde: Second Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project
Held                  Disbursement
IFC                       IFC
FY Approval  Company            Loan  Equity Quasi Partic Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1992        AEF Growela         0.20  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.20  0.00   0.00  0.00
1993        AEF Htl Tropico     0.60  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.60   0.00  0.00  0.00
1999        SEF Britagem        1.31  0.00  0.20  0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00
Total Portfolio:   2.11   0.00  0.20  0.00   0.80  0.00   0.00  0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Eguitv Ouasi Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00



Page 41
Annex 10 - Country at a Glance
Cape Verde: Second Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project
Sub-   Lower-                                        9'7/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                  Caro  Saharan   middle.
Verde    Africa  tncore        Development diamond
1998-
Pooulation. mid-vear (millions)                      0.41       628       gm                  Life expectancy
GNP oercaoita (Atlas method. US$)                   1.060       480     1,710
GNP (Atlas method. US$ billions)                     0.44       304     1.557
Averase annual arowth. 1992-98
Pooulation (%)                                        2.5       2.6        11
Labor force (%                                        34        2.6      1t5       GNP                              Gross
per                            pnimary
Most reent estmate (latest vear available. 1992-98)             rapita                                           nmilmAnt
Povertv t% of oPoulation below national oovertv line)  30
Urban oooulation (16 of totatooulation)                59        33        S8
Life exoectancv at birth (vears)                       68        51        68
Infant mortalitv (oer 1.000 live births)               58        91        38
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             19                   -               Access to safe water
Access to sate water 1% of Dooulation)                 67        47        75
Illiteracv (% of ooDulation aae 15+)                   29        42        14
GrossD rimarvenrollment (%otschool-aoeoooulatlon)     131        77       103           CapeVerde
Male                                                133        84       10S              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              129        69       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987       1997      1998
Economic ratose
GDP IUSS billions)                          0.06     0.24      OA8       0.50
Gross domestic investment/GDP               S1.5    24.3       39.1      40.2                     Trade
Exoorts of coods and services/GDP            4.4    19.8       27.2      24.9
Gross domestic savinos/GOP                  -35.8     42        8.4       8.3
Gross national savinas/GDP                   -0,3    27A       24.9      23.5
Current account balance/GDP                    .-     3.2      -14 2     -15.6      Ams
Interest oavments/GDP                        0.2      1.5        0.8      0.8      Iomestc            Investment
Total debt/GDP                              23,4    55.8       45.5      49.2      Savings
Total debt service/exoorts                   04      100         5.6      9.2
Present value of debt/GDP                                      27.9      29.8
Present value of debVexoorts                                   64.4      71.2
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988W98    1997      1998   1999-03
(averace annual arowfh)
GDP                                12.5      4.8      5.2        5.0      46                CapeVerde
GNP cer cacita                     11.1      2.2      2.4        2.4      1.9               Lower-middle-income group
ExDorts of ooods and services      18.5    12.2    26.4         -3.9      11.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998     Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Acriculture                                 11.1    16.6        13.1     12.2    20
Industrv                                    17.5     18.6       19.2     19.1    10
Manufacturina                                        7.6      10.4      10.3
Services                                    71.4    64.7        67.8     68.7      o - 
93   94   iF 96   97   98
Private consumDtion                        121.9     93.9      80.2      81.0    -10
General aovemment consumDtion               13.9      9.3       11.4     10.8                -    GDI        |  GDP
Imoorts of aoods and services               91.7    47.3       57.9      56.9
(averaceannual orowth  1977487  1988498  1997  1998  Growth rates of exports and Imports(%)
taveraae annual orowZth)
Aariculture                                 13.8      2.0        5.8      -1.8    so -
Industrv                                    11.3      4.1        0.1       4.7    40 -.
Manufacturina                                        3.4       2.2       3.4    30-,
Services                                    12.6      5.5        6.6       6.4    20
Private consumDtion                          8.6      0.2       5.7       8.8    10
General oovernment consumDtion               9.7      7.9        6.8     -0.9      0                      VI IV
Gross domestic investment                    6.1    56.4        -2.1       1.8    10           94   95   9e   97    8
ImDorts of aoods and services                4.7      7.3        9.8      3.1              -Exports            Imports
Gross national oroduct                      12.6      4.5        5.1      5.2
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-arouo averaae. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomdlete.



Page 42
Cape Verde
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1977    1987        1997     1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)
Consumer prices                                 ..     3.8       8.6       4.3    10
Implicit GDP deflator                         7.8      7.2       5.5       2.8
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 o
Current revenue                                ..    31.9       21.2      21.9             93   94    gs   9s   97         l
Current budget balance                         ..    13.8       -2.1      -0.2                   GDP deflator    S  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -8.8       -18.6    -13.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987        1997     1998      Export and Import levels (US$ mililons)
Total exports (fob)                            ..        8        40        28     300
Bananas                                      ..        1         1         2
Fish                                         ..        4          1        1     20
Manufactures                                           2         0         0
Total imports (ci)                             ..    100         235       228
Food                                         ..       33        78        79     100
Fuel and energy                               ..       5         9         7
Capital goods                                 ..      47       117       119       0
92   93   94   95   96  97  99
ExDort Drice index (1995=100)                  ..       25        79        80
Imoort orice index (1995-100)                   ..    108        102       103               E Exports    °Imports
Terms of trade (1995-100)                      ..       23        78        78
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987        1997     1998      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   2      47        132       124      o
Imports of goods and services                  49      112       280      282
Resource balance                              -47      -65      -149      -158     -5
Net income                                      1       -2        -7        -6
Net current transfers                          ..      75         87       87    -10
Current account balance                         ..       7       -69       -77    -a5
Financing items (net)                          ..        6        58        78
Changes in net reserves                        -9      -13        10         0     -20
Memo:
Reserves includina aold (US$ millions)         42       81        76        76
Conversion rate (DEC. iocal/USS)             34.0    72.5       93.2      98.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           14      132       220       244
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0                  F:11 G:6
IDA                                           0       6         45       70
Total debt service                              0        8        12        19                                  8:70
IBRD                                          0       0          0        0           E:47
IDA                                          0        0          0         1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              22       55        62        60
Official creditors                            2        3        15        32
Private creditors                             0       0          0        -1
Foreign direct investment                     0       3         12         6
Portfolio equity                              0       0          0        0                     D: 110
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0        4        30        39     A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 0        1         8        23     B - IDA    0 - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        0         0         0     r. -                             hUF  C  -  
Net flows                                     0        1         8       22
Interest payments                             0       0          0         0
Net transfers                                 0        1         8        22
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/7/99



Page 43
Annex 11: Letter of Sector Policy
Cape Verde: Second Public Sector Reform and capacity Building Project
LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY



Page 44
CEEFLA DO GOVERNO
GABLNETE DO NICE-PRLI;EIRO  NDNISTRO
August 10, 1999
Nfr. Jarmes D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
IsIS Street N.W
Washingtt, D.C.
USA
Dear Sir:
RE: CAPE VERDE'S LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY
We are pleased to present you with the plan prepared bv the Governmi en of Cave
Verde for the second phase of the Public Sector Reform and Capacity Buildina Pro-.
In the plan, the Governmi ent has retained the objectives of the first phase of the progra-,
and addresses issues that will ensure the sustainability of the reforms already being
implemented. Tne overarching goal of the plan is to establish an administrative ss-.em
that contributes to the economic and sociaL development of Cape Verde and e.-z'-ies
ci-izer.s and society to participate fully in the management of oublic affairs.
1    INTRODUCTION
The Government's development objectives for the country as set forth in the
iNational Development Plan are to:  (a)  promote the private sector and foreg-7
investment; (b) maximize the potential and opportunities offered by globalizatiorn (c)
reform; the financial sector; (d) control public spending and maintain macroecc Zo. c
stability, with particular emphasis on controlling inflation, and sustaining public fln-ace
at an affordable level; (e) reform the state enterprise sector; (f) build capaci,v and
modernize the civil service; (g) improve the country's infrastructLure (roads, energy and
water supplies, telecomrnmunications, ports and  airports, health and  educaLionai
establishments, and basic sanitation systems); (h) emphasize education and trainin? as a
key instrument to improve the country's human resources; (i) decentralize decision
making and strengthen capacity at municipal level; () alleviate poverty; (k) secure the
participation of citizens and civil society in the development process, as this is considerec
essential to the country's democratic institutions and rule of law which, at all times and at
all costs, must be safeauarded.
AV.A.MILCAR CABRAL CP 30 - PRA[A- CABO VERDE-TELF:233 613346- FAX:27S 613397



Page 45
In  the context of the  above  mentione; strategic  objectives, the public
administration is to play an important role. Hence, if it fails to respond to the needs or
expectations of the business community, citizens, and society at large, it can become an
impediment to the country's development. In this vein, the Government's program anid
National Development Plan assign a particular importance to the role of the public
administration. Specifically with regard to: (a) creating a conducive investment and
business environiment; (b) changing the role of the State in a market economy, by
reducing its involvement in public enterprises, fostering competition, specifically by
liberalizing the financial system, and by diversifying financial instruments; (c) capacity
building; (d) developing essential infrastructure for the integration of the domestic
economy into an increasingly global market; and (e) reforming the civil service
(organizational structures, human resources, procedures, equipment, management, and
decentralization).
In the first phase of the Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building the
Governmrent pursued five specific objectives: (a) modernizing the civil service, by
changing its organizational structure, by strengthening technical capacity, and by
developing its human resources; (b) strengthening the capacity to formulate, manage
analyze public policies and to disseminate information on their implementation, with a
particular emphasis on economic policies; (c) improving management of public resources
by introducina transparent and efficient systems; (d) reforming and modernizing the legal
and judicial systems, in order to create an enablinQ environrment for private investment,
and business confidence in general. (e) further strengthening democracy and empowering
members of civil society so as to participate in decision making process, by increasing
the autonomy of municipalities and by building capacity.
Once the public administration has been adecuately organized and equipped, it will
serve as a cataLvst for socio-economic developmeent and will safeguard citizens' rights.
Achievements under the first IDA-financed project. which supported the first phase of t.he
Government's  program, are  notable, with  significant improvements  in  public
administration organization and management, and the qualitv and efficiency of ser-vices
provided.
In summarv, the kev objectives of the first project were: institutional strengt ±ei-.g
of the State, the promotion of the private sector, improvements in public service deliver,
and improvements in public resource management (in resource mobilization anid
allocation, as well public debt management).
The objectives of the second phase are to be focused on bringing about fur%her
institutional reforms, which in turn strengthen the cohesiveness and effectiveness ofr the
State; i.e., in terms of reliability, accountability, transparency and efficiency. Whereas
the focus of the reforms in the first phase was the state apparatus itself, with the intention
to improve the State's internal structure with a view to responding effectively to the
requirements of investors and the general public, the reforms to be implemented in the
second phase will focus primarily on beneficiaries of public services. As a result, the
nature, scope, and type of activities to be undertaken by the public sector will be



Page 46
determnined by the needs of citizens and society. To this end, there is a need to
understand and analyze relevant information on expectations and aspirations citizens in
order to better define the structure and institutional arrangements of the State, bearinz Lin
mind that the ultimate rationale for its role is to respond effectively to the general public.
The main concerns to be addressed in the second phase include issues and
constraints, expectations and aspirations which businesses, citizens, and civil societ'
have in their dealings with the public administration; what kind of new cornfigura:icn
should the State and public sector assume to better respond to new challenges; how to
improve' information management and dissemination  of statistics on econortmc
performance in an objective, rigorous and transparent manner; how to improve capaciry
in public administration to better manage public affairs, the quality and timeliness of
judicial decisions related to economic activities; how to improve a strategic parrnersinp
with civil society; and how to strengthen the capacity of the municipalities in tax
administration. Therefore, the purpose of the second phase is to establish organizational
structures, functions, and procedures that can respond to the present and future challenres
facing the Sate and the entire public sector in Cape Verde.
2.   THE CONTEXT OF REFORNIS
The afore-mentioned objectives and related policy measures of the Gover=ment
have had a very positive impact on economic performance. This is reflected in the stecdv
economic recovery from the 1990 recession. Since 1992 trends in macroeconomic
performance have been relatively satisfactory, with GDP growth reaching abou. 3.0
percent, 7 percent, 7.2 percent, and 7.8 percent, in 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, respectivelv
(source: the National Statistical Institute in Cape Verde). Economic growth slowed_ zo
about 4 percent in 1996 and 5.2 percent in 1997, although preliminary estimates for 199
suggest improvements in economic growth to 6 percent.
In 1998, government revenues totaled about CVE 17 billion, an increase of 14%
primarily as a result of more efficient collection and closing of tax loopholes. The overaUl
balance of payments was negative (by about CVE 31.5 million), even though the capital
account was positive. That year total public debt amounted to about CVE 40.2 billion. of
which extemal debt was about CVE 22.5 billion. Unemployment remaired stabie
although high (about 25%). Reducing it continues to be one of the Government s
strategic objectives.
Foreign investment has grown steadily. Between 1994 and 1998 the Governme.nt
approved investment projects totaling about USS4 16 million. Projects with a total value
of USS 130 million are already in various stages of implementation.
In 1998, total domestic credit increased by about 8 percent, from about CVE 28.9
billion to about CVE 31.4 billion, mainly as a result of the growth in credit to the
economy.
These indicators illustrate the positive performance of the Cape Verdean economy,
despite many constraints that still exist. The Government has adopted a number of policy
measures to ensure that these trends will continue. These measures include the



Page 47
containment (or even reduction) of public expenditure in the context of the new the
Budgetary Framework Law (Lei de Enquadramento Orgamentao. This law limits the
budcget deficit financed through.doraestic resources up to 3 percent of GDP and the stock
of the short- and medium-term public debt up to 60 percent of GDP. Other measures
include: the Currency Convertibility Agreement with the government of Portugal, lin'g
the Cape Verdean Escudo to the Portuguese Escudo, and consequently to the Euro, which
is of significant importance to the economy and public confidence; the introduction of a
series of new mechanisms to ensure sound public financial management at various levels
of the public sector; the reallocation of current expenditure toward social services and of
investment expenditure to projects essential for the country's development.
Comprehensive financial sector reforms have been launched including the
introduction of a two-tiered financial system, the on-going privatization of several state-
owned financial institutions, and the establishment of new private financial institutions.
These reforms have contributed substantially to the recent economic growth.
The Government has also launched far-reachinz reforms in education and traiiii-.
supported by IDA. These reforms constitute the foundations for the development of a
modern education system, with the primary education coverage, improvements in the
quality and strengthening institutional capacity for planning, implementation and
economic analysis.
For most areas of the country's economic. social, and cultural life, measures have
been prepared and adopted to maximize the opportunities for development. Technical
capacity has been built, infrastructure improved, and new technologies have been adcoted
where ever possible. Effectiveness and efficiency as management criteria have been
emphasized because a countrv as poor as Cape Verde in physical and financial resorcos.
must have an institutional performance well above the average, and should count on L-"
active participation of its citizens, if it is to overcome the challenges of the future.
Therefore. the second phase of the project builds on this philosophy which str;ves
to create a public administration with a decisive role in the country's developrmeat. being
adequatelv organized and empowered with suitable capacity in order to respond pro mply
and effectively to society and its citizens.
3.   SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES, AND ACTIONS
The second project is divided into two components. The first airMs to strergthen
macroeconomic management and modeling, expand the public finance monitoring and
information system, and continue the reforms of the legal and regulatory framework.
The second component includes an institutional assessment of the State and the public
sector, a pilot reform in the Ministries of Finance and Justice, and the preparation of a
strategic framework and an action plan to guide the next phase of public sector reformn.



Page 48
The first component has the following key objectives:
(a)   strengthening capacity, systems, and procedures to collect and process statistical
data on the performance of the economy and the preparation of national accounts,
improving the planning and formulation of economic policy, and expanding the
publication and dissemination of data and information about the country's
economic perfornance;
(b)   improving the quality and effectiveness of public finance management;
(c)   developing a system for monitoring that public resources are properly managed
by all government agencies;
(d)   developing a system for managing internal and external debt;
(e)   developing the municipalities' capacity for managing public resources, in line
with the 1998 Local Finance Law (Lei das Finangas Locais);
(f)   adopting legislation regulating specific economic activities (i.e. the Labor Code,
the Code of Intellectual Property, and the Code governing Asset Registration) to
promote business activities and the private sector;
(g)   promoting the creation of specialized courts with the competence to enforce
economic and comrnercial laws and regulations to improve the qualitv and
timeliness of judicial decisions that affect commercial activities in line with the
new framework for the development of private enterprises;
(h)   ensuring the efficiency and effectiveness in legal proceedings through the
computerization of the courts and through training designed to increase the
capacity of judges and court officers to administer justice in areas that affect the
economy (i.e. finance, banking, trade, industry, tourism, and services).
The second component has the following key objectives:
(a)   to ascertain the needs and expectations of the business community and citizens
with regard to the delivery of public services;
(b)   to carry out an institutional assessment of the State and the public sector to
identify areas which promote performance, and generate information to mobilize
a large constituency for reform and change;
(c)   to undertake a diagnostic study of the human resources in the civil service, and
design and implement a human resource management policy to improve
performnance, motivation, and objectivity in public service delivery;
(d)   to car-ry out studies on the overall structure of the Government and corresponding
functions found to be most appropriate for a modem State, ready to face the



Page 49
challenges of the future'while bearing in mind political, economic, and cultural
realities of the country and experiences of countries similar to Cape Verde;
(e)   to bring about in-depth reforms in the Ministries of Finance and Justice which
will allow institutional strengthening, increased capacity to intervene as
appropriate, and improved delivery services provided to other government
agencies, enterprises, investors, and citizens in general;
(f)   to analyze and adapt the organizational structures and functions of the civil
service to the Government's stated objectives;
(g)   to rationalize and simplify administrative procedures based on an analysis of
existing and new organizational and support structures, processes, and
procedures;.
(h)   to establish a "One Stop Shop" (Balcao Unico de Atendimento ao Cidaddo) which
will provide services most relevant to the business community and citizens, aimed
at reducing and eliminating bureaucratic layers, while speeding up response time;
(i)   to establish an effective system of fiscal management at the municipal level and to
strengthen their capacity for revenue collection;
dj)   to foster cooperation between the municipalities and other local authorities and
foreign municipal or regional bodies - in line with the Government's foreign
policy - and to facilitate inter-municipal cooperation;
(k)   to increase the participation of civil society in the decentralization process and in
the management of public affairs.
All the objectives and actions to achieve them referred to above are of vital
importance for Cape Verde because they 'will help address the current problems and
constraints, as well as those that will arise in the near future.
4. INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES
Overall coordination of the project is the responsibility of the Office of the Vice
Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. Reporting to the Vice Prime Minister is the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The latter is responsible for the technical coordination
of all actions undertaken by the ministries, courts, and municipalities, which serve as
executing agencies for the various activities that are planned under the project. To flfill
its functions, the PCU includes, in addition to the Coordinator and two Program Officers,
who will work in liaison with the component managers, an accountant, and an
administrative assistant. Responsibility for coordination among sectors lies with CSIRSP
(the Commission for the Supervision of Public-Sector Reform Implementation) and
PARE (the Economic Reform Support Program). CSIRSP consists of the Vice Prime
Minister, the Minister of Finance, the PCU Coordinator, the Administrator of PARE,
representatives of the various ministries, and representatives of the public and private
sectors.



Page 50
5.   CONCLUSION
The Government is convinced that the objectives of this second project will
maintain, develop, and consolidate the overall gains already achieved through the
implementation of the reform program, that would not have been possible to implement
without the substantial cooperation of the World Bank. While the proposed second
project includes certain items for which reforms have already been undertaken (although
with different perspectives, methods and purposes), many new problems need to be
addressed, so that the capacity of national institutiorns can be steadily increased, enabling
them to meet the needs of the business comnunity and citizens with better qualirv and
efficiency. The aim is to raise the awareness of civil society to the need to participate in
the management of public affairs, this being a fundamental element of a State in which
the rule ofaw'prevails.
/ ce Prime MNinister



Villa Grgndo,   25-                                                             24'                                                              23'
R;beira do Cry;jjncla
SANTO ANTAO
-17'                          Tarrafal do    0)fYi do Prto I tov
. -17° AI ~~~M°onte Tr
Mi dUr_m 0
Q,aairI   SANTA  UZAPaimeir                                                                                                        Pedro de Lume
SAO VICNTESLWZA                                                                                                                                            SAL
BRANCO QL        Prao Br             bjr      Juncolinho 
RASO       rri        0Ilrara   _-\    Co$tlhin on                                                            >   "oMari.
TarOrala    Progu-°a     r,
( SAO NICOLAU
CAPE VERDE
o   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                     Vilode SI-Re<           -oGt
I    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                     , ,Rndo d*3
0 Robil  ~   Ie P4 rods
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                BOA VISTA   -                   F78  rrs
Jo6o Barrosa
-16'                 0    10   20   30   40    50 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                          Velho
The boundlaries. colors, denominations and any other information
shown on h;s map do not imply, on the port of The World Bantk Group,
any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement
or occeptonce of such boundaries.
FORMER  I.                    I
SPANISH  .ZI
SAHARA  _.. .     .
MAU RITANIA                                                                                    T rrof I
CAPE VERDE                                                                                                           de Santiago0   1Sa Sonto Antonio
Calhetrs
......'-   MALI                                                                  SANTIAGO)            EoArchada do Monte       ae            MAIO
SANTIAGO~~~~~~                   Morro    ~     MI
\SENEGC'          ~Ribseira do Borc                                                                                    "~Calhiefo de             0 
THE GAMBIA AL)          ~      -~ 7                                                             Ribeiro da Barcr          Sao Miguel                0Fiqueira do Horta
T  BURKINA                                                                   Sant                                   la Moio
GUINE-BISSi~,.GUINEA         C     FAOFajazinbc.                                                         Porto Rincao o0a Teves
GU.   I-   .      01 r     -15°    SECOS  SCoor N'0osa Senhora de Luz
SIERRA LEONE On. 'a    COTE   /     i i           f -          'GO                                       Porto Gouveii
D'VOIRE( Z                             ip0
-N,>  ,    LIBERIA<x, N          b  <Sj      Cota^O  °Furna     °                                             CidodedVehda-- pRAIA 
I           TOGO\           ,   'Furno B               .                                                                                                                     .Cova F'igueira
TOchGo9rBRAVA                      _ X0AIcatraz           24'23
23'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



