Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16785
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln. 3817-JO)
June 30, 1997
Natural Resources, Water and Environment Division
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS DURING IMPLEMENTATION
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
November 1994    US$1.00 = JD 0.67
May 1995          US$1.00 = JD 0.67
April 1997        US$l.00 = JD 0.69
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ACC            -      Agriculture Credit Corporation
AMO            -      Agriculture Marketing Organization
AMPCO          -      Agricultural Marketing and Produce Company
ASAL           -      Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
ASAP           -      Agriculture Sector Adjustment Program
ASTAP          -      Agriculture Sector Technical Assistance Program
ASTSUP         -      Agriculture Sector Technical Support Project
BOO            -      Build-Own and Operate
BOP            -      Balance of Payments
BOT            -      Build-Operate and Transfer
CBJ            -      Central Bank of Jordan
CG             -      Consultative Group
CIDA           -      Canadian International Development Agency
DRC            -      Domestic Resource Cost
DSCR           -      Debt Service Coverage Ratio
EDI            -      Economic Development Institute
ERDL           -      Economic Reform and Development Loan
ERP            -      Effective Rate of Protection
ESAL           -      Energy Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP            -      Gross Domestic Product
GTZ            -      German Agency for Technical Cooperation
ICB            -      International Competitive Bidding
ICR            -      Implementation Completion Report
IMF            -      International Monetary Fund
ITPAL          -      Industry and Trade Policy Adjustmnent Loan
JVA            -      Jordan Valley Authority
KfW            -      Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau (German Credit Agency for Reconstruction)
LRMC           -      Long Run Marginal Cost
MCM            -      Million Cubic Meters
MOA            -      Ministry of Agriculture
MOP            -      Ministry of Planning
MWI            -      Ministry of Water and Irrigation
NCARTT         -      National Center for Agricultural Research and Technology Transfer
O&M            -      Operation and Maintenance
PCR            -      Project Completion Report
PIP            -      Public Investrnent Program
QRs            -      Quantitative Restrictions
USAID          -      United States Agency for International Development
WAJ            -      Water Authority of Jordan
WBG            -      West Bank and Gaza
GOVERNMENT OF THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President:                   Kemal Dervi§
Director:                         Inder K. Sud
Division Chief:                   Salah Darghouth
Task Manager:                     Christopher Ward



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln. 3817-JO)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  .................................................................                                             i-ix
PART I:    OPERATION REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ...............I
Operation  Identity .................................................lI
1.    Background ..................................................I
A. Macroeconomic Environment and the Adjustment Program ......................I
B. Results and Remaining Problems ..................................................3
C. The Sectoral Background ................................                     ..................3
II.    Operation  Design, Objectives and  Description  ...........................................5
A. Development of the Operation and Accompanying Measures ...................                                 5
B. Objectives ..................................................6
C. Operation Description ..................................................6
D. Cofinancing ..................................................7
E.  Loan Conditions of ASAL  .................................................7
III.   Achievement of Objectives ..........................................................9
A. Optimal Use of Natural Resources ..........................................................                9
B. Market Liberalization .........................................................                          10
C.  Institutional Development ..........................                    ............................... 10
IV.   Implementation  Record ...................11...................................... l
A    General ......................................................... It
B. Reform to Support Transition to an Optimal Use of Natural Resources.. II
C. Market Liberalization .........................................................                          18
D. Institutional Development: Sector Policy and Services ............................ 20
V. Project Sustainability.                                                                                          21
VI. Bank Performance .................... 22
VII. Borrower Performance ....................                                                                       23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Table of Contents (cont'd)
VIII. Assessment of Outcome .....................                           23
IX.  Future Operations .....................                                27
X.   Key Lessons Learned .....................                               27
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .............................                              29
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment .30
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans .31
Table 3:  Project Timetable .32
Table 4:      Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual.    32
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation .33
Table 6:   Key Economic Indicators .35
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project .36
Table 8A:  Project Costs .37
Table 8B:  Project Financing .37
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits .37
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants .38
Table I1:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .40
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .40
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions .41
APPENDIXES   A     and   B   .................................................................................................. 42
MAPS:         IBRD Nos. 19828R1, 19983R and 20979R






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln. 3817-JO)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agriculture Sector Adjustment
Loan (ASAL) (Ln. 3817-JO) for Jordan in the amount of US$80 million. The loan was approved on
December 8, 1994 and declared effective on May 19, 1995. The loan was closed on April 30, 1997.
It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement was made on May 13, 1997.
2.    The ICR Parts I and II were prepared by the Natural Resources, Water and Environment
Division (MN2NE) of the Middle East Department.
3.    The ICR is based on a desk review of material used in the preparation and supervision of the
Operation and on a field visit to Jordan in May 1997 to discuss the operation with Borrower staff and
other stakeholders. During the field visit, a meeting was held under the chairmanship of the Ministry
of Planning at which agencies involved in implementation commented on the draft of Part I of the
ICR. The minutes of the meeting are included in Appendix B.
4.    The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Christopher Ward, Principal Operations Officer, Tijan
Sallah, Economist, and Youssef Fuleihan, Senior Agricultural Economist (MN2NE). The ICR was
reviewed by Mr. Salah Darghouth, Division Chief (MN2NE), Ms. Tufan Kolan, Project Advisor, and
Mr. Jayanta Roy, Acting Lead Economist (MN2DR).






Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln. 3817-JO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Introduction
1.    Adjustment Program. At the time that ASAL was presented to the Board in December
1994, the adjustment program that Government had been implementing had reduced the
macroeconomic imbalances. Bank strategy (and that of the IMF) was to support the stabilization and
adjustment program through balance of payments support. This support has subsequently continued
with success that Jordan may soon successfully conclude its macroeconomic adjustment process.
2.     Sectoral Background.  At the time that ASAL was appraised, the most important
agriculture sector issue was the need to improve the efficiency and sustainability of the sector's use
of water, the country's scarcest resource. On the production side, the major constraint to agricultural
growth was the market. Exports had historically been dependent on the politically vulnerable
regional markets and development of new  markets and products was slow.  Government
interventions in prices and markets provided a high level of protection to farmers, but also prevented
the sector from adapting to a more demanding external market and to the growing shortage of water.
The sectoral adjustment program supported by ASAL was thus designed to promote a sound long-
term agriculture and water-sector policy framework and to support the implementation of a first
round of actions within that framework.
B. Operation Design, Objectives and Description
3.     ASAL was based on Government's own draft Agricultural Policy Charter and had a high
degree of national ownership. ASAL objectives were: (i) to promote the transition to a more
sustainable and efficient use of resources, particularly water, through better planning and through
demand management by both pricing and regulation; and (ii) to free up markets and thus enable the
private sector to invest, produce and trade in line with Jordan's comparative advantage in agriculture.
The ASAL also aimed at institutional development to improve agricultural production services.
4.     The loan was to be disbursed in two tranches: a first tranche of US$50 million, and a
second tranche of US$30 million. Cofinancing of DM 30 million (about US$20 million equivalent)
under German financial cooperation funds via KfW was made available. At the same time as ASAL,



ii                                                        Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
the Bank appraised and negotiated a technical assistance project, the Agriculture Sector Technical
Support Project (ASTSUP, Ln. 3818-JO)), to provide support to water management, research,
extension, and monitoring and evaluation.
Reforms to Promote Efficient Natural Resource Use
5.     The program was based on the integrated approach to water resources management set out
in the Government's policy framework and designed to support the transition to an optimal use of
Jordan's very scarce water resources. The actions were: (i) restructuring the country's water sector
institutions, which were competing inefficiently with each other, in such a way that water resources
planning and management were unified; (ii) promoting more efficient use of water through demand
management, increasing the irrigation tariff towards the economic efficiency price; (iii) establishing
better regulatory control over the country's over-exploited groundwater resources; and (iv)
prioritizing public investments in water, in order to ensure least cost supply.
6.     Restructuring Water Institutions. As part of the ASAL, Government, in association with
the Bank, conducted an institutional study (with CIDA financing) on the mandates and structures of
the three water sector institutions: the Ministry of Water and Irrigation (MWI), the Jordan Valley
Authority (JVA), and the Water Authority of Jordan (WAJ). On the basis of the study, Government
proposed a series of reforms, to restructure the three agencies to separate bulk from retail delivery; to
separate regulatory from service functions from service functions; to promote private sector
participation; and to bring an integrated approach to water resources planning and allocation. The
Bank approved this restructuring plan prior to second tranche release. The Government is moving
quickly to execute this plan, with donor support.
7.     Efflcient Use of Water through Demand Management. Under ASAL, a series of price
increases was agreed that would promote efficient water use in Jordan Valley irrigation.
Government made a first increase from 6 fils (about I US cent) per cubic meter to 15 fils (about 2.5
US cents) in March 1995, prior to loan effectiveness. This increase led to an improvement in cost
recovery. However, concerns were raised about the impact on farm incomes of any further price
increases, and Government developed an alternative plan for improving efficiency through: (i)
progressive handover of responsibilities for operation and maintenance to farmer groups; (ii)
development of new high-value market outlets for Jordan Valley produce; and (iii) cost reductions
through improved efficiency of JVA operations.  On the strength of this alternative plan,
Government requested a waiver of the second tranche release condition that charges should be raised
a second time, to 25 fils/m3. Government's request was made in the context of the broader
adjustment program under which several other measures were being implemented at the time,
including the increase in electricity tariffs and the removal of the bread subsidy. The slow recovery
of agricultural export markets following the Gulf crisis was also a factor. Government also stated
that it remained committed to raising water charges when market conditions for farmers improved.
Based on progress achieved in other measures of the reform, and Government's commitment to the
alternative plan and to raising water charges as market conditions improved, a waiver was agreed by
the Bank.
8.     Establishing Better Regulatory Control over Groundwater.  The major issue on
groundwater was the alarming rate of depletion. ASAL was designed to support Government's



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                 iii
program to enforce volumetric metering and control of groundwater production, supply and usage.
Compliance with this program was to be a condition of second tranche release. Government made
satisfactory progress in the implementation of the program. At the time of second tranche release,
the metering program was substantially complete and the monitoring program was operational in six
of the country's nine basins. By the end of 1996, 78 percent of all the country's wells were metered
and monitored. Government had strictly controlled the issue of any new well licenses and was
regulating the drilling industry. A related condition of second tranche release was to reduce the
extraction from the Disi fossil aquifer in order to conserve it for higher value future uses.
Government signed a formal agreement with the Disi farming companies to reduce groundwater
extraction during the 1996/97 crop season to 28 percent below 1993 levels.
9.     Prioritizing Public Investments in Water. The Letter of Sector Policy contained an agreed
investment program. Investments were prioritized according to least cost criteria.
Agricultural Market Liberalization
10.    The reform program in market liberalization was designed to remove the many constraints
to the free flow of goods and market determination of prices. The rationale was that constraints
prevented farmers and traders from receiving the price signals that would allow them to produce and
trade efficiently in line with the comparative advantage that economic studies showed Jordan to
possess in many products. The actions for agriculture produce were: (i) the removal of subsidies; (ii)
the lifting of price controls; (iii) the liberalization of external trade, the lifting of monopolies and the
divestiture of the monopoly company; and (iv) the deregulation of the land market in the Jordan
Valley.
11.   Removal of Subsidies. Prior to ASAL, the producer prices of wheat, barley and tomatoes
were set at above import parity levels by Government. The price of imported barley for animal feed
was also set at subsidized levels. Before Board presentation, Government eliminated the subsidies
and, as a condition of second tranche release, eliminated all public sector barley imports from April
1997. Moreover, Government liberalized wheat imports and removed the large bread subsidy; this is
a major adjustment reforn representing a measure not envisioned in the original program.
12.   Lifting of Price Controls. Margin controls and controls on prices of major fresh and
processed foods were eliminated before Board presentation except for controls on fruit and
vegetables, which were lifted as a condition of second tranche release.
13.    Liberalization of External Trade Regime. Agriculture lagged behind other sectors in trade
reforms and remained characterized by widespread quantitative restrictions and high tariffs. The
monopolies held by one parastatal, the Agricultural Marketing and Produce Company (AMPCO)
were rescinded in March 1994, as a condition of appraisal. As a condition of Board presentation,
Government eliminated other monopolies, import and export bans, quantity restrictions and licenses
for agricultural produce, and as of 1995, set consolidated tariffs (including surcharges and fees) on
these items according to new tariff bands of five to 50 percent in such a way that the production-
weighted average did not exceed 30 percent. As a condition of second tranche release, a divestiture
program for AMPCO was approved by the Bank, and it is under implementation by the Government.



iv                                                       Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
14.    Deregulation of Land Market. In developing irrigation in the Jordan Valley, Government
had imposed a restrictive covenant on freeholders that the land should be farmed by owner occupiers
and, as a result, land was not to be the subject of a long lease. This restriction prevented larger
holdings (with the economy of scale for exports) from developing. As a condition of second tranche
release, Government submitted the necessary amendment to the legislature to legalize private, freely
transferable long-term leases up to 30 years in the Jordan Valley.
Institutional Development
15.   Implementation of the Institutional Development Programme. The reform program in
institutional development was designed to limit Government's role as an investor and service
provider to activities and subsectors where the private sector could not be expected to act. The
program provided for the implementation of institutional changes in the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA), and in several producer services -- research, extension, rural credit and cooperatives.
16.   There has been progress. The Council of Ministers has approved the Agriculture Policy
Charter that sets out Government's policy of liberalized private sector development in agriculture
and defines a narrow scope for Government intervention. Research and extension strategies have
been developed that give prominence to the role of the private sector. MOA has embarked on a
change process designed to adapt it to its new strategic role. Reform programs have been developed
for rural finance and the cooperative sector to help them serve agricultural producers along
sustainable, market-oriented lines. Implementation is, however, lagging and there remains scope to
improve the efficiency of those services that remain in the public sector.
C. Achievement of Objectives
17.    Reforms to Promote Efficient Natural Resource Use.  As a result of ASAL
implementation, Jordan is now moving toward more efficient use of its scarce water. First, good
basic policy principles in water resources management have been adopted, including an integrated
approach to resource management, a conservation program, and private sector participation in urban
water delivery. Second, putting into practice an integrated and economic approach to water sector
management has been instituted. Third, demand management has been strengthened in the irrigation
sector. Fourth, despite the technical and political difficulties related to groundwater management,
Government has taken bold actions towards bringing groundwater under control. On balance
performance of the reforms to promote efficient water use is deemed satisfactory. The cabinet
ratification of the National Water Strategy in April 1997 demonstrates Government's full
commitment to the ASAL agenda. In addition, Government is working with the Bank and other
donors on a priority investment program in the sector that will effectively consolidate the policy
adjustment made under ASAL and put the new orientations into practice.
18.   Market Liberalization Program. The key program objective was to put in place the
enabling environment for production and marketing that would allow Jordan to exploit its
comparative advantage for agriculture. The program was fully implemented on time and as a result,
a substantial change has been effected in the sector. Government has effectively eliminated
distortions between internal and world market prices and reduced protection.  In addition,
Government has opened the cereals trade to the private sector and has withdrawn completely from



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                  v
the trade. Producer subsidies in agriculture have been eliminated, and as a result commercial
agriculture has developed, including the growth of contract farming that provides some security to
producers. Trade monopolies and other controls have been dismantled, and import and export trade
is now freely undertaken. However, up to now, production and market response have been
disappointing. It is likely that, in order to develop Jordan's comparative advantage in high value
exports, project support to the development of high value horticultural production and export will be
needed as a complement to the policy reforms effected.
19.    Institutional Development Program.  Within the Ministry of Agriculture, while the
organization chart has been changed, there is no apparent improvement in performance or cost. For
the producer services, there are good plans and good intentions but the time horizon for institutional
change is beyond two-and-a-half year life of an adjustment operation.
D. Implementation Record
20.    Overall, the implementation of ASAL has been satisfactory, despite some delay and some
changes as described below. The first tranche was disbursed upon effectiveness, which was delayed
from January 1995 to May 1995 to allow Government to introduce higher irrigation tariffs. The
second tranche, which was originally expected to be disbursed in April 1996, was disbursed in May
1997 after two postponements. Disbursement was against general imports, and there were no
problems in either procurement or disbursement.   Government maintained a satisfactory
macroeconomic framework throughout the life of ASAL. The ASTSUP project is being successfully
implemented in support of the adjustment program; for example, water meters are being supplied
and fitted to farm turnouts in support of the water management program. A major study was carried
out on CIDA financing in support of the restructuring of water institutions. The Ministry of
Planning successfully conducted implementation throughout.
21.    A particular problem arose with the adjustment of irrigation water charges. Government
raised irrigation water charges by 150 percent in 1995 prior to effectiveness of the loan, and intended
to implement a second round increase of a further 67 percent prior to release of the second tranche.
Widespread political opposition to further increases in water charges and farmer opposition in the
Jordan Valley, which have taken place in the context of other substantial price adjustments in the
economy, led Government to postpone the second increase. Nevertheless, Government remains
committed to the principle of raising water charges, and is adopting an alternative approach to
achieving the policy objective of eliminating public subsidy of irrigation water and promoting
efficient use of the country's scarce water resources. This approach is to encourage the development
of a higher value agriculture through export promotion whilst progressively transferring
responsibility for both management and financing of the irrigation schemes to users groups. It is
expected that over time this approach will achieve higher capacity to pay and phase out the public
burden in the irrigation sector. Consequently, a waiver of this condition for the second tranche
release was approved by the Bank.
E. Project Sustainability
22.    The key factor in sustainability is the Government's commitment to the program, and there
is evidence of such a commitment. With improved macroeconomic stability, Jordan has succeeded



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
in following an effective stabilization and adjustment path. The "Agriculture Policy Charter," which
was adopted by the Council of Ministers, sets out Government policy of liberalized private sector
development in agriculture and defines a narrow scope for Government intervention in the provision
of services. MOA has embarked on a change process designed to adopt it to its new strategic role.
There is high likelihood that the achievement of ASAL would be maintained.
F. Bank Performance
23.    In many ways, ASAL represents good practice of Bank handling of sectoral adjustment.
There was close coordination with the Government and donors in the design of the program.
Supervision missions were frequent. Staff continuity was a strong plus and staff performance was
good throughout, with appropriate skill mix. Other positive features include: (i) the integration of
the ASAL within a broader stabilization and adjustment framework; (ii) the origins of the ASAL in
joint sector analysis by Jordan and the Bank; and (iii) the linking of the natural resource management
issues with the production and trade issues to create a complementary package of intersectoral
measures. On the negative side are: (i) the relatively high cost of preparation; (ii) the complexity of
the operation; and (iii) the over-optimistic expectations with respect to achieving quantifiable results
upon closing of its loan.
G. Borrower Performance
24.    Borrower performance has been satisfactory. Borrower ownership was strong and much of
the analytical work was carried out either by the Borrower or jointly. At the technical level, staff
continuity and commitment were excellent throughout. A coordination committee was set up to act
as the counterpart of supervision missions and to oversee implementation of the measures and it
performed effectively.
H. Assessment of Outcome
25.    Overall, the reform program has effected a substantial adjustment in the agriculture and
water sectors. In the agriculture sector, Government intervention during the period of the program
has dwindled, and the trade and incentive framework now contains few distortions. There is little
that remains to be done on the agricultural policy front. There is, however, still need for institution
building to improve the availability of services both in the private and the public sectors, and some
discrete promotion of private sector export marketing. These actions are to be supported under
projects currently being prepared for IFC and Bank support.
26.    In the water sector, the program has contributed substantially to improving policy and
management of the nation's scarcest resource. The policy agenda is not yet complete, particularly
the key question of water pricing. Government is adopting an alternative program for irrigation
water pricing that would eventually transfer responsibility for the operation and maintenance of
irrigation schemes to beneficiaries.
27.    Reforms in the water and agricultural sector are part of the Government's structural
adjustment program, the full impact of which will take time to read. The early signs of impact
overall, are, however, positive.



Agriculture Sector Adj]ustment Loan                                              vii
28.   Impact Monitoring and Evaluation. In the design of ASAL, attention was paid to impact
monitoring both in order to prepare the case for evaluation and to allow adjustment of policies in
case of need. MOA, with GTZ support, set up a unit for impact monitoring which is working
effectively. However, the time scale required for monitoring is a number of years, and to date
very little data have been published. ASAL impacts were expected to occur in many ways. First,
there was expected to be a beneficial fiscal impact; this has occurred. Second, consumer prices
were expected to fall; there is little evidence on this so far and effects will need monitoring over
the longer-term. Third, employment impacts were expected to be neutral; this cannot be
substantiated. Fourth, the elimination of subsidies and the liberalization were expected to reduce
incentives to produce some crops and increase incentives for others, changing production
patterns and -- possibly -- having some differential impact on incomes; from the scant evidence
available, it appears that there is some switch towards more water efficient and higher value
crops. There are only some monitoring data based on some farm budget work suggesting
improved incentives to water conservation. This -- and a possible early response to the 1995 rise
in water charges -- is confirmed by emerging changes in crop mix, with the high value, water-
efficient crops like aubergine and cucumber doubling in output 1994/95, whilst production of
less water efficient crops like tomatoes stagnated, and production of the water-intensive melon
fell 30%. These findings are confirmed by the evident investment of many farmers in more
water efficient technology, and a move amongst the top farmers to a very "hi-tech," water-
conserving system of production.
29.    Poverty. ASAL is part of the structural adjustment program, of which a key objective is
to promote growth through efficiency. Any transition costs of adjustment should not be
projected in the long run. Overall, the impact of ASAL on the poor was expected to be beneficial
as poor consumers would benefit from lower prices under trade liberalization. As stated above,
monitoring over several years will be necessary to establish patterns. In 1996, there was an
increase in the consumer price of cereals, but this was due to the rise in world prices and was
unrelated to ASAL. Other elements in the ASAL program had an explicitly "pro-poor" objective.
An increasing block tariff system to provide a minimum water allocation to the poorer farmer at a
reasonable basic rate has been successfully introduced. The research and extension strategies give
priority to poorer areas and production systems.
30.    Rating. Overall, the outcome of the ASAL is rated as follows:
Outcome                 :      Satisfactory
Sustainability          :      Likely
Institutional Development   :  Modest
Bank Performance        :      Satisfactory
Borrower Performance    :      Satisfactory



viii                                                      Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
I. Future Operations
31.    The new  policy framework following the ASAL adjustments is well set out in
Government's own-recently published Water Strategy and Agricultural Policy Charter. Although no
further adjustment operation in the water and agriculture sectors is envisaged, many of the policy
changes effected will be put into practice in a series of follow-up operations. The integrated
approach to water resources management and the involvement of private management in urban water
will be supported under the proposed Amman Water Supply Project (proposed for Bank financing).
Association of private capital is proposed on a BOT basis in a wastewater treatment project (also
proposed for Bank financing). Development of agricultural export markets is envisaged under a
project now being prepared for Bank financing. Support to efficiency improvements in Jordan
Valley irrigation and to reinforcement of water management institutions may also be provided under
a new Bank-financed operation.
J. Key Lessons Learned
32.    Overall, ASAL effected a substantial adjustment in the water and agriculture sectors. The
principal lessons to be learned from ASAL can be summarized as follows:
(a)  in a water-scarce economy like Jordan, the linkage of adjustments in agricultural
policy to adjustments in water sector policy is essential. This linkage has some
clearly positive aspects (e.g., market liberalization permitting and encouraging water
conservation measures), but it has also some positive ones (e.g., where market outlets
fail to develop, it may be difficult to pursue demand management for water
conservation through increases in water charges);
(b)   where demand management through water tariff increases is problematic, there can
be alternative measures (such as handing over to farmers some of the responsibilities
and costs) that contribute to the same objective;
(c)  sector operations should be as simple as possible. Several of the components which
were included in the sector adjustment program and reflected in Government's
Letter of Sector Policy were not successfully implemented and ASAL did not
influence their outcome in any way. Institutional development components would
have been better supported through a project than through a policy-based loan;
(d)  it is important to build on national ownership and to involve cofinanciers throughout.
The origins of ASAL in joint work and shared analysis led to a high degree of
ownership of politically difficult measures and in the fast-changing environment that
has characterized the country and the region in recent years;
(e)   monitoring and evaluation of adjustment is a long-term affair, and it is unrealistic to
expect quick results as was the case during appraisal; and



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                           ix
(f) thorough preparation is a good investment, as implementation is correspondingly
smoother. The Bank and Government invested large resources in preparation, but
implementation required far less resources.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln. 3817-JO)
PART I: OPERATION REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Operation Identity
Name                  Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL)
Loan Number           3817-JO
RVP Unit              Middle East and North Africa Region
Country               The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Sectors               Water and Agriculture
1. BACKGROUND
A. Macroeconomic Environment and the Adjustment Program
Economic Structure
1.    Jordan is a small economy. Until the Gulf War of 1990, Jordan's closest economic ties were
with the oil-producing countries in the Gulf region that provided Jordan with financial assistance,
markets for most of its exports, and employment for a large number of its workers. From the early
1970s, the country achieved a decade of rapid growth that raised its per capita income from US$380 in
1973 to US$1,690 in 1982. Stagnation and the effects of the Gulf War subsequently reduced the per
capita income to US$1,120 in 1991, which in real terms was less than half of the 1982 level. Jordan's
close ties with the region, its limited resource base, and its past economic policy orientation created an
extremely narrow economic structure and high vulnerability to external shocks. This vulnerability was
exacerbated by rigidities in the economy and by deteriorating investment efficiency, which became
more pronounced during the stagnation that began in 1983.
The 1989-1994 Adjustment Program
2.    Recognizing this vulnerability, the Government adopted an adjustment program in mid-1989
supported by an IMF Stand-By Arrangement and by the Bank's Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment
Loan (ITPAL). In this first phase of adjustment (1989-1994), the program focused on: (i) fiscal
adjustments to reduce the budget deficit including containment of military expenditure, reduction of
consumer subsidies, and tariff and tax reforms to enlarge the revenue base and enhance revenue
performance; (ii) a large devaluation of the Jordanian Dinar in 1989 followed by the pursuit of a



2                                                           Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
flexible exchange rate policy to maintain competitiveness; (iii) restructuring of tariff and trade
policies; (iv) deregulation of interest rates; and (v) promotion of private sector development in trade
and industry. The program was being successfully implemented when the Gulf Crisis occurred in mid-
1990. Jordan lost its major export markets and aid from the Gulf countries, and it suffered losses in
revenue from transit trade, tourism and workers' remittances. It also had to shoulder additional outlays
for social services for returning workers and their families (about 300,000 people).
3.    Despite these setbacks, the Government continued the program with Bank and IMF support.
The Bank released the second tranche of ITPAL in March 1992, approved the Energy Sector
Adjustment Loan (ESAL) in October 1993 and released the first tranche of ESAL in late 1993 to help
close Jordan's financing gap. At the same time, Jordan obtained rescheduling of Paris Club debt and,
following the peace agreement between Israel and Jordan, major creditors granted debt forgiveness.
Regular Consultative Group Meetings chaired by the Bank helped close the financing gaps.
The Adjustment Program since 1994
4.    At the time that ASAL was presented to the Board in November 1994, the adjustment program
had reduced the macroeconomic imbalances. Growth was continuing, the internal imbalances,
especially the fiscal deficit, had been considerably reduced and domestic inflation had fallen to 4
percent. The current account deficit also steadily improved (down to 6 percent in 1994) with exports
of goods and services showing broad-based growth.
5.    Overall, the key to further growth was seen in accelerating trade and business environment
reforms in order to maximize outward-oriented growth. This was essential, as Jordan still faced
economic problems, particularly high unemployment (15-20%) and increased poverty (15-20% below
the poverty line, up from 3% in 1986). In addition, although debt rescheduling and write-off had
provided substantial debt service relief, Jordan's external debt in 1994, at about 117 percent of GDP
after debt reduction, remained a heavy burden on the economy.
6.    With this background, the central objectives of the adjustment program were to redress
macroeconomic imbalances, reduce sector distortions and restore economic growth. The second phase
of the adjustment program (1995-97) thus focused on unblocking the remaining domestic policy
constraints in pursuit of an outward-oriented and private-sector-led growth strategy. These constraints
were: (i) the trade regime (still largely inward-oriented with high tariffs and non-tariff barriers); (ii) the
regulatory regime (which still favored public enterprise); (iii) the investment incentives (discretionary,
with burdensome procedures); (iv) the price controls (especially for major food items and agricultural
produce); (v) the public sector efficiency (an over-sized and generally under-paid civil service); and
(vi) the financial system (rigid, over-exposed to speculations in real estate and capital markets, and
characterized by high costs and low volume of financial intermediation).
Bank Strategy
7.    Bank strategy (and that of the IMF) was to support the stabilization and adjustment program
through balance of payments support. This strategy was appropriate because the high rates of
projected growth (5-6 percent per annum for the rest of the 1990s) required not only an aggressive
adjustment program but also substantial capital inflows, successive debt relief and steady increases in
official reserves. Jordan's gross financial requirements amounted to about US$1.5 billion on average



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                  3
per year in 1994-1996. Therefore, the Bank and the IMF cooperated with Government in a program
designed to achieve the maximum debt relief and concessional financing, and on a series of structural
adjustment loans that would help close the financing gap.
B. Results and Remaining Problems
8.    Despite a steadily more difficult external economic environment, the ambitious agenda of
adjustment followed since 1989 has been successful, and performance criteria under successive IMF
operations have been met. GDP growth averaged 7 percent in 1993-1995, while inflation declined to
less than 4 percent. In 1996, growth slowed to 5.2 percent due to tight monetary conditions and less
progress with respect to regional integration than previously anticipated.
9.    The external current account deficit for 1996 is estimated at three percent of GDP, an
improvement of 0.9 percent relative to 1995. The capital account deteriorated in 1996 as net private
capital inflows declined while lending from official creditors remained at about the previous year's
level. Nevertheless, the Central Bank, through tight monetary policy, managed to increase
international reserves to almost $700 million, or more than two months of imports. Money supply
basically did not increase in 1996 against an increase in nominal GDP of more than II percent.
Despite unanticipated high expenditures on subsidized grains, which eventually led to the elimination
of the subsidy, the Government took further important steps towards fiscal consolidation. The deficit
amounted to 4.6 percent of GDP, an improvement over a deficit of 5.3 percent of GDP in 1995.
10.   Considerable progress was also made in terms of structural reforrns during 1996 with the
support of the Bank's Second Economic Reform and Development Loan (ERDL-II), which targets
close integration with global markets and the establishment of an investment-friendly, efficient
business environment. The outlook for 1997 is promising, with GDP projected to grow in the 6
percent range, while inflation and the ratios of the current account and budget deficit to GDP all are
expected to stay in the 3 percent range. Jordan may soon successfully conclude its macroeconomic
adjustment process.
C. The Sectoral Background
Agriculture and Water
11.   Agriculture contributes around 7 percent of GDP. The most important sector issue is the need
to improve the efficiency and sustainability of the sector's use of water. Jordan is a dry country where
agriculture accounts for almost three quarters of water consumption. There are virtually no more
sources of surface water that can be economically harnessed; and pumping of groundwater is already
exceeding levels at which the resource can be renewed. At the same time, municipal and industrial
demand is increasing. Water quality is also becoming a problem. During identification of ASAL, it
was apparent that major changes in water use were inevitable, and planning and managing the changes
had become critical.



4                                                        Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
12.   Government recognized the gravity of the situation and, prior to 1994, had taken some steps
towards improving water management: imposing relatively high water charges on municipal and
industrial users, imposing a resource cost on industrial wells, and rationing water use in the Jordan
Valley and to urban consumers. These efforts, although significant compared with most neighboring
countries, nevertheless fell short of achieving adequate control of the resource. Although average
water use for agriculture had fallen below 10,000 m3/ha, Jordan had yet to exploit the full water-saving
potential of modern irrigation technology; unaccounted for water in municipal supplies exceeded 50
percent; groundwater was being seriously overdrawn; and there was a general decline in water quality
due to salinization and increasing pollution.
13.   The causes of these problems were identified as:
(a)  lack of national policy - there was no national water policy to guide planning in an
integrated and economically optimal way for the allocation, development and
management of water resources;
(b)   competing institutions - the water utility, the Water Authority of Jordan (WAJ), and
the Jordan Valley Authority (JVA) each pursued its own agenda, and the Ministry of
Water and Irrigation (MWI) had not yet developed a capacity for overall planning and
management; and
(c)  insufficient attention to demand management - the emphasis in the water sector was
largely on increasing supply. Demand management existed perforce because of lack of
water, but it was determined by political influence and administrative allocation, rather
than by systematic attempts to encourage efficiency or to pass water to its highest
value economic use.
Agriculture and the Market
14.   A major constraint to agriculture was the market. Exports had historically been dependent on
the politically vulnerable regional market, which was partly closed to Jordan as a result of the Gulf
crisis. Development of new markets and products was slow. Government interventions in prices and
markets provided a high level of protection to farmers, but also prevented the sector from adapting to a
more demanding external market and to the growing shortage of water. Output and input subsidies
and trade restrictions produced high Effective Rates of Protection (ERP) and led to: distortions
favoring high water consuming crops (banana production rose 400 percent 1982-92); increased herd
size putting pressure on range resources (the sheep and goat population has quadrupled since 1960);
expansion of uneconomic irrigated cereals; and a steep rise in production of tomatoes, bought by
Government at a loss. The direct fiscal cost of the subsidies in 1992 was about JD 15 million (0.5
percent of GDP). The cost of trade restrictions was borne by consumers in terms of higher prices and
by the economy in terms of foregone output.
15.   Despite a generally open economy and a recent history of liberalization, the structure of
Jordan's agricultural markets in 1994 thus remained strikingly controlled. Government directly
influenced the price of many products: tomatoes benefited from a high support price, cereals were
procured by Government at above import parity prices, and there were subsidies on animal feed.



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                  S
Retail prices of many agricultural and processed food products were also controlled. Import and
export quantitative restrictions (QRs) and parastatal monopolies further distorted the incentive
structure and inhibited market development. All staples were subject to import licensing, and QRs
were restrictively applied to imports and exports of fruit and vegetables.
16.   The sectoral adjustment program supported by ASAL was thus designed to promote the
definition and adoption of a sound long-term water sector policy framework, to support the
implementation of a first round of actions within that framework, and to bring the agricultural
incentive structure into line with Jordan's comparative advantage and long-term sustainability.
II. OPERATION, DESIGN, OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
A. Development of the Operation and Accompanying Measures
Origins and Ownership of the Operation
17.   In the agriculture sector, the process of policy analysis had begun with a joint
Government/Bank sector work exercise that led to the 1990 Agriculture Sector Strategy Paper (Report
No. 7547-JO, June 1990). Early attempts to identify and prepare the operation were interrupted by the
Gulf War. However, the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) continued agriculture policy analysis with
USAID and GTZ assistance, and this process generated general support for reform from officials and
farmers. By 1993, it had resulted in the drafting of an "Agriculture Policy Charter" which set out a
broad agenda for sector reform. Bank preparation missions for ASAL worked with Government in
1993/94 on this draft, and the dialogue broadened to include the preparation of a water policy
framework. The latter incorporated many actions that Government was already undertaking or
proposing to undertake. The draft Charter and the water policy framework served as the basis for the
Letter of Sector Policy, which was discussed and agreed at negotiations in September 1994.
18.   The fact that ASAL was based on Government's own draft Policy Charter meant that the
operation had a high degree of national ownership. The draft Charter was subsequently adopted by
Government and published in 1996. The water policy framework served as one of the bases for a long
dialogue between 1995 and 1997 within Government and between Government and donors on water
policy. Ultimately, many of its provisions have been incorporated into the Water Strategy that was
adopted by Government in May 1997 and subsequently published.
Accompanying Measures
19.   In order to ensure efficient implementation of the reforms and to help build public and private
capacity in services to the agriculture and water sectors, Government requested donor assistance for
accompanying technical support.  In the President's Report, this is discussed as an integrated
Agriculture Sector Technical Assistance Program (ASTAP), and an elaborate demonstration of the
mutual complementarity and support between the policy adjustment and the technical assistance
programs is set out. At the same time as ASAL, the Bank appraised and negotiated a project within



6                                                        Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
ASTAP, the Agriculture Sector Technical Support Project (ASTSUP), to provide support to water
management, research, extension, and monitoring and evaluation.
B. Objectives
20.   ASAL objectives were to:
(a) promote the transition to a more sustainable and efficient use of resources, particularly
water, through better planning and through demand management by both pricing and
regulation; and
(b) free up markets and enable the private sector to invest, produce and trade in line with
Jordan's comparative advantage in agriculture. Price changes were expected to provide a
major adaptive push to the sector, promoting efficiencies and shifts in crop mix. Overall,
these changes, combined with increases in the input costs of water, were expected to
effect substantial efficiencies in water use.
C. Operation Description
21.   The components of the adjustment program supported by ASAL were:
(a) efficient natural resource use, to support the transition to an optimal use of water and
land resources. Within the inter-sectoral water policy framework, ASAL supported
reforms to initiate: (i) restructuring water sector institutions to maximize efficiency and
unify planning and management; (ii) promoting efficient use of existing water resources
through demand management; (iii) establishing control on over-exploited groundwater
resources; and (iv) prioritizing public investments in water;
(b) market liberalization, to free up markets and so encourage private investment and trade
to flourish. The program, which was squarely within the overall liberalization program
across sectors, provided for improvements to the incentive structure through: (i) the
removal of subsidies; (ii) the lifting of price controls; (iii) the liberalization of extemal
trade, the lifting of monopolies and divestiture of the monopoly company; and (iv) the
deregulation of markets in land; and
(c) institutional development, assuring efficient public investment and service provision
only where Govemment had a necessary role, and making room for the private sector
where the latter had a comparative advantage. The adjustment program supported by
ASAL provided for the implementation of institutional changes in research, extension,
rural credit and cooperatives.
The legal covenants that made up ASAL are set out at the end of this chapter.
22.   The loan was to be disbursed in two tranches: a first tranche of US$50 million, and a second
tranche of US$30 million. The first tranche was to be available upon effectiveness (expected in



Agricultre Sector Adjustment Loan                                                     7
January 1995); and the second was to be disbursed after compliance with the release conditions
(expected by April 1, 1996). Disbursement was to be against general imports.
D. Cofinancing
23.   Throughout preparation and appraisal the Government and the Bank worked closely with the
KfW, and cofinancing of DM 30 million (about US$20 million equivalent) under German financial
cooperation funds via KfW was made available. Other donors (GTZ, USAID) also participated in
appraisal of ASAL and provided financing for projects within the ASTAP/ASTUP framework.
E. Loan Conditions of ASAL
Actions Taken Before Board     Conditions of Second Tranche
Presentation                      Release
Objective: Maintain a supportive macroeconomic framework and external finaucing.
Macroeconomic Framework   An appropriate medium-term      Maintain the macroeconomic
macroeconomic framework,        framework, including satisfactory
including external financing plan,    progress with external financing
is in place.                    plan.
Objective: Support the transition to an optimal use of water and land resources.
Water Institutions                                        Agree on institutional changes and
the action plan for their
implementation.
Supply and Demand         Restrict issue of groundwater
Management               licenses to high priority industrial,
tourism and university projects
with adequate utilization plans.
Agree on a policy to enforce    Make satisfactory progress in
volumetric metering and control of   implementing basin management
all water production, supply and  plans country-wide, based on the
usage.                          agreed policy.
Announce and implement an       Continue the agreed program by
agreed program to cover O&M     further raising average tariffs to 25
costs of Jordan Valley irrigation  fils/m3. Note: this condition was
water, including an initial increase    waived.
in the weighted average tariff to at
least 15 fils/m3.
Agree on a program for          Eliminate cereals cropping at Disi
renegotiating the cropping pattern    or reduce groundwater extraction
for the remaining Disi contracts.  at Disi by 25% below 1993 levels.



8                                                           Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
Actio.  Take B      _Conditonsof Second Tranche
____________J                          j  -  -            \       i     ]   j00 0jl00 fahF¢$nton  I 0 0; 0tt 0 00  0000 Release   00  
Ot;ective: Improve the in ceti  structure thg   lationand so proot development o makt
inldin   enladetra makets narIWuOua produce, anid maret in land and transport.
Subsidies                  Eliminate the procurement subsidy
on domestically-produced cereals.
Eliminate livestock feed price   Agree to a 60% reduction in public
subsidy. Adopt a plan for        sector barley imports for 1996, and
withdrawal of public sector from  their elimination in 1997.
barley trade, including 20%
reduction in public sector barley
imports for 1995.
Announce repeal of official tomato
procurement price.
Price Controls             Remove controls on prices and    Eliminate margin and price controls
margins of major fresh and       on fresh fruits and vegetables.
processed agricultural
commodities.
Trade Regime               Eliminate import and export
monopolies and restrictions for
agricultural commodities and for
packaging materials and decide to
move to tariff-based system, so that
production-weighted average tariff
would not exceed 30%.
Initiate study for divestiture of  Satisfactory progress in
AMPCO.                           implementing divestiture plan.
Land Market                                                 Submit an amendment to the JVA
law to extend the maximum lease
._______________________    .______________=_______________  period   in   the  Jordan   Valley.
Objehie: Dfin the gs.t:rategic role of Government in the agriculture sector and ensure thiatprivate and
public ser¶ce to theEf stor ate delivered efficiently.     __________________________
National Agricultural      Submit agreed Letter of Sector
Policy                     Policy with annexed Water Policy
Framework and PIP 1995-97.



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                    9
III. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
24.   ASAL comprised a series of actions which, taken together, were considered by Government
and the Bank to be essential to adjust water use to reflect scarcity and to develop a full market
economy in agriculture. The following paragraphs discuss actual performance overall in relation to
these components.
A. Optimal Use of Natural Resources
25.   As a result of ASAL implementation, preliminary indications show signs of significant
improvement. First, basic policy principles in water resources management that were contentious
three years ago are now integrated into Government policy and practice, including the key elements of
an integrated approach to resource management, a conservation program, and private sector
participation in urban water delivery. Second, institutional change has been instituted, putting into
practice an integrated and economic approach to water sector management. An action plan for
restructuring of water sector institutions has been adopted by Government (including integration of
water resources planning functions, separation between regulatory and service delivery functions, and
between bulk and wholesale supply). Third, strengthening of demand management has been initiated
in the irrigation sector. Fourth, despite the technical and political difficulties encountered throughout
the world in groundwater management, the nation has made progress towards bringing groundwater
under control.
26.   The impact of these changes is beginning to be felt. Plans for private sector involvement are
under discussion, including a management contract for Amman water supply (intended for World
Bank support) and private sector participation in wastewater treatment (also with World Bank
involvement) under BOT arrangements. In the farm sector, there is increasing recognition that water
has a value, and farmers are investing in water-saving technology. There is increasing activity in
developing higher value export markets in order to achieve the higher financial returns to water that
will justify its retention in the agriculture sector.
27.   However, there is still scope for further change. Water sector management needs to improve
and the capacity of the reformed structure will have to develop step by step. Government has
requested donor support for a strengthening program. The private sector participation agenda in water
remains tentative, and it will be necessary to demonstrate early success, as with the proposed Amman
water management contract, in order to mobilize support for continuing the program.  The
groundwater situation still gives room for unease, as the extraction rate remains well above the
recharge rate in some basins. The Government is undertaking a program to arrest this in the major
basins supplying the cities, and has requested donor support for this program.
28.   On demand management, the recognition of water as an economic - and scarce - resource has
not yet translated into a ready acceptance of full cost recovery in irrigation. The program of efficiency
improvements in which donors are supporting Government is intended to help create a climate of
acceptance as well as to moderate the rise in costs. The program of handover of irrigation schemes to



10                                                           Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
farmers is in its infancy, and will need sustained commitment - and some early successes - to maintain
momentum. The Bank, including EDI, and other donors are providing support to the program.
29.   In sum, the picture is generally positive, with a water economy moving towards efficiency and
an increasingly integrated approach to water resources management. However, the political and social
constituencies of change need to be reinforced by real benefits flowing from change, and this will
require sustained commitment from decision makers, and continued support from donors.
B. Market Liberalization
30.   The key program objective was to put in place the enabling environment for production and
marketing that would allow Jordan to exploit its comparative advantage for agriculture. As a result of
the ASAL, a substantial change has been achieved in the sector. Government has effectively
eliminated distortions between internal and world market prices and eliminated protection. In
addition, Government has opened the cereals trade to the private sector and has withdrawn completely
from the trade. This measure has gone far beyond what the program originally envisaged, as
liberalization of the very important wheat trade and removal of the bread subsidy have been added to
the liberalization of the barley trade. Producer subsidies in agriculture have been eliminated, and as a
result commercial agriculture has developed, including the growth of contract farming that provides
some security to producers. Trade monopolies and other controls have been dismantled, and import
and export trade is now freely undertaken (e.g. banana imports). As a result, some consumer prices
have dropped.'  Finally, Government direct intervention in agricultural marketing, through the
parastatal agency AMPCO, has disappeared, the company is moving into profit and its redundant
assets have been redeployed.
31.   The overall picture is positive. However, up to now, production and market response has not
materialized yet. Exports to high value markets are increasing only slowly and it is evident that
despite Jordan's theoretical comparative advantage in high value exports, further measures beyond
policy adjustment are needed. As a result, Government is now working with the Bank on an
investment program to promote development of commercial high value exports with a focus on the
European market. In addition, a group of private investors is working with IFC on a proposal for an
export marketing company.
C. Institutional Development
32.   The key objective of the program was to achieve a cost-effective improvement in service
delivery. There has been progress. The Council of Ministers has approved the "Agriculture Policy
Charter" that sets out Government's policy of liberalized private sector development in agriculture and
defines a narrow scope for Government intervention in services that provide public goods or target the
poorer areas. In line with this declaration, the policy of liberalization and limited Government services
that MOA has been developing since the late 1980s is being implemented. With ASTAP/ASTSUP
Prices of fruits and vegetables have gone down. However, prices of cereals, the staple food of the poor, have risen as
Government has withdrawn the consumer subsidy.



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                 11
support, research and extension strategies have been developed that give prominence to the role of the
private sector and only a complementary role to public services. MOA has embarked on a change
process designed to adapt it to its new strategic role. Reform programs have been developed for rural
finance and the cooperative sector to help them serve agricultural producers along sustainable, market-
oriented lines.
33.   The program of changes underway should ultimately reduce the role - and fiscal cost - of
public interventions. Implementation is, however, lagging and there remains scope to improve the
efficiency of those services that remain in the public sector. Government is working with donors to
develop these services, particularly in the poorer rural areas. The expectation that ASTAP/ASTSUP
would effect material change in agricultural services and institutions has not been fully realized. In
fact, although other donors (particularly GTZ, KfW and USAID) cooperated in financing activities
under ASTAP, and coordination was initially good, the linkages were weaker once implementation
began and the concept of an integrated ASTAP program was never really sustained by Government or
other donors. Thus although most of the support activities originally conceived under ASTAP have in
fact been carried out one way or another, the impact has been limited.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
A. General
34.   Overall, the implementation of ASAL was satisfactory, despite some delay and some changes
as described below. The first tranche was disbursed upon effectiveness, which was delayed from
January 1995 to May 1995 to allow Government to introduce the higher irrigation tariffs. The second
tranche was disbursed after compliance with the release conditions (expected by April 1, 1996,
actually in May 1997 after two postponements of the closing date, needed to allow Government to
complete the required actions). Disbursement was against general imports, and there were no
problems in either procurement or disbursement.
B. Reforms to Support Transition to an Optimal Use of Natural Resources
Water Institutions
35.   The scant water resources available and the burgeoning population place a heavy responsibility
on institutional capacity for water management. The MWI has had nominal responsibility for water
resources management but with its limited staff has played only a minor role up to now. The WAJ is
responsible for urban water and sewerage services and for water resources management other than in
the Jordan Valley. The JVA is responsible for water resources development, irrigation and socio-
economic development in the entire Jordan Valley, and for construction of all dams nationwide. The
incentive structure therefore allowed - and even encouraged - each agency to utilize available water
resources within its specific area of responsibility, not to integrate planning to maximize efficiency
from a national perspective. As a result, the water sector has been characterized by: fragmented and
short-term planning; a focus more on expanding supply than on managing demand; and polarization of
water management between competing irrigation and urban water uses, rather than coordination and



12                                                            Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
integration in the national interest. At the institutional level, both WAJ and JVA are substantially
over-staffed and there are only weak incentives for these agencies to provide efficient and sustainable
services. As a result, inefficiencies in service provision have resulted in a serious waste of resources,
large subsidies, a heavy fiscal burden on Government, and loss of consumer confidence.
36.   During preparation of ASAL, Government, in association with the Bank, began an institutional
study (with CIDA financing) on the mandates and structures of the three water sector institutions. The
study was expected to propose options for restructuring of the sector in line with the broad principles
of maximizing efficiency, of unifying planning and management of water resources down to wholesale
level, of minimum cost to the public purse and of maximum user participation. A decision on this
restructuring (satisfactory to the Bank) and on a related implementation plan was agreed as a condition
of second tranche release. It was intended that implementation of the restructuring would be supported
under a capacity development project.
37.   At the end of the first phase of the study in 1995, the Government adopted six guiding
principles for institutional reform in the water sector, which were endorsed by the Bank. These
principles were: (i) to strengthen policy development and water resource planning capabilities; (ii) to
separate governance functions from service delivery functions; (iii) to separate wholesale (national
infrastructure) operations from retail (service delivery) operations; (iv) to develop the commercial
orientation of operations; (v) to facilitate input to water policy from other institutions, the public and
industry; and (vi) to build financial viability into the proposed institutional design.
38.   A second phase of the study was conducted during 1996.  Based on the analysis and
recommendations of the study, and after extensive consultation, Government adopted an action plan
for coordinated water resource management that incorporated the six principles. Although some
desirable outcomes of the study were limited by practical realities, especially in relation to changes
needing legislative amendments and in integrating bulk water supply, the proposed restructuring
represents a significant step forward. The main reforms proposed by Government are: restructuring of
the organizational structures of the three agencies; separation of JVA's irrigation services from its
other functions; the coordination of bulk water supply for irrigation, municipal and industrial use;
devolving responsibility for service delivery to local commercially-oriented units, such as privately-
managed water utilities and irrigation user groups; adoption of BOT or similar contracting concepts;
separation of regulatory and service delivery functions; consolidation of water resource planning
responsibilities; and establishment of a Higher Council (initially as a Water Advisory Committee to
avoid changes in the law) with broad representation to oversee and guide the water sector.
39.   The importance of these reforms cannot be over-emphasized although it is recognized that it
will take time to implement them.  In the Bank's experience, there are rare instances where
institutional inefficiency in the water sector on the scale of that in Jordan has been overcome without
major institutional restructuring. In particular, the separation of regulatory functions from those
related to service delivery, and the commercial orientation of the service agencies, whether they
remain in the public sector or are privatized, are essential features of an efficient institutional
arrangement.
40.   The restructuring plan responded to all six of the agreed principles and the Bank approved the
plan prior to second tranche release. The Government is moving quickly to implement reforms where
it can and has indicated that legislative amendments are anticipated to be implemented in 1998.



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                   13
Transfer of planning functions to the MWI has already taken place. The Bank and other donors may
provide support under an institutional development project. Private sector management of the water
and sewerage services of Greater Amman is the central component of the Amman Water and
Sanitation Management Project that the Bank pre-appraised in March 1997, BOT/BOO contracts are
proposed for two other projects in the Bank's lending program - the Amman/Zarqa Wastewater Project
(identified in March 1997) and the Disi-Amman Conveyor (consultants were appointed in April 1997
for advice on implementation arrangements).
Efficient Use of Water through Demand Management
41.   Supply and demand characteristics of water in Jordan were - and are - determined by the
physical separation of water markets. In summary, there are two main systems: the Jordan Valley
system fed by surface water managed by the JVA, a public institution largely devoted to irrigated
agriculture; and the Highlands system fed largely by pumped groundwater in both private and public
hands and used for municipal, industrial and agricultural purposes. The two systems are separated by
an elevation of more than 1,000 m, which imposes very high costs on transfers from the Valley to the
Highlands. There is, however, one existing pipeline with an annual pumping capacity of 45 mcm; this
capacity was not fully utilized at the time of ASAL negotiations.2 Because the investment costs are
already sunk, this facility can transfer water from the Valley to the Highlands at a moderate marginal
cost.
42.   Demand management, designed to allocate water to its highest value use, thus required quite
different instruments in the Jordan Valley and in the Highlands. For the Jordan Valley, the priority
was to ensure the full use of the existing pipeline to the Highlands and then to provide incentives to the
most efficient use within the Valley of the balance of water that could not be transferred to the
Highlands unless a new pipeline were constructed. The policy that was supported under ASAL was to
raise water charges progressively over time to reach the efficiency price at which, after the transfer to
the Highlands, supply and demand in the Valley would balance.
43.   This efficiency price could not be calculated with certainty and was, in any case, highly
variable between seasons and over time. It was greater than the price at which enough water to effect
the transfer to the Highlands would be released (estimated to be 23 fils/m3, about 3.5 US cents) and
below the estimated long-run marginal cost (LRMC) (230 fils/m3, about 35 US cents). The approach
underlying the ASAL water pricing covenants was to make progressive increases in charges, combined
with continued rationing of water. This proposal to use a "ratchet effect" combination of price
increases and rationing was practical and had worked successfully elsewhere (for example, in Israel).
Relying only on very rapid increases in prices could have had a serious short-term destabilizing impact
on production with a risk that the increases could carry the charge above the efficiency price and lead
to the loss of unused water to the Dead Sea.
21 At completion of ASAL in April 1997, Government was embarking on an expansion of this pipeline to 90 MCM to take the
extra water available under the Peace Treaty.



14                                                        Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
44.   Thus, the long-term policy framework for the Jordan Valley under ASAL provided for moving
towards equilibrium in water supply and demand by a combination of price signals and physical
rationing or regulation. A first series of price rises was to take place to bring the water charge at least
to cover the operation and maintenance (O&M) costs of the system. The O&M costs were assessed in
a GTZ-financed study at 25 fils/m3 compared to the prevailing charge of 6 fils/m3. Although the full
O&M cost was still below the efficiency price, there was a logic to selecting this as the target during
the ASAL period. The figure of 25 fils/m3 was roughly equal to the price which would, in theory,
reduce demand for irrigation and release water for full use of the existing pumping capacity to the
Highlands. O&M costs thus served as a convenient and comprehensible proxy for the lower bound of
the efficiency price.
45.   Full O&M  cost recovery would also have achieved a useful fiscal objective, saving
Government some JD 3 million annually. In addition, the increases in the charge would promote
efficient water use, and create user pressures on JVA to be more efficient.
46.   Government made a first increase from 6 fils (about I US cent) per cubic meter to 15 fils
(about 2.5 US cents) in March 1995, prior to effectiveness. This increase led to an improvement in
cost recovery; however, it resulted in a strong reaction from Jordan Valley farmers. The reaction was
exacerbated by the poor market conditions for Jordanian agricultural exports within the region, which
had persisted since the Gulf War.
47.   In view of these developments, Government informed the Bank prior to second tranche release
that it was not politically and socially feasible at that time to raise water charges any further.
Government was naturally concerned to mitigate negative impacts within the country at a time when
the population had been faced with multiple price increases under other components of the structural
adjustment program (including bread prices and power tariffs) and when expectations were high that
the peace process in the region would bring some advantage to the population. Government asserted,
however, that it remained committed to raising water charges when market conditions for farmers
improved, and argued that it was carrying out an action plan designed to achieve the policy objectives
whilst avoiding any further damaging confrontation. This plan comprised three major elements: (i) a
program (with EDI and USAID support) to study and test a possible progressive handover of the
responsibility for operation and maintenance of the irrigation network to farmer groups, who could
assume financial responsibility, so that irrigation water charges would no longer be set by government
and would therefore cease to be a political issue; (ii) development (with Bank and IFC support) of
agricultural markets, particularly high value export markets in Europe, that would create new
profitability and ability to pay amongst farmers; and (iii) a program of efficiency improvements within
the JVA that had already begun to bring down the cost of operation and maintenance of the schemes,
combined with the introduction of cost accounting that would allow transparent communication of real
costs to farmers.
48.   A second factor adduced by Government for not making the further price increase at the
agreed time was that the transfer capacity to the Highlands was already fully utilized. The objective of
releasing water from the Jordan Valley to Amman for urban consumption had, it was argued, therefore
3  This study is currently being revised with USAID financing.



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                 15
source of the extra water appears to have been increased releases by Israel under the Peace Treaty. In
economic terms, this extra supply - at little or no cost - had shifted the lower bound of the efficiency
price downwards. Economically the argument for making a further price increase at the agreed time
had thus diminished.
49.   Government also stated that the ASAL had already achieved the secondary objective of forcing
JVA to become more efficient, and that the O&M cost was no longer as much as 25 fils/m3. It should,
however, be emphasized that the O&M cost has nothing to do with the economic efficiency price, as
explained above. Recalculating the actual cost of O&M (as the MWI currently proposes to do) might
thus reassure Government on the size of the remaining operating subsidy, but it would do nothing to
advance the water economy towards efficiency pricing.
50.   After due consideration, the Bank deemed the overall progress under the component
satisfactory and agreed to waive the second tranche condition of increasing the irrigation charges from
15 to 25 fils. It is understood that Government still subscribes to the economic rationale for the
medium and long term but is temporizing in view of the short-term political and economic situation.
Establishing Control over Groundwater
51.   The major issue on groundwater was the alarming rate of depletion. Government, well aware
of the situation before negotiations, was conducting studies to evaluate the problem, had created
"Basin Protection Units" to begin to impose controls, had imposed a resource charge on groundwater
use by industry, and had halted groundwater development, other than for exceptional projects. ASAL
missions correctly recognized the extraordinary difficulty of reimposing control over groundwater and
saw that in the socio-political context of Jordan it was unrealistic to expect rapid and radical reforms.
What was needed was firm political direction, a good information base, public awareness, and
development of the institutional capacity for regulation. ASAL was designed to provide some external
support to Government's ongoing program, notably to attempts to develop basin management plans
and to enforce volumetric metering and control of water production, supply and usage. Compliance
with this program was to be a condition of second tranche release. ASTSUP was to provide support to
the metering and groundwater monitoring program.
52.   The Government made satisfactory progress in the implementation of the basin management
program, and demonstrated strong commitment in controlling groundwater extraction. With support
from the Bank and KfW, Government expanded the work of the Basin Protection Units and
implemented a program to meter wells and monitor and regulate extraction. At the time of second
tranche release, the metering program was substantially complete and the monitoring program was
operational in six of the country's nine basins. Seventy-eight percent of all the country's wells were
metered and monitored. The remainder of the program had encountered some resistance from well
owners and Government was resorting to sanctions, with assistance from a special inter-ministerial
committee and from the Public Security Department. In May 1997, Government published a two-page
announcement giving the owners of 667 illegal wells notice to close them. Government had strictly
controlled the issue of any new well licenses and was regulating the drilling industry. Bank guarantees
were being required from well owners to ensure adherence to the terms of licenses, and a surcharge of



16                                                          Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
250 fils (50 US cents) per cubic meter had been imposed on any extraction beyond licensed amounts.
Government also initiated a public information campaign to ensure transparency about the public
interest and to generate cooperation from well owners and the public.
53.   A second ASAL action was to reduce the extraction of fossil groundwater from the Disi
aquifer in the South in order to conserve it for possible higher value future uses, including a possible
transfer to municipal uses in Amman. Government had already, prior to negotiations, canceled five of
the nine contracts with the commercial farming concerns drawing water from the aquifer and set up an
interrninisterial committee to negotiate reduction of water extraction with the four remaining fanning
concerns. The condition of second tranche release was that either cereals farming, which is
particularly wasteful of water, would be eliminated or water abstractions would be reduced by at least
25% from 1993 levels.
54.   In the 1994/95 crop season, the four farming companies had reduced usage to 13 percent below
1993 levels, and it was expected that this decline in commercial interest would continue. Hence,
Government suspended the negotiations. However, in the 1995/96 season, cereals prices rose and the
companies slightly increased their extraction. Government therefore reopened negotiations and signed
a formal agreement with the companies to reduce extraction during the 1996/97 crop season to 28
percent below 1993 levels. The Bank was satisfied that Government had acted with decisiveness to
achieve the ASAL target. Medium-term options for transferring Disi water to municipal use are being
examined as part of the feasibility studies for the proposed Disi-Amman conveyor project.
Other Measures in the Water Sector
55.   In addition to the measures that were the subject of conditionality, a number of other measures
were agreed through the mechanism of the Letter of Sector Policy. This included agreement on the
prioritization of public investments. The Letter of Sector Policy set out the criteria to be used for
prioritizing investments according to economic and/or cost minimization criteria. Major proposed
investments in the water sector were examined at appraisal according to least cost criteria with the
proviso that, given financing and implementation constraints, precedence among new supply projects
should go to one major project, rather than to a plethora of small ones. The final Public Investment
Program (PIP) in water for 1995-97, which was in accord with Government policy and investment
selection criteria, was discussed at negotiations and the agreed version was annexed to the Letter of
Sector Policy.
56.   At negotiations, one project proved somewhat contentious, the Southern Ghors Project, which
was an expensive multi-purpose project that originally included a low return and very expensive
component to expand irrigated agriculture. Government restructured the project to emphasize the
industrial component. During implementation, the advent of the so-called "Peace Water" following
the agreements with the Israelis led to a debate between Government and the Bank on the correct
choice of projects. By this stage, however, the Bank was conducting a broad dialogue on water with
Government across sectors through sector work on water policy4 and was preparing for a large
4/ A Sector Report (No. 14648 of March 28, 1996) was discussed with Government. The report includes an agreed
investment program for the sector.



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                 17
investment program in the sector. Thus, although ASAL was the starting point for a systematic
dialogue and agreement on the investment program in 1994, thereafter the dialogue broadened and is
being successfully pursued through other means. In May 1997, Government published its Water
Strategy, which reflects the dialogue between Bank and Government.
Natural Resources and Environment
57.   The Letter of Sector Policy also dealt with the problem of over-grazing and the resulting
deterioration in rangeland productivity. The link was made to economic incentives to overstocking
and range conversion, which were expected to diminish with the elimination of subsidies. This was
successfully carried out. Other environmental measures were discussed in the Letter such as revision
of land tenure regulations that would identify user rights, establishment of incentives for sustainable
management (e.g., long-term leases and technical support for communities contracting to execute
management plans) and prohibition on conversion of rangeland to environmentally unsustainable
arable farming. Adoption of new regulations and their effective implementation was expected to occur
in 1995. This did not happen, and the fact that there was no specific condition under ASAL meant that
there was never any proper follow-up either on the Bank side or on the Government side. An attempt
was made to seek IDF financing for studies of the condition of rangelands and the socio-economy of
pastoral systems to provide information for revising the tenure regulations and designing appropriate
future range management programs. However, Bank management rejected this proposal. The studies
may now be carried out under an IFAD project.
58.   The Letter of Sector Policy also dealt with the excessive use of pesticides, seen as a danger to
health (with high levels of organochlorines in human breast milk) and to the promotion of exports (two
countries had banned Jordanian produce due to high levels of residue). In 1994, Government was
expected to initiate a review of the regulatory framework and practices with a view to establishing a
new framework. Government, with GTZ support, has initiated a promising campaign for integrated
pest management (IPM), and it is expected that this may result in a new framework in due course. In
addition, it is expected that pesticide residue testing will be supported under a proposed future Bank
project (Agricultural Exports Project, currently under identification).
59.   It is evident that these two components were not "enforceable" in the same way as covenants
would have been. With hindsight, it would have been better to omit them from ASAL as this would
have simplified the operation.



18                                                       Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
C. Market Liberalization
Subsidies
60.   At the time of negotiations, the producer prices of wheat, barley and tomatoes were set at
above import parity levels by Government. The price of imported barley for animal feed was also set
at subsidized levels. As a condition of Board presentation, Government announced 1994/95 cereals
procurement prices that eliminated subsidies. Subsidies on feed barley were also eliminated, and the
market was liberalized. Government announced the livestock feed price for 1994/95 reflecting the
elimination of the subsidy and adopted a plan for withdrawal of the public sector from the barley trade,
including a reduction in public sector barley imports for 1995 of 20% below the 1992/94 average.
Govemment also announced the elimination of tomato price support effective from January 1, 1995.
The condition of second tranche release was that Government would announce a ceiling on public
sector barley imports for 1996 of at least 60% below the 1992-94 average, together with the
elimination of public sector barley imports in 1997. However, in 1996, the Government did not reduce
imports as much as expected because of the availability of advantageous official bilateral trade
agreements with regional partners. Distribution was, however, handled through the private sector.
Commercial imports and local production made up the balance of supply. Prices were at world market
levels. By decision of the Council of Ministers, Government eliminated all public sector barley
imports after April 1997. Moreover, Government liberalized wheat imports and removed the large
bread subsidy, a move that had not been envisioned in the original program; this action has had a far
more important beneficial impact on public finances than removal of the barley subsidy. In May 1997,
Government announced that it would complete its withdrawal from the market by leasing its grain
storage facilities to the private sector.
61.   The only problem in the program to eliminate subsidies was that in 1995, under pressure from
influential producers, Government intervened afresh in the pricing of tomatoes. However, this was a
unique transition phenomenon. The market is now well established and the problem has not recurred.
Price Controls
62.   In 1994, the retail margins of fresh fruit and vegetables and the prices of many fresh and
processed commodities were being controlled by Government. These controls distorted price signals
and discouraged investment. Margin controls and controls on prices of major fresh and processed
foods (including fresh and frozen meat, the major dairy products, eggs, olive oil, tomato paste,
chickpeas and lentils) were eliminated by Government as a condition of Board presentation, except for
controls on fruit and vegetables, which were to be lifted as a condition of second tranche release. The
Council of Ministers decided on September 11, 1996 to eliminate price and margin controls on fresh
fruits and vegetables, and implemented this decision effective from April 22, 1997.
Trade Regime
63.   The trade reform initiated by Government in 1988/89 began to reduce tariff exemptions and
quantitative restrictions (QRs) and reduced both the general tariff level and bans. These reforms
mainly affected manufactures. Agriculture lagged behind in trade reforms and remained characterized



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                 19
by widespread quantitative restrictions and high tariffs. One parastatal, Agricultural Marketing and
Produce Company (AMPCO), had a monopoly on import of four fresh products. Government also
maintained controls on other agricultural and food products, including import bans (five products),
monopolies (six products) and QRs (50 products). In addition, tariffs and surcharges ran as high as 50
percent for many fruits and vegetables and effective protection rates were as high as 65 percent.
64.   The AMPCO monopoly was rescinded in March 1994, as a condition of appraisal. As a
condition of Board presentation, Government eliminated other monopolies (except for three products
where there was still a consumer subsidy) and import and export bans, quantity restrictions (except for
a few minor products) and licenses for agricultural produce, and agreed to set consolidated tariffs
(including surcharges and fees) from 1995 on these items according to new tariff bands of 5 to 50
percent in such a way that the production-weighted average did not exceed 30 percent. Agricultural
trade governed by international agreements and protocols which prohibited the imposition of tariffs
and surcharges was initially excluded from these arrangements.  Government also eliminated
restrictions on the import of packaging materials and reduced tariffs and surcharges to a combined
maximum of 30 percent, as these controls and tariffs had led to high packaging costs for exports.
65.   Satisfactory progress in implementation of an action plan for AMPCO divestiture satisfactory
to the Bank was a condition of second tranche release. A study was undertaken using Danish Trust
Fund financing, the timetable to divestiture was agreed at negotiations, and a divestiture program was
approved by the Bank in 1995. This program provided for the selling off to the private sector of all
AMPCO's assets except for the tomato paste business, either on a break-up or a going concern basis;
for the operation of the tomato paste business on commercial lines without subsidy for the period
necessary to bring it to profitability and to create a track record that would make it attractive to
investors; and (once this record was established) to bring the company to market through an
introduction on the Amman stock exchange. During 1996, Government successfully divested itself of
the AMPCO assets except for the tomato paste business.  AMPCO began contract farming
arrangements with farmers which proved very popular, and the company posted a profit in 1996
according to the draft accounts. AMPCO's board has decided to establish a second year of profitable
operations and to substantially complete the process of divestiture by the end of 1998.
Factor Markets
66.   In developing irrigation in the Jordan Valley, Government had imposed a restrictive covenant
on freeholders that the land should be farmed by owner-occupiers and, as a result, land was not to be
the subject of a long lease. However, in the new market conditions under which farmers plan for high
investment export-oriented agriculture, this restriction has proved a disincentive to commercial
farming and investment. Therefore, as a condition of second tranche release, Government was to
submit the necessary amendment to the legislature to legalize private, freely transferable long-term
leases up to 30 years. The Council of Ministers approved on March 15, 1997 an amendment to the law
which has been submitted to parliament.
67.   On a related matter, it was found during appraisal that agricultural exports were constrained by
regulations in the transport market. Government stated in its Letter of Sector Policy that, beginning in



20                                                       Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
1994, Royal Jordanian Airways would be required to compete on an equal basis with other freight
carriers in air freight and air freight handling. This has been done.
Market Development under ASTAP
68.   The policy measures taken were designed to create incentives and opportunities for investment
and trade. Under ASTAP, support was to be given to market development, a key bottleneck.
However, the Bank, after investing considerable technical resources, had to abandon a proposal to
include a component under ASTSUP to support the development of a private export marketing
company, as Government would not agree to using available grant funds to prepare the business plan
of the proposed company. Instead, technical assistance was provided to AMO first by USAID (which
had long supported the agricultural exports sector), and then by GTZ. This resulted in the creation of a
private Exporters Association to represent the industry, but it does not appear to have led to any
sensible increase in exports. Government renewed its request to the Bank and IFC for support in the
area of export marketing in 1996 and an identification mission visited Jordan in May 1997.
D. Institutional Development: Sector Policy and Services
Sector Policy
69.   As a condition of Board presentation, Government submitted the Letter of Sector Policy. The
Letter incorporated all of the above reforms and conditions, but also set out a broader agenda of policy
and institutional development in agricultural services.  It was the intention to monitor the
implementation of these various policies and programs during supervision, in tandem with the
supervision of ASTSUP, which supported part of the program.
70.   The Agricultural Policy Charter was discussed at length in various fora, and eventually
adopted by Government and published in November 1996.
Agricultural Services
71.   At the time of appraisal, public institutions in agriculture in Jordan were performing poorly.
There was little public extension, and research and pesticide monitoring were weak despite extensive
donor support. The development of rural finance and of the cooperative movement had been impaired
by excessive Government intervention. The Letter of Sector Policy proposed a program for the
improvement of these services, based on a redefinition of Government and private sector roles in the
sector, and articulated through a series of strategies for key institutions and services. Implementation
of the program was to be supported under ASTAP.
72.   Ministry of Agriculture. For the Ministry of Agriculture, it was proposed to adapt structure
and staffing to a new, more limited, mandate defined in the Letter of Sector Policy; to implement
privatization, corporatization or other forms of decentralization; and to make essential public services
more productive and better managed.  Government worked out a program  of institutional
reorganization and change which was supported by USAID and GTZ.
73.   Results in implementation were mixed. MOA's policy analysis, statistics and monitoring and
evaluation functions received extensive support from GTZ and have performed well. However, the



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                21
more ambitious proposals for institutional restructuring and change that were supported by both GTZ
and USAID have so far resulted in little more than "shifting boxes around" without any discernible
improvement in performance or reduction in cost. The recent moves by Government to restructure the
civil service may yet give new impetus to the process but the outcome is far from clear.
74.   Research. The research function was found at appraisal to be ineffective, with farmers
receiving little benefit.  A program to develop agricultural research, including action on the
institutional status of the research institution, the National Center for Applied Research and
Technology Transfer (NCARTT), was developed. This program resulted in the consolidation of
NCARTT with a permanent statute and good management, and the development of a well thought-out
research strategy. Financing for research has been increased and ASTSUP is providing some support
to research management, focused on upgrading NCARTT's adaptive research capacity by funding
degree training in priority areas for its staff and by funding the establishment of a management
information system.
75.   Extension. The Government agricultural extension service was found to be small and weak.
Government was to develop an extension strategy, which has been done (1997), and GTZ and the
Bank are providing modest support under ASTSUP, including for a pilot extension program. Bank
support focused on providing training in extension methodology, marketing extension and
communications skills for male and female extension staff.
76.   Agricultural Credit. The Agriculture Credit Cooperation (ACC) was appraised as having the
potential to be a well-run institution but was suffering from Government intervention. Government
was proposing a new policy that would convert ACC into a deposit-taking institution and bring it
under Central Bank supervision, and to revise ACC's charter to ensure its autonomy. ACC had
developed a loan recovery plan. Studies and technical assistance were proposed to help implement
this program, including a proposal for an IDF grant, but this was later rejected by Bank management.
The agenda has recently been revived through a study carried out under ERDL, and Government is
again seeking financing to provide some technical assistance to the development of ACC into a
broader-based institution.
77.   Cooperatives. The cooperative movement, despite a promising early start, had been sapped
by Government control and subsidy. Although not specifically mentioned in the Letter of Sector
Policy, it was agreed at appraisal that Government would develop a policy statement and restructuring
proposal for the cooperative movement that would separate regulatory and implementation functions
and lay the foundations for the revival of a bottom-up cooperative movement. The Bank sent a
mission to help write up this proposal. In May 1997, Government had passed new legislation on
cooperatives and restructuring was underway.
V. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
78.   The key factor in sustainability is the Government's commitment to the program, and there
is evidence of such a commitment. With improved macroeconomic stability, Jordan has succeeded
in following an effective stabilization and adjustment path. The "Agriculture Policy Charter,"



22                                                      Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
which was adopted by the Council of Ministers, sets out Government policy of liberalized private
sector development in agriculture and defines a narrow scope for Government intervention in the
provision of services. MOA has embarked on a change process designed to adopt it to its new
strategic role. There is high likelihood that the achievement of ASAL would be maintained.
79.   Jordan is going through rapid economic and political transition and it was correctly
recognized in the President's Report that this, compounded with the volatile regional situation,
created risks to the sustainability of the adjustment program. Underpinning any sustainability has
to be an essential macroeconomic stability; it will be evident from the discussion in Chapter II that
Jordan has succeeded in following the stabilization and adjustment path to date. Risk of any
derailment at this stage is consequently very small indeed.
80.   A second set of risks, again correctly identified in the President's Report, are the social and
political risks that could arise with the application of new relative prices and the reduction of
vested interests. Here, Government's strategy has been twofold. First, adjustment has not only
costs but benefits, and under ASAL the costs to, say, banana farmers arising from lower priced
banana imports have been matched against the benefits accruing to the much larger - if less vocal -
constituency of banana consumers happy to get a better quality product at a lower price. This
strategy has by and large been successful under ASAL, with two exceptions. The first and most
worrying is the possible impact on livestock producers of the phase out of subsidies, which may
have created some impoverishment amongst the vulnerable Bedouin group.  In this case,
Government is right to be concerned and intervention under the safety net is a priority. This
negative impact is suggested by field work undertaken by the MOA impact monitoring program in
mid 1996. However, the result is not yet confirmed by the data (see Part B above) and MOA is
concentrating on confirming or otherwise this possibility. The second case is that the Jordan
Valley irrigation farmers, where ultimately Government's assessment of the risk led it to request a
waiver of the condition. Nonetheless, indications are that the progress made with the "ratchet" is
irreversible, and that as soon as market conditions improve Government intends to continue along
the path it has traced out.
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
81.   In many ways, ASAL represents good practice of Bank handling of sectoral adjustment.
There was close coordination with the Government and donors in the design of the program.
Supervision missions were frequent. Staff continuity was a strong plus and staff performnance was
good throughout, with appropriate skill mix. Other positive features include: (i) the integration of
the ASAL within a broader stabilization and adjustment framework; (ii) the origins of the ASAL in
joint sector analysis by Jordan and the Bank; and (iii) the linking of the natural resource
management issues with the production and trade issues to create a complementary package of
intersectoral measures. On the negative side are: (i) the relatively high cost of preparation; (ii) the
complexity of the operation; and (iii) the over-optimistic expectations with respect to achieving
quantifiable results upon closing of its loan.
82.   Some of the intentions of the Bank were never fulfilled but this represents reasonable
flexibility rather than a fault. For example, the President's Report had proposed that a full mid-



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                            23
term review of the adjustment experience in the water sector should be carried out prior to second
tranche release. In the event, the Bank was pursuing an intensive dialogue with Government on
water in the context of sector work and the future lending program, so that quite reasonably the
Bank decided that it was not necessary to mount a separate mid-term review for ASAL alone.
VII. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
83.   Borrower ownership was strong (see above) and much of the analytic work was carried out
either by the Borrower or jointly. At the technical level, staff continuity and commitment was
excellent throughout. At the decision-making level, problems emerged with the very frequent
change of ministers that is a fact of Jordanian life. Between identification in 1993 and completion
in 1997, the Bank dealt with seven different Ministers of Agriculture, three different Ministers of
Planning and four different Ministers of Water and Irrigation (these three ministries constituted the
inner circle for the ASAL). Much time was expended in reviewing the analytic work and in
developing a mutual understanding with each successive office holder.
84.  In implementation, Borrower performance was good. A coordination committee was set up
to act as the counterpart of supervision missions and to oversee implementation of the measures.
The Ministry of Planning was effective in securing this coordination.
VIII. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
85.   Overall, the reform program has effected a substantial adjustment in the agriculture and
water sectors. In the agriculture sector, Government intervention during the period of the program
has dwindled, and the trade and incentive framework now contains few distortions. There is little
that remains to be done on the agricultural policy front. There is, however, still need for institution
building to improve the availability of services both in the private and the public sectors, and some
discrete promotion of private sector export marketing. These actions are to be supported under
projects currently being prepared for IFC and Bank support.
86.  In the water sector, the program has contributed substantially to improving policy and
management of the nation's scarcest resource. The policy agenda is not yet complete, particularly
the key question of water pricing. Government is adopting an alternative program for irrigation
water pricing that would eventually transfer responsibility for the operation and maintenance of
irrigation schemes to beneficiaries.
87.   Reforms in the water and agricultural sector are part of the Government's structural
adjustment program, the full impact of which will take time to read. The early signs of impact
overall, are, however, positive. Some tentative early results are discussed below.



24                                                    Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
Impact Monitoring and Evaluation
88.  In the design of ASAL, attention was paid to impact monitoring both in order to prepare the
case for evaluation and to allow adjustment of policies in case of need. MOA, with GTZ support,
set up a unit for impact monitoring which is working effectively. However, the time scale required
for monitoring is a number of years and to date, very little data have been published. ASAL
impacts were expected to occur in many ways. First, there was expected to be a beneficialfiscal
impact; this has occurred (see below). Second, consumer prices were expected to fall; there is little
evidence on this so far and effects will need monitoring over the longer-term (see below). Third,
employment impacts were expected to be neutral; again there are no data available yet (see below).
Fourth, the elimination of subsidies and the liberalization were expected to reduce incentives to
produce some crops and increase incentives for others, changing production patterns and --
possibly-- having some differential impact on incomes; from the scant evidence available, if
appears that there is some switch towards more water-efficient and higher-value crops, while there
are not yet any monitoring data on income impacts except for some farm budget work suggesting
improved incentives to water conservation (see below).
Fiscal Impact
89.   Adjustments supported under the ASAL were expected to result in a reduction of the fiscal
deficit by around JD 20 million per annum (0.6 percent of GDP) as follows: (i) direct producer and
input subsidies, amounting to an estimated JD 10.2 million in 1992, would be eliminated; (ii) full
recovery of irrigation O&M costs in the Jordan Valley would generate an additional JD 3.0 million
annually; (iii) the replacement of QRs by tariffs, and the reduction of tariffs and surcharges to a
production-weighted average maximum of 30 percent, would raise net customs revenue, estimated
at about JD 3.7 million per annum; and (iv) the divestiture of AMPCO would save Government
around JD 3.0 million annually in subsidy transfers, in addition to a one-time revenue from the
proceeds from the company's divestiture. These targets have been achieved, except that the
recovery of irrigation O&M costs is only about 60% of the anticipated level, as the second round
of increases was never made.
Other Economic Impacts
90.   Trade liberalization and the dismantling of monopolies were expected to have a positive
impact on consumers as most prices were expected to fall. The actual outcome has been mixed,
with the price of vegetables dropping considerably, whilst the price of cereals rose steeply in 1996
in line with rising world prices. However, the time series since adjustment is too short to draw
conclusions and monitoring over a more extended period is recommended. The employment
impact was expected to be neutral, but no data are yet available.
Impact on Production and Producer Incomes
91.   Prior to appraisal, KfW (ASAL cofinancier) prepared a study of the expected impacts of
ASAL adjustment measures on farm incomes. The study showed that income losses could affect
all farmers to some extent as subsidies were phased out and barriers to imports were lifted, but that



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                             25
these effects could be compensated for many farmers by new market opportunities, cropping
pattern changes and productivity increases.  The President's Report discussed how ASAL
responded to this analysis by both sequencing and support measures. Measures that would have an
impact on the poorest (particularly the livestock producers) were phased, and the majority of
support in the ASTSUP was designed to focus on production systems where there is potential for
income increases, with priority to poorer producers.
92.   Regarding production, only 1995 data are yet available. These data show a sharp increase
in vegetable output which suggests that producers are taking advantage of new market
opportunities. This - and a possible early response to the 1995 rise in water charges - is confirmed
by the pattern for individual crops, with the high-value, water-efficient crops like aubergine and
cucumber doubling in output during 1994-95, whilst production of less water efficient crops like
tomatoes stagnated, and production of the water-intensive melon fell 30%. The livestock figures
do not yet show any response to adjustment - the key increase in feed price came only in 1996.
93.   On the income side, there are no data yet at the microeconomic level. Movement of the
Amman wholesale price index during 1994-96 would suggest that livestock producers have not
suffered a drop in incomes and fruit and vegetable producers may have been able to recoup price
decreases through increased output and exports, and changing the crop mix to higher value crops.
However, only monitoring over a longer period will reveal the nature and scale of income impacts.
Impact on On-Farm Water Management
94.  It was expected that the increase in the price of irrigation water under ASAL would have a
beneficial impact on water management, especially as the block tariff system would entail heavy
water users paying up to 35 fils/m3 for their water (six times the previous tariff). Calculations
based on a sample survey at the farm level in 1996 suggest that farmers growing water-efficient
crops under modern systems have seen little change in their gross margin from the rise in water
charge (for strawberries or cucumbers in plastic houses there has been less than a 1% decrease in
gross margin). By contrast, farmers growing bananas or squash (heavy water users) have seen
their gross margins drop by 10-20%. These findings are confirmed by evident investment of many
farmers in more water efficient technology, and a move amongst the top farmers to a very "hi-
tech" water conserving system of production.
Poverty
95.   Overall, the impact of ASAL on the poor was expected to be beneficial as poor consumers
would benefit from lower prices under trade liberalization. As stated above, monitoring of several
years will be necessary to establish patterns. In 1996, there was an increase in the consumer price
of cereals, but this was due to the increase in world prices and was unrelated to ASAL.
96.   Several other elements in the ASAL program had an explicitly "pro-poor" objective of
helping poorer farmers. Under the irrigation cost recovery program, an increasing block tariff



26                                                    Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
system was to be used to provide a minimum water allocation to poorer farmers at a reasonable
basic rate. This was successfully introduced, with the result that only the larger farmers or those
growing water-inefficient crops are paying the high rates. The research and extension strategies
adopted under ASAL and supported under ASTAP have an explicit mandate to concentrate on the
production systems of the poorer farmers. In addition, the proposed monitoring program was to
provide Government with information on any emerging unforeseen problem. This program has
been successfully set up by MOA, with GTZ support, and it has begun to publish and disseminate
findings about the impact of adjustment. However, a longer time span will be needed for
significant results to emerge.
97.  It was also assumed that some farmers faced with reduced incomes from farming might fall
temporarily or chronically below the poverty line, although the number of farmers facing this
eventuality was not expected to be great. There are no data yet to confirm any such outcome.
However, the MOA monitoring program has flagged the marginal livestock farmer as being "at
risk," as the phasing out of the feed subsidy coincided with a rapid increases in world barley prices
in 1996. World prices are now abating, but Government is nonetheless considering some
transitional support to these marginal farmers whilst they adjust their production systems.
Impact on Water Resources
98.   ASAL was designed to promote a long-term process of gaining control over Jordan's scarce
water resources, with the major benefits coming from the program of institutional, regulatory and
management reforms. Benefits are likely to accrue mainly in the medium to long term and are
difficult to assess at this stage. However, full utilization of existing diversion capacity between the
Valley and the Highlands is now providing an extra 20 mcm annually for municipal use (an
increase of about 10 percent in national availability for municipal use); this has an immediate
economic benefit estimated at about JD 8 million per year. The impact of other ASAL
achievements like prioritization of investments in new supply and the progress on demand
management are also likely to have large benefits but these are difficult to quantify. Nevertheless,
reallocation of both renewable and fossil groundwater to municipal and industrial use potentially
has a very high return, given the likely high value added in these sectors.
Environmental Impact
99.   Environmental impact was expected to be beneficial. Water sector measures were expected
to improve the ability to conserve water resources and to monitor and manage water. The pressure
on farming profitability was expected to reduce incentives for over-pumping groundwater in the
Highlands and this, combined with stronger regulation, would help reduce over-exploitation of
groundwater. Elimination of producer subsidies for cereals was expected to remove one of the
primary factors encouraging conversion of rangeland to unsustainable forms of agriculture. It was
thought that removal of feed subsidies might, in the short term, put increased pressure temporarily
on the range but that it would, in the medium term, cause a reduction of livestock populations and
hence of overgrazing of the rangeland.



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                             27
100.  There is scant empirical data available yet to bear out these expectations. However, the
MOA monitoring program intends to focus on impacts on livestock systems and on the rangeland
in its 1997 programs, so data may be available within twelve months. On two provisions,
expectations cannot have been fulfilled as the measures were never undertaken - amendment of
land tenure provisions for rangeland, and action on the pesticide regulatory framework.
Rating
101.  Overall, the outcome of the ASAL is rated as follows:
Outcome                 :     Satisfactory
Sustainability          :     Likely
Institutional Development  :  Modest
Bank Performance        .     Satisfactory
Borrower Performance    :     Satisfactory
IX. FUTURE OPERATIONS
102. The new policy framework following the ASAL adjustments is well set out in
Government's own-recently published Water Strategy and Agricultural Policy Charter. Although
no further adjustment operation in the water and agriculture sectors is envisaged, many of the
policy changes effected will be put into practice in a series of follow-up operations. The integrated
approach to water resources management and the involvement of private management in urban
water will be supported under the proposed Amman Water Supply Project (proposed for Bank
financing). Association of private capital is proposed on a BOT basis in a wastewater treatment
project (also proposed for Bank financing). Development of agricultural export markets is
envisaged under a project now being prepared for Bank financing.  Support to efficiency
improvements in Jordan Valley irrigation and to reinforcement of water management institutions
may also be provided under a new Bank-financed operation.
X. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
103.  Overall, ASAL effected a substantial adjustment in the water and agriculture sectors. In the
water sector, ASAL contributed substantially to improving policy and management of the nation's
scarcest resource. The policy agenda is, however, not yet complete, particularly the key question
of water pricing. Government is adopting an alternative program for irrigation water pricing that
could eventually transfer responsibility for the operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes to
beneficiaries. In the agriculture sector, Government intervention during the period of the program
has dwindled, and the trade and incentive framework now contains few distortions. There is little
that remains to be done on the agricultural policy front. There is, however, still need for institution
building to improve the availability of quality services both in the private and the public sectors,



28                                                           Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
and for some discrete promotion of private sector export marketing. These actions are to be
supported under projects currently being prepared for IFC and Bank support.
104. The principal lessons to be learned from ASAL can be summarized as follows:
(a)   in a water-scarce economy like Jordan, the linkage of adjustments in agricultural policy
to adjustments in water sector policy is an essential one. This linkage has, however,
not only positive aspects (e.g., market liberalization permitting and encouraging water
conservation measures) but also less positive ones (e.g., where market outlets fail to
develop, it may be difficult to pursue demand management for water conservation
through increases in water charges);
(b)   where demand management through water tariff increase is problematic, there can be
alternative measures (such as handing over to farmers some of the responsibilities and
costs) that contribute to the same objective;
(c)   sector operations should be as simple as possible, while consistent with achieving their
goals. Several of the components that were "added on" to ASAL via the Letter of
Sector Policy were not really successfully implemented and ASAL did not influence
their outcome in any way. It would have been better to have heeded advice given
during preparation by several reviewers that the operation be simplified. In particular,
the ambitious program of institutional development would have been better supported
through a project than through a policy-based loan;
(d)   it is important to build on national ownership and to involve cofinanciers throughout.
The origins of ASAL in joint work and shared analysis led to a high degree of
ownership of even politically difficult measures and even in the fast-changing
environment that has characterized the country and the region in recent years;
(e)   monitoring and evaluation of adjustment is a long-term affair, and it is a mistake to
expect quick results as was the case during appraisal; and
(f)  thorough preparation is a good investment, as implementation is correspondingly
smoother. The Bank and Government invested large resources in preparation, but
implementation required far less attention.



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                  29
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln. 3817-JO)
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessment
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated
and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Economic Indicators
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources; Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions






30                                                                            Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln. 3817-JO)
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A. Achievemnent Objectives fbsantalPartial                                                            Not alicable
(V)                (if)                (7 )                 ()
Macro Policies                             1                  0                    0                    0
Sector Policies                            10                                      0                    0
Financial Objectives                       0                   /                   0                    0
Institutional Development                  0                  /                    0                    0
Physical Objectives                        0                  0                    0                   (I,)
Poverty Reduction                          0                  0                    0                   (V)
Gender Issues                              0                  0                    0                   (i)
Other Social Objectives                    0                  0                    0                   (i)
Enviromnental Objectives                   0                  0                    0                    0
Public Sector Management                   0                  1                    0                    O
Private Sector Development                 0                  10                                        0
Other (specify)                            0                  0                    0                    0
B. Proiect Sustainabilitv                     Lielv                        Unlikely                       Uncerain
(V)                           (if)                          (V)
1                      0~~~~~~~~1                     0
C. Bank Performance                            satisfar-toa               Satisf&ctl                       Deficient
(if)                         (if)                          (V)
Identification                             0                             1                              0
Preparation Assistance                     0                             1                              0
Appraisal                                  0                             1                              0
Supervision                                0                             1                              0
Highlv
D.  Boffower Performance                               satisjv Satisfatrv                     Deficient
(if)              (if)               (i)
Preparation                                            0                 1                  0
Implementation                                         O                                    O
Covenant Compliance                                    0                 1                  O
Operation (if applicable)                              0                 0                  0
Higb&                                     h1v
E. Assessment of Outcome                     395w       -1          nasfKaa   m          ha=
(i)       (i)      (i)                 (i)
0          /   0                       0



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                                   31
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln. 3817-JO)
Table 2. Related Bank Loans
Loan TitlePrps                                                             erftau
Preceding operations
1. Agriculture Sector Technical Support   Support the implementation of the Agricultural  1994        Ongoing
Project (Ln. 3817-JO).              Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) by
rehabilitating farm turnouts and installing water
meters and other water control devices in both
the Jordan Valley and on wells in the Jordan
Highlands to enable surface and groundwater
measurement and management. The project is
also to strengthen research and extension
capacities to support poorer farmers under
adjustment, and to build monitoring capacity to
track the impacts of adjustment.
2. Trade Adjustment (Ln. 3142-JO)      Structural transformation of the economy by      1990           Closed
stimulating export-oriented growth.
3. Emergency Recovery (Ln. 3306-JO)    Meet immediate needs for essential social        1991           Closed
services and infrastructure as a result of the Gulf
crisis.
4. Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln.    Restructure the energy sector                  1994         Disbursing
3651-JO)
Folowing operations
5. Export Development (Ln. 3993-JO)    Assist Government's Export Development           1996         Disbursing
program aimed at building Jordan's export
competitiveness and increasing export revenues.
6. Economic Reform and Development    Support broad-based policy and institutional      1997          Disbursed
Loan 11 (Ln. 4115-JO)                  reforms with respect to the financial sector,
privatization, trade and the regulatory
framework.
Includes projects in the same sector/subsector as this project and adjustment operations with related objectives. A limit of
10 years is observed when listing preceding operations.



32                                                          Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln. 3817J0)
Table 3. Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned           Date Aitual
I....                                                  :: ::         LbatetEsimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                         April 1993
Preparation                                   June 1993            December 1993
Appraisal                                     March 1994           April 1994
Negotiations                                  May 1994             August/September 1994
Letter of Sector Policy                                           October 27, 1994
Board Presentation                            July 1994            December 8, 1994
Signing                                                            December 19, 1994
Effectiveness                                 January 1995         May 19, 1995
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                             May 19, 1995
Second Tranche Release                        April 1, 1996       May 13, 1997
Project Completion
Loan Closing                                  December 31, 1996   April 30, 1997
Table 4. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS millions)
| ~~~~~.            .      ,   :.. . , .  .   .   .   -.  .   .   . . ..
FY95        P  6' : i 97
Appraisal Estimate                                50          80           80
Actual                                            50          50           80
Actual as % of Estimate                           100%        62%          100%
Date of Final Disbursement                        May 13, 1997



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                              33
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln. 381740)
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Agreed Actions                                  Situation
4I-d
-V$Objetive: Main     *a $suprtiVe mo  roecOnomic: famework and externalnaning.'A    I
Maintain the macro-economic framework        The macroeconomic framework is satisfactory.
including satisfactory progress with external
financing plan.
Oh00ctlvc: 0-SuLpportthe trasition to an optimal luse*ofwaterl ad land resour l;s.
Adopt an agreed water policy framework       The framework was adopted in 1994. MWI has since
published a national Water Strategy.
Conduct a study of water institutions and identify   The study has been completed and an agreed
areas for change. Agree institutional changes and  reorganization plan is under implementation.
the action plan for their implementation.
Restrict issue of groundwater licenses to high  WAJ Board adopted policy and WAJ has supplied a table
priority industrial, tourism and university projects  showing licenses issued during 1995/96 in compliance
with adequate utilization plans.             with this agreement.
Agree on a policy to enforce volumetric metering    Under the agreed policy, installation of well meters
and control of all water production, supply and  reached 78% at end 1996. Government is implementing
usage. Make satisfactory progress in         the basin protection plans and is closing down illegal
implementing basin management plans          wells.
countrywide, based on the agreed policy.
Announce and implement an agreed program to    Tariff increase to 15 fils was effective from February
cover operation and maintenance costs ofJordan   1995. Government requested a waiver of the second
Valley irrigation water, including increases in the  increase to 25 fils and this was approved by the Bank
weighted average tarif to at least 15 fls/rm3  Board in April 1997.
(1995) and 25fils/m3 (f996).
Eliminate cereals cropping at Disi or reduce  Extraction is to be reduced by 28% in 1997.
groundwater extraction at Disi by 25% below
1993 levels.
Review rangeland tenure and adopt new        Not done.
regulations.
Implement new regulatory framework for       Not done.
pesticides.



34                                                             Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
Agreed Actions                                  Situation
Objective: Improve the incentive structure through liberalization and so promote development of markets,
Including internal and external markets in agricultural produce, and mirkets in land and transport.
Eliminate the procurement subsidy on         Subsidies were eliminated in 1995.
domestically produced cereals.
Eliminate livestockfeedprice subsidy. Adopt plan   Subsidies were eliminated in 1995 and public barley (and
for withdrawal ofpublic sectorfrom barley trade,   wheat) imports were eliminated in May 1997.
including 20% reduction in public sector barley
importsfor 1995 (60% in 1996) and elimination
in 1997.
Repeal official tomato procurement price.    Official tomato procurement price was abolished as of Jan.
1, 1995.
Remove controls on prices and margins of major    Controls were removed, except on fresh fruit and vegetables,
fresh and processed agricultural commodities.    in 1995. Controls on fruit and vegetables were removed in
April 1997.
Eliminate import monopolies and import and   Monopolies, QRs and import licenses have been removed.
export restrictionsfor agricultural produce and
for packaging materials, and move to a tariff-
based system, so that production-weighted
average tariff would not exceed 30%.
Study, agree and make satisfactory progress in  Plan has been agreed. AMPCO has sold its non-performing
divestiture ofAMPCO.                         assets and is concentrating on the tomato processing activity.
The company will be privatized before the end of 1998.
Submit an amendment to the JVA law to extend  The amendment has been submitted to parliament.
the maximum lease period in the Jordan Valley to
promote long-term investment.
Allow other companies to compete in airfreight    Done.
and airfreight handling on an equal basis with
RJ.
Objective: Define the strategic role of Government in the agriculture sector and ensure that private and
public services to the sector are delivered efficiently.
Adopt Agriculture Policy Charter.            The approved Charter was published in November 1996.
Adopt a program of institutional reorganization  With GTZ and USAID support, MOA is undertaking
and change.                                  internal change process.
Adopt strategy.for research. Prepare a strategy  Research strategy has been adopted and is under
for extension.                               implementation. Extension strategy has been prepared with
GTZ support.
Adopt and implement a policy statement, charter    An IDF grant is financing a study on ACC and on broader
and loan recovery planfor ACC.               questions of rural finance. Government has prepared a draft
restructuring plan for ACC.
Adopt and implement a policy statement and   JCO has been abolished and a small new unit created to play
restructuring program for the cooperative    Government's role in cooperative supervision. Restructuring
movement.                                    of the cooperative movement is underway.



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                                35
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln. 3817-JO)
Table 6. Key Economic Indicators
1995    1"996    199     1995     1996
GDP (million, current US$)                                      6854    7560   6013    6645    7267
GDP Growth Rate (%)                                               6.2      6.1    8.1      6.9     5.2
Domestic Inflation                                                4.3      4.0    2.2      3.6     5.1
ICOR                                                             4.9       49     4.2     4.8      6.1
Investment (percent of GDP)                                      26.0    26.2   33.1    31.8    33.4
Consumption (percent of GDP)                                     94.4    92.3   89.6    88.2    87.9
Gross Domestic Savings (percent of GDP)                           5.6      7.7   10.4    11.8    12.1
Gross National Savings (percent of GDP)                          16.2    17.9   27.9    29.4    31.8
Current Account Balance, excl. grants (percent of GDP)           -9.8    -8.3  -12.0    -8.8    -8.9
Government Revenues, excl. grants (percent of GDP)               31.2    30.6   29.7    31.0    29.0
Government Expenditures (percent of GDP)                         35.7    34.7   35.9    36.3    33.7
Budget Deficit (minus, excl. grants) (percent of GDP)            -4.6    -4.1   -6.1    -5.3    -4.6
Memo items:
Real Export Growth Rate (Goods and Services)                      6.1      8.3    1.2    10.9      6.6
Merchandise (FOB)                                              7.0      9.9    7.8    16.8       6.8
Non-traditional goods                                       7.3     10.6   11.3    22.5       9.7
Real Import Growth Rate (Goods and Services)                      1.6      6.2   -5.5      5.6     7.2
Merchandise (CIF)                                              2.5      7.5   -7.6      3.4      7.6
Debt/GDP Ratio (percentage)                                     105.8    96.1  114.5   104.6    97.4
Debt Service/Exports goods, services, workers' remit. (percentage)  15.3    14.2   12.1    13.3    13.0
2 Estimate



36                                                               Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln. 381740)
Table 7. Studies Included in Project
... . .                                                                                       .   .   .    .   :::.. .-.
- Stuidy    . -       Purpose as Defined            Status                Impact of Study
at Appraisal/Redefined  :
1. Study on Options for    To recommend best option        Completed         Substantial divestiture of
Divestiture for       for divestiture of AMPCO's                          AMPCO facilities achieved.
AMPCO                 assets and operations and for
preparation for sale of core
business to private sector.
2. Structural Adjustment   To provide support with         Completed         Study contributed to
and Policy Support    water sector restructuring to                       organizational change to
Project - Water: Jordan   Jordan's Ministry of Water                      improve institutional
and Irrigation.                                     effectiveness.
3. Farmer Perceptions,   To develop a qualitative          Underway          Methodology has been defmed
and their reactions to    impact monitoring approach                      and monitoring has begun. A
structural changes in  of agricultural policies in                        publication in December 1996
agriculture           Jordan.                                             of preliminary findings
received broad distribution. A
summary of findings is
annexed to the ICR. The
monitoring project continues.
4. Qualitative Impact    To gauge micro-economic           Underway          Idem
Monitoring of ASAL    response to ASAL.
(Humboldt University)



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                           37
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln. 3817J0)
Table SA. Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (IJSSM)                 AchlQt EawUSSM)
l.ocal       l-oreign      lotal         Loctal         Foreign            rtail
1. IDA               0             80           80            0               80               80
2. KfW               0             20           20             0              20               20
TOTAL               0            100           100            0              100              100
Table 8B. Project Financing
Apprisal Estiman (US$M       |      >            r                )      _
Local      Foreign     Total       Local          Foreign           Total
Source             Costs       Costs                   Costs          Costs
IDA                           0          80          80          0               80              80
Government of Germany
(through KfW)                 0          20          20          0               20              20
TOTAL                        0          100        100          0              100              100
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.



38                                                                                                                          Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln. 381740)
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Agmrnt         Saton    tCovenat    Prest    Original           Revsed                                   Desciption of                                   C.m.nenCs
Type       Stats    Fuffillment   Fulfilment                                   Covenant
Date         Da    .
Loan         3.01(a)           9           C                                The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,  Complied with.
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.01(b)           9          C                                 Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its    Complied with.
review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
3.01(cXi)       9, 10        C                                 Without limitation to foregoing & to Borrower's obligations under Section 9.07 of the  Complied with.
General Conditions, commencing 6 months after effective date of this Agreement the
Borrower shall: (i) cause Min. of Planning to submit semi-annual reports conceming
implementation of Program in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
3.01(cXii)        9          C                                 (ii) cause the Min. of Agriculture to submit semi-annual reports concerning trends in   Complied with.
production, resource use, incomes, employment and prices through household surveys
and case studies.
3.02              3          C                                 Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out  Complied with.
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be govemed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
3.03(a)           I          C                                The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate  Complied with.
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
3.03(bXi)         I          C                                 The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of    Complied with.
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
3.03(bXii)        I          C                                 (ii) fumish to Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after  Complied with.
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                                                                                               39
3.03(bXiii)       I          C                                 (iii) fumish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and accounts   Complied with.
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request
3.03(cXi)         I          C                                 For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account were    Complied with.
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain or
cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures/
3.03(cXii)        I                                           (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the  Complied with.
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents or customs certificates,
as appropriate) evidencing such expenditures;
3.03(cXiii)       I          C                                 (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and      Complied with.
3.03(cXiv)        I          C                                 (iv) ensure that such records & accounts are included in annual audits referred to in  Complied with.
paragraph (b) of this Section and that report of such audit contains separate opinion by
said auditors as to whether statements of expenditures submitted during such fiscal
year, together with procedures and intemal controls involved in their preparation, can
be relied upon to support related withdrawals.
Covenant types:
I =  Accounts/audits
2  =  Financial performance/revenue generation      8  = Indigenous people
from beneficiaries                           9  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
3  =  Flow and utilization of project funds        10  = Project implementation not covered by
4  =  Counterpart funding                                categories 1-9
5  =  Management aspects of the project or         11  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
executing agency                                   other resource allocation
6  =  Environmental covenants                      12  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
7  =  Involuntary resettlement                           regulatory/institutional action
13  = Other
Present Status:
C     =      Covenant complied with
CD   =       Complied with after delay
CP   =       Complied with partially
NC   =       Not complied with



40                                                                            Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln. 3817-JO)
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
-      ~~Statement Nwnber and Title       . Describi and Commeint on Lack of Cornpfiance-
(No significant lack of compliance)
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                  Actual
Stage of Project Cycle          .                      ::-- -     -_:
Weeks    USS   :Weeks  -. $UW000s:o...
Preparation to Appraisal                                              255.7           708.9
Appraisal-Board                                                        20.9            80.5
Negotiations through Board Approval                                    19.3            67.3
Supervision                                                            33.6           154.3
Completion                                                              4.0            12.3
TOTAL                                                                333.5         1,023.3



Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                                                                                            41
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln. 381740)
Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions
St i-0;  Sof ;t 0 0  .MonW  Ni . .f00  Days ju tin0000   SMecializetDSt ffSklls  I eettDvlopen                         T f'.p
C:Ptjedct Cyle     SYa         Pei!i: sns iV  iField; :-iEiVepredsente    Etatus                         P  blom         Pile
Preparation     Feb-Mar.          7           17       Task Manager, Water
1993                                  Specialist, Sector
Economist, Agriculturist,
Credit Specialist,
Marketing Specialist,
Livestock Specialist
Preparation     June-July         3           22       Task Manager, Sector
1993                                  Economist, Marketing
Specialist
Pre-appraisal   Dec. 1993         14          17       Task Manager, Sector
Economist, Irrigation
Engineer, 2 Water
Specialists, Credit
Specialist, Livestock
Specialist, Agriculturist,
Extension Specialist,
Coop. Specialist, 2
Envrn. Specialists
Appraisal       April 1994        5           16       Task Manager, Sector
Economist, 2 Water
Specialists, Marketing
Specialist
Appraisal to    Apr.-Dec.         7                    Task Manager, Sector
Board            1994                                  Economist, Lawyer,
2 Water Specialists,
Irrigation Engineer
Board to        Dec. 94-          7                    Task Manager,
Effectiveness   May 1995                               Sector Economist,
Lawyer, 2 Water
Specialists, Irrigation
Engineer
Supervision     May 1995          1           10       Task Manager
(post
effectiveness)
Aug. 1995        1           10       Task Manager
Feb. 1996        1           10       Task Manager
June 1996        1           10       Task Manager
Completion      May 1997          1           10       Task Manager



- 42 -
Appedix A
THE HASHEMITE INGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln. 381740)
No Aide-Memoire was prepared. Minutes of the Meeting were prepared for the meeting
dated May 31,1997, which reviewed the draft ICR. The Minutes containing the Borrower's
comments are included in Appendix B.






- 43 -
Appexndi B
Page 1 of 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln. 381740)
REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Minutes of Meeting to Discuss the Draft Implementation Completion Report (May 21, 1997)
1.    A meeting was held at the Ministry of Planning on May 21, 1997 to discuss the draft
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) submitted by the World Bank. It was agreed that
comments made in the meeting would be taken into account when the report is finalized for
presentation to the World Bank Board, and that Government would submit any further comments for
Part II of the ICR by May 31, 1997.
2.    The meeting was attended by Mr. Mustafa Zahran (Chairman), Dr. Faisal Abboud Salem
(MWI), Dr. Nejdawi (MOA), Dr. Walid Abdo Rabboh (MOA), Dr. Gunter Feiler (MOA) and
Mr. Christopher Ward (World Bank).
Comments on the Draft
3.    The changed relationship with the Gulf countries should be stated in Chapter II. The
sections dealing with the water program should be brought into line with the changes recently agreed
to be incorporated into the Grey Cover Water Strategy report, and the recent progress made in the
water sector should be recorded, notably: the adoption and publication of the National Water
Strategy, and the development of an investment program for the sector.
4.    The role of IVA in the socio-economic development of the Jordan Valley should be
underlined in Chapter IV. The impact of population pressure and growing urban use on water
demand should be mentioned in Chapter IV as contributing to the institutional challenge of sector
management. Government's interest in a capacity building program for water institutions should be
mentioned in Chapter IV. Government's recent decision to increase urban water tariffs should be
mentioned in Chapter IV. References to the willingness-to-pay study for urban water should be
deleted, as this was a summary exercise that is to be repeated in more depth shortly. Chapter IV



- 44 -
Apped
Page 2 of 2
should mention that the capacity of Deir-Alla-Amman pipeline is to be increased to 90 mcm. It
should be mentioned in Chapter IV that Government is currently revising the Jordan Valley O&M
cost study, on USAID financing.
5.    References to reactions to the rise in Jordan Valley tariffs should specify that this response
was raised by concerned farmers from the valley.
6.    The paragraph dealing with changes in pesticide practice should deal with the substantial
beneficial change and progress effected under the IPM project, which has reduced pesticide use and
increased protection for many farmers.
7.    Reference to market development under ASTAP should note that USAID was a long-time
supporter of the sector (long bef7ore ASTAP), and that USAID and GTZ support to AMO was not
necessarily a second best alternative to supporting an export marketing company.
8.    Regarding institutional change in the Ministry of Agriculture, whilst the slow progress made
is recognized, mention should be made of the Government-wide effort to improve civil service
performance.
9.    Regarding the cooperative sector, mention should be made of the recent cooperative law, and
of Government's on-going program to help restructure the movement.
10.   In Chapter V, the demand management program of JVA should be evaluated in more detail,
as this is a positive achievement. In the same chapter, the achievement of JVA in achieving higher
cost recovery should be mentioned, and the sharp increase on the cost side stemming from the rising
energy prices should be spelled out. Regarding impacts on natural resources, impact on range should
be dealt with, and MOA will provide details of this.
11.   On the impact of market liberalization, it should be mentioned that: Government has already
withdrawn from the cereals trade; and that although some consumer prices may have dropped, some
may have risen. To the extent that these are prices of products consumed by the poor (e.g., cereals),
this may have had an adverse poverty impact. MOA will provide details.
12.   It should be made clear that the IFC-supported private export company and the proposed
Bank-supported agricultural export project are quite independent.
13.   The treatment of the weaknesses of the concept and implementation of an integrated ASTAP
program in Chapter V needs to be made clearer. In Chapter V, it should be spelled out that although
imported bananas were better quality and their import drove down the inflated price of the local
product, the imports were not necessarily cheaper.
14.   In the section on monitoring, it should be made clear that a long lead time (up to three years)
had been found to be necessary before such a system could begin to generate useful data.



MAP SECTION
.>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






IL
A AN!
P~~p~-d E~,ves ndWag
Updflot.ad 1- a)d, Aed
D -         -d F:rn,al- Rnundnna -
a   a   On9 T-t- Po 50.m       nosI
',                                                Th   bonan, W.Ins   4.onnao   an _n   o d   .
~~,Aqsbs                                   -                                         slsao#o on A. na so nro 0* , N* pan of J Oal Rnn D A N
+  / w; S rs 1 / z qe        \\\            \           t~ P-p.
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. !.. B-6iok ro
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 1  .  I CUa.
{  |  ha?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                          Colab } rpodE
f;\    {&t,,,    >  <  4/                       _      _   Doms on~~~~~~~.-, d Wlod.,t io  om
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ufw '. W.d B\\(.s/c   C&er
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I b-d,, .1 d .' ..,,,-d
!,20 / < ,0. ., ,,,,............................................                 lb.   Th., ,7






B                                                                                                                                                   4<w r-f                          Sr' i     
D /                                                                /                              k               JC                 S.\                           C:,/
t:y-} wk . :D'-    ,
kh b W0R                                                                                                                                   T            IN THE
g                                                                      0        2          4         0 661                                             0         2              b5E
('I f                 E $                                                                       I_
xW it: S * + / ~~~~~~~JORDAN VLE
_                                  t/                                                             \           /                                     f *ElIn  rew
p 1 qroq i, \A-mb  . Idw rwfi
2     *) J \ t M * w* _ i slwmD..oly
fi   $  \,  ;  t { < ) ) yOtenilol Irrls20~~~~~lbl,tod
; Ir Z,91.reb DmJs)> /EslS
8   .   bowndonel, cdors dwnommhotions oni ony qber inbrmorion  0  2  4  G  R     lD bltOM2ET                                                               a E0 KRLOWsER
w   myldg    one Igd Shod oy hrJhy, r ay edore    O         i         *         G btESnWawilnolbCjndol.sKi Iws ou dsmopJo d aplyos urtd To Wrh onSGrop  2  I    _6 _  E 
r)  I  /  K k,,    Of suphnS Of Uch bmmsort@s   mimG                                                                                                                         or~~~~~~~~~~~~~E-1 






R74P
Ll \)*L -' L /l A
32?
32'
/~~~~~~~~~ M
JORDAN
WATERCOURSES, RAINFALL, AND
ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES
Wadi courses with perennial flow
------Wadi courses wilth temporary flow
Depressions with restricted surface
drainoge
.'w- Annual rainfall in will,meters
0     Selected towns
&'    National capital
Gonernorate boundaries
}''t'-)       .  1    1     u X -  s'1"  - jM  '.i, ,f'A  - A  N  .  -    Inernotionol boundaries
0         20         40         00 KILOMETERS
o   3u       20       3'0      40 MILES
30-
338
0               -            ,   t                                                                           -/ T..yoi,    oos j  J R D A N\.
f /Aqaba                           1/                                                             deurnurn nd'    any 
r'      b. _                                                      |                                  t. att;n- _Eru-n_
V             un,~~~~thin,ap dnn
eply, an sP., pafa
u..Yju0nan-nt.9u                   /n'a
u- ay .nd--.nat 
=ne C.pn.tur I









IMAGING
Report No.:          16785
Type:      ICR



