Report No. PIC776
Project Name         Jordan-Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) (@&)
Region                    Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                    Agriculture, Natural Resources
Project ID                JOPA5310
Implementing Agency       Government, represented by the Ministry of
Planning
Contact: Mr. Mu'taz al-Taher
Fax: 962-6-649341
Date Prepared             March 17, 1994
Projected Board Date      August 1994
The Agriculture Sector
1.   The agriculture sector contributes about 7t to Jordan's GDP and
provides about 10. of employment.   Agricultural exports are 15t of
total.
Problems
2.   The overriding constraint is the limited resource base,
especially water. Pumping of groundwater is already in danger of
exceeding levels at which the resource can be renewed; and water
quality is declining. Market development is also a problem, with
government intervention in market organization and a regional export
market vulnerable to adverse developments in the political and
economic situation. At the same time, Government has distorted the
incentive structure, encouraging production of low value cereals and
tomatoes. Finally, services to agriculture - research, extension,
credit - contribute little.
Prospects
3.   Despite the water resource constraint, there is potential in the
sector that is not being exploited. Irrigation efficiencies are low
(409 in some areas) and cropping intensities could be improved,
especially in the high potential Jordan Valley. There are prospects
for increasing value added by diversification of products and
development of new markets. Effectively, the sector's prospects rest
on its ability to adapt - to use water with increasing economy, to
produce for new markets, to switch to new, higher value products.
There is substantial scope for improvements in productivity and
profitability within existing resource limitations but exceptional
measures are needed to bring about these structural changes in
Jordanian agriculture.
Operation Objectives
4.   The objectives of the proposed operation would be to promote
policy adjustments in support of the transition to a more sustainable
and efficient use of resources, particularly water; and to free up
markets and enable the private sector to invest, produce and trade in



line with Jordan's comparative advantage.
Operation Content
5.   The components of the proposed operation are:
-    efficient natural resource use, to support the transition to
an optimal use of water and land resources. A national,
inter-sectoral water policy will be adopted, institutional
mandates and structures will be adapted, groundwater
exploitation will be controlled, water metering introduced
and water charges raised.
-    market liberalization, to free up markets and so encourage
private investment and trade to flourish. The incentive
structure will be adjusted through the removal of subsidies
and price controls, liberalization of external trade and
the lifting of monopolies. Internal and external markets in
agricultural produce will be deregulated, and there will be
deregulation in markets in services, land and capital.
-    institutional development, assuring efficient public
investment and service provision only where essential and
making room for the private sector where there is a
comparative advantage. The mandate of the public service
will be defined and institutional changes in research,
extension, rural credit and cooperatives implemented.
Technical Assistance
6.   The ASAL would be accompanied by a technical assistance project,
the Agriculture Sector Technical Assistance Project (ASTAP), that
would help implementation of policy adjustments and develop necessary
services to farmers. ASTAP is described in a separate PID.
Financing Plan
7.   The ASAL will provide balance of payments support in 1994/5.    The
World Bank contribution is likely to be set at US$ 60 million, and the
German Government has committed DM 30 million. Government is seeking
further cofinancing.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note:     This is information based on an evolving project.    Certain
-2 -



components may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
- 3 -



