ZVV J 1/ 7- TQ
Te World Bank
NWR OICIA  USE ONLY
&IuPt N4. P-6382-JO
REPORT MN  RECOMNDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TME
INrlENATIONIAL BAN  FOR RECONSTRUCTION  MND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
INI AN AMOuNT EQuIVALEiT TO US$80 MILLION
TO
THE BASEMTE  INODOII OF JORDN
FOR THE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTM   OPERATION
NOVEMBER 15, 1994
This document has a esricted distibOtion and may be _ed bv recpients only in te peformauc of
tbhe official dties Its contens may not othenwise be disclosed without World Bank andwtdoztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of September 30, 1994)
Currency Unit  *    Jordanian Dinakr (JO)
US$ 1.0r0        JD 0.67
JD 1.00         U TS$ 1.50
JID 1.00        fils 1,000
PRINCIPAL AEBREVIATIONS  AND ACRMS UE
ACC     -  Agriculture Credit Corporation
AMPCO   -  Agricultural Marketing and Produce Company
ASAL    -  Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
ASAP    -  Agriculture Sector Adjustment Program
ASTAP   -  Agriculture Sector Technical Assistance Program
ASTSUP  -  Agriculture Sector Technical Support Project
BOP     -  Balance of Payments
CBJ     -  Central Bank of Jordan
COG     -  Consultative Group
CIDA    -  Canadian International Devetopment Agency
DRC     -  Domestic Resource Cost
DSCR    -  Debt Service Coverage Ratio
ERP     -  Effective Rate of Protection
ESAL    -  Energy Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP     -  Gross Domestic Product
GST     -  General Sales Tax
GTZ     -  German Agency for Technical Cooperation
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
IMF     -  Irternational Monetary Fund
ITPAL   -  Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan
JVA     -  .c rdan Valley Authority
KfW     -  Kreditanstalt fikr Wiederaufbau (German Credit Agency for
Reconstruction)
IRMC    -  Long Run Marginal Cost
LSP     -  Letter of Sector Policy
MCM     -  Million M3
MOA     -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOP     -  Ministry of Planning
MWI     -  Ministry of Water and Irrigation
NCARTT  -  National Center for Agricultural Research and Technology Transfer
O&M     -  Operation and Maintenance
PCR     -  Project Completion Report
PIP     -  Public Investment Program
QRs     -  Quantitative Restrictions
SBA     -  Stand-By Arrangement
SOx     -  Statement of Expenditures
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
WAJ     -  Water Authority of Jordan
WBG     -  West Bank and Gaza
GOVERI4MENT OF THE HASREMITB KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FISCAL YEAP
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
E HASH-EIITIE KINGDOh OF JORDMI
AGRICUGLTRE SECTOR ADJUSMT OPATION
Table of CoGtents
LOAN SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  . . . . . .. i-iii
INTRODUCTION   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                                       1 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
PART I - THE MACROECONOMIC CONEXT. .. . . . . . . . . . . .           1
A.    Background And Summary  . . . .1. . . . . . . . . . . . .
S.    Progress in Macroeconomic Adjustment and Stabilization          2
C.    Economic Adjustment Issues and Bank Assistance Strategy         3
D.    Macroeconomic Prospects, Financing Requirements
and Creditworthiness  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
PART IX - THE SECTORAL CONTEXT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
A.   Agriculture Sector Characteristics  . . . . . . . . . . .    6
B.    Problems in Water and Agriculture . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
PART III - THE PROPOSED ADJUSTMENT OPERATIOr  . . . . . . . . .    9
A.    The Sectoral Adjustment Program . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
B.    Bank  Role   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  9
PART IV - THE ASAL REFORMS  ... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   11
A.   Macroeconomic Framework . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
B.    Reforms to Promote Efficient Natural Resource Use . . . .   11
C.    Reforns to Promote Market Liberalization  . . . . . . . .   15
D.    Sector Policy and Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
PART V - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ASAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
A.    Structure and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
B.    Procurement, Disbursement and Audit Reporting . . . . . .   20
C.    Loan Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
D.    Impacts and Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
PART VI - RECOMNDTON  . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
Thises.n~ has a                =ad may be ued by rcpin    in tIhmanc of thi
lofficd d,*e Its Men not othewis be dislosed vAWih  Worl Dankmth zk



Table of Contggts (continued)
Page No.
ANNXUS
I. Key Macroeconomic Indicators    .. . . . . .                26
II. Financing Requirements                                      27
III. Supplementary Operation Data Sheet . . . . . . . . . . ...  28
IV. Overall Adjustment Program in
Water and Agriculture (Matrix)..        .. . . . . .  29
V. Letter of Sector Policy                           . . . .    33
VI. A Water Policy Framework for Jordan.        . .  .  .  . . ..  47
VIZ. Adjustments in Subsidies, Pricing and Trade . . . . . . . .  56
VIII. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
and IFC Investments . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  63
IX. Monitoring of Indicators and Impacts  . . . . . . . . . . .  64
X. Selected Documents and Data Available      . . . . . . . .  70
XI. The Support Program for Agriculture . . . . . . . . . . . .  72
MAPS:
IBRD NO. 19828R1
IBRD NO. 20979R
IBRD NO. 19983R



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE HASHE14ITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
LOAN AND OPERATION SUNMARY
Borrower                            The- Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan
Amount-                       .     US$8.0 million equivalent
Terms                        :      20 years, including S years of grace, at IBRD's
standard variable interest rate.
Obiectives                   :      The objectives of the program of policy
adjustments supported by the proposed
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) are
fully consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy reviewed by the Board in March 1993.
They are: ti) to promote transition to a more
sustainable and efficient use of resources,
'particularly water; and (ii) to free up markets
and enable the private sector to invest, produce
and trade in line with Jordan's comparative
advantage in agriculture.
Descriotion                  :      The components of the adjustment program
supported by ASAL are:
-      efficient natural resource use, to support
the transition to an optimal use of water
and land resources. Within an inter-
sectoral water policy framework, ASAL
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Jordan in April 1994. Mr. Christopher Ward
CSenior Operations Officer) led the mission, which included Messrs. John Hayward (Division Chief and Water
Resources Specialist), Youssef FuLeihan (Senior Economist) and Jeremy Berkoff (Senior Water Economist). The
following also participated in the preappraisal mission of December 1993: Ms. Monica Fong (Monitoring and
Evaluation), Messrs. Orlando Sacay tRural Ffnance), John Fraser Stewart (Environment), Bjorn Larsen
(Environment), Luis Corral (Cooperatives, Consultant), and Malcotm Green (Institutions, Consultant). The
Peer Reviewers for the operation were Ms. Pamela Cox (Division Chief, EAIAN) and Mr. Shawki Barghoutf
(Division Chief, SA2AM). The document was typed by Ms. Josephine Salang, and Its internal consistency and
confomity with Bank's operational poticy were checked by Mr. Sant Khorana. This report was prepared under
the overalt supervision of Ns. Mgozi Okonjo-liweale (Division Chief, NN2AG) and subseqyently of Mr. Salab
Darghouth (Division Chief, NN2AG) and approved by Mr. Ram K. Chopra (Director, MN2) and Mr. Caio K. Koch-
Weser (Vice President, Middle East and North Africa Regfon).
I h ducmm.mt bn a rmsktdedl dURatil my be mmml by rudpients onl I. Mhe pmfenmmnm o
tlwlr ufdadl d.d. lb onitmal may n ot cOme. be dbdomml wItwout W=Enti Dankrid



'~~~ '  :   . ii -7-
supports comprehensive reforms to:
(i) restructure water sector institutions
to maximize efficiency and unify planning
and management; (ii) promote efficient use
of existing water resources through demand
management; (iii) establish control on
over-exploited groundwater resources; and
(iv) prioritize public investments in
water.
- - -market liberalization, -to free up markets
and so encourage private investment and
trade to flourish. The adjustment ri-ogram
supported by ASAL provides for
improvements to the incentive strsscture
through the removal of s- i.dies :-nd -. ice
controls, liberalization of external trade
and the lifting of monopolies. Internal
and external markets in agricultural
produce will be deregulated, and there
will be deregulation of markets in
services and land.
=     institutional development, assuring
efficient public investment and service
provision only where Government has a
necessary role, and making room for the
private sector where the latter has a
comparative advantage. The adjustment
program supported by ASAL provides for the
implementation of institutional changes in
research, extension, rural credit and
cooperatives.
Benefits                       The adjustment program supported by ASAL will
continue the-process of liberalization and
outward orientation of the Jordanian economy.
The reforms will: (i) focus incentives on high
value, water-efficient cropping systems oriented
towards exports; (ii) help to reduce the fiscal
imbalances through elimination of subsidies and
increase in tariff collection and cost recovery;
(iii) lower consumer prices; (iv) promote water
conservation and transfers to high value
municipal and industrial uses, and ease pressure
on groundwater; and (v) promote long-term
sustainability of rangeland use.
Riks:    Jordan is going through rapid economic and
political transition and there are risks facing
the adjustment program. Essential macroeconomic
stability will be helped by the maintenance of
appropriate reforms as supported by the current
-MF program.  Social and polit4cal risks from
the application of new relative prices and the
reduction of vested interests exist, balanced by



- iii -
the real benefits that will flow from the
program. Government, as motor of the adJustment
program, has the role of keeping the program
moving ahead. Government's appreciation of the
political feasibility of the reforms is thus
vital and has dictated the scope and pace of the
program (e.g. in the phasing of water charge
increases), thereby reducing risks to program-
implementation. Income losses may be a risk for
some farmers. To reduce this risk, a parallel
Agriculture Sector Technical Assistance Program
(ASTAP), supported by the Bank. and other donors
will help to improve benefits and mitigate
adverse effects.,
Poverty Catecorv               Not applicable.
Disbursemepts            :    The loan would be disbursed in two tranches: the
first tranche of US$50 million, and the second
tranche of US$30 million. The first tranche
would be available upon effectiveness, expected
in January 1995; and the second would be
disbursed after compliance with the release
conditions, expected by April 1, 1996. The loan
is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30,
1996. Disbursement would be against general
imports.
Financing Plan           :    Cofinancing of DM 30 million (about US$20
million equivalent) under German financial
cooperation funds via KfW is envisaged.
Schedule of ZERD                                        IBRD Fiscal Year
Disbursements                                            FY95    F9
-(US$ million)-
Annual                     50.0   30.0
Cumulative                 50.0   80.0
Staff Aonraisal                N.A.
IBRD Nos. 19828R1, 20979R and 19983R



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE-
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPNENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR AN AGRXCULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
INTRODUCTION
1.    -  I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) to the hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan for US$80.0 million equivalent to provide financial support for the
Government's Agriculture Sector Adjustment Program (ASAP).  This program is
- described in a Letter of Sector Policy (LSPY received from the-Government (Annex
V). The objectives and main actions of the ASAP are summarized in an attached
matrix (Annex IV) . The proposed loan would. be on standard IBRD terms of variable
interest rate with 20 years' maturity, including 5 years of grace. The loan would
be disbursed in two tranches. The Government has requested cofinancing of DM 30
million (about US$20 million equivalent) under German financial cooperation funds
to be carried out by KfW.
PART I - THE MACROECONOMIC CoN
A. Background and Summary
2.       Economic Structure.  Jordan is a small economy which traditionally had
close ties to the oil-producing countries in the Gulf region. The country
achieved a decade of rapid growth raising its per capita income from US$380 in
1973 to US$1,690 in 1982. Stagnation subsequently reduced the per capita income
to US$1,120 in 1991, which in real terms was less than half of the 1982 level.
Incomes ther6.after picked up.  The sharp fluctuation in income, to a large extent,
mirrors developments in oil prices and incomes of neighboring oil exporting
countries, which, until the Gulf Crisis, provided Jordan with financial assistance
(US$600 million per year on average during 1984-88), markets for most of its
exports, and employment for a large number of its workers.  Jordan's close ties
with the region, its limited resource base, and its past economic policy
orientation created an extremely narrow economic structure and high vulnerability
to external shocks. This vulnerability has^been exacerbated by the rigidities in
the economy and by the deteriorating investment efficiency which became more
pronounced during the atagnation that began in 1983.
3.       The Adiustment Program.  Recognizing this vulnerability, the Government
adopted an adjustment program in mid-1989 supported by an IMF Stand-By Arrangement
and by the Bank's Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPAL). The
adjustment program was being successfully implemented when the Gulf Crisis
occurred in mid-1990. Jordan lost its major export markets and aid from the Gulf
countries, and it suffered losses in revenue from transit trade, tourism and
workers' remittances. It also had to shoulder additional outlays for social
services for returning workers and their families (about 300,000 people).
4.       Despite these setbacks, the Government's adjustment efforts continued and
culminated in the adoption of a new IMF 18-month Stand-By Arrangement (SBA)
approved in February 1992. In support of the program, the Bank released the
second tranche of ITPAL in March 1992, approved the Energy Sector Adjustment Loan
(ESAL) in October 1993 and released the first tranche of ESAL in late 1993 to help
close Jordan's financing gap. At the same time, Jordan obtained its second
rescheduling of Paris Club debt in March 1992 (the first one in 1989) and
restructured its debt and debt service to the London Club in December 1993. Debt
owed to the former Soviet Union was bought back at a significantly reduced price.



-2-
A further debt rescheduling through the Paris Club in June 1994 has been arranged
on more favorable terms than previcusly expected and several donors have joined in
accelerating disbursements.  Follvwing the historic agreement between Israel and
Jordan, the US grat.ted debt forgiveness for about US $700 million to be provided
in three tranches 'hrough FY97.  The United Kingdom and Germany are negotiating a
further US$120 million of debt forgiveness and there is a possibility that other
creditors may also reduce debt. Two Consultative Group Meetings chaired by the
Bank helped close the financing gaps in 1993 and 1994; the next meeting is planned
for April/May 1995.
5.       The Future Aqgenda.  Preliminary economic indicators for 1993 and for the
first half of-1994 suggest that growth has-continued, the internal imbalances,
especially the fiscal deficit, have been considerably reduced and domestic
inflation has been held in -check.  These positive developments should help'further
improve Jordan's medium-term prospects. The peace process, accelerated by the
peace accord between Jor&-n and Israel, carries the prospect of an investment-led
boom in the West Bank and Gaza (WBG) which would increase demand for Jordanian
goods and services. Peace will clear away restraints to regional tourism, trade,
finance and joint infrastructure development, and present unprecedented
opportunities for sustained investment and enhanced management of resources,
particularly water. There are opportunities for the development of the Jordan
Rift Valley for which the Bank was asked to help to facilitate the preparation
studies for a large multisectoral investment program and to help coordinate donor
support. The positive prospect of peace and growth is qualified by some
uncertainties. The investment-led boom has not yet materialized and there are
immediate economic risks from the use of several currencies in the fragile WBG
economic environment. If there is an investment-led boom in the WBG, this might
put pressure on prices, wages and the exchange rate in Jordan, and cause potential
diversion of investments and migration of skilled lator to the WBG. Overall, the
key to exploiting the increased opportunities afforded by peace lies in
accelerating trade and business environment reforms in order to maximize outward-
oriented growth. This is essential as Jordan continues to face economic problems,
particularly high unemployment (15-20%) increased poverty (about IS below the
poverty line, up from 3% in 1986), and a possible major shortfall in current
account financing. In addition, although debt rescheduling and writeoff have
provided substantial debt service relief, Jordan's external debt, at about 117
percent of GDP after the recent debt reduction, remains a heavy burden on the
economy.
B. Progress in Macroeconomic Adjustment and Stabilization
6.       Policy Adiustments Since 1989.  T%il centi.al objectives of the adjustment
program are to redress macroeconomic imbalances, reduce sector distortions and
restore economic growth. Since 1989, the Government has adopted a number of
policy measures to meet these objectives, involving: (i) a series of fiscal
adjustments to reduce the budget deficit including containment of military
expenditure, reduction of consumer subsidies, and tariff and tax reforms to
enlarge the revenue base and enhance revenue performance; (ii) a large devaluation
of the Jordanian Dinar in 1989 followed by the pursuit of a flexible exchange rate
policy to maintain competitiveness; (iii) restructuring the regime of tariff and
trade policies; (iv) deregulation of interest rates; and (v) a package of measures
to strengthen institutional support for private sector development in trade and
industry.
7.       Results.  These policy changes have reduced the macro-economic imbalances
and produced promising results. The fiscal deficit was reduced during 1991-1992.
The current account deficit also steadily improved with export of goods and



services showing broad-based growth due mainly to the flexible foreign exchange
policy which underpinned export competitiveness and helped to attract remittances.
These adjustments helped to bring domestic inflation down from-21.S percent in
1989 to 4.6 percent in 1992, and with the resettlement of refugees following the
Gulf crisis and the increased capital inflows, GDP growth rebounded in 1992 to 11
percent-from the stagnation during 1990-1991.
8.       The growth momentum continued into 1993 though at a slower pace
(6 percent).  The.strong revenue performance together-with continued strict
dontrol over expenditures in 1993 led to a decline in the budget deficit to 6
percent of GDP, compared to -18 percent in 1991.  A large share of the. fical
adjustment was a-.complished by reducing.-subsidies. -The lower budget deficit -
together with a cautious credit policy has contained the growth in net domestic
assets of.the banking system. Domestic inflation remains low at 4 percent,.though
the spread between lending and deposit rates is high. Reflecting the buoyant
domestic economy, merchandise imports remained high at an estimated US$3.5
billion. However, with continued growth in exports and remittances, the current
account deficit excluding grants is expected to decline to 6 percent of GDP in
1994 compared with 23 percent in 1992. The inflows of workers, savings, grants
and loans as well as debt rescheduling have been sufficient to finance the
remaining balance of payments gap. Foreign exchange reserves were $600 million or
about two months of imports at the end of 1993. However, following the decision
to create a Monetary Authority in WBG, speculation on possible new currency
arrangements in WBG led to a fall in foreign exchange reserves to less than $200
million by the end of June 1994. In response to this development, the Government
has adopted a number of measures aimed at increasing interest rates on Jordan
Dinar based assets. By mid-October 1994, the reserve level had recovered to reach
$413 million.
C. Economic Adiustment Issues and Bank Assistance Strategy
9.       Current Structural Problems.  Notwithstanding the considerable progress
described above, Jordan still faces major challenges. The country has been
dependent on external sources for financing its domestic expenditures, and its
economic growth in the past has been factor-using rather than efficiency-
increasing. The prospects for increasing domestic savings in the short- to
medium-term are limited if per capita consumption is not to decline drastically.
The present unusually high level of remittance income is not likely to continue in
the future as the number of Jordanians working abroad has sharply declined. The
debt overhang Jordan carries now is taxing the country's scarce resources, and may
deter private sector investment and capital inflows. Against this backdrop, the
country will have both to restrain the growth of aggregate demand and to sustain
economic growth over the medium term at 5-6 percent per annum. This potential
conflict in policy goals points to the need for Jordan to aggressively implement
the needed structural reforms in order to increase efficiency and establish a
stronger base for sustainable export-led growth.
10.      Jordan needs to address a number of domestic policy constraints.  The
trade regime is still largely inward-oriented with high tariffs and non-tariff
barriers. The regulatory regime tilts the playing field in favor of public
ente-,prise. Investment incentives are discretionary and procedures are
burdensome. Selective price controls still apply, especially to the major food
items and agriculture produce. The public sector is overextended, with an over-
sized and generally under-paid civil service. The financial system is rigid,
over-exposed to speculations in real estate and capital markets, and characterized
by high costs and low volume of financial intermediation. In short, the emergence
of a dynamic economy has been hampered by the small domestic market, by weak



4-
integration in international trade and by the dominance of the public sector; that
emergence has been made particularly difficult by political uncertainty and by the
unpredictable demand shift in the region for Jordanian goods-and services. The.
recently accelerated peace process and the prospect for closer regional economic
integration have added to the urgency for Jordan to tackle these structural
issues.
11.      Government Stratev.- The Government is fully aware of these issues.  The
broad 0overnment strategy is to maintain macroeconomic balance and to implement
structural reforms within an outward-oriented and private-sector-led growth
strategy.
12.      Savings.  The Government is committed to redressing the structural
prQblems underlying the declining resource efficiency and the-persistent macro-
economic imbalances. A number of policy measures are being adopted to encourage
domestic savings. First, a general sales tax (GST) has been introduced to
strengthen revenue perform  ce by broadening the tax base and simplifying tax
administration. The GST will then gradually shift toward a full value added tax
that will favor savings and investment. In this connection, the GST will be
accompanied by further reductions of tariffs, and taxes on domestically produced
and imported goods will also be equalized. Secondly, the adoption of indirect
monetary control instruments will alleviate the problems associated with the
ceilings on credit expansion, reducing the spread between lending and deposit
rates and improving the incentives for financial savings and intermediation. In
this regard, the Government intends to launch a financial sector reform program
whose main thrusts are aimed at: improving the management of preferential credit;
removing the policy and institutional impediments to development of long-term
financing instruments; and fostering a policy and regulatory regime that is
neutral among all institutions. Thirdly, public sector savings will be boosted by
continued strong control over fiscal expenditures, including specific measures to
contain both civil service wage spending and military expenditures.
13.      Role of Public Sector.  The Government is mindful that an overly-extended
public sector preve-v-s the emergence of a dynamic private sector.   There are
three sets of issues the Government intends to address: civil service performance,
the ownership structure and the regulatory framework. Two central objectives have
been envisaged in refo: ing the civil service. containing the total wage bill in
order to meet the fisca. target, and rationalizing the pay structure so as to
improve civil service performance. The Government has requested assistance from
the Bank to help it design and initiate a civil service reform program focusing
initially on rationalizing the pay structure and consolidating the functions of
the Government.
14.      Privatization.  The Government intends to withdraw its involvement in
areas where the private sector could do better. In this regard, the Government
has been successfully implementing the measures agreed with the Bank under the
ESAL to corporatize and commercialize the Jordan Electricity Authority.
Furthermore, the Government has recently allowed private investors to take part in
providing major telecommunication services, approved a schedule and terms of
reference for developing a strategy to privatize the Royal Jordanian Airline, and
has been in close consultation with the Bank on additional measures to divest
public sector ownership and to increase private sector participation in the power
and telecommunication-sectors.
15.      The RecFulatorv Framework.  Regarding the regulatory framework, the
Government intends to level the playing field and spur market competition.
Measures include: eliminating the special tax concessions and tariff exemptions



-5
for Government-sanctioned inveatments and institutions; removing special
concessions for major- public enterorises; and imposing hard budget constraints cn
their operation and investment finance.
16.      Exchanae Rate and Trade Policg.  The 0overnment is committed to
maintaining Jordan's int-ernational competitivenes- and a balance of payments
position compatible with the growth and creditworthiness objectives. The
Government has been successful in maintain-ing a flexible foreign exchange policy
stance and, at the same time, has been moving toward the adoption of indirect
monetary control instruments and toward further liberalization of the current and
capital accounts.  The Government has applied for GATT membership in order to
improve integration with the world economy and realize the benefits of open trade.
Further-tariff restructuring will be implemented as part of the GATT membership
process together with other measures to rationalize import and export procedures
and investment regulation.
17.      The Bank assistance strateqv focuses on four priority objectives of the
Government: (i} introduce trade, financial, regulatory, public enterprise and
privatization reforms to create a business enabling environment and reduce poverty
and unemployment, (ii) address critical infrastructure constraints - particularly
water - with special effort to mobilize private investment; (iii) address key
human resource constraints; and (iv) improve the management and technical capacity
of the civil service to carry out activities which remain within its
responsibility. This strategy is based on the premise that macroeconomic
stability has largely beer. restored, and that continued success under the IMP EFF
Program will provide the necessary macroeconomic foundation for the structural
adjustments to succeed. This will be accomplished in several major ways: through
trade reforms aimed at stimulating competition and spurring outward oriented
growth; financial sector reforms to encourage private savings and to ensure that
the best investments are financed first; and regulatory and public sector reforms
to foster a business enabling environment. These strategic focuses will be,
supported by Bank lending ard developmental service programs designed to
strengthen the role of the Bank as a catalyst for private capital flows,
particularly for critical infrastructure and to improve the quality and efficiency
of public services.
18.      Coordination with IMF Procram.  The Bank has worked closely with the IMF
in supporting Jordan's adjustment program. A workable medium-term macroeconomic
framework supported by a sound externai financing plan aimed at reducing the
external debt ratios has provided the basis for proceeding with ASAL. Performance
under the IMF program, as measured by compliance with agreed criteria and other
financial and economic targets, would be required as the basis for proceeding with
second tranche release.
D. Macroeconomic Prosvects. Financing Re,2uirements
and Creditworthiness
19.      The Jordanian economy should be able to grow in the range of 5-6 percent
per annum for the rest of this decade, provided that the external financing
requirements are met and the progress in adjustment is maintained. Macroeccnomic
projections indicate (Annex 1) that to grow at that rate in face of such unusually
high uncertainty in the external accounts and in the regional economies, Jordan
will need substantial capital inflows, successive debt relief and steady increases
in official reserves. In 1994-96, the current account deficit (excluding grants)
would average about tTS$800 million (13 percent of GDP). This deficit, along with
scheduled amortization, clearance of arrears and reserve build-up, will raise
Jordan's gross financial requirements to about US$1.S billion on average per year



-6-
in 1994-1996 (Annex 2). Disbursements of loans and grants that have already been
committed, along with private capital inflows, would cover about one-half of the
gross total financing requirements.   The Consultative Group (CG) meeting in May
1994 raised additional financing from the donor community. The proposed ASAL
would entail disbursements of US$50 million in 1994 and US$30 million in 1996 from
the Bank, and US$13 million in 1994 and US$7 million in 1996 from KfW.  These
disbursements, along with the Paris Club debt restructuring (June-1994), the
restructuring of commercial bank debt (December 1993), and with the scheduled
disbursements from the EFF, the ESAL, a possible new Bank adjustment operation to
assist the Government to further liberalize the Trade and Financial Sectors, as
well as the cofinancing expected, would close the financing gap in 1994 and would
reduce it to US$154 million in 1995.
20.      To achieve the projected 5-6 percent annual GDP growth rate requires an
investment level of about 29 percent of GDP in 1994, declining to about 26 percent
in 1997. The implicit improvement in investment efficiency reflects the
anticipated efficiency gains from the policy reforms as well as the current
capacity under-utilization. At the same time, an increasing share of investment
must be financed by domestic savings, which are projected to increase to 9 percent
of GDP in 1997. This is expected to be achieved primarily by a sharp increase in
public sector savings and gradual increases in private sector savings as well, and
represents a return to the historic levels achieved in the 1970s (Annex I).
21.      Debt and Creditworthiness.  Jordan's growth prospects and balance of
payments (BOP) position will be dominated by the exceptionally large debt overhang
into the medium term. While Jordan's per capita income level precludes it from
accessing the more generous debt relief now available to the debt-stressed, low-
income developing countries, various menus for debt relief need to be actively
pursued. Longer-term projections indicate that continued implementation of a
strong adjustment program would reduce Jordan's debt overhang. In the period
1994-96, however, even under the assumption of successive Paris Club rescheduling,
the debt to GDP ratio would remain at an average 115 percent, debt service ratio
will average 12 percent (Annex 1), and the upfront debt service relief would
entail increased debt stock into the future. Jordan, therefore, needs both
financial assistance on the most concessionary terms and a more innovative
approach to debt relief. With a strong adjustment program in place and
concessionary external assistance forthcoming as well as disbursements of the
proposed ASAL, extended projections show that these ratios would steadily decline,
thus further improving Jordan's creditworthiness.
PART II - THE SECTORAL CONTEXT
Table 1: Shares of CGP (19921
A. Agriculture Sector Characteristics
22.      Jordan's economy is oriented inward
and dominated by the public sector.  Services    Agriculture           7       355
overall account for 66 percent of GDP; and    Manufacturing           13       636
Government  services  alone  account  for  24    Mining, Energy       14       668
percent  of  GDP.    Of  the  two  directly    Private Services   42          2042
productive sectors, agriculture contributes 7    Government          -4      "a
percent of GDP and manufacturing 13 percent              TOTAL       100
(1992).  The agriculture sector thus is small
in relation to the overall economy but is    (Source: Central Bank of
important in the production of tradable goods.              Jordan)
Upstream and downstream linkages are strong;   -_-_,_-_--,-_________
a recent study estimated that 28 percent of
GDP is dependent on agriculture (including inputs and producer services and downstream



7
marketing and processing) and, on chis broad definition, agriculture accounted for
more than half of GDP growth in recent years.
23.      The share of agriculture in exports (15 percent in 1992l (Table 2) has
declined from its dominant role twenty five years ago (60 percent of exports in 1965).
Its present role is comparable to the share of agricultural exports in similar
economies in the region - Israel 11 percent and Tunisia 12 percent.
However,  the  value  of  agricultural
exports has been rising; agricultural    Tabje,2:  Shares of Mx2orts
exports in 1992 were US$145 million,
double in real terms the value in 1986.                           19. 1986  192
There  is  potential -'for  growth  in
exports. Domestic Resource Cost (DRC)    Agriculture               20'   15X
analysis  suggests  that  Jordan  can    Raw Materials,            67%   66-
produce    profitably    for   export,       Chemicals
particularly the higher value crops,    Manufactures               13%   19%
such as eggplant, strawberry and grapes.
TOTAL           120   10i0
24.      There are about 90,000 farms in
Jordan, covering 220,000 ha (Table 3).    (Sgource:  Central Bank of Jordan)
About   73,000   ha   are   irrigated.
Vegetables account for about 35 perzent
of value added, livestock for about 30
percent, fruits for about 25 percent and
cereals for about 10 percent. The sector
employs about 80,000 people full time (30   Table 3: Cultivated Area (1991)
percent hired, the balance family labor).
Agriculture's share in employment is around
10 percent of the work force.  Most hired                       Total   Irriaated
laborers are foreign workers.   Into the                        -- -('000 ha)----
medium term,  the employment and income
impact of agricultural intensification is    vegetables          40         34
likely to be positive as the shift would be    Orchards         100         30
towards  more  labor-intensive  crops  and    Field Crops         79
production systems and into crops with         Total            217         73
potential for downstream processing.
(ISurce: Ministry of Agriculture)
25.      Agricultural   productivity  has
grown in the last two decades in returns to
both water and labor.  There is scope for further increases.   In addition, there are
prospects for increasing value added by diversification of products and development
of new markets.
B. Problems in Water and Agriculture
26.      Despite agriculture's economic contribution and potential, the most
important sector issues relate rather to the efficiency and sustainability of the
sector's use of scarce natural resources. Jordan is a dry country where 96
percent of the land receives less than 300 mm of rain a year, and surface and
groundwater resources are limited. Agriculture accounts for almost three quarters
of water consumption. Investments in irrigation in the 1970s and 1980s allowed
-intensification and an increase in agricultural output. This expansion was
accompanied by shifts in cropping patterns towards higher value crops that further
increased incomes. However, there are virtually no more sources of surface water
that can be economically harnessed; and pumping of groundwater is already
exceeding levels at which the resource can be renewed. Availability of



water per capita is among the lowest in the MENA region (Table 4) and is projected
to decline by about two-thirds by 202S. As municipal and industrial demands
increase, so agriculture must give up water. The sector is faced with 8 decline
in water availability in the future.  Water quality is also becoming a problem.
Major changes in water use are inevitable, and planning and managing the changes
has become critical.
27.      Jordanian    agriculture    has    Table 4:  Middle East:  Water
traditionally been predominantly pastoral,                AvailabilitY-Renewable
and pastoral production still contributes                 Resources Per Cagita
a third of agricultural value added. The
sustainable management of the rangeland on                  1960    1990       2025
which this production depends is threatened                 --cubic meter6/annum--
by overgrazing, resulting from changes in
livestock   management   practices   and    Egypt           2,251   1,112       645
significant  increases  in  the  livestock    Israel        1,024     467       311
population associated with the introduction    Syria        1,196     439       161
of livestock feed subsidies in the early    Jordan            529     224        91
1980s.   In addition, much of the better
rangeland   has   been   converted   to    (Source:  MENA Water Strategy)
unsustainable   forms   of   agriculture,
encouraged by producer subsidies for
cereals and vegetables, and permitted by the absence of a coherent legal framework
and management of land tenure.
28.      A major constraint to agriculture is the market.  Exports have
historically been dependent on the politically vulnerable regional market. The
Gulf crisis closed a part of this market to Jordanian produce. Development of new
markets and products has been sluggish. Government interventions in prices and
markets provide a high level of protection to farmers, but have also prevented the
sector from adapting to a more demanding external market and to the growing
shortage of water.  The recent peace settlement introduces a further element of
uncertainty. Jordan stands to gain from regional integration and the resolution
of political differences with the Gulf states, but prospects are uncertain and any
gains will remain intrinsically vulnerable.
29.      Output and input subsidies and trade restrictions have produced high
Effective Rates of Protection (ERP) and have led to: distortions favoring high
water consuming crops (banana production rose 400 percent 1982-92); increased herd
size putting pressure on range resources (the sheep and goat population has
multiplied by four since 1960); expansion of uneconomic irrigated cereals; and a
steep rise in production of tomatoes bought in by Government at a loss.
30.      The cost to the economy of present policies can be measured in several
ways.  The direct fiscal cost of subsidies in 1992 was about JD 15 million (0.5
percent of GDP). The cost of trade restrictions has been borne by consumers in
terms of higher prices and by the economy in terms of foregone output. The loss
to the economy caused by current water management policies is at least JD 18
million a year, as measured by municipal use foregone and by inefficiencies in the
use of water in agriculture.
31.    - Increases in productivity are also constrained by inadequate producer
services; research, extension and credit could contribute more to optimizing
returns to resources.



PART IN - THE PROPOSED ADJUST$ENT OPERATION
A. The Sectoral Adlustmeat Proaram
32.      Prociram Objectives.  The design of the Government's sectoral adjustment
program has been guided by the pressing-priority of water'scarcity, and by the
linkages between distortions in the agricultural incentive structure and the
uneconomic use of water in agriculture. Within five years, Jordan may be spending
15-20 percent of Gross Fixed Capital Formation on water supply projects; marginal
costs of supply are already among the highest in the world.  In future, up to-5-
percent of GDP may need to be spent on water.  Encouraged by protection and
subsidies, agriculture uses almost three-quarters of Jordan's water, often
uneconomically.- The sectoral adjustment program supported by ASAL is thus
designed to promote the definition and adoption of a sound long term water sector
policy framework, to support the implementation of a first round of actions within
that framework, and to bring the agricultural incentive structure into line with
Jordan's comparative advantage and long term sustainability.
33.      Ownershin.  In the agriculture sector, the process of policy analysis has
been sustained since the Bank's 1990 Sector Strategy Paper (Report No. 7547-JO,
June 1990). Recent exercises in agriculture policy analysis conducted by the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) with USAID and GTZ assistance have generated general
support for reform from officials and farmers and have resulted in the drafting of
an "Agriculture Policy Charter". The draft Charter sets out a broad agenda for
sector reform, and the program supported under ASAL represents a first phase in
implementing this agenda. The draft is under consideration by Government and is
expected to be adopted as national policy in 1994. Government has also undertaken
considerable analytic work on water policy. A policy framework has been prepared
that will ultimately form the basis of a national water policy. The draft Charter
and the water policy framework have served as the basis for the Letter of Sector
Policy.
34.      Accomoanving Measures.  In order to ensure efficient implementation of
the reforms and to help build public and private capacity in services to the
agriculture and water sectors, Government has requested donor assistance for an
Agriculture Sector Technical Assistance Program (ASTAP). ASTAP has been prepared
in parallel with ASAL and the linkages between the two programs are close (Annex
XI). The Bank has appraised a project within the ASTAP program. This project,
called the Agriculture Sector Technical Support Project (ASTSUP), provides
essential support to water management, research, extension and monitoring and
evaluation. ASTSUP is being presented for Board consideration jointly with ASAL.
B. Bank Role
Bank Groun Adiustumet Operations in Jordan
3S.      Two previous adjustment operations have been assisted by the Bank in
Jordan. The ITPAL was approved in December 1989. Its objective was to assist the
Government in responding to economic crisis by sustaining macroeconomic adjustment
efforts, and by reforming trade and industrial policies to lay the basis for
sustainable long-term growth. The Government implemented the ITPAL measures
successfully; the first tranche was,fully disbursed by June 1990 and, following
the interruption of the Gulf crisis, the second tranche was released in March
1992.  The Project Completion Report (July 1993) concluded that the implementation
of macroeconomic reforms before trade reforms together with the phasing of the
trade reform program itself were important factors in ITPAL's success. The report
also highlighted the importance of alleviating the adverse effects of adjustment
through well publicized schemes. The ESAL was approved in October 1993. Its



- 10 -
objectives are to address the supply-side constraints to macroeconomic growth
imposed by the energy sector, including the fiscal burden. Reforms cover
rationalization of energy prices, restructuring of energy institutions, opening of
the sector to private investment, and strengthening of policy capability,
environmental protection and energy conservation. The first tranche is fully
disbursed and the second tranche is expected to be released before the end of
1994.
Bank Group Investment in the Asriculture and Water Sectors
36.      To date, the World Bank's involvement in the agriculture sector has been
limited to three $DA credits (two for agricultural credit and one for irrigation).
The last i-nvolvement concluded with the-closing of the irrigation project in 1980.
A fourth proposed loan, to build the Maqarin Dam on the Yarmouk River, was
appraised by the Bank in November 1979,- but processing was discontinued when
agreement on water sharing could not be reached. Four IDA credits and four IBRD
loans have supported projects in urban water supply and sewerage (total US$149.7
million). These projects have supported Government's priority programs for urban
infrastructure and have contributed to development of institutional capacity of
the water utility company, Water Authority of Jordan (WAJ). The Project
Completion Report for the Eight Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan
2425-JO) and the Greater Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2483-JO)
concluded that the projects were well implemented but pinpointed problems in the
financial performance of WAJ and highlighted growing levels of unaccounted for
water. The major lesson was that water management is as important as investment
in facilities. The Performance Audit Report (June 1993) for these two projects
and for the earlier Zarqa/Ruseifa Water Supply and Sewerage Project confirmed the
contribution of the Bank-financed projects to the high level of service provision
in the municipal and industrial sector but emphasized the need to act on operation
and maintenance, particularly unaccounted for water, and on the financial
performance of WAJ. The Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2694-JO) ran into
implementation delays due to the Gulf crisis but was completed, after extensions
of 18 months, on June 30, 1994. Implementation was good but WAJ's financial
performance was affected by inadequate cost recovery, and the continuing high
levels of unaccounted for water have served to emphasize the need for improved
management and maintenance, and for system rehabilitation. In response to these
persistent issues, Government has increased tariffs considerably: municipal
charges went up by an average 21 percent in October 1993 and licensing and
extraction fees are being levied on groundwater extraction for industry. WAJ has
established an unaccounted for water section. Bank strategy is to complete the
analysis of these issues through sector work (Water Sector Study in FY95) and to
prepare a possible water sector investment loan (FY96) which would continue the
policy reforms began with ASAL support. The focus of this second phase of
adjustment would be on: (i) water conservation through rehabilitating and
upgrading water supply systems and through demand management; (ii) waste-water
treatment and reclamation; (iii) restructuring sector institutions to improve
financial viability and efficiency; and (iv) strengthening water resources
management and planning.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
37.      Government is pursuing the overall economic reform program which it
initiated in 1989. The principal objective is to create an enabling environment
conducive to efficient, sustained growth. The Bank supports the program, which
represents the culmination of joint study and analysis. The proposed operation
would support reforms that are high priority in Government's program and which
match the Bank assistance strategy. The transition to sustainable and efficient
use of natural resources is essential to long-term growth. Market liberalization



- 11. -X
is a critical factor in creating a business environment conducive-to growth that
will reduce poverty and unemployment. Increased efficiency of Government
expenditures and services is essential in the development of a dynamic private
sector.  The proposed operation would support reforms in these areas. -Loan.
proceeds would help finance Jordan's immediate balance of payments requirements.
It is proposed that the operation be front-loaded, with a first tranche of US$50
million out of a total loan of US$80 million, in response-to the present reserves
situation and the recent level of drawdown (para 8).
38.      The program outlined below is consistent with the recent World Bank
policy papers on agricult:ure (Agriculture Sector Review, February 1993) and on
water (Water Resources Management Policy, May 1993; MENA Strategy for Managing
Water, September 1993)..
PART IV - THE ASAL REFORMSI'
A. Hacroeconomic Framework
39.      The IMF Board met on May 25, 1994 and endorsed Government's macroeconomic
framework and request for an Extended Fund Facility; financing sufficient to close
the 1994 financing gap has been obtained; and tentative indications of adequate
financial support for 1995 have also been obtained.
B. Reforms to Promote Efficient atural Resource Use
Water Resources
40.      Jordanian agriculture is at - or beyond - the absolute margin of water
availability; and the situation will deteriorate as the population grows, and as
municipal and industrial demands go up. There is even the spectre of declining
water availability: surface water flows have declined due to diversion by upstream
riparians; and overdrawing of upland aquifers is depleting the resource, leading
to salinization and steeply rising pumping costs. A special case is the Disi
aquifer, Jordan's last remaining largely unexploited water resource. This non-
renewable fossil groundwater is now being pumped largely to grow low value
cereals.
41.      A USAID study in 1992 shows water use already well beyond sustainable
levels. The study reports groundwater levels dropping in nine basins out of.twelve
and forecasts the exhaustion of groundwater resources in 39 years if extraction
continues at present rates. Other studies confirm the trend and the urgency of
the problem.
42.      Jordan thus faces an exceptionally difficult water situation; its resources
are severely constrained and are inherently high cost. Government recognizes the
gravity of the situation and has taken some steps towards improvement: imposing
relatively high water charges on municipal and industrial users, imposing a resource
cost on industrial wells, and rationing water use in the Jordan Valley and to urban
consumers.   These efforts, although significant compared with most neighboring
countries, nevertheless, fall short of achieving adequate control of the resource.
Major problems remain in water management.   Although the average water use for
agriculture has fallen below 10,000 m'/ha, Jordan has yet to exploit the full water-
saving potential of modern irrigation technology; unaccounted for water in municipal
supplies exceeds 50 percent, with losses estimated at over 75 -MCM; groundwater is
being seriously overdrawn, often for uneconomic purposes; and there is a general
iL       A snary matrix of the policy and Institutional reforms under the ASAL is given in Annex IV.



- 12 -
decline in water quality due to
salinization    and    increasing    Table 5:  Sources and Uses of Water
pollution.                                        in Jordan. 1990
43.      The  causes  of  these                     USES                   SOURCES
problems  have been  extensively    Municipal   179 MCM    Rivers          242 MCM
analyzed.  In summary, there are    Industrial   43 MCM    Waste Water   36 MCM
three  main  factors which  have    Agriculture 652 MCM    Groundwater
consistently been identified:                     -           (safe yield) 275 MCM
874 MCM                 5_53 MCM
*        lack of coherent policy                               Overdraft   =-. SCM
- although water is a
top issue-for Jordan's -    (Source: USAID 1992)
development, Government       Note: MCM = million m3
is only now developing     _
a national water policy
to guide planning in an integrated and economically optimal way for the
allocation, development and management of water resources and related
services;
*        competing institutions - the water utility, WAJ, and the Jordan Valley
Authority (JVA) each pursues its own agenda, and the Ministry of Water
and Irrigation (MWI) has not yet developed a capacity for overall
planning and management; and
*        insufficient attention to demand management - the emphasis in the water
sector has largely been on increasing supply.  Demand management exists
perforce because of lack of water, but it is determined by political
influence and administrative allocation, rather than by systematic
attempts to encourage efficiency or to pass water to its highest value
economic use.
The Adiustment Program and Lonzer Term PersRectives in the Water Sector
44.      Water Policy.  As part of its initiative to introduce coherent long-term
planning of water, Government has developed a water policy framework. This
framework (Annex VI) was discussed at negotiations and the final version adopted
by Government forms part of the Government's Letter of Sector Policy.
Implementation of the first phase of this framework forms the basis for the water
sector adjustments under ASAL. The framework would bring a coherent structure to
water management and articulates the priority that is accorded to water and the
rules that will be applied to its management. The framework recognizes that water
is a finite and vulnerable resource, that it is an economic good, and that its
development and management should be based on a participatory approach. The
framework sets out the criteria for prioritizing allocations between sectors,
based on the primacy of domestic use, and on profitability and users, willingness
to pay. The framework also deals with ownership and water rights, environmental
considerations, drought management, conservation and education.
45.      Within this general context, the framework focusses on four key areas:
(i) the development of an appropriate institutional framework, which would allow
the unified management of water and rational decisions on allocation between
sectors; (ii) the efficient use of existing water, which will require development
of demand management instruments including pricing, rationing and the promotion of
local water markets; (iii) establishing control over groundwater, which will
require a combination of regulation, education, market development .4.id
administrative decision; and (iv) the prioritization of public investment,



- 13 -
ensuring that the massive investments needed to meet the municipal water deficit
are 8elected according to economic efficiency criteria (least cost solutions).
46.      Water sector adjustment will require sustained commitment-over many
years. The whole nation will have to be involved and public information and
debate will be important. During the phase^of the adjustment program supported by
ASAL only the initiation of this process can take place. A full mid-term review
of the adjustment experience and the proposed next steps will be carried out prior
to second tranche release. The following paragraphs identify the time slice of
reforms that will take place during the ASAL perioC, together-with the monitorable
indicators and the-milestones for future change.
47.      Water Institutions.  Government has perceived the need to-separate public
interest functions from potentially commercial ones in the water sector, and has
begun to create the central planning capacity that is-needed to guide sector
development. The Government, in association with the Bank, has also begun an
institutional study (with CIDA financing) on the mandates and structures of the
three water sector institutions (MWI, WAJ, JVA). The inception report for this
study identifies broad areas for change. In summary, the study is expected to
propose options for restructuring of the sector in line with the broad principles
of maximizing efficiency, of unifying planning and management of water resources
down to wholesale level, of minimum cost to the public purse and of maximum user
participation. The restructuring should also provide for all water resource and
management statistics to be centralized and computerized in a single system.
Training and institution building support will be provided under ASTAP.
Assurances were given at negotiations that the decision on restructuring and on a
related implementation plan will be taken as a condition of second tranche
release. Implementation of the restructuring would be supported under the
proposed water sector investment loan.
48.      Efficient Use through Demand Management.  The supply and demand,
characteristics of water in Jordan are determined by the physical separation of
markets. In summary, there are two main systems: the Jordan Valley system fed by
surface water managed by the JVA, a public institution largely devoted to
irrigated agriculture; and the Highlands system fed largely by pumped groundwater
in both private and public hands and used for municipal, industrial and
agricultural purposes. The two systems are separated by an elevation of more than
1,000 m which imposes very high costs on transfers from the Valley to the
Highlands. There is, however, one existing pipeline with an annual pumping
capacity of 44 MCM; this capacity is not always fully utilized. Because the
investment costs are already sunk, this facility can transfer water from the
Valley to the Highlands at a moderate marginal cost.
49.      Demand management, designed to allocate water to its highest value use,
thus requires quite different instruments in the Jordan Valley and in the
Highlands. For the Jordan Valley, the priority is to ensure the full use of the
existing pipeline to the Highlands and then to provide incentives to the most
efficient use within the Valley of the balance of water that cannot be transferred
to the Highlands unless a new pipeline is constructed. Policy should aim at
progressively raising water charges over time to reach the efficiency price at
which, after the transfer to the Highlands, supply and demand in the Valley
balance. This efficiency price cannot be calculated with certainty and is, in any
case, highly variable between seasons and over time. It is greater than the price
at which enough water to effect the transfer to the Highlands will be released
(estimated to be 23 fils/m3) and below the estimated long-run marginal cost (LRMC)
(230 filsle3). The best approach would be progressive increases in charges,
combined with continued rationing of water, until the efficiency price is
determined empirically. This proposal to use a "ratchet effecc.' combination of



- 14 -
price increases and rationing is practical and has worked successfully elsewhere.
Relying only on very rapid increaser in prices could have a serious short-term
destabilizing impact on production with a risk that the increases could carry the
charge above the efficiency price and lead to the lose of unused water to the Dead
Sea.
50.      Thus, the long-term policy framework for the Jordan Valley provides for
moving towards equilibrium in water supply and-demand by a combination of price
signals and physical rationing or regulation.  Policy also allows for the
development of local water markets to allow economic signals to be transmitted and
to permit remuneration of water rights.  During the phase of the adjustment
program supported by ASAL, the first steps in implementing this long run policy
would be taken. A first series of price rises will take place to bring the water
charge at least to cover the operation and maintenance (O&M} costs of the- system.
The present O&M costs have been assessed in a GTZ-financed study at 25 fils/m3
compared to the charge of 6 fils/m3 levied since the 1980s. Although the full O&M
cost is still below the efficiency price, there is a logic to selecting this as
the target during the ASAL period. The figure of 25 fils/m3 is roughly equal to
the price which would, in theory, reduce demand for irrigation and release water
for full use of the existing pumping capacity to the Highlands. O&M costs thus
serve as a convenient and comprehensible proxy for the lower bound of the
efficiency price. Full O&M cost recovery would also achieve a useful fiscal
objective, saving Government some JD 3 million annually. In addition, the
increases in the charge will promote efficient water use, and create user
pressures on JVA to be more efficient. Government increased the average tariff to
15 fils/m3 with effect from October 1, 1994, and has given assurances that the
average tariff will be raised to at least 25 fils/m3 as a condition of second
tranche release. The increase to 25 fils/m3 is expected to take place by April 1,
1996.
51.      Beyond the life of the ASAL, Government is expected to work to a five-
year time horizon for moving to the efficiency price. It is inevitable, however,
that rationing will continue to be used to establish the basic allocations to
farmers, to manage flood and drought situations and to ensure that adequate water
is always available to be pumped to the Highlands.
52.      Establishina Control over Groundwater.  The major issue for groundwater
in the Highlands is the alarming rate of depletion. Government is aware of the
situation and is working with several donors on the studies necessary to evaluate
the problem. Government has created "Basin Protection Units" to begin to impose
controls, has imposed a resource charge on groundwater use by industry, and has
halted groundwater development, except for exceptional projects. However, few
countries have succeeded in controlling groundwater extraction and in the socio-
political context of Jordan it is unrealistic to expect rapid and radical reforms.
What is needed is firm political direction, a good information base, public
awareness, and development of the institutional capacity for regulation.
Government is implementing a phased program to enforce volumetric metering and
control of water production, supply and usage. Compliance with this program would
be a condition of second tranche release. ASTSUP will provide support to the
metering and groundwater monitoring program.
53.      In order to conserve the non-renewable water from the Disi aquifer for
municipal use, Government has cancelled five of the nine contracts with the
commercial farming concerns drawing water from the aquifer and set up an
Interministerial Committee to negotiate reduction of water extraction with the
four remaining farming concerns. Government has given assurances that before
second tranche release either cereals farming, which is particularly wasteful of
water, will have been eliminated or water abstractions will have been reduced by



- 15 -
at least 2St from 1993 levels. Medium-term options for transferring Disi water to
municipal use are being examined as part of the feasibility studies for the
propQsed Disi-Amman conveyor.
54.      Prioritization of Public Investments.  Capital spending on water is
projected to use one third of public investment in the 1993-97 Plan period. The
Government's Letter of Sector Policy, which was discussed at negotiations, sets
out the criteria to be used for prioritizing investments according to economic
and/or cost minimization criteria. Modernization and Upgrading projects have the
lowest marginal cost and should be given the highest priority.  However,
additional supplies for municipal use will be required. -The available project
options are all large and costly, and-financ-ing is likely- to pose major problems.
Concentrated efforts will be required to mobilize the necessary support. In
addition to encouraging donor financing -of- future major projects-* the Bank-will
encourage Government to invite proposals for their private financing and
management, and will explore with Government the options for Bank support for this
private involvement. Major proposed investments in the water sector were examined
at appraisal according to least cost criteria with the proviso that, given
financing and implementation constraints, precedence among new supply projects
should go to one major project, rather than to a plethora of small ones. The
final Public Investment Program (PIP) in water for 1995-97, which is in accord
with Government policy and investment selection criteria, was discussed at
negotiations and the agreed version is annexed to the Letter of Sector Policy.
Natural Resources and Environment
55.      over-grazing is leading to deterioration in rangeland productivity, and
the resource is further threatened by wholesale conversion to marginal barley
cultivation. Government is considering a proposal to create a Rangelands
Department in the Ministry of Agriculture to facilitate sustainable range
management initiatives. Economic incentives to overstocking and range conversion
will diminish with the elimination of subsidies (see below). Under the ASAP,
Government has begun revision of land tenure regulations that would identify user
rights, establish incentives for sustainable management (e.g., long-term leases
and technical support for communities contracting to execute management plans) and
prohibit conversion of rangeland to environmentally unsustainable arable farming.
Adoption of new regulations and their effective implementation could occur in
1995. Under ASTAP, Government is seeking financing for studies of the condition
of rangelands and the socio-economy of pastoral systems to provide information for
revising the tenure regulations and designing appropriate future range management
programs.
56.      Abuse of pesticides is a danger to health (with high levels of
organochlorines in human breast milk) and to the promotion of exports (two
countries have banned Jordanian produce due to high levels of residue). In 1994,
Government is expected to initiate a review of the current regulatory framework
and practices with a view to establishing a new framework in 1995. Under ASTAP,
support will be given to integrated pest management and to pesticide residue
testing.
C.  Reforms to Promote Narket Liberalization
Objectives.
57.      Despite a generally open economy and a recent history of liberalization,
the structure of Jordan's agricultural markets has remained strikingly controlled.
Government has directly influenced the price of many products. Of the major
products, tomatoes have benefited from a high support price, cereals have been



- L6 -
procured by Government at above import parity prices and there have been subsidies
on animal feed. Retail prices of many agricultural and processed food products
have also been controlled. Import and export quantitative restrictions (QRs) and
parastatal monopolies have further distorted the incentive structure and inhibited
market development.- All staples have been subject to import licensing and QRs
have been restrictively applied to imports and exports of fruit-and vegetables.
Government initiated a broad trade reform agenda in 1988 and is pursuing this with
the intention of joining GATT. The elimination of trade restrictions and
parastatal interventions under the program supported by ASAL will go together with
technical assistance to private exporters under ASTAP to help catalyze market
development.                           -
58.      The objective under ASAL is to eliminate price controls, subsidies and
QRs and to bring tariff levels down.  This will bring the agriculture sector into
line with the industrial sector where trade reform has already begun. The effect
will be to provide a relatively undistorted incentive structure for agriculture
and to allow market development. Prices for the more subsidized or protected
crops may drop by 20 percent or more; most prices will drop by a smaller amount
(average 10 percent). Some prices are expected to rise as export bans are removed
or export markets develop. These price changes will provide a major adaptive push
to the sector, forcing efficiencies and shifts in crop mix. These changes,
combined with rises in the input costs of water, are expected to effect
substantial efficiencies in water use.
59.      Rigidities in factor markets are important constraints to investment and
market development. There are restrictions in land markets and transport.
The Market Liberalization Program
60.      Subsidies.  The producer prices of wheat, barley .and tomatoes have in the
past been set at above import parity levels by Government. The price of imported
barley for animal feed has also been set at subsidized levels. Subsidies for
cereal producers have been phased out by Government in recent years and-Government
has announced 1994/95 cereals procurement prices that eliminate subsidies.
Subsidies on feed barley have also been eliminated, and the market has been
liberalized (see Annex VII for details). Government has announced the livestock
feed price for 1994/95 reflecting the elimination of the subsidy and has adopted a
plan for withdrawal of the public sector from the barley trade, including a
reduction in public sector barley imports for 1995 of 20% below the 1992/94
average.   As a condition of second tranche release, Government would announce a
ceiling on public sector barley imports for 1996 of at least 60% below the 1992-94
average, together with the elimination of public sector barley imports in 1997.
Government has also announced the elimination of tomato price support with effect
from January 1, 1995.
61.      Price Controls.  The retail margins of fresh fru:t and vegetables and the
prices of many fresh and processed commodities have in the past been controlled by
Government. These controls have distorted price signals and discouraged
investment. Margin controls and controls on prices of major fresh and processed
foods (including fresh and frozen meat, the major dairy products, eggs, olive oil,
tomato paste, chickpeas and lentils) have recently been eliminated by Government,
except for controls on fruit and vegetables, which will be lifted as a condition
of second tranche release - the seasonal nature of fresh produce supply makes it
important to remove price controls in the April - June period to avoid the
negative impact of an immediate price spiral. After second tranche release, the



-17-
prices of all fresh and processed foods will have been decontrolled with the
exception of fresh milk and yogurt, which may remain controlled because they are
seen as important in the diet of the urban poor.
62.      Trade Reaime.  The trade reform initiated by Government in 1988/89
reduced tariff exemptions and quantitative restrictions (QRs) and,reduced both the
general tariff level and bans. These reforms mainly affected manufactures.
Agriculture lagged behind in trade reforms and is characterized by widespread
quantitative restrictions and high tariffs.  One parastatal, Agricultural
Marketing and Produce Company (AMPCO), had a monopoly on import of four fresh
products until the monopoly was rescinded in March 1994.  Government also
maintained controls on other agricultural and food products,. including import bans
(five products), monopolies (six products) and QRs (So products). In addition,
tariffs and surcharges ran as high as 50 percent for many fruits and vegetables-
and effective protection rates were as high-as ES percent. A recent study by MOA
done in preparation for the ASAL concluded that Jordan's fruit and vegetables
production is competitive and not subject to high risk of dumping or export
subsidy from competitors. Government has, therefore, eliminated monopolies
(except for three products where there is still a consumer subsidy) and import and
export bans, quantity restrictions (except for a few minor products) and licenses
for agricultural produce, and has decided to set consolidated tariffs (including
surcharges and fees) from 1995 on these items according to new tariff bands of 5
to 50 percent in such a way that the production-weighted average does not exceed
30 percent. Agricultural trade governed by international agreements and protocols
which prohibit the imposition of tariffs and surcharges is initially excluded from
these arrangements until such time as these protocols are renegotiated in the
context of Jordan's accession to the World Trade Agreement.
63.      Government has decided to divest AMPCO.  A study has begun on Danish
Trust Fund financing and the timetable to divestiture was agreed at negotiations.
Satisfactory progress in implementation of an action plan for divestiture
satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of second tranche release.
64.      As part of the reform of the trade and tariff regime that began with
ITPAL support, Government has also eliminated restrictions on the import of
packaging materials and reduced tariffs and surcharges to a combined maximum of 30
percent, as these controls and tariffs have led to high packaging costs for
exports.
65.      Factor Markets.  Sale and lease of land in the high potential Jordan
Valley is severely restricted by law in order to prevent profiteering by
recipients of the substantial capital subsidy given to the original allottees. In
addition,- Government has been concerned to maintain control over the selection of
occupants cf land in this strategically sensitive area. This distortion in the
land market is discouraging investment and inhibiting economies of scale.
Government proposes to legalize private, freely transferable long-term leases up
to 30 years. As this will require a change in the law, assurances has been given
that, as a condition of second tranche release, Government will submit the
necessary amendment to the legislature.                -
66.      Agricultural exports &re constrained by regulations in the transport
market. Beginning in 1994 Royal Jordanian Airways will be required to compete on
an equal basis with other freight carriers in air freight and air freight
handling.



-18 -
67.      Market Develo2menLt Mnder ASTAP.  The policy measures listed above will
create incentives and opportunities for investment and trade. Under ASTAP,
support is being given to market development, as this is a key bottleneck.
Technical assistance is being provided to trade promotion organizations..
D. Sector Policy and Services
Sector POUiex
68.      It is expected that Government will approve its Agricultural Policy
Charter before the end of 1994.- The Charter contains many of the elements
necessary for the Letter of Sector Policy (LAP) and Government has prepared the
LSP from the Charter and from the water policy framework. The LSP was discussed
at negotiations, and the agreed final text has now been adopted by Government and
sent to the Bank. The LSP also includes the public investment program 1995-97 for
the water and agriculture sectors, and documents the Government's program to -
develop agricultural services. This program is a broad one and deals with a
number of complex institutional development processes, many of which will be
supported by ASTAP. This program is not the object of conditionality but its
implementation will be monitored during supervision.
Anricultural Services
69.      In general, public institutions in agriculture in Jordan are performing
poorly.  There is little public extension, and research and pesticide monitoring
are weak despite extensive donor support. The development of rural finance and of
the cooperative movement has been impaired by excessive Government intervention.
70.      Government has proposed a program for the development of agricultural
services. This program is guided by a definition of Government and private sector
roles in the sector, and articulated through a series of strategies for key
institutions and services. Implementation of the program will be supported under
ASTAP. Highlights of the program are given in the following paragraphs.
71.      For the Ministrv of Aariculture (MOA), the key issues are to adapt
structure and staffing to the new more limited mandate defined in the sector
policy; to imuplement privatization, corporatization or other forms of
decentralization; and to make essentially public services more productive and
better managed. Government has worked out a program of institutional
reorganization and change which is being implemented with USAID and GTZ support.
72.      The research function is, at present, ineffective and farmers are
receiving little benefit.  A program to develop agricultural research, including
action on the institutional status c.f the research institution, the National
Center for Applied Research and Technology Transfer (NCARTT), has been developed
with ISNAR/ICARDA assistance and should be fully adopted in the second half of
1994. ASTAP will provide support to research management and to integrated pest
management.
73.      The Government acaricultural extension service is small and weak.  The
private sector does some valuable work, mainly in the irrigated sector, but is
profit-motivated and naturally neglects smaller, poorer farmers and areas of
common benefit like integrated pest management and environmental protection. A
case can, therefore, be made for some public extension, but its objectives,
methodology, structure and financing need to be thought through. For this reason,
Government is developing an extension strategy (likely to be ready in 1995) and
ASTAP will provide support to development of extension capacity and programs.



- 19
74.      Aaricultural Credit. The-Agriculture Credit Cooperation (ACC) has the
potential to be a well-run institution but it has suffered from Government
intervention.   Government is proposing a new policy that would convert ACC into a
deposit-taking institution and bring it under Central Bank supervision.
Government also proposes to revise ACC's charter to ensure its autonomy. ACC is
developing a loan recovery plan. Under ASTAP, Government is seeking financing to
provide some technical assistance to the^development of ACC into a broader-based
institution.
75.      Cooperatives.  The cooperative movement in Jordan can serve a real need,
particularly for smaller and poorer farmers.  However, the movement has been
sapped by Government control and subsidy.  Government is developing a policy
statement and restructuring proposal that will separate regulatory and
implementation functions and lay the foundations for the revival of a bottom-up
cooperative movement. Government is seeking financing for an ASTAP component that
would support implementation of the restructuring.
PART V - IMPLEMENTATION OF TBE ASAL
A. Structure and Nanagement
76.      The ASAL loan would support the Government's reform program in the
agriculture and water sectors. The Government has already introduced the most
significant reforms in 1994 and in view of this and of the balance of payments
situation, front-loading of the loan is proposed. It is recommended that the
proposed loan of US$80 million equivalent to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan would
be disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche of US$50 million equivalent would
be available upon loan effectiveness, envisaged by November 15, 1994. The second
tranche of US$30 million equivalent would be made available upon fulfillment of
second tranche release conditions, expected about April 1, 1996. A DM 30 million
(US$20 million equivalent) cofinancing loan from KfW is envisaged. The proposed
ASAL constitutes an integral part of the financing plan for the balance of
payments. Front-loading of the loan is proposed in response to the present
reserves situation and the recent level of drawdown.  Front-loading is supported
by the relative importance within the overall program of the reform measures
implemented in 1994 prior to Board presentation. These include: in the water
sector, the adoption of the water policy framework, the implementation of the
program of volumetric control of groundwater, and a 1SO percent increase in the
price of irrigation water; and in market liberalization, the elimination of both
procurement and input subsidies for cereals, the repeal of price support for
tomatoes, the removal of all controls on prices and margins of agricultural
produce except for fresh fruit and vegetables, and the elimination of most import
and export restrictions for agricultural produce. The second tranche reforms will
bring a further 170 percent increase in the price of irrigation water and will
complete the removal of controls on prices and margins of agricultural produce by
lifting controls on fresh fruit and vegetables.
77.      Government has established an ASAL Implementation Team with an
appropriate operating framework. The team, which reports to the Minister of
Planning, comprises senior officials of: the Ministries of Planning, Water and
Irrigation, Agriculture, Finance, Supply, and Industry and Trade; WAJ; and JVA.
The Ministry of Planning has overall responsibility for managing and coordinating
ASAL implementation. The Bank will monitor implementation through regular
supervision and consultation with concerned authorities and through systematic
reporting requirements.  The Ministry of Planning (MOP) will submit regular semi-
annual reports on implementation and impacts. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOAV
will monitor trends in production, resource use, incomes, employment and prices
through household surveys and case studies, and will submit semi-annual reports.



- 20 -
The monitoring parameters (Annex IX) were agreed at negotiations and will be
recorded in a supplementary letter.  The completion of implementation of the
adjustment program supported by the operation is expected within about two years
of loan signing. The closing date of the loan would be December 31, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish.
B. Procureutent. Disbursement and Audit Reuorg4n
78.      Procurement.- -The proposed loan of US$80 million-equivalent would be used
to finance the CIF cost of eligible import of goods and services by the public and
private sectors, subject to a negative list of ineligible items, such as military
hardware. luxury goods, oil products and environmentally hazardous products.  A
negative list is recommended because of the need for quick disbursements to meet
balance of payments requirements and the relatively small amount of funds       -
currently required by the agriculture sector. Counterpart funds generated from
the sale of foreign exchange by the Government would not be earmarked.
79.      Procurement would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
procurement guidelines and would be limited to the Bank's member countries, and
Taiwan, China. Commonly traded commodities may be procured through organized
international commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. For
other public and private sector contracts estimated to cost US$ 5.0 million
equivalent or more, procurement would follow simplified international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures using the Bank's relevant standard bidding documents.
Procurement by the public sector of imports costing below US$5.0 million
equivalent would be made in accordance with the Borrower's public sector
procurement procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Procurement by the
private sector of imports costing under US$5.0 milliQn equivalent would be awarded
on the basis of the established commercial practices of the purchaser provided
that such contracts would be awarded on the basis of at least two quotations from
eligible suppliers from at least two countries, except for direct contracting
approved by the Bank. Retroactive financing of 20 percent of the loan amount is
provided for eligible imports made _.n the four months before the date of the Loan
Agreement.
80.      Disbursement.  The disbursement of each tranche would be made on the
basis of 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of eligible imports. The
Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) would be responsible for the administration of the
loan, including the collection of relevant documentation and the submission of the
related withdrawal applications, and such documentation and information as the
Bank may reasonably request to support the withdrawal of funds from the loan
account. Disbursement against contracts valued at less than US$2.0 ..illion
equivalent would be made on the basis of a Statement of Expenditures (SOB) to be
submitted by CBJ, with the detailed documentation retained by CBJ for review by
the Bank during loan supervision. Full documentation would be required for the
approval of individual contracts valued at US$2.0 million equivalent or above.
CBJ would carry out the screening process to ensure that all procurement
conditions have been met. Applications for withdrawals would be consolidated and
submitted in amounts of not less than US$1.0 million equivalent. Expenditures for
contracts valued at less than US$10,000 equivalent would not be eligible for
financing under the loan.
81.     Audit Renortina. Audits of the supporting documentation for the related
accounts and SOEs used for disbursement would be carried out by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit report of the related accounts and
SOEs would cover review of procurement procedures in addition to evidence of



- 21 -
payment and other documentation, and would be submitted to the Bank no later than
six months after the close of the Borrower's fiscal year.
C.  Loan Conditions
82.       In recent months, the Govornment has implemented a number of key policy
measures at the macroeconomic and sector levels. The Letter of Sector.Policy
(Annex V) documents the further adjustment measures which the Government proposes
to implement over the next two years.  All these actions are listed in Annex IV.
Those actions which were taken prior to Board presentation, together with the
conditions of second tranche release, are listed below.
Actions taken before                Conditions of Second
Board Presentation         j          Tranche Release
Objective: Maintain a supportive macroecononic framework and extemal financing
Macroeconomic Framework       An appropriate medium-term           Maintain the macroeconomic
(para. 39)               macroeconomic framework, including   framework including satisfatory
external financing plan, is in place.  progress with external financing plan.
Objective: Support the transition to an optimal use of water and land resources
Water Institutions                                                 Agree on institutional changes and the
(par. 47)               ___   action plan for their implementation.
Supply and Demand             Restrict issue of groundwater licenses
Management               to high priority industrial, tourism and
(pa  52)                   university projects with adequate
utilization plans.
(para. 52)                 Agree on a policy to enforce volumetric   Make satisfactory progress m|
metering and control of all water   implementing basin management plans
production, supply and usage.        country-wide, based on the agreed
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ._  _ __._    _ __'_    _ _ _.  _ _   policy.
(para. 50)                Announce and implement an agreed     Continue the agreed program by
program to cover O&M costs of Jordan   further raising average tariff to at least
Valley irrigation water, including an  25 fils/m3.
initiaI rise in the weighted average
tariff to at least 15 fils/lm3.
(para. 53)                Agree on a program for renegotiating  Eliminate cereals cropping at Disi or
the cropping pattern for the remaining    reduce groundwater extraction at Disi
Disi contracts.                      by 25% below 1993 levels.
Objecive: Imprve the incentive structure through libealization and so promote development
of markets, including internal and external makets in agricultural produce, and
markets in land and transport.
Subsidies                   Eliminate the procurement subsidy on
(para 60)                 domestically produced cereals.



- 22 -
(par. 60)              Eliminate livestock feed price subsidy.   Agree 60% reduction in public sector
Adopt plan for withdrawal of public  barley imports for 1996, and their
sector from barley trade, including  elimination in 1991. -
20% reduction in public sector barley
,______...__________-____   imports  for  1995.
(pars. 60)             Announce repeai of official tomato
procurement pnrce.  .
Price Controls           Remove controls on prices and margins   Eliminae margin controls and price
(para. 61)             of major fresh and processed    controls on fresh fruits and vegetables. -
agricultural commodities.
Trade Regime             Eliminate import and export
(pains. 62 and 64)     monopolies and restrictions for
agricultual commodities and for
packaging materials and decide to move
to tariff-based system, so that
production-weighted average tariff
would not exceed 30%.
(para 63)             Initiate study for divestiture of  Satisfactory progress in implementing
AMPCO.                          divestiture plan.
Land Market                                              Submit an amendment to the NA law
(pam. 65)                                              to extend the maximum lease period in
the Jordan Valley.
Objective: Define the strategic role of Govermet in the agriculture sector and ensure that
private and public services to the sector are delivered efficiently.
Nationd Agricultural     Submit agreed Letter of Sector Policy
Policy (para. 68)     with annexed Water Policy Framework                           l
and PIP 1995-97. 
D. Impacts and Risks
83.     ASAL impacts are expected to occur in many ways; the following paragraphs
analyze impacts on Government revenues; on people - on incomes, on consumers, on
the poor, on employment; and on wateX and the environment. Input/output
relationships are multiple and not always clear. For monitoring purposes, key
indicators of program success have been defined. These indicators are shown in
Annex IX.
84.     Fiscal Impact.  Government's successful fiscal adjustment has been largely
accomplished by reducing subsidies. Under the ESAL-supported program, subsidies
will be further reduced to about 2 percent of GDP. Adjustments supported under
the ASAL would contribute to a further reduction of the fiscal deficit by around
JD 20 million per annum (0.6 percent of GDP) as follows: (i) direct producer and
input subsidies, amounting to an estimated JD 10.2 million in 1992, would be
eliminated; (ii) full recovery of irrigation O&M costs in the Jordan Valley would
generate an additional JD 3.0 million annually; (iii) the replacement of QRs by
tariffs, and the reduction of tariffs and surcharges '_o a production-weighted
average maximm of 30 percent, would raise net customs revenue, estimated at about



- 23 -
JD 3.7 million per annum; and (iv) the divestiture of AMPCO would save Government
around JD 3.0 million annually in subsidy transfers, in addition to a one-time
revenue from the proceeds from the company's divestiture.
8S.     Other Economic Imnacts.  Trade liberalization and the dismantling of
monopolies are expected to have a positive impact on consumers as most prices will
fall.  The foreign exchange impact will be positive as exports increase (including
exports to the Occupied Territories and, possibly, to Israel) and. as imports of
subsidized feed grains decline. The employment impact may be neutral; jobs will
be lost in Highland agriculture but some jobs:will be created as the more labor
intensive horticulture crops replace field crops and generate employment both on
fan. and downstream in packing, processing and transport.  There may be a shift in-
the quality of labor demand; experience in other countries (e.g. Korea) is that
inward-looking protected agriculture favors unskilled labor, but liberalization
improves value added and the demand for skilled labor. -
B6.     imDact on Producer Incomes.  KfW (ASAL cofinancier) has prepared a study
of expected impacts of ASAL adjustment measures on farm incomes. The study shows
that income losses could affect all farmers to some extent as subsidies are phased
out and barriers to imports are lifted.  These effects can be compensated for many
farmers by new market opportunities, cropping pattern changes and productivity
increases. Adjustment should, therefore, be carefully planned and phased, and
supporting measures to help increase productivity should be in place in time. Not
all farmers will be able to compensate for lost incomes and the number of farmers
drawing very low incomes from farming could increase. Table 6 shows that on
average Jordan Valley irrigated farming enjoys good potential for improving
incomes through adjustment.  Highland irrigated systems are already costly and
there is little room for efficiency increases. Some farmers will switch to
the highest value crops such as fruit trees and cut flowers, others will find
farming less profitable and will reduce their operations, so reducing pressure on
groundwater. Rainfed and li-vestock systems are generally much less profitable and
the potential for adjustment is less, although there is scope for expansion of
Table 6: JORDAN ASAL - Sunmary o Potential IMact on Farm Incomes
Region        Nuber of Employment Percentage Average Net  Possible Changes in
Farms  (Labor Years) Hired Labor Farm Income  Net !ncAme uner AL
JD     'Worst Case   Best case
Jord4n Valley  9.134   15.317     36       9.670     -251    Very High
Irrigated                                                   Increases
(> 1002)
Highlands Irrigated 11,000   17.184  25    7.738     -292     Small
Increases
Rainfed > 350 mn  10.000    7.000  28      1.147     -102     Scant
Rainfed < 350 mn  23.000    3.874 -    28   278      -11%,   -Scant
Rainfed/Livestock  26.000   22.073  21     1.923     -122    Small
Increases
Livestock only   20.840   14,019  40       2.217     -1is     Scant
Source, Assessment of the Potential Impact of ASAL on Farmers' Incomes'. KfW, October.1993.
tree crops such as olives and of livestock systems based on fodder crops.
Producers and systems that are particularly vulnerable are: in the Jordan Valley,



- 24 -
the smallest farmers, the renters and the sharecroppers; in the irrigated
Highlands, the share croppers; in mixed and livestock farms, sheep and goat
predominant systems, particularly the larger flocks; and cereal producers in
rainfed areas.  In addition, the commercial dairy industry is likely to become
less profitable and at least some production units may close.  There is excess egg
production capacity for the-domestic market and once subsidies are removed many
- producers may go out of business unless the export market Can be developed. The
conclusions of the KfW study have been discussed with Government. They have
influenced the proposed phasing of ASAL, and ASTAP has been designed to focus on
production systems where there is potential for--income increases, with priority to
poorer producers. Specific poverty alleviation measures are discussed below.
87.     Poverty.  Overall, the impact of ASAL on the'poor is expected to be
beneficial as poor consumers would benefit from lower prices under trade
liberalization.  Several elements in the program have an explicitly "pro-poor"
objective of helping poorer farmers. Under the irrigation cost recovery program,
an increasing block tariff system is being introduced as a transitional measure to
provide a minimum water allocation to the poorer farmer at a reasonable basic
rate. The research and extension strategies to be adopted under ASAL and
supported under ASTAP will have an explicit mandate to concentrate on the
production systems of poorer farmers.  In addition, the proposed monitoring
program will provide Government with information on any emerging unforeseen
problem. Inevitably, some farmers faced with reduced incomes from farming may
fall temporarily or chronically below the poverty line, although the number of
farmers facing this eventuality is not likely to be great. For these cases, there
is a safety net operating in Jordan, including a National Assistance Fund.
Improvements have been suggested to the operation of the safety net (Poverty
Assessment, January 1994) that would ensure adequate treatment of any ASAL-related
poverty. In addition, fiscal savings generated under the ASAL by the phasing out
of poorly-targeted subsidy programs could be transferred to the National
Assistance Fund; if even half the fiscal savings were so employed, some 4S,000
more families - roughly half the households now classified as poor - could be
helped at average benefit levels.
88.     ImDact on Water Resources.  The ASAL will promote a long-term process of
gaining control over Jordan's scarce water resources, with the major benefits
coming from a program of institutional, regulatory and management reforms.
Benefits are difficult to predict with precision but orders of magnitude can be
suggested. Full utilization-of existing diversion capacity between the Valley and
the Highlands could provide an extra 20 MCM extra annually for municipal use (an
increase of about 10 percent in national availability for municipal use), and
-would have an immediate economic benefit estimated at, perhaps, JD 8 million per
year. Careful prioritization of investments in new supply would also have
potentially large benefits given the very high cost of new supplies--if the
present value of costs were to be 10 percent less than it might otherwise be, then
the annualized benefits could be JD 1 million a year for every 10 MCM produced.
The impact of demand management measures on returns to water are difficult to
quantify. Nevertheless, reallocation of both renewable and fossil groundwater to
municipal and industrial use has potentially a very high return given that
willingness-to-pay estimates suggest a value in potable use in excess of 1000
file/e3 whereas returns to irrigation are no more than 150-200 fil9/m3.  Though the
amounts involved are uncertain, the process of strengthening regulatory controls
on groundwater use, supported by financial incentives and promotion of local
markets, would move the process in the right direction.  The elimination of
agricultural use of Disi groundwater could alone release 65 MCM annually for
alternative municipal and industrial use (an increase of about 30 percent in
national availability). In the Valley, a 20 percent increase in the return to
water--a not unreasonable objective--would result in an increase in agricultural
value added of more than JD 10 million a year.



- 25 -
89.     Environmental Imnact,  In general, environmental impact is likely to be
beneficial. Water sector measures will improve the ability to conserve water
resources -and to monitor and manage the quality of ground and surface water, and
will reduce salinization. The pressure on farming profitability will reduce
incentives for overpumping groundwater in the Highlands and this, combined with
stronger regulation, would help reduce over-exploitation of groundwater.
Elimination of producer subsidies for cereals will remove one of the primary
factors encouraging conversion of rangeland to unsustainable forms of agriculture.
Removal of feed subsidies may, in the short term, put increased pressure
temporarily on the range but should, in the medium term, cause a reduction of
livestock populations and hence of overgrazing of the rangeland. Amendment of
land tenure provisions should improve the prospects of sustainable exploitation of
rangeland. Action on the pesticide regulatory framework should result in a
reduction of pollution and hazard to human health.
Risks
90.     Jordan is going through rapid economic and political transition and there
are risks facing the adjustment program. Essential macroeconomic stability will
be helped by the maintenance of the IMF-supported program. Social and political
risk from the application of new relative prices or the reduction of vested
interests exists and has to be balanced primarily by the real benefits that will
flow from the program, where uneconomiS or environmentally unsustainable
production or economic rents are impaired for some, but lower consumer prices,
better opportunities for profit or the cessation of resource mining provide
benefits to others. Government, as motor of the adjustment program, will have an
important role in public relations and political mediation to keep the program
moving ahead. Government's appreciation of the political feasibility of the
reforms is thus vital and has dictated the scope and phasing of the adjustment
program (e.g. in the phasing out of cereals subsidies and in the methodology and
timing of water charge increases). These considerations will reduce risks to
program implementation. The matching of ASAL reforms with ASTAP technical support
is also a visible sign of Government's commitment to supporting producers during
the transition. Designed to improve the efficiency of response, ASTAP will help
to improve benefits and mitigate adverse effects, and hence reduce political risks
to the program.
91.     A major uncertainty is the effect of peace in the region.  The short-term
impact has been increased tentativeness in decisions on the part of Government and
the business community. The settlement may result in prospects for improved
economic integration in the region and the proposed program of trade
liberalization and removal of price distortions would be reinforced by this. The
water policy framework highlights the fact that under any conditions the water
sector adjustment program would remain a priority for the nation, and the peace
accords should provide scope for long-range planning and a rationalized investment
strategy.
PART VI - RECOMENDATION
92.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 15, 1994



. -26 -
ThE IASIEMITE IJNGDO, OF JORDA -
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN-
Table 1: Jordan - Key Nacroeconomic Indicators
Actuat              Prelim.                  Projected
,................ ............  ...... .................___.._.___. ..... ......... _........._  .
1989    1990    1991   1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
.... ..... ..... ......... .. .. ............................................ ....................................................................... ....................----.
GDP (mil current USS)                   4084    3940    4086    4757    5190    5680    6115    6636    7146    7895
GDP Growth Rate (K)                    -13.5      1.7     1.8    11.2       5.8      5.5     5.8      6.0      6.2      6.5
Domestic Inftation (K)                  21.5    10.2      4.5      4.7      5.1     4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
ICOR                                      ..    14.8    16.0       2.1      5.5     S.S      5.0      4.5      4.3     4.0
(percent of GDP)
investment                              25.9    28.8    24.0    32.1    30.1    28.8    27.1    26.9    26.2    26.0
Private                               17.4    22.7    18.0    25.8    23.0    21.2    19.1    18.9    18.2    18.0
Public                                 8.4     6.1      6.0      6.3      7.1     7.6      8.0      8.0      8.0     8.0
Consumption 1/                          95.7   101.8    99.9   103.6   102.2    98.1    95.2    93.3    90.8    88.2
Private                               69.3    76.6    73.3    79.8    78.S    72.9    69.7    68.0    65.8    63.6
Public                                26.4    25.2    26.6    23.8    23.7    25.2    25.5    25.3    25.0    24.6
Gross Domestic Savings                   4.3    *1.8      0.1    -3.6    -2.2        1.9     4.8      6.7      9.2    11.8
Private                               18.2      7.4     8.1    -5.7    -2.5       0.2      1.4      2.7      4.S     6.5
Public                               -13.9    -9.2    -8.0       2.1      0.3      1.7     3.4      4.0      4.7     5.3
Gross National Savings                  12.2    -9.S   -16.8       7.1      7.7     9.7    12.7    14.6    16.2    18.2
Current Account Balarce Z/             -17.3   -29.2   -21.4   -22.9   -19.1   -16.3   -12.6   -10.8    -8.8    -6.6
Current Account Batance 3/              -2.6   -19.2   -17.4   -15.6   -12.5   -10.0    -7.8    -6.6    -4.9    -3.1
Government Revenues 41                  24.3    28.1    28.9    36.1    32.4    32.5    31.9    31.5    31.3    30.8
Goverrenent Expenditures                45.2    46.8    46.8    39.9    38.6    37.9    36.2    35.2    34.3    33.3
Non-Interest                          35.5    36.2    36.0    30.0    31.6    32.0    30.5    29.9    29.2    28.7
Interest due                           9.7    10.6    10.8       9.8      7.0     5.9      5.?      5.3      5.1     4.6
Budget Deficit C-) 41                  -21.0   -18.?   -17.8    -3.7    -6.2    -5.4    -4.3    -3.7    -3.0    -2.5
Memo Item:
Debt/GOP                               156.6   182.7   186.9   147.9   133.1   122.2   M15.S   106.1    97.5    86.4
Post-Resch Debt Service/EXPGSR 5/    21.1    20.3    21.3    19.9    14.5    13.0    11.6    12.0    13.7    13.7
....................................................................................................................
Notes :
/ Consumption has been consolidated with the resourco balance in the 8e account.
2/ Excluding grants and workers' savfngs; before debt rescheduling.
31 After grants.               n
4/ Exeluding foreign grants and rescheduled fnterests.
5/ Debt services include 1994 Paris Club reschedullng; exports include goods, services, and remfttances.
Source: Bank staff estimates.
JR05B              03-Oct-94



- 27 -
AII
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Jordan Financing Requirements. 1994-96
1994       199S       19S6
Gross Financial Requirements 1/        1358      1544       1436
Financing Sources
1. Use of Savings Transfer              SO       150        1.50
2. Direct Foreign Investment            25       125        135
3. Regular Financing                   608       557        498
Grants                             360       294        281
Loans, of which                    248       263        217
World Bank projects                37        55         55
4. Exceptional Financing               576       722        653
(conditional on the adjustment
program)
Debt Rescheduling 2/                405       433        393
IBRD ESAL                            50        20         __
IBRD ASAL                            So         0         30
IBRD FTSAL                           --        40         40
Others 3/                            71        75         55
5. Residual Gap                         0        154        135
1/ Excluding use of transfers of savings from Jordanian workers abroad.
2/ Working assumption, based on terms obtained in July 1994.
3/ Includes possible cofinancing from bilateral donors.



- 28 -
ANNE ITI1
THE ASHEITEI  KIIIGDOX OF JORDAI
A6RICIULTURE SECTOR   S       LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY OPERATION DATA SHEET
Section I   :    Timetable of Key Bvents
(a)   First Bank/KfW Preparation Mission:  April 1993
(b)   Subsequent Preappraisal Mission:  December 1993
(c)   Project prepared by:  Government/Bank/KfW
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  April 12, 1994
(e)   Negotiations: August/September 1994
(f)   Planned Date for Effectiveness:  January 1995.
gectiLorLII  :    Special Imolementation Action
None
QtnIII:    Special Conditions
Conditions for the release of the second tranche as set out
in Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.



Revised Seot. 20. 1994
THE EASBEMITE KINGDOM OF jORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT tWAN.
OVERALL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM IN WATER AND AGRICULTURE (MARIX)
Note:   This matrix documents Government's overall program of adjustment in water and agriculture.  This overall
program is documented in the Letter of Sector Policy and will be monitored during supervision. Only certain
key actions (  W) serve as conditionality but implementation of the full program shown here is expected
as part of the overall adjustment program supported by ASAL.
Actions Already Taken     Actions Expected to Be Taken  Actions Expected to Be, Taken
in 1994 (actions taken        by April 1996 (conditions of'
.                         . ~~~~~~~~before Board presentation  second tranche,release a-e  
!_  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ - _ _ _ _ . _ _ _   a r e   ))
objective: Maintain a supportive macroeconomic framework and external financing
(a)  Macroeconomic      IMF and Bank (ESAL)       b       *i .r iiXFe ia    te.' te z4eca=.
Framework        programs are on track                                                  54.
(para.   39)   1                          ._                                     |   _     _   _.
.________________ _ .   :Okjective. Support the tranition to an optimal use of water and. land resources
(a)  Water Policy      1                         I E   1               1
(para. 44)     1       .                                ._|_____.;____,,_._____
41



(b)  Water              Institutional study        Conduct the institutional
Institutions       began April 1994.         study and identify areas for
(para. 47)chne
(c) Supply and Demand   Issue of licenses fo~r
Management         drilling of private          r            t  4
(para. 52)       wells suspended.                          /
(para. 52)       Basin management units
created.                             _
(para. SO)       Study of operation and              _                        _       _ 
maintenan-ce costs of
Jordan Valley irrigation     s      .       o
water completed. 
(para. 53)       Disi contracts that were                   
in breach have been                        ~Y*i
cancelled.        -
(d)  Natural Resources                             Begin review of regulations   Adopt and-implement revi -ed
and Environment                             regarding land tenure and      regulationa for rangelax4.
(para. S5)                                  rangeland use.
l~ ~     ~     ~~__________ .____________   _____________   OQ



(para. 56)                                 Begin review of pesticide      InpIement new regulatory
t)i~~regultzoryzt ftraeork.beal  famework.sopom
of me*~t~,~ii~ait~ ~*~*~a   z:dextIerial marketo, in igui.culturaI,
(a)  Subsidies
(para. 60)
(para. 60)        Maize and sorghum
subsidies eliminated,
barley subsidy reduced.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.    _.   Z_  '
(para. 60)
(b)  Price controls
(para. 61)                                     c                                          I
(a)  Trade Regime       Some import and export
(para. 62)        license requirements
have been removed.
AMPCO monopolies have
been removed.
0                      r~~~~~~~
,ol
(para. 63)                                                                   * 1  * .|.
7                   ..



(d)  Land Market
(para. 6 5)
(e)  Transport Market   Royal Jordanian Airways   Allow other companies to
(para. 66)        (RJi is to be             compete in air freight and
privatized.               air freight handling on an
equal basis with RJ.
Objective:  Define the strategic role of Government in the agriculture sector and
ensure that private and public services to the sector -are delivered
|_ 1_   ';.___ _    ._. A _     _____    " ,  ..1'...',efficiently.
(a)  National           An Agricultural Policy    Adopt Agricultural Policy
Agricultural      Charter has been           Charter 
Policy            pead                     I ,S4&    i $                  I
(para. 68)
(b) MOA Services                                  Adopt a program of             Implement the program.
(para. 71)                                  institutional reorganization
and change.
(paras. 72 and    A strategy for research   Adopt strategy for research.  Adopt strategy for
73)          has been prepared.         Prepare a strategy for        extension. implement the
extension.                    strategies.
(c)  Rural Finance                                Adopt a policy statement,      Implement the program.
(para. 74)                                 charter and loan recovery
I____ ____ ____ ____   I______ __   plan     for   ACC.
(d) Cooperatives                                  Adopt a policy statement and  Implement the restructuring
(para. 75)                                 restructuring program for      program.
the cooperative movement.



-33-                              ANNEXV
Page 1 of 14
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN                     .
MINISTRY OfI PLANNING
AMMAN                                                      L.1mAl
Ref. -IL 14 L 38 A
D 0 2?/1/I1994
UV. Lewis Preston
President
The World Bank
1818 I Street, N.W.
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
The Hashemite. Kngdom of Jordan
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Program (ASAL)
Dear Mr. Pirston,
1.   Introduction
This letter has been prepared in support of the Governments request to the World
Bank for an Agicultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL). The letter is based on the
Agricultural Policy Chaiter prep3red by the Government. It is the  ovemnmentfs intention to
adopt the Policy Charter fornally before the end of 1994. The sectoral adjustmcnt program
that is proposed in this letter is set within the context of the macroeconomic framework and
stategy for ensuring a sound medium term financing plan that has been agreed with the
Intemational Monetary Fund.
2.   General Policy Objectives
Agrcultural policy as part of an integrated socio-economic policy for Jordan has to
achieve efficiency, sustainability and equity. Jordan needs, and the Government of Jordan
wiU support an agriculture and livestock sector, that is efficient, competitive and market
oricuted and which contributes to the protection of the natural environment and to the
preservation of natural rcsources tbrough land use patterns and technologies which preseve
the environxnent Therefore, the priority objectives of the agricultural policy for Jordan will
be to use available agrcultural production resources, with economic efficiency, while
prcserning the envitorunent and ensuring the sustainability of agricultural production in *h
long-term and to orient production of agricultural commodities towards denxand.
The goal of equity requires a focus on povrty. Sector policy should aim at
maximizing opportunitics and minimizing shocks for the poor. Information and monitoring
systems wiII create an underszanding of the problem of poverty and allow adjustment
policies and programmes. Pubhl; programs, services (especially research and extension) and
investments wil be designcd with a specific focus on improving the incomes of the poor.
Aa/'U *:VC../4Nte2 ;i9NCwt4.2 :MAj...3INP T41 A.. NPC rwi4 4s66 NPC jR0- 644:3 
:.-OBo :SCable: NPC %tcz: ZI3i9N1PC Jo,242S8 MINPS*oTlf: :649341 -TieL.: 64460- 6443$lJI



-34                               ANNEX V
Page 2 of 14
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                  hI;         _Ij 
3.      Role of Government and the Private Sector
Agriculture in Jordan is based - and will remain
founded - on the principle of private ownership and
private management of resources- Recognizing the
importance of hea-lthy and robust private enterprise,
the Governnent of Jordan will facilitate and encourage
the development of the private sector. The Government,
will concentrate its own activities in areas in which
-the  private   sector  is  unable  to  satisfy  the
requirements   and/or   provide   the   infrastructure,
information  and  services  necessary  for  sustained
agricultural development.   Specifically, the role of
Government in the sector is to:
-Provide the appropriate environment for the
agricultural sector to grow, while encouraging
private  agents  to  play  the  major  role  in
agricultural development.
-Provide   the   necessary  regulatory   and
monitoring   framework  -to   ensure   a   freely
functioning market place.
       Provide the necessary institutional and
infrastructural support and information services
needed for long-term agricultural development,
especially in areas where the private sector is
economically and technically unable to provide
such services.
-       Encourage the effective participation of
individuals   and   target   groups   in   policy
formulation and decision making processes, also
ensure their participation in implementation, and
provide the reauired information and support
services by the public sector. This includes the
involvement   of   the   people   concerned   in:
agricultural policy formulation, development of
research and extension objectives, priorities and
strategies, and the establishment of self-help
groups,  cooperatives,  professional  and  other
farmers organizations.   The democratization and
decentralization process in Jordan is an important
and essential step in this direction.
4.      Institutions for Agriculture
Monitoring Canacitv.       An agricultural sector which
is striving to provide high quality goods and services
for the nation's consumers and to remain competitive in
regional and international markets, must be able to
remain responsive and flexible.  The institutions and
infrastructure supporting the agricultural system must



_35                               ANNEX V
- Page 3 of 14
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                        A .   -11 odAi
be able to change and adjust for the necessary goods,
information  and: services  to  be  provided.    While
implementing the needed institutional and related
legislative adjustments   the government will monitor
the  impact  )f  such  changes,  ensuring  that  the
transition - will   be   economically,   socially   and
environmentally sound-.
Self-Help su2nort and Cooneratives.  Jordanian farmers
.and producers will solve their economic and social
problems   by   marshalling   their   own   strengths.
Government will encourage their self-help initiatives.
Rural   cooperatives,   particularly  those   targeting
special agricultural production oriented goals, have
significant roles to play.   The creation of other
formal and informal multi-farm cooperation and self-
help initiatives will also be encouraged and supported
by the government.
Human Resources DeveloPment for Anriculture and Rural
Development.   one most important investment in the
future development of agr.culture is the human resource
development of men and wimen farmers and farm workers
through solid education and training.   The required
training   institutions   will   be   established  with
government  support  at  suitable  locations  in  the
country.
MKinistry of Agriculture.   An efficient and effective
Ministry of Agriculture is essential to prepare for the
future  trends  and  advancements  in  all  of  the
agricultural, livestock and forestry subsectors..  The
roles, responsibilities, mandates, and authorities of
all   ministries   and   institutions   involved   in
agricultural sector development must be reviewed and
clarified to improve overall public sector performance
and   effectiveness,   and   to   reduce   duplication,
institutional frictions and conflicts. Ministerial and
institutional coordination and cooperation is critical,
and will be strengthened. The Ministry is embarking on
an internally led process of change designed to improve
the delivery of essential services and to develop its
structure  towards  a  more  effective  organization.
Specific bench marks in this process will be the
preparation in 1994 of an institutional development
plan, supported by technical and logistical support for
the key functions and deprrtments.
Aaricultural   Council.       The   Council   will   be
reinvigorated and transformed into an active and
effective policy-making body.   Farmers' and private
sector   representation   and  participation   in   the
Agricultural Council will be enhanced.



- 36 -            - ^             ANNEX V
Page 4 of 14
MINISTRY -OF PLANNING
5.      Legislation for Agricultural Development
The  legislation  pertaining  to  agricultural  sector
institutions, especially Agricultural Law No. 20 of
1973 will be reviewed and amended to meet actual and
future needs, and effective law enforcement will be
ensured Agricultural and rural cooperatives predominate
in the, cooperative sector and the -revival of the
movement   is   therefore  an   important  object   of
eagricultural policy.   The existing cooperative legal
framework and legislation will be reviewed and adjusted
to meet expected challenges.
Specifically, -a new policy statement and development
strategy for cooperatives will be developed, based on
the  concept  of  a  self-reliant  and  indenendent
cooperative movement. This strategy will incluae: (i)
organizational restructuring to separate development,
service,    commercial,   financial-   and - regulatory
functions,  and  to  develop  appropriate  government
functions; and (ii) financial restructuring to restore
credit discipline and confidence in the cooperative
movement, including a plan to wind up Jco, restitute
deposits, write off non- performing assets and settle
domestic and foreign liabilities.
Restrictions on sale of land in Jordan Valley and land
tenure rules (maximum lease period 10 years) discourage
long-term  investment  and  efficient  operation  of
economically  viable  farms.    Therefore,  the maxinum
lease period will be extended to 30 years. -
6.      Agricultural Trade and Marketing Policies and
Institutions
A policy promoting the export of high value products
and the import of products of relatively lower value
will result in substantially higher gross and net
returns on agricultural production and in a positive
impact on foreign exchange, while at the same time
reducing the trade deficits and helping to minimize
government subsidies for agriculture.
Developing    efficient    marketing    channels    and
*      institutions,  and  exploring  new  ways  of  selling
agricultural products, while maintaining and improving
existing marketing structures will become increasingly
more important as Jordan strives to enter new and
highly competitive markets.
Trade Policy.      Supporting   exports  will   receive
special attention and juridical and administrative
obstacles affecting these trading activities will be
remedied. Agricultural export and import trading is,
and will remain, within the private sector domain.



_ 31 _                          ANNEX V
Page 5 of 14
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                  h           ;WjJ
Responsibility  for -overseeing  and  monitoring  the
framework  and rules by which trading is conducted,
introducing  and  maintaining  product  standards  and
grades,   promulgating   and   enforcing   agricultural
regulations,  ensuring  market  transparency  and  fair
competition, and helping in exploring and opening new
markets will be vested in public sector institutions
under the umbrella of the Ministry of Agriculture.  A.
concerted program to promote agricultural exports will
involve various ministries and other public as well as
private sector institutions in an effort to streamline
this program.
Current quantitative restrictions, tariffs and state
monopolies restrict trade and lead to higher consumer
prices.    Therefore, AMPCO's  monopoly  in import  of
apples, potatoes, onions and garlic has been removed in
1994.
A study of options for divestiture of AI4?CO will be
carried out leading to agreement on a divestiture plan
for AMPCO in 1994 and implementation of the divestiture
plan in 1995. The MOS monopoly on import of lentils,
frozen poultry, and olive oil will also be removed.
Import and export licences for processed agricultural
commodities have been removed, but prior approval of
the ministry concerned is still needed for many
commodities.    Imports and exports of fresh fruits.
vegetables and planting materials will be liberalize1i
bans, licences and quotas will be eliminated and th,_
restrictions will be replaced where needed by tariffs
and surcharges at appropriate levels except where
prohibited by international agreements.
A tariff of 40% is levied on- packaging materials for
fruit,  vegetables, and flowers.   This leads to high
costs and inferior quality of exports.   Unrestricted
import of packaging materials will be allowed and the
tariff and surcharges will be reduced to 20%-25% or
eliminated.
7.      Market Development
Policies will be introduced to reduce various risks
faced by producers, and to minimize production and
marketing  costs.      Measures  to  ensure  successful
implementation of these policies will comprise the
following:
-     Strengthening    the   market    information
services to producers and exporters in Jordan;
-encouraging    farmers'   and    exporters'
organizations to assume responsibility for the
improvement of marketing  of  Jordanian produce,



-38-                              ANNEX V
Page 6 of 14
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                        -     ;^: ,Ij
including the development of new markets and new
crops;
-  -    in particular, introducing and maintaining a
grading system for Jordanr.an agricultural produce;
-strengthening    the    generatiqn       and
dissemination of technical information on pest and
pesticide risks;
- enhancing post harvest technical services
for fruit and vegetables, including monitoring of
pesticides, residue analysis, quality control
standards, packing specifications, storage,
precooling treatment and transport management of
fresh commodities.
Comoetitiveness  in  Domestic  and  Export  Markets.
Policies will aim at utilizing the country's resources
most productively.  The present policy of exempting all
imported inputs from customs duties will be maintained.
Government, along with the private sector involved in
production, marketing and export, will utilize trade
relations and agreements with other countries to
further Jordan's benefits and promote the expansion of
agricultural exports, and by building greater levels of
confidence among producers and exporters for long-term
trade relations, and will strengthen all public and
private services leading to the promotion of a larger
share    of    Jordanian    horticultural    exports.
Specifically,    government   will    facilitate    the
establishment of private export businesses, including
assisting qualified businesses in obtaining object-
oriented technical assistance and training.
Government will also promote competition and hence
moderate prices in the transport sector by allowing
competition in air freight handling.
Price Policy
Consistent with national agricultural development goals
and  objectives,   the  Government  will  pursue  the
principle of a liberal price policy. Output and input
subsidies at present cover wheat, barley and tomatoes.
Subsidies create a fiscal burden and distort market
price signals. Therefore, producer subsidies for wheat,
barley, and barley feed subsidies have been eliminated.
Furthermore,   no  new  cereals  subsidies  will  be
introduced.   The price support for tomatoes will be
repealed.



-39-                              ANNEX V
Page 7 of 14
MINISTRY 0F PLANNING
Retail margins and. prices of fresh agricultural produce
are  controlled  by MOS.   Prices  of many  processed
commodities  are  also  controlled  by MOs,  which  is
discouraging  private  investment.       Therefore,  all
controls  on  retail  margins  of -fresh a fruit - and
vegetables and on retail prices of fresh milk, fresh
poultry  meat,  chickpeas,  lentils  and  eggs  will be
removed.   Prices of processed agricultural commodities
will  be  liberalized,  including:  spaghetti,  frozen
*poultry, fresh and chilled meat, olive oil, and tomato
paste.
9.      Regulatory Framework
A competitive agricultural system catering for local
and export markets requires an efficient and reliable
legal and regulatory framework within which to operate.
Other regulations related to importing and exporting,
inspection and quarantine of animal and plant products,
quality control of chemicals and feed inputs, testing
for pesticide residues, setting standards for the
grading of produce, phyto-sanitary as well as seed and
plant certification must also be considered and will be
implemented.   A review of the pesticide  regulatory
framework  will  be  initiated  in  1994,    and  it  is
intended to subsequently implement a new framework as'
from  1995.    The infrastructure  for monitoring  and
enforcing these regulations will be established.
10.    Services
An agricultural sector which is significantly involved
in commercial production for local and export markets
requires a variety of support services to ensure the
efficient and effective operation of farming and
agribusiness enterprises. These services include soil
and plant analysis, plant disease diagnostic services,
seed and plant testing and certification, virus
indexing, fertilizer and pesticide analysis, pesticide
residue   analysis,   seed  multiplication,   seedling
production and veterinary services.
The government will assess the demand and requirements
for such services, and wherever possible encourage the
private sector to provide the required services.   If
the private sector is unable to adequately respond,
the  government  will  initially  encourage  private
entities    to    establish    the    facilities    and
infrastructure demanded by the agricultural sector,
and only if this fails will the government furnish the
essential services, generally on a full cost recovery
basis.



-40-                              ANNEX V
Page 8 of 14
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                   i           ;Ajj
Information and Statistical Services.  The collection
and analysis of marketing, economic and agricultural
statistics will be unified through the merging and/or
coordination among the institutions responsible for-
data   collection   and   processing.      ?Merging   or
coordination of these activities will be based on an
efficient  division  of.  tasks  and  responsibility
according to- -the most efficient sources of data
collection  and  the enalytical  capabilities  of  the
concerned institutions,
Agricultural  Research.    The ie ational  Center  for
Agricultural Research and Technology Transfer (NCARTT)
has been endowed with more managerial autonomy within
the Ministry of Agriculture and with a renewed mandate
(NCARTT By-Law of June 1993).  Policy and strategies
for agricultural research and technology transfer are
in the process of being formulated.
Research  programs  will  mainly  be  aDplied  and/or
adaptive in nature. NCIATT shall provide technical
expertise and backstopping for extension institutions
and departments, as well as training for extension
personnel, on-farm trials and demonstrations.  NCARTT
will also provide a mechanism for a regular two-way
flow of information and feedback between research,
extension and producers.   Within NCVRTT, institution
building,  particularly of management has to be the
priority.   A national agricultural research strategy
has been developed, and the strategy will be adopted
in 1994/95  and thereafter implemented.               -
Research and technology transfer will be geared
towards   production   and  market-oriented   priority
programs  and  to technologies  and alternatives  for
vulnerable or poor production systems, with farmers
participating  in  the  decision  making  process  for
resource  allocation  and  program. priorities.    The
outlay of financial resources for this research will
be at levels ensuring adequate efficiency
Acricultural Extension.   The establishment of strong
formal   linkages  among  those  institutions   which
generate information and those which are responsible
for the dissemination and adoption of this information
is   a   prerequisite   for   attaining   significant
improvement and the desired progress. The government
will ensure that these linkages function efficiently
and effectively, and that information disseminated to
the agricultural community is scientific, factual,
unbiased and beneficial.
The private sector does extension work, -mainly in the
irrigated and livestock sector, but it is largely



- 41'-                           ANNEX V
Page 9 of 14
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                        -Im 4 I
,       I
linked to input sales and naturally neglects smaller,
poorer farmers and areas of common benefit like
integrated   pest   management   and  -environmental
protection.  A case can therefore be made for a public
extension service but limited to themes and areas not
already covered (with particular emphasis on rainfed
agriculture and on traditional livestock systems), and
only  if  the  service  can be- provided  in  a  cost-
-     effective way.  A statement of extension strategy is'
-being prepared and will be put into practice after
adoption, wh-ich is likely to be in 1'9S / 96.
Acricultural   Credit.       The  Agricultural   Credit
Corporation  (ACC) will be developed  into  a  fully
fledged agricultural savings and credit bank having
full   financial   and   managerial   autonomy   and
responsibility. Banking operations of the ACC will be
complementary to the activities of private banks, and
will especially target individuals and groups in rural
areas, who have institutional difficulties in becoming
eligible for private bank loans. A policy statement
affi:ming ACC's autonomy including protection from the
imp sition of debt relief measures by Government will
be formulated and adopted in 1994, as well as an
amended charter for ACC; and a loan recovery plan. ACC
will come under the supervision of the Central Bank of
Jordan.
_1.     Policy for Water and Irrigated Agriculture
Water Policy.
The Ministry of Water has initiated preparation of a
water policy, and a water policy framework has been
adopted, which is annexed to this letter. The following
paragraphs summarize the main points of the framework.
Water is a critical issue for Jordan's development.
Rapid population growth and economic development have
placed   unprecedented   demands   on   the   resource.
Renewable groundwater is being over-drawn at an
unsustainable rate, water quality is deteriorating in
many    locations,    existing   demands   cannot    be
satisfactorily met, and the costs of exploiting the
remaining surface and fossil resources are rising
rapidly.     Investments  in  the  water  sectors  are
scheduled to account for a third of total plan
expenditures.     Under  these  circumstances,  it  is
imperative that optimum and sustainable patterns of
water   use  be  established,   taking  into  account
preservation  of  water  quality  and  environmental
standards and the need to meet the requirements of the
mounting population and of the industrial and service
sectors on which Jordan's future economic prosperity
must be based.



ANNEX V
-42-                     Page 10 of 14
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                  28   2:f  ;Jj
Public ownership of water resources is the foundation on
which water policy will be based, suppQrted by a stable
system of water use rights and unambiguous allocation
policies.   Priority will be given to meeting municioal and
industrial  demands,  subject  to  recognition  of  existing
rights  and  allowing  for  compensation  in  the  event  of
reallocation. Allocation policies will be supported - -by
kystematic  water  resource  assessment,  monitoring  and
tmanagemeat policies with the aim of establishing sustainable
patterns  of- use  and  maintaining  appropriate  quality
standards.   Emphasis will be placed on water conservation
and reuse, and to strengthening regulatory systems for- both
surface and groundwater.   Incentives will be developed to
complement regulatory action znd promote efficient water
practices, including progressive water pricing policies that
signal to the end-user the true economic value of water. The
Government will develop a rational institutional framework
in support of its policy, distinguishing between those
institutions required to develop and manage the resource in
a coherent and comprehensive manner, and those agencies
responsible for the efficient delivery of water services to
the end-user.
12.     Policy for Rainfed Agriculture
The   following   policy   objectives   for   rainfed
agriculture  will  be  pursued  by  the  Jordanian
Government: (i) increasing productivity of land,-water
and labor, in rainfed agricultural zones, through an
efficient allocation of these resources; and (ii)
attaining continuity in the engagement o' the public
a*nd private sectors in soil and water conservation.
In areas with an annual rainfall of over 400 mm, high
priority will be assigned to fruit production.
Incentives to attract more private sector investments
will - in the future absence of direct government
subsidies - require enhanced public sector investment
and    services    in    research,    extension    and
infrastructure,  as  well  as  in  soil  and  water
conservation.
For enhanced fruit production, research and technology
transfer will focus on: varieties, adaptation and
market potential; production practices; re-utilization
of adequately treated waste water for supplementary
irrigation; and marketing.
Cereal research technology transfer will be focussed
on specifically designated regions and production
technologies or simple innovations which combine to
show clear promise or acceptance by target groups.



-43 A-NEX V
Page I I of 14
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                   L           ;.1 j
A  land  consolidation  program will be  established.
Consolidation   of   fragmented   holdings   will   be
encouraged and further land fragmentation must be
averted.  This will require legislation.
soil Iand  water  conservation  will  be  encouraged.
Public  sector  involvement  will  be  expanded,  and
increasing the pivotal role of the.private sector will1
be encouraged, especially through investing in the
establishmrent and maintenance of fruit. farming - with
the aim of increasing the productivity of the land and
at the same time protecting water and soil resources.
13.   Policy for Badia and Range
To a large degree, lands in low rainfali a-eas have
been degraded as a result of misuse and are producing
but   a   fraction   of  their  original   potential.
Cultivation of wide areas of this zone - ostens1blv
for barley production, but probably in fact as a ineans,
of laying claim to the land - has led to widesnread
erosion  and  has  accelerated  the  desertification
process and degradation of this land resource.
The broad policy objectives for the low rainFall zone
will be to:  (i) preve..t rangeland degradation and
reverse  the  desertification  process;  (ii)  restore
rangeland productivity and stabilize range forage and
livestock production; (iii) enhance environmental
quality; and, (iv) improve the economic and  social
welfare of the people inhabiting and drawing their
livelihood from these lands.
A  New Land  Tenure Policy.   Rules and  regulations
governing land tenure in Jordan are contained in
Agricultural Law 20/1973; however, enforcement of
those sections dealing with rangelands  is minimal.
These sections of the Agricultural La4 will be
enforced in order to save the rangelands from
uprooting  of  shrubs  and  trees,   ploughing   and
overgrazing. Furthermore, in 1994/95 this law will be
reviewed and amended to include ne'w concepts of
rangeland utilization through a cooperative approach
rather than individual exploitation.
The new rangeland tenure policy will alsa
provide for the government to reinstate
jurisdiction over unregistered submarginal
lands, that have been cultivated for barley
production.     These  lands  will  then  be
properly   managed   to   ensure   sustained
productivity and halt erosion. Traditional
rights, as well as customary relations among
the people living in the Badia will be



ANNEX V
- 44 -                      Page 12 of 14-
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                   a          ;jlj
formally respected and protected.
Improve    Rangeland    Fodder    Productio.n.
Applicable rangeland manaeement and animal
husbandry  practices  will  mainly  comprise:
Demonstration,    of      improved.      forage
productionand selected rangeland sites; and
-Management and control of grazing
livestock; this would entail establishing
range management plans.
Haltina and Reversing the Desertification-in the Low
Rainfall Zones.  A three-phased program of resource
recovery and development will be adopted and
implemented by the government, which consists of:
Phase (f): Setting the stage for rangeland recovery
by:
+       generating public awareness and political
support;
+       defining appropriate land use patterns and
zones;
+       putting the envisaged policy, legal and
institutional environment in place.
Phase  (2):  Rangeland resource recovery through
programs to promote better management by the community
and through the elimination of subsidies in order to
adjust rangeland livestock numbers to levels
commensurate with resource carrying capacities.
Phase (31: Range resource development through forage
development, introducing range management and
controlling sustainable, efficient livestock
production.
14.  Policies for Livestock
Price regulation of livestock and poultry products will
be phased out expeditiously (section 8) in order to
maximize the positive benefits of the transition and to
minimize any negative e'fects of the change.
Feed subsidies have been phased out.
15.     Public Investment
Public investment will play a key role in the
agriculture and water sectors. To optimize returns to
limited financial resources, particularly in an era of
fiscal constraint, projects included in the 1993-97
Plan will be ranked and prioritized-according to
economic and/or cost minimization criteria. Where an



45                             ANNEX V
Page.13 of-14
MINISTRY OF PlANNING
economic rate of return (ERR) can be sensibly estimated, the cut-off point
woutd be 12%. Otherwise, standard techniques for choosing between projects
based on least cost criteria would be adopted. Employtncnt generation, foreign
exclhange earnings/savings, envuoninental impact and poverty alleviation are
other -criteria which may be taken into aeFcount, with tradeoffs between
differently-defined criteria estim-ated based on standard multi-objective
planning techniques. Priority will be given to ongoing viable projects to
maximize retuins to investments already undertaken. Other things being equal,
projects for which donor financing is available will receive ptiority. The
proposed Public Investment Program for water and agriculture sectors is
annexed to this letter.
Capital spending in the water sector is projected to use one third of total ptiblic
investment during the 1993-97 Plan period. The sector will, therefore, impose a
major burden on the national economy and could be subject to overall financial
and implementation constraints. Modernization and upgrading projects are
likely to be least cost and should receive highest priority. Given environmental
benefits, wastewater reuse programs are also likely to have high priority.
However, even if full advantage is taken of conservation and reuse programs.
additional supplies for municipal use will still undoubtedly be required. In
choosing between alternatives, consideration will need to be given to the large
financial requirements associated with major new water supply projects. Given
financing and implementation constraints, precedence among new supply
projects should go to projects which make a significant contribution to meeting
rising municipal and industrial demands, rather than dispersing efforts and
financial resources amongst a plethora of smaller ones. Concentrated efforts
will be required to mobilize the necessaiy support.
Sincerely yours,
l  4SX e,,
Hisham Khatib
Minister of Planning



Major tavestaeat Projects water L wrcuiture Sectors                                                               -
1993  - 2000
-   Total Cost   1,93      1994    195    le              91    i                   lo-  -
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
DUto 31:                        { JD1  
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2  
-    VeNda (lrntty)                    200         _         _          ,0                 20       .30       6*      40*
- KIarameb                           5     2    -         6          ;6   16            '1        -         - *  
K afreta                              ?         -         -           3        3                                    a-
*   Vad4 lSualb                      *             _ -                  _         _         j         3        1
Soutftem Ghor and Dead Sea    lS                                           2S         25        iS       "5 Is
Shore integrated OevelOp-
*ent Project
Water rivesttnq aus                iS         -         -           2       3              *    3
ox FC  OlAM3.0ation                 9        -         -            4       5         2         -
-    M.  howes conversion               24         -         12         U         .        -         ^          -
vadih Aralb                        to        -                                      
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,                                                                  - .     -- 
water SuPPLy: VAJ
* Li - Aj an                     340         -         -          -        50        60       70          70
-    Yalk - mman It 
-Ntwnr1ks Projects:
*    Amant                             25                   2         a         10         S         a        -        0
-    Irbid/ftamtha                      14       1.S        2        10.5                 - -                          _ -
*    Salt                               17        _         2         6          6         3     -* 
*    ausesLa                             S        -         -       .            4         *                      '
a ^   4afraq                             S        -         -         1          4              *        -         -
-    Tafila                                                      1          2                                                0.3 -.2 -  -  -  -  .-
otther Locations                  20         3         5     .5             5         2        -         -    :  -
.T                       ,



_47      .N.EX VI
Page 1 of 9
Date: S.yk4 A, c9 It
(1) WATER POLICY FRAMEWORK FOR JORDAN
A. INTRODUCTION
The Govenmment fully recognizes that water is a critical issue for
Jordan's development. Rapid economic development has -placed unprecedented
demands on the resource. Renewable groundwatet is being overdrawn, water
quality is deteriorating in many locations, existing demands cannot be
satisfactorily met, and the costs of exploiting the remaining surface and fossil
resources are rising rapidly. Investments in the water sectors are scheduled to
account for about 30% of the total public plan expenditures (1993-1997) and
will be a major constraint on economic development into the foreseeable future.
Even with a major effort on the part of the Jordanian authorities to develop and
manage its water resources in an efficient manner, it will prove extremely
difficult to meet even the minimum requirements of its population, let alone
satisfy the needs of the industrial and service sectors on which Jordan's future
economic prosperity depends while maintaining essential environmental and
water quality standards. Under these circumstances, it is imperative that
optimum and sustainable pattems of water use be established.
In order to provide guidance to the Jordan's water agencies and water
users, the Government therefore plans to adopt the water policy framework set
out below. The framework is based on the principles set out in the Five Year
Development Plan (1993-1997). It should be noted that policy formulation is a
continuous and interactive process. The policy framework will therefore evolve
in the light of experience and as conditions evolve.
Public Ownership of Water. "All water resources within the boundaries
of the Kingdom, whether they are surface or groundwater, regional water, river
or intermal seas, are considered to be state owned property and shall not be used
or transported except in compliance with (the) law" (Water Authority Law No.
18 of 1988).
Consistent with public ownershliip, the allocation and use of water will
be detennined to promote the public good in accordance witll t(le objectives of



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 9
national policy. Rights to the use of water by public and private entities, and by
individuals, will be subject to clear and stAbte criteria designed to encourage
them to act in accordance with the oZiectives of national policy. The system of
water rights will acknowledge traditional and existing rights; provide for clear
rules governing appropriation, expropriation and reallocation of allocated
rights; and allow for transferability sulbject to tneeting the objectives of the
national policy-
The Government will enforce mechanisms for restitution in accordance
with the law and legislation will be reviewed and amended as necessaty.
Allocation Policies. Exceptional piessure on the water resources in
Jordan requires unambiguous allocation policies of demands are to be satisfied
in a predictable and affordable manner. First priority in the allocation of the
nation's water resources will be givein to mneeting the reasonable needs of the
population for domestic consumption. Second priority will be given to industry,
tourism  and other service sectors, subject to the enforcement of effective
management plans by the public and private entities concerned. Third priority
will be given to agriculture. Strict controls will be placed on use in all other
sectors consistent with an approved environmental management plan.
.Consistent with these allocation policies, criteria will be established: to
guide storage and reseivation of water resour-ces for particular uses (with
respect to fossil aquifers, areas of enviromnental sensitivity etc.); to develop
sustainable management plans for sutface systems in the Jordan Valley and for
each of the groundwater basins; and to allocate water between uses during
nornal and exceptional circumstances (e.g. drouglht and flood). Specific
policies will include full conversion of open canal svstems to pressurized pipe
systems; efficient utilization of fossil aquifers; rehabilitation of water
distribution networks to minimize unaccounted for w ater; and, development of
wasteuater reuse systems and brackish water primarily for iliigation so as to
allow reallocation of freshwater to higher priority uses.
Instititional Reform. A strong and colherent institutional framework is
needed for the implementation of the pr-olposed water managemnent policies.
Suclh a fiamework in its blroadest sense comprises laws, regulatory structures,
govermnent and public instutions, and all thie eletnenits that are associated witht
thlese. To ensure that institutional reformil keeps pace witlh the requlilremlielts of



-    -9 -
49                        '~~~~~~~ANNiEX VI
Page 3 of 9
the water sector, the Government has initiated a comprehensive institutional
study and seeks to implement an appropriate recommendation and restructuring
program subject to the outcome of this review-and the process to which it gives
nise.
In undertaking this study, the Govenunent recognizes a distinction
between the management of the national resource and delivery of water
services, and the desirability of separating the regulatory functions associated
with the former from the operational functions associated with the latter. With
respect to the management of the resource, Government will retain full
responsibility, adopting approaches to management and regulation that
recognize the unitaiy nature of the resource, the pervasive existence of
externalities and the close interaction of quantity and quality issues. With
respect to the provision of water services, Government policy is to decentralize
responsibilities to autonomous public entities, and to consider in the context of
the institutional review the potential for further delegation to user groups and
the private sector.
Planning and Investment. The high cost of new  water resource
development in Jordan places a premium on careful planning, evaluation and
phasing of investments in water resources development. The Government
intends therefore to update the 1977 Water Plan as a guide to future investment
progranuning and with a view as far as possible to meeting long-term water
demands in an economically optimum fashion. Projects will be prioritized
according to multi-objective criteria.
Priority will be given to modernizing and upgrading systems. Given their
environmental benefits, wastewater treatment projects will be given high
priority, and programs will be developed to utilize treated wastewater in
inigation. Government recognizes, however, even if full advantage is taken of
conservation and reuse programs, additional water supplies for municipal use
will still be required to meet anticipated demands. Given financing and
implementation constraints, precedence among new supply projects will be
given to projects which mak-e a significant contribution to meeting rising M & I
demands.



- 50 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 9
International Issues. The Govemment will pursue Jordan's interests in-
connection with obtaining its full right of water resources shared by other
countries.
B. SPECIFIC POLICIES
Subject to the broad concepts discussed above, the (overnment will
adopt the following specific policies and measures. They follow the same
general order as the Five Year Development Plan and will as far as possible be
implemented within the current plan period.
(a)   Optimum Utilization and Conservation of Water Resources by:
(i)   Persisting in the assessment of water resources:
The Government will:
, continue the assessment and evaluation of the basic water
resources, including the evaluation of the quantities and
qualities of renewable and non-renewable surface water and
groundwater resources;
complete specific studies as follows: an assessment of the
resources pertaining to fossil and brackish waters in the
Kingdom; and the completion of on-going (deep) groundwater
surveys as a basis for developing comprehensive groundwater
basin management plans.
within the framework of proposed institutional reforms, water
resource data collection and processing will be centralized .
(ii)   Modemizing surface and groundwater monitoring system:
The Government will:
complete the installation of volumnetric measurement facilities
on all public and private wells and maintain a systematic
record of all water pumlpcd within dte current Five Year Plan
period;



- 51-               -                -ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 9
create a -network of observation welts and water quality
monitoring stations.
(iii)  Developing a program for groundwater -utilization -that would
ensure non-epletion:
The Govemment will:
* in the short-term, restiict issue of groundwater licenses to high
prioity industrial, tourism and university projects, enforce the
terns of all existing licenses, and terminate the operations of
all unlicensed wells;
, in the longer-term, modify licenses to ensure that overall
pumping amounts are consistent with approved groundwater
basin management plans.
(iv)  Protecting water resources from pollution:
The Government will:
* enact a  comprehensive  environmental protection  law,
consolidating related by-laws and regulations with a view to
integrated envirornmental management;
.  create a comprehensive water quality monitoring system,
consistent with the resource management and regulation;
 enforce water quality standards on the effluent in respect of
each industrial and commercial unit provided with a water use
right.
(b)   Managing te use of (ground and surface) water for various purposes by:
(i)  -Managing surfaice water in tle Jordan Valley to meet its policy
obiectives:



-52-                                ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 9
The Govemnment will:
refine the real-time management of surface resources with a
view to implementing its allocation policies in an efficient
manner, while recognizing the rights of existing users through
a systematic rationing system;
implement allocation policies in a non-discriminatory -way, in
particular by issuing no further pennits for crops that use large
volumes of high quality water;
(ii)   Managing groundwater to meet its policy objectives and ensure
sustainable yield of renewable aquifers:
The Government will:
* strengthen and maintain the groundwater basin management
units as the primaty groundwater regulation, management and
control bodies;
- prepare systematic basin management plans for each
groundwater basin, establishing allowable pumping limits to
ensure sustainable yield;
. levy a resource charge on private industrial wells and
thereafter introduce a similar charge on private agricultural
wells.
(iii)  Improving the efficiency of water-caming systems and reducing
losses:
The Government will:
. progressively integrate the management of storage and
primary water delivery systems so as to optimize the
management of the total resources in a flexible and efficient
manner;
* relilace opcn water cartying systemns in the Jordan Valley by
pipe networks and improve the real-time maniagemient
response system to meet the water requiremetits of crops;



53-                                 ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 9
prepare  systematic  water audits and  master plans for
.municipal systems, and upgrade and develop municipat
networks to minimize unaccounted-for-water alqd to improve
and extendi the water delivery service in an effk'ient mamner;
Oiv)  Adopting a progressive pricing-sVstem  to secure the financial
viability of water delivery anencies:
The Government will:
.  introduce a progressive water charges system  (i.e. block
tariffs) in the Jordan Valley to safeguard the interest of poorer
farmers. In the first stage (two years), the weighted average
water charge will be increased to cover O&M costs of
delivering water to the users;
- enhance the existing block tariff system in urban areas so as to
cover the O&M costs of delivering municipal water services.
regulate private water deliveries in urban areas consistent with
resource management objectives and regulation of the quality
of water used for drinking and domestic uses.
(c)   Improving _the  quality  of the  water and  the maintenance  of
environmental standards:
The Government will:
* modemize and extend water treatment facilities consistent with the
need to preserve reasonable water quality and environmental health
standards;
  regulate and strictly control the specifications of water produced by
treatnent planits and industrial plants;
. promote reuse of treated wastewater in irrigation tlhrotuglh pilot
projects and advisoty services designed to develop appropriate
croppingt patterns and agrictlftural plractices;



-54-                             ANNEX VI
Page 8 of 9
define areas of special environmental concem, including threatened
water bodies, and develop appropriate envirorunental management
plans;
adopt the "polluter-pays principle".
(d)   Raising efficiency and water saving practices at the user level:
The Government will:
* encourage cropping pattems that provide a high return to water, or
which can make use of brackish water and/or treated wastewater,
taking into account other constraints (soils, input costs, marketing
etc.).
, promote modern inigation techniques that achieve water savings on-
farrm while optimizing crop retums and farm incomes;
- promote water saving devices at the household and industiy level,
including the promotion of recirculation technologies.
(e)   Promoting public awareness of the impogtance of water conservation:
The Government will:
* undertake systematic public education and awareness programs,
through academic institutions, multimeuia approaches and other
appropriate means;
. involve stakeholders in policy discussions at the various levels of
government through public hearings, discussion meetings,
committees and other participatory programs.



- 55 -                               AmvANNU VI
Page 9 of 9
Programme for Groundwater
Management Systems
1.:  Establishment of Bai Protecto Units         1993
2.    Inventory of Existing Wells                1993 (60%)
* Licenses
* Ownership
* Water Use
3.    Inventory of Exing Welk                    1994 (100%)
* Licenses
* Ownership
* Water Use
*  Computerize Well Discriptions          (100%)
-  Installation/Metering                  (10%)
4.    Volumetric Metering                        199S
(Exktnsion of Ban on
Licensing
*  Installation/Metering                  (50%)
* KfW Sector Loan U / Purchasing of
Relevant Equipment
*  Computerization of Real Time Data      (20%)
S.    Volumetric Metering                        1996
(Review Uge and
Impose
Pentis on Over
Exracton)
*  Installation/ Metering                 (100%)
*  Computerization of Real Time Data      (100%)
*  Modeling of Basins                      (20%)
6.    Modeling of Basins                         1997(100%)
(Establisb and
Implment
New Criteria for
Groundwater
Mana ge me,nt Sysem)



- 56 -
ANNEXC VII
Page 1 of 7
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ADJUSTMENTS IN SUBSIDIES. PRICING AND TRADE
A.    CEREAL SUBSIDIES
1.   Jordan has eliminated cereal producer and feed subsidies (Attachment I gives the
methodology for the calculation of subsidies), and has adopted a plan for the withdrawal of
the public sector from trade in barley. Under this plan, Jordan has announced that it will
reduce public sector imports of barley in 1995 by at least 20% of the averge anua public
sector imports for 1992/94. Government will also reduce the level of barley imports by the
public sector in 1996 by 60% of the average annual imports by the public sector for 1992/94,
and will eliminate barley imorts by the public sector commencing in 1997.
B. PRICE CONTROLS
2.    The Government has announced that the official tomato procurement price will be
repealed as of January 1, 1995, and that the price of tomatoes shall thereafter be determined
by the free market.
3.   Jordan has already eliminated price controls on the major fresh and processed foods,
including fresh and frozen poultry meat, fresh and chilled meat, the major dairy products
(dried and pasteurized milk, cheese, and butter), table eggs, olive oil, tomato paste,
chickpeas, and lentils. The price of such fresh and processed foods is determined by the fiee
market, with the exception of fresh milk and yogurt (fresh and dried), on which price
controls may be retained for a period because they constitute an important part of the diet of
the urban poor.
4.    Margin controls on firuit and vegetable prices would be removed within twelve
months, or before second tranche release. This would allow price decontrol to coincide with
the harvest season and avoid steep price increases.
C.   TRADE REGIME
5.   Jordan has initiated a study of options for the divestiture of AMPCO, and adopted a
timetable for carrying out an action plan for such divesdture. The study would be completed
by November 30, 1994, and agreement on a divestiture plan, satisfactory to the Bank, would
be reached by end February 1995, with implmentation of the plan to commence immediately



- 57 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 7
thereafter. The Borrower would make progress in implementing the action plan, satisfactory
to the Bank, for the divestitue of AMPCO, before second tranche release.
6.   Jordan had previously elininated AMPCO's monopoly on the import of four main
agricultural commodities (apples, potatoes, onions, and garlic). In addition, Government has
recenty eliminated the remaining monopolies on the import and export of agricultral
commodities, with the exception of wheat, rice, and sugar, which are subsidized by
Government - the issue of subsidies is being addressed -within the context -of the IMF
program to reduce the consumer subsidy budget. Moreover, Jordan has eliminated import
and export bans and quantity restrictions for the agricultural commodities listed in
Attachment II (A) and Attachment 11 (B).
7.    Restrictions on the import and export of agricultural commodities have been
eliminated except for: (i) certain commodities previously approved by the Bank (wheat, rice,
sugar, and [due to legal commitment by Government for investment promotion to limit
imports for a period of timel vegetable shortening); and (ii) imports of fresh agricultural
produce from certain countries previously approved by the Bank, for which tariffs and/or
surcharges and fees are prohibited under existing trade agreements and protocols -
Government would retain quartity restrictions on such imports from these countries
(Attachment m), until such time that the trade agreements andfor protocols are re-negotiated.
8.    The Borrower has decided to eliminate restrictions on the import of packaging
materials for agricultuwal products listed in Attachment IV, and to reduce tffs and
surcharges so as not to exceed a combined maximum of 25%, after consolidation, by January
1, 1995.
9.    The Borrower has decided to set tariff rates by January 1, 1995, for agricultural
imports at 5%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, and 50%, and to set the maximum tariff rate applied
to agricultural imports to produce a combined maximum rate of 50%, after consolidating
fees and surcharges, with a production weighted average not exceeding 30% on all
agricultural imports. For the calculation of the production-weighted average, the 1991-93
period would be used as the base period for the estimation of weights. Government would
send to the Bank by October 31, 1994, the proposed tariff schedule together with the
calculation of the production-weighted average. Anti-dumping measures provided for under
existng legislation in conformity with GAIT regulations would continue in effect.
D. FACTOR MARKETS
10.   The Council of Ministers will approve and present to parliament for enactment,
before second tranche release, legislation permitting the lease for at least 30 years of land in
the Jordan Valley.



- 58 -
ANnEx VII
Page 3 of 7
THE HASHEMITE EINGDOM OF JORfAN
AGRICULRAL SECTOR ADJUSTNENT LOAN
ATTACHMENT I
METHODOLOGY FOR THE  LCULATION OF CER3AL SUBSIDIES
1.    The Government of--Jordan is committed to the removal of cereal
subsidies- Por this purpose, subsidy is defined as follows:
2.    Producer Subsidy (wheat and barley)
(a) The producer subsidy per ton is calculated as the difference between
the procurement price from farmers established by Government for the relevant
year (crop year), delivery Government depots, and the world reference price at
Government depots, prevailing at the time of price fixing.
(b) The world reference price is the price of the relevant commodity for
the forthcoming year published in the most recent edition of the World Bank's
"Commodity Markets and the Developing Countries", expressed in JD/ton CIF
Aqaba, to which are added local expenses (transport, handling, and other
costs), delivery Government depots, as established by the Ministry of Supply.
The exchange rate used in calculations is the average exchange rate declared
by the Central Bank of Jordan for the relevant period.
4.    Barl.y Feed Susidy:
For barley, the feed subsidy per ton is the difference between the
import parity price (cost of barley imports by MOS CIF Aqaba, to which are
added transport, handling, storage, and other costs), delivery Government
depots, and the sale price to sheep and goat farmers at Government depots.
The import parity price of barley for Jordan is normally below the world
reference price, calculated on the same basis as for producer subsidy (2.
above), as Jordan has access to regional supplies which trade at a substantial
discount on the world reference price.
5.    Although logic could require the use of the same methodology for both
calculations, the import parity price of barley feed is used as the reference
price because Government has argued that where actual import prices are
relatively low, it would be indefensible to charge a large "arbitrage" rent to
domestic livestock producers. The relatively low prices benefit the poorer
farmers in dryland areas with little alternative farming opportunities, and a
steep and sudden rise in feed prices would impose undue hardship on this
relatively large and vulnerable segment of the population. In fact, the
phased withdrawal of Government from the barley trade by 1997 will ensure that
domestic prices always reflect real world prices. In the event that this
entails a rise in domestic prices, the increase will be a gradual one which
would allow producers to adjust and also avoid negative environmental effects
and to minimize further land degradation.



- 59 -
ANNEX VII
HASHEMITE ttNGDOM OF JORDAN                          Page 4 of 7
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Athnchment lA(): COMMODMIES ON WQICH Q10ANTITATIE RESTRICTION
1AmE BEEN REMOVED BY MOS
A. ImporExports Previously Resticted to MOS:
1. LentIls
2. Frozen Poultry
3. Olive oil
B. lmpor dExports VWich were Previously Banned or Needed Prior Approval by MOS-
BANNED
1. WhIte cheese
2. Pasteurized milk                                 6. Hydrogenated palm oil
3. Tomato paste and canned tomatoes                 7. Table eggs
4. Tomato juice (evap., conc.)                      8. Pickled olives
5. Spiced tomato juice
PRIOR APPROVAL
9. Canned/dried fruits and vegetables               32. Morbtdela
10. Tea                                             33. Canned meats
i1 Coffee beans                                     34. Canned tuna
12. Roasted & ground coffee                         35. Smoked & salted fish
13. Gameed                                          36. Canned fish
15. Fresh & chilled mutton & beef                   37. Canned sardines
16. Frozen mutton & beef                            38. Dry beans
17. Chickpeas                                       39. Dried okra
18. Feed concentrate                                40. Dry fva beans
19. Frozen fish                                     41. Dried peas
20. Fresh fish                                      42. Dry green beans
21. Frozen birds                                    43. Cracked wheat
22 Butter                                           44. Fareeka
23. Dried milk powder
24. Milk subsftites for heifers
25. Natural drinks
26. Aromatc soda drinks
27. Halawa & tahina
28. Yellow cheese
29. Animal shortening
30. Vegetable oils
31. Catsup



60 -                                  ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 7
ItlE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADtJlTMENT LOAN
Atchment ll(B} CO IMODBES FOR W)ICH IMPORI AND EXPORT
LICENSES HAVE BEEN REMOVED BY MOAAMO
IMPORTS
I. Canned & fozen fuits, vegetables, and dried vegetables
2. Olive oil, & olive & other pickles
3. Citrus juices & extrbacts, & natural fruit drinks
4. Seeds, seedlings, bulbs, cuttings, &ege. & omamental seedlings
5. Fertilizers and growth regulators
6. Feed ingredients, feed, & additives
7. Fish & birds; & five poultry & livestock
8. Animal meats & byproducts & frozen/dried fish
9. Table eggs & hatching eggs
10. Milk substftutes for animal feed
II. Bees
12. Sheep wool
1 3. New hatched chicks
14. Artificial insemination materials
15. Animal vaccines & medicines
16. Agricultural machinery, agr. chemicals & their ingredients
17. Fresh fruits and vegetables
EXPORTS
i. Olive oil, olive pickles, & white cheese.
2. Seeds, seedlings, cuttings, bulbs
:. Fish, birds, and live aninals & livestock (except females)
4. Animal meats & byproducts
5. Table eggs & hatching eggs
6. New hatched eggs
7. Animal vaccines & medicines
8. Re-export of agriculural machinery
9. Agricultural chemicals & their ingredients



- 61 -                              ANNEX ViI
Page 6 of7
THE HASHEMITE KlNGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ATTACHMENT III
Trade Agreements*
A. Multilateral Trade Agreements and Protocols
Dountries                         Vate of SiQnino
1. Arab Common Market Agreement           August.13, 1964
Countries: Jordan, Syria, Iraq, Libya, and Egypt
2. Agreement for Trade Facilitation       1982-1993
and Development among Arab Countries
Countries: Jordan, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Tunisia;
Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria, Somalia, Iraq, West Bank-Gaza,
Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, and Yemen.
B. Bilateral Trade Agreements and Protecols
Countrvy:                        Date of 8ianinat
1. Bahrain                          December 22, 1975
2. Tunisia                          June 6, 1981
3. Saudi Arabia                     August 28. 1962
(Revised November 22, 1966)
4. Sudan                            November 14, 1966
(Revised by trade protocols dated February 26, 1974, and June 11, 1978.)
5. Syria                            February 18, 1954
6. Egypt                            September 14, 1967
(Revised August 29, 1970)
7. Iraq                             December 9, 191965
(Revised by protocols dated April 20, 1968, April 7, 1970, September 28,
1972.)
S. Qatar                            April 15, 1968
9. Lebanon                          October 1, 1992
lO.Libya                            January 20, 1992
________________
* These agreements exempt agricultural and animal products from customs
duties; most agreements also exempt surcharges and fees.



-62-
ANNEX VII
Page 7 of 7
JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMEIT LOAN
ATTACHMENT IV
List of Agrigultural Packaging Materials
1.    Catdboard boxes
2.    Plastic containers/baskets
3.    Wrapping paper
4.    Aluminum/tin cans
5.    Plastic jars



- 63 -
ANNEX VIII
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERT[o  IN jRMAN
A. STATUIUW OF BDAN WANS AMD IMA CREDrIS
(As of SemberW.30; 194)
Fiscal                                             Bank    IDA       jndlabursed
Lon No.           Year      Borwer            Purpo                             (.J8$ Mlinim)
15 Credt and 28 loans closed                                         P3.4      86.13
0f which SECALs, SALs and Program Loans a/             150.0     0. .0
Ln. 2841           88      Jordan      Nat'l Urban Dev.             26.40                   9.26
Ln. 2890           88      Jordan      Education VDl                40.00                   6.22
Ln. 2002           88      Jordan      PhosphateMining              31.00                   0 .12
Ln. 3106           89      Jordan      Human Res. Dev.              73.00                  18.39
Ln. 3172           90      Jordan      Integrated Phosphate         25.00                  12.58
Ln. 3355           91      Jordan      Dead Sea Ind. Exp.           15.00                   0.07
Ln. 3568           93      Jordan      Transport liD                35.00                  31.84
Ln. 3574           93      Jordan      Health It                    20.00                  20.00
Ln. 3851           94      Jordan      Energy Sector Loan (ESAL)    80.00                  40.00
Ln. 3738           94      Jordan      Tekecornmunications          20.00                  20.00
Total                                                1038.80      88.13       158.48
of which has been repaid                             '34.88      14.20
Total now held by Bank and IDA                        703.92      71.93
Amount sold                             11.53
of which repaid                        11.53
(a) Approved during or after FY80
5   ATEMDI OFIFC SDiVWTOIfl
(As of Sanbow  W0. 1994)
FlscLoan                                                                       Equity       Total
Year         Boower                     Type of unem                     EUS$ Miuli
1974         Jordan Ceramc Ind. Co.     Structural clay products     1.0        0.23         1.83
1977818182  Jordan Fertilizer Ind.Co.   Phosphatic fertilizer       79.48       8.75        8823
1979185      Jordan Lime and Sollcate   Building materials           2.50       1.35         3.85
1981         Jordan Leasing Co. Ltd.    Leasing                      0.00       0.29         0.29
1987/90193f94  hl-Hikma Pharmaceutcas   M. of drugs & med.            7.19      2.71         9.90
1979         J8C                        Securitles Mkt. Fn.          0.00       0.67         0.67
1995         Paper and Paper Products   Al-Kena                       .00 oO0                8.00
Total CommItments                                      98.77      14.00       11.77
Less9 Total Commmitments Repaid,Sold or Cancelled      86.67      11.28       9696
TotaW Commitments now held by iC                       13.10       272         15.62



- 64 -
ANX IX
Page 1 of 6
TH HASMEME KNGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTUR SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ASAL MONITORING
Su ay of Monioring Reau        eand Resnonsibiities
LEVE ONE (Ministry of Panning)
Monitoring of the macroeconomic program
LVEL TWO (Ministry of Planing)
Monitoring of ASAL Indicators and Impacts
LEVEL THREE (Ministry of Agriculture)
Monitoring of Trends in Producton, Resource Use, Incomes, Employment and Prices
(see attachment)
LE L FOUR (Ministry of Agrculture)
Case studies of farms under adjustment



THE HASHEMllE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AGRICULTURE SECIOR AIDJUSTMMT LOAN
LEVEL TWO - MONITORDIG OF INDICATORS AND IMPACTS
Acdons to be taken before       Actions to be taken before
l Board PresoMtion -       Seconad Tranlcbe Release -         Expet  tmpacts        -             of 1
Indicators             I                                          e o -   .   to
Objective:  Mantao a supportilve marecono_lc fmaewort and exteral finanig.
- Maroeconomic Pramework j - IMP programon  ack             - MF program on track     j - Macro stability and extetnal  |CTA Bk- IM
financing plan in place.
Objective: Support the tation to an optimal use of water and land resources.
- Water Institutions                                       - Agreed action plan under    - Coordinated water resource    - MOWI. WAJ. JVA
implementation.              maaagent restru ed for
maximum efficiency.          __ .___. _._.
- Ground Water Management   - WAJ Board resolution         - WAJ stame  analyzing
restricting licenses only to  licenses issued.
high priority uinustrial,
tourism and univsity
projects with adequate
utilization plans.
Move to sustainable          - WAJ
withdrawal levels.
- Groundwater Management    - WAS policy and program to   - WAJ statement on
enforce volumetric metering   compliance with program.
and comtrol.
.Q  ..
t 4
O%P4,



Actions to be taken befole   Actions to be taken before
Board Presentation -       Second Tranche Rlease -           Exected -et                 Sotrces of JDomion
_ _ _ ,_ _   ,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _      Indicators                    Indicato                                            _ _: '_',._ _-_-_,.        _
J-ordan Valley Water           Decree setting carges at   - Decree setting charges at    - Release of am additional20  - JVA, MOA, MOF
Charges                     average 15 fMlusm3.           average 25 fils/m3.          MCM from Jordan Valley t'r
Amman (economic vahe JD 8
ijiilion annually). Redon
of cereals cropping in Vay,
reduction in banas and
tomaoes, icease in high
value, watersaving crops
(strawbies, etc.) and in use
of drip, plasficulture,
fetigation, etc. (incr   in
annual value added of JD 10
mitlion). Increase in
aggr        employmnt, higher 
use of skilled and female
labor. Decline in average
water 4be from 11,000 m3/ba
to 8,600m3/ha within five
years. Fiscal revenue up by
JD 3 mllion aumadly.
Disi                        - Decree creating conunmittee    - Revised agreements with  - Conservation for M+l use of   - MOWI, WAJ
and letter setting out       the four farms.              25% of 1993 water use (65
com tMtee's work program.                                 MCM).
'*0
1-
la



I Actions to be taken befioe   A00  to be taken befoe
. Board Preseation -            Second Trache Releas -             Epeced  n s                ' Surces ol'
Objecve:       hmprove the nc ve stture thro   fxesizto  and so promote development of markets, ibndlg nstnl and eterl mket In
ugriculu    puce, ad makes in land, trkempot and capital.
- Cer  Subsidy                Lettes confg                                             - Shift to more economicaly    - MOA, MWI, MOF
elimination of subsidies                                  efficient production systems.
Reduction ia ground wawer
overdraft. Redution in
overgrazing and in euversion
of rangeland to arable. Fiscal
saving of    10.2 million
annua..y.
- Tomato Price Liberairiion   Decree repealing price                                   - Switch to higher value added    - MOA. MOF
5upport.                                                  and more wat efficient
crops. Fiscal saviogs of JD 3
million annually.
- Price Liberalization      - Decree abolishing price     - Decree abolishing            Prices aove closr to bodr    - MOA, MOF
controls.                    remaining pnice controls.    levels, ERP's diminish. Price
shifts create adaptive push
towards higher value cropping
and export matet
development. Customs
reveu up ID 3.7 million
annually.
- Trade Reform                Decree lifting bans,        - Letter confirming decrease.  - Market deteamined barley   - MOS, MTI
monopolies and QRs.                                       price; private sector barley
Decree rorming tariffs.                                   trade develops.
Let  confirming phased                                                                                                m
decreased in public sector
barley rade.



-68-                             ANNEX IX
F-=    ._____                 . .   ..  -             . =      _ - [ ' o
PI 
e1                     4: 0U    i
S     ~~~: 4: 4:



9- 6  -
Page 6 of 6
ASAL MONITORING
LEVEL TIMREE - Montorlng of Tends
(to be conducted by the Mibnstry of Agriculture)
Household sureys will be conducted to track over a four year period changes in farms and household incomes, production pattems
etc. The following are the prifcipal data that wil be presented in smmay fom for Govemuent and cofinancier information and
action-
output,
. changes in crop mix
changes in production
changes in yield
changes in frmgate prices
- changes in cosumer prices
" cges m import and export prices
changes in struc    of household income
changes in the income of poor households
. changes in agricdutural income
. changes in non-agricultural income
(transfers, employment, oDther enrp , eturns on asets)
Emplovmen
. changes in farm employment
(Jordanian and non-Jonlanian)
firigation wat use efficienqc
. volume of agricltural Impors and epots
changes in agr   sttue



- 70 -
ANNEX X
Page 1 of 2
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
-ARICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT  OAN
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE OPERATION FILE
A. gorking Documents
Markets and Prices, which provides the reasoning and figures that
underpin the trade reforms and elimination of subsidies.
Water, a paper that provides the background to the policy agenda
under ASAL, and gives the rationale for the ASTAP components on
water.
Rangeland and Livestock, which provides a synopsis of the
rangeland and livestock sector, gives the analytic base for policy
adjustments on livestock incorporated in the Letter of Sector
Policy under ASAL, and identifies areas for study under ASTAP.
Environment, reviewing the major environmental issues that have to
do with water and agriculture, identifying pesticide regulation
and-range ownership and use as two "hot spots" dealt with in the
Letter of Sector Policy under ASAL, and underlining the need for
studies and a water quality monitoring program under ASTAP.
Review of the Public Expenditure Program (PEP), two papers dealing
with (1) water and wastewater, and (2) agriculture. The papers
analyse the Five-Year Plan proposals and give indications of
criteria for prioritizing project proposals.
honitoring and Evaluation, which sets out the parameters for
monitoring and evaluation of the adjustment process under ASAL,
including the impact on farmer income, and defines the system for
support under ASTAP.
Institutional Issues in the Ministry of Agriculture, which
concentrates on the objectives of the ministry and on the process
of change and development that is underway.
Agricultural Research, a paper that focusses on the main issues in
research development treated in the Letter of Sector Policy under
ASAL, and on the project proposals supported under ASTAP.



- 71 -
ANN=- 
Page 2 of 2
Agricultural Extension, which analyses the state of -the extension
service now pro-vided and identifies key development-needs both for
the Letter.of Sector Policy under ASAL and for technical
assistance under ASTAP.
Rural Finance, analyzing the need for policy changes, to be
included in the Letter of Sector Policy under ASAL to help ACC fit
in to the financial sector as a market-based institution, and
detailing studies and technical.assistance for ASTAP support.
Agroindustry, which charts a development strategy for the
processing of agricultural products.
Cooperatives, which recommends a new cooperative policy and
legislation, as well as restructuring of public institutions for
the sector to be covered in the Letter of Sector Policy, and
details three implementation studies for ASTAP support.
B.  Documents Relating to the Operation
Terms of Reference:. AMPCO Study
Action Plans



- 72 -
ANNEX XI
Page 1 of 7
THE HASHRIITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
bORICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LAN
THE SUPPORT PROGRAM FOR AGRICULTURE
The Agriculture Sector Technical Assistance Program (ASTAP)
1.      Government's reform program in water and agriculture is- to be
supported by the World Bank and KfW with an Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
(ASAL). In order to ensure efficient implementation of the reforms and to help
build public and private capacity in services to the agriculture and water
sectors, Government has also requested Bank and donor assistance for a broad
program of technical support, studies and consultancies. A large number of
components was identified and prepared by FAO/CP, on behalf of the Government,
and incorporated in the broad program for donor financing, called the
Agriculture Sector Technical Assistance Program (ASTAP). Taken together,
ASTAP is expected to provide full support to implementation of the adjustment
program. The program framework provides a synoptic picture of the complete
range of assistance to the water and agriculture sectors, ensuring synergy and
avoiding overlap. The program framework also is expected to serve as a tool
for donor coordination.
2.   ASTAP has been conceived with a specific focus on farmers and production
systems affected by the adjustment program. It is anticipated that adjustment
will significantly change relative prices for farmers. The more efficient
farmers will take advantage of new market opportunities as trade is
liberalized, but may -need support to adopt new production technology-. At the
same time, income losses could affect farmers as subsidies are phased out and
barriers to imports are lifted or replaced by tariffs. Not all farmers will
be able to compensate for lost income and the number of farmers drawing very
low incomes from farming could increase. ASTAP is designed to assist both
higher potential farmers and those farmers most vulnerable during the
adjustment period. The matching of ASAL reforms with ASTAP technical support
is a visible sign of Government's commitment to supporting producers during
the transition. ASTAP will help improve benefits and mitigate adverse
effects, and hence contribute to reducing the political risks of the
adjustment program. Attachment 1 shows how each of the ASTAP components is
linked to the adjustment program.
The Atriculture Sector Technical Support Project (ASTSUP)
3.    Within ASTAP, there are five components that are absolutely critical to
ASAL implementation. These are to be financed by the World Bank and by German
aid. In order to allow for coordinated implementation and supervision, they
have been grouped in a single project, the Agriculture Sector Technical
Support Project (ASTSUP). ASTSUP was appraised jointly with ASAL. It would
be implemented within ASTAP and would parallel ASAL as a free-standing but
closely-linked project. ASTSUP is described in Attachment 2.



- 73 -
ANNEX XI_
Page 2 of 7
JORDAN AMAL & ASTAI/ASTSUP
i 4nkaaes between ASAL and che ASTAP/ASTSUP
ASAL          I      ASTAP/ASTSUP       I Financier
Water policy framework   Studies of wastewater    USAID
reuse, saline water and  GTZ.
environmental impact in         16-
the Jordan Valley    -_-
Restructuring of water   Training needs            USAID
sector institutions      assessment and training   GTZ
programs for water
sector institutions
Restructuring study      CIDA
Support to JVA
laboratory for water
______________________    quality   monitoring      _
Groundwater measurement  Complete ongoing
and management           installation of meters
on wells nationwide
Equip groundwater
management teams
Implement block tariffs  Complete installation
in the Jordan Valley     of meters and provide
and recover the cost of  minimum necessary
operation and            operation and
maintenance              maintenance equipment
Revise land tenure       Revision of land tenure  USAID
framework                legislation
Rangeland resource         (not yet financed -
study and socio-         possibly EC, UK or
economic study           CIDA)
Reduce problem of        Revision of regulations   USAID
pesticide use
Implement integrated     GTZ
pest management
Market liberalization    Develop marketing         USAID
institutions             GTZ
Develop export testing   USAID
services to
international standards
Divest AMPCO             Studies to implement      Danish Trust Pund fBank
divestiture              implemented)



- 74 -
ANNEX Xi
Page 3 of 7
AS"t-                 ASTAP/ASTSUP         Financier
Restructure Ministry of  Process project of          USAID
Agriculture               institutional diagnosis   GTz
and change
Develop research          Minimum support for
NCARIT management to
.  .  develop research
targeted at farmers-
affected by adjustment
Develop extension         Minimum support for                   _
public extension to
help farmers affected
by adjustment.
Put rural finance on      Implementation studies    (not yet financed -
market basis              and support                possibly CIDA or USAID)
Restructure cooperative  Implementation studies    (not yet financed  -
sector                    and support                possibly CIDA or UK)
Monitor impacts of        Monitoring and
adjustment                evaluation program



- 75 -
jANNEX SI
Page 4 of 7
. - 4$ATSUp
Groundwater Management (Base Cost US$3.06 million, financed by KfW,
implemented by WAJ)
flow meters for tubewells
equipment for the Basin Protection Uhits
training
Uater Measurement and management in the Jordan Valley (Base Cost US$5.2
million, financed by World Bank; implemented by JVA)
rehabilitation of farm turnouts, including meters, in the Jordan
valley
water quality monitoring and testing
operation and maintenance equipment
training
Agricultural Research (Base Cost US$0.8 million, financed by World Bank;
implemented by NCARTT)
technical assistance and training in research management
Extension (Base Cost US$1.45 million financed by GTZ, US$250,000 financed
by World Bank; implemented by MOA)
development of extension strategy
pilot extension activities (in Zarqa, etc-.)
institution building for Dept. of Extension
Monitoring and Evaluation (Base Cost US$700,000 financed by GTZ;
implemented by MOA)
household surveys



- 76 -
AMNEX XI
Page 5 of 7
The Agriculture Sector TechnicalSupport Prolect (ASTSUP)
A. Prolect Obgectives
1.    The objectives of the project are to assist the Government in the
implementation of agricultural policy adjustments and to improve services to
farmers and livestock producers. The project would provide support for the
implementation of measures to protect and optimize use of surface arnd ground
water resources. It would also help to build capacities in agricultural
research and extension institutions to improve services to producers,
particularly those who are most vulnerable during adjustment. Finally, it
would develop monitoring and evaluation capacity to enable the effects of
adjustment to be tracked.
B. Proiect Description
2.    Project components are: (a) water measurement and management in the
Jordan Valley; (b) groundwater basin control; (c) research; (d) extension; and
(e) monitoring and evaluation.
3.          Water Measurement and Management in the Jordan Vallev (Base Cost
US$5.2 million).  This component will improve water measurement and management
in the Jordan Valley. As part of the adjustment program, Government is
strengthening demand management in the valley, and introducing higher
irrigation water charges. Increases in charges can only be fair and effective
as a demand management tool if water is correctly delivered and billed.
Therefore, it is necesbary to complete the ongoing -ogram for installing
secure meters and water flow control devices on all irrigation turn-outs. The
project will finance the rehabilitation of 2,150 improved farm turnouts,
including about 3,450 water control devices (outlet pressure regulators, flow
regulators, flow meters, gate valves, flow limiters, etc.) and protection
boxes for 1,359 outlets in three areas covering 7,500 ha in the Jordan Valley
(i.e., Zarqa Triangle, 19 km. Extension and Northeast Ghor). To improve water
and soil testing, laboratory equipment and vehicles will be provided. The
quality of maintenance of the irrigation system neede to be improved, and this
will be a special concern as farmers are asked to pay more for their water.
The project will therefore provide urgently needed O&M equipment covering part
of equipment needs identified by the December 1993 GTZ study. This component
will also include training for JVA staff and provision of technical assistance
to evaluate its monitoring program, laboratory equipment requirements and
needed studies.
4.          Groundwater Managaement (Base Cost US$3.06 million).  As part of
the adjustment program, Government is adopting a program to move towards
sustainable groundwater abstraction nationwide, and implementing a full
management program to meter and control all groundwater production, supply and
usage. This component will therefore support monitoring and control currently
being carried out by WAJ through its ten Basin Protection Units (BPU). WAJ is
responsible for groundwater control, and the BPUs have been set up
ecifically to improve monitoring and control of groundwater abstraction.
. e project will finance the purchase and installation of 2,300 flow meters on
tubewells not equipped under the ongoing program; 30 automatic groundwater
level recorders and 2' electric water level meters to improve monitoring of
groundwater levels; 23 portable conductivity meters and pH meters to improve



- 77 -
ANNEX X:
Page 6 of 7
monitoring of water quality; 5 global positioning systems to assist in rapid
determination of tubewell coordinates; 15 PC and laptop computers and
miscellaneous equipment, office furniture for.the BPts; and 12 field vehicles.
The project will also provide training for staff of the WAJ.
S.    Research (Base Cost US$0.8 million].  The adjustment program will change
reeative prices, creating both new challenges and new pressures for farmers.
There is a need for a well-focussed public research program, to help Jordanian
agriculture to adapt to the new economic realities, especially hearing in mind
the needs of poorer farmers, The research institution, NCARTT, is well-
equipped but has suffered from lack of direction and weak management. ASTSUP
will provide catalytic support to NCARTT to enable it to respond to the needs
of crop and livestock producers during adjustment. The project will finance:
(a) the hiring of a. experienced internationally-recruited management
specialist to assist. NCARTT to implement the new research strategy; (b) the
implementation by NCARTT of a national workshop (with international
participation) for research, extension staff and MOA decision-makers to
discuss and launch the national research strategy; (c) the organization by
HCARTT of a ten-day course on integrated pest management (IPM) to be conducted
by an experienced internationally-recruited IPM specialist - the course would
be held during the latter part of the first year of the project and would
involve local researchers, extension staff, farmers and private sector
advisory staff as participants; and (d) So staff months of specialized, post-
graduate training for research staff in priority areas such as irrigation
agronomy and dryland farming.
6.    Extension (Base Cost US$1.7 million).  The private sector is quite
active and successful in extension. Nonetheless, as with research, there is a
genuine public service role for extension that is not presently being met.  In
Jordan, this public role concerns poorer farmers not served by private
information networks, and public goods like soil conservation, integrated pest
management and water quality.  Poorer farmexs include those engaged in
rainfed, mixed and livestock farms in the Highlands, and extensive pastoral
systems.
7.    ASTSUP would provide limited, complementary support to public extension
interventions within the framework of a formal extension strategy that is to
be developed under the project. The strategy will clarify the mandate of
extension, the task distribution between the DOEI and NCARTT, and the role of
the public extension service.
8.     This ASTSUP component will be cofinanced on a parallel basis by GTZ and
the Bank, as detailed below:
GTZ would finance the majority of the component: technical assistance (1
long-term internationally recruited TA for 36 staff months; 2 locally
recruited agricultural economists for 36 staff months; 17 staff months
of short tprm internationally recruited TA; 2 vehicles; 2 computers with
software, hnd 30 staff months of basic training for extension staff)
will be provided to: (i) assist the Government in formulating a national
agricultural extension policy, and (ii) to undertake pilot operations in
one or two selected areas, whereby extension methodologies and
approaches would be tested at the community level. The joint working-
groups which elaborated the Agricultural Research Strategy recommended
that the country's public extension service should focus in the future



- 78 -
ANNEX XI
Page 7 of 7
its attenftion and efforts on those farmers and livestock producers who
would not be served by private advisory services.
To complement GTZ's support, the Bank would finance the following:
(i) short-term specialized training (local and overseas, study tours)
related to topics such as: extension methods, diagnostic skills;
participatory rapid rural assessment; (ii) training-related technical
assistance, to conduct,special in-country courses of general interest;
(iii} some office and audio-visual equipment; and (iv) three vehicles.
9.    Monitoring snd Ev_luation  (Base Cost'US$700,000). The Ministry of
Agriculture is reinforcing its statistical and monitoring capacity and this
will be supported by a GTZ-financed component of ASTSUP. In order to track the
impact of adjustment of production and incomes, MOA will undertake special
surveys with a baseline survey before major reforms, and subsequent semi-
annual passes. Two complementary sets of surveys will be conducted: (i) crop
budget surveys will track the evolution of gross margins for key geographic
areas and farming systems; and (ii) household income surveys will follow a
representative sample of farm households in key geographical areas and farming
systems, with a special focus on vulnerable populations and systems. Case
studies will also provide policy makers with insights into the impacts of
adjustment.



J_,                                                 . t- 'n                                                           -> 1 ' 
!A       ' .                                                                          J Aw,, sb it'A''1
5AA ~~~                                     I     ,JQRDAN              7
NATIONAL WATER RESOURCES
padIrgtdAreas
--Weil Fields
t\~ ~ ~~~~w,WO                                                                   -        S'  Dams aind Flood Retention Bods'm
K-                                                        a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sewage Treo*en Plants
t    Ppasi g Station
i    8  / 95'"h H w._   P ~ ~ ~        ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ow
-  /  .Caneyaan  Mains
Waler Ralasse BNondaries
'.--.-  Railroads
*     National capital
Bis and Wadis
' MedRfats and Wodi Beds
'  -  .|  . ( 5--4=1 , X Frrd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b                                                       Esz
t ~ ~ ~ ~        ~~~~~~                   ~            ~           ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ -~ -   lnl!=   cernaobiooo BoundJaries
; / fr ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~to   ts  rn od   toed
/  .7, yT b-d' 
j-;                                                                                                             .-P /h                ssl



g~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R}                            A K
3r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
of>/!--- 
WATERCOURSES, RAINFALL, AND
A-U               K                                                  . /  i  /  ' . ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES
-~-Wadi r4urses with perenmial flow
Wadi ca4rse with temporary flow
Depressions with restricted s4wfoce
droinage
( 7,;- .   Annuol rainfall in millimetrs
Selected towns
*   Natonal capitl
- .- #   k'Gollmorote bounrcaries
.M  * A        A    N                 - --  Inwtintal boundaries
o  20              KI~OtLOMETERS
2  J  ;/ /   |   r  o    l'B   x     lo *rl
or    *                  f                                                                                   1 Wtr {rasOon *  S /   y   , \.
21 ' ; . / 1h Idhon, p. ' 1 12/ 2
I tV-_,_  '_    _ *|   /                    rrsmy                   tX~~i f       _          
)                                                           W / rctf#b#P]aJ 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e moto 'n _n ',y, /^                                       IJ    R DAN
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* .fneo oflooyn f              :



Lake ,
Tiberiats
T  A:.  -- st                                               - t.
~~~~~~~~~0.  ->_ mA kh ,j,I............ . cr
>' ftW5 {.f- '~~2    ;    / 
!   X  ta  t W  '' X t '~~~~~~~~~~~~1  
'p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
_                                                                                                  /< j0X\  2tm
D- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~Dm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    2i  4h   0   I
AK F.,toy  Z\1,-
o                                         %<                /    / /                       J ~~~~~~~~~IRIGTON RI AN T .
o  . /            t              E              \<   -                             ~~~~~~~~JORDAN VALLEY;
<i?    1  >  i        I       '         {      /           }                      1 _ _ j    Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    otedbrorr,o.rro.k Lw
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                  q.e  -nr pr. t:r te., notCI CpreI 
Dead~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ f                                                       ae  19 KILOMETERSavh 34d3is
IGATION  Io              THr
'roarod    E I.iftdby nR"
Po~t  P.g lan              I.d
*  Natoo  o.o
~~   ' ~ ' T h p                                _ __b D_ _ _ _ _
hoondoner coin,, ~~enorn,nonon, ondoorodori-,n(onarroo    0   2   4   0D -8  0llLILO.in ERSiRood,
shop,, n ro n,p d  no  mot onl~opor oPTho   orl SoS Goor.-                -    IrtnnoionlRonoe
.>,orp,odaere.rton l,eJ~~~l seaMolonyoro,o7. oronrendo,.oer.nr  0  2  4          LIOStOP                                oa
Dea    NSaoocPoooo   PLoOm.,1.



