Documernt of
The World Bank
Report No. 25407
PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
JORDAN
AGRICULTURAL SECT'OR ADJUSTMENT
(LOAN No. 3817-JO)
AND
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR TECENICAL SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT No. 3818-JO)
January 31, 2003
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit: Jordanian Dinar
Appraisal (1994)                   US$1 = JD 0.670
At ASAL Completion (1997)          US$1 = JD 0.670
At ASTUP Completion (2001)         US$1 = JID 0.708
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAA           Analytical and advisory services of the World Bank
AFESD         Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
AMPCO         Agricultural Marketing Corporation
ASAL          Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
ASTUP         Agricultural Sector Technical Support Project
CIDA          Canadian Intemational Development Association
FAO           Food and Agricultural Organization (of the UN)
GTZ           Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zuzanmmenarbeit GmbH
IBRD          International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
JVA           Jordan Valley Association
KfW           Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau
MoA           Ministry of Agriculture
MoP           Ministry of Planning
MoWI          Ministry of Water and Irrigation
NCARTT        National Center for Agricultural Research and Technology Transfer
ODA           Overseas Development Administration (of the LUK)
OED           Operations Evaluation Department
PPAR          Project Performance Assessment Report
TA            Technical Assistance
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
USAID         United States Agency for Intemational Development
WAJ           Water Authority of Jordan
Fiscal Year
Government:          January 1-December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation             Mr. Gregory Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department (Acting)  Mr. Nils Fostvedt
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group       Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                        Mr. George Keith Pitman



The World Bank
Washington, D C. 20433
U S.A
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
January 31, 2003
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Performance Assessment Report on Jordan: Agricultural Sector Adjustment
(Ln. 3817-JO) and Agricultural Sector Technical Sulpport Project (Cr. 3818-JO)
The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) of US$80.0 million, and its supporting
operation, the Agricultural Sector Technical Assistance Project (ASTUP), supported by a loan of US$6.6
million, were approved in December 1994. German cofinancing through KfW provided US$20 million for
the ASAL and US$3.6 million for ASTUP while GTZ provided US$1.44 million for ASTUP. Both
operations were extended, the ASAL by four months, closing in April 1997 when it was fully disbursed. The
ASTUP was extended twice and closed in December 2001, 18 months behind schedule and US$0.71 million
was cancelled. The KfW grant was not fully disbursed and DM 10 million is pending cancellation.
The objective of the ASAL was to create an enabling environment conducive to efficient,
sustained growth of agriculture and a transition to an optimal use of water and land resources. This was to
be achieved through supporting high-priority reformns in natural resource management and agricultural
market liberalization consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy; increasing the efficiency of
the government's expenditures and services to support development of a dynamic private sector; and
implementing the ASTUP to assist the agricultural policy adjustments and to build public and private
capacity to deliver services to farmers and livestock producers. Water policy components included
development of an appropriate institutional framework, efficient use of water, establishing control over
the country's mined groundwater resources, and prioritization of public, investment. Agricultural sector
reforms focused on removal of subsidies, price controls, and quantitative restrictions to bring tariff levels
down; land tenure reform in the Jordan Valley; and improved public sector support services.
The assessment rates the outcome of the ASAL and ASTUP as moderately satisfactory. Both
operations were highly relevant and remain so, although the short disbursement cycle of the ASAL was
ill-matched to the time needed to reform water sector institutions. While most of the reforms promoted by
the ASAL were necessary to improve water and agricultural management, and eliminate barriers to
agricultural trade, they were not sufficient to ensure that farmers reaped the benefits of adjustment.
In particular, increases in agricultural water tariffs were only partial and uneven. The Bank
waived the second tranche water tariff increase, but KfW did not, and its second tranche release is still
frozen. Although the partial tariff increase satisfied an immediate objective of maximizing transfer of
water to the highlands, a market-driven transfer of water to higher-value export horticultural crops was
not achieved, and water charges are only applied to the Jordan Valley farmers responsible for half of
Jordan's irrigated area. Water metering led to better knowledge of water use, but did not lead to increased
cost recovery or higher water use efficiency. Agricultural research was substantially enhanced, but has not
yet resulted in effective technology transfer and extension services. Agricultural market reform was
achieved through eliminating subsidies, lifting price controls, liberalizing external trade, and divestiture
of most government monopolies, but Jordanian farmers have yet to benefit. Several severe droughts over
the period 1998-2001 are partly to blame, and have made agriculture more risk-prone. But on top of this,
lower market prices, overproduction of key crops, and higher water costs have squeezed profitability, and
a supply response to improved export horticultural potential has languished because of inadequate
attention to export market intelligence and export promotion. These factors have limited the impact of
land market deregulation in the Jordan Valley. Attention to institutional reform of the agriculture and
water sectors was late, partial, and ineffective. While most agricultural subsidies and protections were
eliminated, the water sector is being subsidized as much now as in the early 1990s.



2
The complexity of the ASAL precludes a rating for efficiency. However, investment was small in
comparison to the incremental savings brought about by the elimination of farmn subsidies, importlexport
restrictions, and the poverty impact of cheaper food, which outweigh the negative impact on farmers'
incomes. A major benefit from cheaper food imports is that they also import "virtual" water-the volume of
water needed to grow the crops-from the regions where the crops are grown. However, the incremental
amount of virtual water due to ASAL is unknown. The ASTUP has yet to yield results in terms of water
conservation through better system and on-farm management, and its efficiency is rated negligible.
Institutional development under the ASAL, notwithstanding the problems over agricultural water
tariffs, was substantial. Policy dialogue during appraisal and lending conditionality brought about substantial
reform of agricultural and water sector policies and paved the way for the government's attempts to reorient
water sector institutions. The analytical and advisory services for water resources-which drove new water
sector policies-generated a significant body of knowledge. Conversely, institutional development under
ASTUP was modest because agricultural research was not translated into better extension, and new water
regulation did not improve water conservation or income from water sales.
Sustainability for both operations is rated as likely because of high borrower and development
partner ownership. Given the substantial agricultural sector and trade reforms, borrower performance on
the 'ASAL is rated satisfactory. On the other hand, borrower performance under the ASTUP was only
marginally satisfactory given the failure of line agencies to capitalize on the investments made.
The experience of the two projects confirms three key OED lessons:
* Not everything can be done at once-it is better to have a sequence of more narrowly focused
goals prioritized according to the level of borrower ownership. The ASAL was too ambitious in
tackling both agriculture sector/trade and water reforms: political capital was limited and did not
extend to making farners pay more for water at the same time as they were being squeezed by
elimination of subsidies and loss of import protection. The ASAL would have been an appropriate
instrument for institutional reform of the water sector if the Bank had better understood government's
concerns about the social, poverty and employment impacts of higher agricultural water tariffs and
worked with them to address these concerns. As it was, the ASAL structure and timetable precluded
time-consuming dialogue on these issues which may have required a more incremental approach.
* The Bank's credibility is harmed when it supports unrealistic targets linked to the wrong
instruments. The Bank's analytical and advisory services formed the basis of a cross-sectoral and
strategic framework for water and agriculture in Jordan that all stakeholders accepted-and increased
water tariffs was a central objective. However, it became clear at the time the ASAL was approved that
the second increase in water tariffs was politically unrealistic and would be jeopardized by the need for
disbursement to meet balance of payment support. Rather than accepting this reality and working with
government and KfW on alternatives to achieve the policy objective, perhaps on a longer schedule, the
Bank remained silent. Release of the second tranche came as a surprise to KfW and undermined the
partnership with them and other donors. It also sent the wrong signal to government that increased
agricultural water tariffs were not as important as had been argued. Subsequently, the Bank's
partnerships in the agricultural sector languished, reducing the Bank's effectiveness in the late 1990s.
* Reforms cannot be imposed, and those that are, sometimes create roadblocks. Yet, when the
conditions are right for the particular issue, reform can go quickly, as the Amman urban water tariffs
and private sector management indicated. Therefore, the Bank has to become more sensitive to the
political economy of reform, its acceptability, and its timing.
Attachment                                           /       L .  /I<i(<



OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and Independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25
percent of the Bank's lending operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for
which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to
generate important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support
larger evaluation studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a retum higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to altematives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, toward the achievement
of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,
Highly Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Preface ...............................v
Principal Ratings ...............................                                                                                 vii
Key Staff Responsible ...............................                                                                             Vii
1. Background ................................1
Project Design ........................................................................1...........................................I
The Challenge Was Large .......2
Water Reform Was Sensitive ......                                                                            3
Concerns About Appropriate Instruments .......................................................               3
Water Pricing and Market Liberalization Proved Contentious ..............................5
The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan ......................                        ...................................6
The Agricultural Technical Support Project ...............................                     ..........................6
Negotiations .......................................................9
Implementation Arrangements .................                         ......................................9
2. Implementation .......................................................9
ASTUP ......................................................                                                 11
3. Ratings ......................................................                                                                  11
Outcome ........................................................                                                       11
Relevance ..........................;                                                                                  12
Efficacy .........................                                                                                      13
Efficiency .........................                                                                                    19
Institutional Development .........................                                                                     19
Sustainability ..........................                                                                               20
Bank Performance .              ................................................................................................ 21
Borrower Performance ................................................................................................    21
4. Findings, Outlook and Lessons ........................                                                                          22
Findings .........................                                                                                      22
Outlook .........................                                                                                       23
Lessons .........................                                                                                        24
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ........................                                                                                 27
This report was prepared by Mr. George Keith Pitnan (Task Manager) who evaluated these
operations in March 2001 and peer reviewed by Mr. John Heath. Mr. William Hurlbut edited the
report. Ms. Soon-Won Pak provided administrative support.



iv
Annex B. Supporting Information .................................... 31
Annex C. Comments from Government ....................................         35
Annex D. Comments from Development Partner .....................................  41



v
Preface
The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) of US$80.0 million, and its supporting
operation, the Agricultural Sector Technical Assistance Project (ASTUP), supported by a loan of
US$6.6 million, were approved in December 1994. Gernan cofinancing through KfW provided
US$20 million for the ASAL and US$3.6 million for ASTUP while GTZ provided US$1.44
million for ASTUP. Both operations were extended, the ASAL by four months, closing in April
1997 when it was fully disbursed. The ASTUP was extended twice and closed in December 2001,
18 months behind schedule and US$0.71 million was cancelled. The KfW grant was not fully
disbursed and DM 10 million is pending cancellation.
The PPAR presents the findings of missions by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
that visited Jordan in March and May 2002. The findings are based on project documents and
files, discussion with ministers and officials of the govemment of Jordan, its participating
ministries and line agencies, and intemational development partners including Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau, Deutsche Gesellshaft fur Technische Zuzammensarbeit, the United States Agency
for Intemational Development, the Embassies of Japan and Italy, and United Nations agencies.
Within govemment, the mission's findings are based on in-depth discussions with officials of the
Ministry of Agriculture (and its agencies: the National Center for Agricultural Research and
Technology Transfer, and the Agricultural Extension Services), the Ministry of Water and
Irrigation, the Water Authority of Jordan, the Jordan Valley Authority, the Agricultural Credit
Corporation, and the Cooperative Development Corporation. In addition, the mission met with
JVA field staff, extension development agents of the MOA, farmers in the Jordan Valley and the
Jordanian Union of Farmers.
The ASAL and ASTUP were selected for performance assessment primarily because they
attempted to address systemic water development issues in the Jordan economy, and are thus
important building components of OED's Jordan Country Assistance Evaluation planned for
fiscal 2003.
Following standard OED procedures, the draft PPAR was sent to the borrower and development
partners for comments before being finalized. The comments received were taken into account for
revising the report and are included as Annex C and D to this report.






vii
Principal Ratings
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN No. 381740
ICR                  ES'                PAR
Outcome                                             Satisfactory         Satisfactory        Moderately
Satisfactory
Sustainability                                         Likely               Likely             Likely
Institutional Development                           Substantial            Modest            Substantial
Borrower Performance                                Satisfactory         Satisfactory        Satisfactory
Bank Performance                                    Satisfactory         Satisfactory        Satisfactory
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR TECHNICAL SUTPORT PROJECT CREDIT No. 3818-JO
ICR                  ES*                PAR
Outcome                                             Satisfactory         Satisfactory        Moderately
Satisfactory
Sustainability                                        Likely                Likely             Likely
Institutional Development                           Substantial            Modest             Modest
Borrower Performance                                Satisfactory         Satisfactory        Satisfactory
Bank Performance                                    Satisfactory         Satisfactory        Satisfactory
* The Evaluation Summary is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify the findings
of self-evaluation by the Bank's operational divisions.
Key Staff Responsible
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN No. 3817-JO
Task Maneger                Division Chief              Country Director
Appraisal (April 1994)      Christopher Ward            Salah Darghouth              Ram K. Chopra
Completion (April 1997)     Christopher Ward            Salah Darghouth               Inder K. Sud
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR TECENICAL SUJPPORT PROJECT CREDIT No. 3818-JO
Task Manager                Division Chief              Country Director
Appraisal (June 1994)        Tijan M. Sallah            Salah Darghouth              Ram K. Chopra
Mid-term (June 1997)         Tqan M. Sallah             Salah Darghouth               Inder K. Sud
Completion (July 2001)       Tijan M. Sallah            Salah Darghouth               Joseph Saba






1.     Background
1.1    Following the 1991 Gulf crisis, the international community assisted Jordan to restructure
its debts over the period to 1994. Once the Jordanian economy was stabilized, the Bank embarked
on an additional process of adjustment programming to reduce sector distortions and restore
economic growth. Only thus, it was believed, could Jordan fully benefit from the peace
dividend-increased regional trade, finance and tourism, and opportunity for investment and
management in regional resources, particularly water development. Key problems identified were
lack of a national water policy, competing sector institutions and insufficient attention to demand
management. Thus the primary focus of the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) was to
support a transition to an optimal use of water and land resources.' This assessment focuses on
how effectively the ASAL achieved this objective. It is also a primary input to a parallel
evaluation of the effectiveness of the Bank's support for water resources development as part of
OED's Country Assistance Evaluation.
1.2    The water sector was in serious trouble. 'Sound water and agricultural management is
important to the Jordanian economy. In the early 1990s, agriculture generated about 8 percent of
GDP and 14 percent of employment and used 75 percent of Jordan's water for irrigation. Yet
national water consumption was 60 percent above sustainable levels, a situation likely to get
worse with a high rate of population growth and rapid urbanization. Heavy agricultural subsidies,
import restrictions and low water tariffs provided few incentives for more water-efficient and
higher productivity agriculture and this hindered development of efficient markets and export
potential. The Jordan Valley Authority (JVA), responsible for all development in the valley,
recovered only 10 percent of its costs from users, and as the nation's irrigation agency, it was able
to collect only 18 percent of operation and maintenance costs.
1.3    In the urban water supply and sanitation sector-where the Bank had completed eight
operations-an OED performance assessment of the last three operations highlighted continued
difficulties with operation and maintenance and the poor financial performance of the Water
Authority of Jordan (WAJ).2 Major problems were unsustainable subsidies and staffing,
inadequate water tariffs, and high unaccounted-for-water (more than 50 percent). As a result,
WAJ was losing $150,000 a day and WAJ's net worth had fallen from US$236 million in 1988 to
zero in 1994 despite capital injections by government. In 1994, WAJ's annual deficit accounted
for one percent of GDP. OED's assessment conclucled that the Bank's willingness to support
rapid capacity expansion without heed to better financial management was a contributing factor
to this unsatisfactory state of affairs.
PROJECT DESIGN
1.4    The ASAL was based on the Bank's 1989 Agricultural Sector Strategy Report which
recognized that a series of short- to medium-term, and long-term adjustments were needed to
make more efficient use of the most scarce production resource-water.3 About half the
agricultural GDP was generated in the highlands-growing horticultural crops, grain, legumes,
cereals and livestock- based on rainfall and private groundwater-based irrigation. The balance
was provided from the intensive irrigation subsector, operated by the Jordan Valley Authority and
1. Secondary objectives were to free agricultural markets to encourage private investment and facilitate institutional
changes in research, extension, rural credit and cooperatives.
2. OED. Performance Audit Report. Jordan-Zarqa/Ruseifa Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2213), Eight
Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2425) and Greater Amman Water Supply and Sewerage project (Loan
2483). Report No. 11936. June 2, 1993.
3. World Bank. 1990. Jordan: Toward and Agricultural Sector Strategy. Report No. 7547-JO.



2
covering the Valley and the Ghors area south of the Dead Sea, based on collecting and managing
surface water draining the eastern highlands and plateau. Locally, this was supplemented by
privately managed but limited groundwater resources.
1.5    Even though it was agreed that Jordan's declining agricultural sector was not a promising
candidate for Bank assistance, it was argued that declining water resources would become a
major problem within many MENA counties, and that it was better to tackle it early in Jordan and
learn from the experience.4
The Challenge Was Large
1.6     The water and agricultural subsectors required reform in four areas:
*   to move agriculture along the path toward maximizing value added from the scarce
water resource;
*   to promote profitable agriculture without government subsidies and price support;
*   to enable private enterprise development through improved export markets and agro-
industry by eliminating monopolies and developing competitive markets; and
*   to protect and enhance the environmentally fragile water resources and rangelands.
1.7    Two challenges were recognized. In the near-term, the challenge was to develop and
exploit available water, install more efficient irrigation, and produce higher value crops. In the
longer-term, the challenge was to adjust for a decline in the water available for irrigation and
address growing urban demand. Pricing of irrigation water was chosen as an instrument to reduce
demand for water. In the highlands it was expected this would slow mining of groundwater
resources. In the Jordan Valley, more expensive water was expected to bring about efficiency
improvements and a switch to less water-intensive cropping. And it was expected that water
released from agriculture in the valley would be transferred to upland urban use, thus substituting
for upland groundwater.5 At the same time, it was imperative to address institutional problems of
the water sector and improve the enabling environment toward more productive agriculture,
including research, extension, credit, subsidies, marketing, and international agricultural trade.
There was also a concern to make drylands environmentally sustainable by relieving overgrazing
of rangelands, and reducing incentives for expanding barley feed-production into these areas.
1.8    At appraisal it was estimated that only 63 percent of Jordan's water use was sustainable
(Table 1). Almost all surface water (93 percent) was supplied to agriculture in the Jordan Valley,
but 48 percent of this-109 million m3/year-was unaccounted owing to physical losses, low
billings, or theft. Similarly, of the 553 million m3/year of groundwater abstracted, 367 million -
considerably more than the overdraft of 321 million m3/year - could not be unaccounted for, and
this in one of the most water-short countries in the world.6 Research supporting the ASAL also
showed that valued added by each cubic meter of water used in Jordanian industry was JD 11.2
compared to only JD 0.28 in agriculture.7 Similarly, each thousand cubic meters of water
4. Memorandum from Gert Van Santen to Albert Nyberg. September 27, 1990.
5. The water released from the Valley would be raised by over 1,000 meters through the partially unutilized Deir Alla
pipeline linking the Valley and highlands. This has a capacity of 67 mullion cubic meters a year. In 1993, only 40 mcm
was available in the Valley after agricultural demand was satisfied.
6. The 40 percent of groundwater used for agriculture was effectively free, and of the balance, only 56 percent could be
accounted for.
7. Schiffler, M, H Koppen, R. Lohmann, A. Schmidt, A. Wachter and C. Widermann. 1994. Water Demand
Management in an Arid Country-The case of Jordan with Special Reference to Industry. German Development
Institute. 58 pp.



3
generated 13 times more employment in industry than agriculture. Thus, a major objective of the
ASAL was to develop demand-management instruments to enable efficient water use, transfer to
higher-value uses, and reduction of groundwater overdraft. Instruments included pricing,
rationing, promotion of local water markets and a nationwide program to measure water use
under ASTUP.
Table 1: Water Supply and Demand 1990-2000
Water Use and Demand m3/year                              Water Supply m3/year
ASAL         W water Sector   Actual                 ASAL          Water Sector     Actual
Reviewb         MoWI '                                 Review"        MoWf
1990      1995"    2000w     2000*                   1990         1995    2000*     2000*
Municipal      179       243       388       239     Groundwater    596          430     704       412
Industrial     43         34       78        37      Rivers         242          323      375      272
Agriculture    652        605      791       541     Waste water     36           58      87        72
Total Use      874       882      1,257     817     Fossil water                 71      61        61
Peace                                30
Treaty
Total          874        882     1,257      817     Total Supply   874          882     1,257     817
Demand
Groundwater    321          182      297       198
Overdraft
* The projections made in 1997 for 2000 were based on an assumption that there would be significant efficiency savings
and an increase in per capita water demand. For example, physical losses are predicted to decrease to 35 percent of
water production in 2000 and 15 percent by 2015. Per capita consumption was also projected to rise in response to better
standards of living from 64 liters/capitaYday in 1994 to 135 liters/capita/day in 2000.
Sources:
a/ World Bank. 1994. Memorandum to the President of the IBRD and Executive Directors. Table 5.
b/ World Bank 1997. The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan Water Sector Review. Table 1& Year 2000 and 2020 were
projections.
c/ MoWI. 2002. Water Sector Planning & Associated Investment Program 2002-2011. Table 1.
Water Reform Was Sensitive
1.9     Government was reluctant to undertake quick reforms of water tariffs.' Irrigation water
pricing was very sensitive and it was felt that it would take five years to raise prices to cover the
O&M costs. Similarly, government felt that feedstuff subsidies were essential to protect
traditional rangeland farmers. Overall, discussion in 1990 showed that each ministry had differing
interpretations of how the reforms should be applied and in some cases these were
contradictory-the Ministry of Planning (MoP) favored water pricing on volume only, whereas
the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) proposed to link water prices to volume used and crop type.
Thus, many decisions required Cabinet-level discussion and approval.
Concerns About Appropriate Instruments
1.10    When first mooted in 1990, there was concern that an Agriculture Sector Adjustment
Loan (ASAL) may not be the right vehicle to initiate systemic reform of the agriculture and water
sector. Jordan had not asked for such lending, and it was thought that the alternative, greater
8. Nyberg, A. J. 1990. Memorandum on the Jordan Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan Discussion June, 26-29,
1990.



4
engagement through modest free-standing packages and "well-intentioned and sound advice
rather than money," may be more effective.9
1.11   There was also doubt about the efficacy of water pricing to allocate the future scarce
water resource without causing substantial political and economic problems, particularly as
political influence, money, and ownership of land determines access to water. Thus it was argued
price alone would never really solve the allocation issue. Yet marginal pricing of water-
predicated on metering-was proposed as a mechanism to achieve both efficiency and equity, and
as an instrument for microeconomic adjustments in agriculture. And while a phased program for
increasing irrigation water prices to cover O&M costs could easily be satisfied by a flat rate
increase, there were concerns about its impact on farm incomes.10 USAID studies indicated that if
the full marginal water costs were passed to consumers, about a quarter of smallholders involved
in traditional vegetable cultivation would see their incomes drop by 28 percent; and even among
those using high-tech irrigation there would be an estimated decline of about 7 percent in net
revenue."1 As a result, it was agreed that monitoring of the poverty impact was essential if an
ASAL went ahead."2
1.12   Peer review of the issues paper emphasized the need to focus on fewer (2-3) policy
objectives: for example, limit public intervention; reallocate resources from subsidies to long-run
investment; rationalize management of water and land. All felt that water and agriculture sector
liberalization was the key issue. However, some feared that "what is good for agriculture, may
not be good for water."'3 Several reviewers thought that the declining agriculture sector's
comparative advantages would disappear when water prices were raised and government moved
to encourage domestic employment in the sector, and reduce cheaper imported labor. Also, more
expensive water may make irrigation less labor-intensive thus defeating the government's
social/employment policies. All felt the linkage to the macroeconomic framework needed
strengthening. And as a result of these delays and concerns, the Bank embarked on an ambitious
range of technical studies to fully justify the ASAL.
1.13   Notwithstanding these doubts, the Bank's senior management decided that further
operations would be contingent upon satisfactory progress on an adjustment program and the
mobilization of external aid to restore Jordan's creditworthiness, and a Bank/Fund mission went
to Jordan in September 1991. The crisis in the Gulf exacerbated Jordan's problems - while the
reform proposals remained unchanged, the need to act swiftly increased. However, given the
contentious nature of the ASAL in the austere post-Gulf crisis period, government felt that
increasing prices of essentials was inappropriate and should be delayed. Governnent also
repeatedly raised the point that policy adjustment was not enough. There was a strong feeling that
policy changes should be accompanied by technical assistance and other investment in order to
achieve its benefits."4 Thus it was agreed that a technical assistance component should be added
and the ASAL was delayed. Government resisted Bank pressure to raise water charges in 1993
because it felt that the timing and size of further increases should await the outcome of detailed
studies and the results of the 1994 elections.
9. Memorandum form Gert Van Santen to Albert Nyberg. September 27, 1990.
10. Yotopoulos, Pan. A. 1990. Comments on Initiating Memorandum, Agricultural Adjustment Loan, Jordan.
I 1. USAID. 1993. The Jordan Valley. Louis Berger International. Page 94.
12. Fong, M.S. 1993. Jordan ASAL: Comments on Monitoring Socio-Economic Impact. April 12, 1993.
13. Ward, C. 1993. Memorandum-ASAL-Minutes of Pre-Mission Issues Meeting. February 23, 1993.
14. Okanje-lweala, Ngozi. 1993. Memorandum: ASAL pre-Mission Issues Meeting. February 3. 1993.



5
1.14   The Bank's globalpolicies synergized country-levelpolicy evolution. The preparation of
the Bank's 1993 water resources management policy catalyzed attention to comprehensive water
resources management, and Jordan benefited as one of three pilot countries, along with India and
the Philippines.'5 Support for the Bank's water and agricultural policy was strengthened in the
MENA region through the impact of A Strategy for Managing Water in the Middle East and
North Africa (1994). The government's 1994 Water Policy Framework for Jordan was an
important signal to the Bank that government agreed with the proposed strategy for water in
MENA. The Framework recognized the need to separate resource management and service
delivery functions, decentralize management, and review potential to make further delegation to
user groups and the private sector. Subsequently, the issues raised were expanded by the Bank in
From Scarcity to Security-Averting a Water Crisis in the Middle East and North Africa (1995).
The key message was that the MENA region had a looming water crisis: "Unless there was a
fundamental change in the way in which water resources are managed and used, the region as a
whole will experience a worsening crisis of water scarcity and economic decline. A vicious circle
will set in whereby harsh water shortages adversely affect economic growth, and slower growth
in turn constrains the investment needed to improve water availability. This downward spiral
would spell disaster for the region."
Water Pricing and Market Liberalization Proved Contentious
1.15   Discussion of price liberalization and marketing ran into problems at appraisal.'6 Turkey
had moved into former Jordanian export markets after the Gulf crisis, and exports to Saudi Arabia
and the Gulf states were curtailed. Unless there were outlets for improved production, there was
resistance to removing support. Trade issues were difficult unless there was reciprocity with
others in the region. In addition, the Bank and government disagreed about the inclusion of
initiatives to facilitate development of horticultural markets. The Bank had endorsed an
innovative proposal, developed by over 70 Jordanian farmers and exporters, for an open-
membership, non-profit Export Promotion Agency to eastern and western Europe. While
government was very keen on exports, it was not prepared to accept a loan to aid the private
sector promoters as they were neither legally constituted nor had an acceptable development
program. In consequence this component was dropped.'7
1.16   The Ministry of Water and hrrigation (MoWI) opposed a large price increase for water
arguing that admiinistrative allocation plus efficiency improvement were the way to save water.'"
This was conditioned by fears of social and political reaction and hopes that the supply-side may
be augmented as a result of the peace talks. Under pressure from the Bank, government agreed to
raise the water tariff from 6 fils/m3 to 15 by late 1995 and a second increase to 25 in late 1996 or,
failing that, ensure full recovery of O&M costs. The Minister of Planning stated that a faster
increase would be out of the question as this was a very sensitive issue. Compared with
preappraisal plans, this stance delayed the water tariff price rise by a year. Bank staff thought a
three-tranche operation would be more acceptable, but the Country Director stated "it is clear that
15. World Bank. 1993. Operational Policy 4.07, Water Resources Management.
16. Preappraisal took place in December 1993, appraisal in the spring of 1994. There was a donors' meeting (USAID,
Bank, CIDA, GTZ, KfW, ODA and EC) hosted by USAID/Arrmnan Mission to keep all informed of developments and
outcome of the mission.
17. Ten years later, the Bank is at the preappraisal stage of a similar proposal for a Jordan Agricultural Marketing
Company to market Jordanian horticultural products internationally.
18. It was emphasized that water charge increases were a fundEamental pillar of the ASAL and that the Bank and KfW
would be looking for significant action to meet the proposed increase from 6 fils/m3 to 25 fils/m3.



6
the water charges issue is a potentially explosive one and a concerted position appears to have
been adopted by govemment," and the Bank did not negotiate the issue further.'9
THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
1.17   Thus it was agreed that the five objectives of the ASAL, detailed in Table 2, would be to:
1. Maintain a supportive macroeconomic framework and extemal financing;
2. Support transition to an optimal use of water and land resources;
3. Improve the incentive structure through liberalization and so promote the development of
markets, including intemal and external markets in agricultural produce, and land
markets and transport;
4. Define the strategic role of government in the agricultural sector and ensure that the
private and public services to the sector are delivered efficiently; and
5. Implement a complementary Agricultural Technical Support Project to assist the
agricultural policy adjustments and to build public and private service capacity to farmers
and livestock producers-described separately (paras 1.21 to 1.23).
1.18   Five criteria were agreed with government before negotiations to formalize the loan
conditions: a draft Letter of Sector Policy covering the overall adjustment program in water and
agriculture; a draft National Water Policy; criteria for the Public Expenditure Program for water
and agriculture and on project content and/or ranking 1994-96; a matrix of conditionality; and
agreement on implementation, coordination, monitoring, and disbursement arrangements.
1.19   In a letter to the Regional Vice-president, the Country Director thought there would be no
slippage on conditionality except for the last water tariff increase. Of more concem was that to
delay ASAL disbursement would cause a balance of payments financing gap in 1994, a position
which the Bank, as chair of the Country Consultative Group, could not accept-and this was the
first hint of the dilemma the Bank would face: would macroeconomic concems outweigh the push
for sector reform?
1.20   The ASAL included loans of US$ 100 million, including US$20 million cofinanced by
Germany. The Bank's loan was to be disbursed in two tranches, the first for US$50 million, the
second for US$30 million. The first tranche was to be available on effectiveness, the second on
compliance with the release conditions. KfW's two-tranche disbursement was linked to the same
conditions-but subject to independent verification by them.
THE AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL SUPPORT PROJECT
1.21   The components of the Agricultural Technical Support Project (ASTUP) were originally
envisaged as part of a hybrid operation under the umbrella of the ASAL. However, in the interests
of reducing complexity, it was separated from the ASAL in 1993 as a parallel operation to
support ASAL objectives. The components of the ASTUP were designed in 1993 within the
framework of an Agricultural Sector Technical Assistance Program designed by the FAO
Cooperative Program to ensure efficient implementation of the ASAL reforms. The technical
assistance program supported a comprehensive overview of all assistance to the water and
agricultural sectors to ensure synergy, avoid overlap, and serve as a tool for donor coordination.20
19. Memorandum from Ram K. Chopra to Caio Koch-Weser, Regional Vice President. June 28, 1994.
20. The ASTAP was supported by total funding of about $25.5 million.



7
Table 2: Loan Conditions of the ASALa
ASAL Objective               Component           Actions Before Board Presentation   Second Tranche Release
Maintain a supportive                            Puffing in place an appropriate medium-  Maintaining the framework and
macroeconomic framework      Macroeconomic      term framework. including an extemal  satisfactory progress on extemal
and external financing       framework          financing plan                       financing plan
Agree on institutional changes
Water institutions                                      and an action plan for their
implementabon
Restrict issue of groundwater licenses to  Agree on and implement a
high-priority industrial, tourism and  controlled withdrawal program
university projects with adequate utilization  for groundwater nationwide.
plans.                               moving towards sustainable
levels
Make satisfactory progress in
Agree on a policy to enforce volumetric  implementing basin management
Support transition to an                         metering and control of all water   plans county-wide, based on the
optimal use of water and land                    producton, supply and usage         agreed policy
resources                    Supply and demand                                       Implement the Do/iCy nationwide
management         Announce and implement an agreed     Continue the agreed program by
program to cover O&M costs of Jordan  further raising the average tariffs
Valley inigation water, including an initial  by 25 fils/m3 to cover the full
increase in the weighted average tariff of  cost of O&M
at least 15 fils/m3
Agree on1 a program for renegotabing the  Eliminate cereals cropping or
cropping pattems for the remaining Disi  reduce groundwater abstraction
contracts                            at Disi by 25 percent below 1993
levels
Eliminate the procurement subsidy on
domestically-produced cereals
Eliminate livestock feed price subsidy.  Agree a 60 percent reduction in
Adopt a plan for withdrawal of the public  public sector barley imports for
sector from bariey trade, including 20  1996, and their elimination in
Subsidies          percent reducton in public sector barley  1997
imports for 1995
Announce a repeal of official procurement
prices for tomatoes.
Improve the incentive                            Remove controls on prices and margins of  Eliminate margin and price
structuro through ltberalizaton  P  * ot         major fresh and processed agricultural  controls on fresh fntit and
and so promote the           Price controls      commodities                         vegetables
development of markets,
Including Intemal and external                   Eliminate import and export monopolies
markets in agricultural                          and restrictions for aaricultural
produce, and land mar*ets and                    commodities and for packaging matenals
transport                                        Eliminate import and export monopolies
and restrictions on agricultural
Trade regime       commodities and for packing materials,
and move to a tariff-based system so that
production-weighted average tariff would
not exceed 30 percent.
Agree plan for the divestiture of AMPCO  Implement divestiture plan for
Initiate a study for the divestiture of the  AMPCO
public Agricultural Marketing and Produce  Satisfactory progress in
Company                              implementing the divestiture plan
Submit an amendment to the
Land market                                             JVA law to extend the maximum
lease period in the Jordan Valley
Define the strategic role of
govemrment In the agricultural  National agricultural  Submit agree LeKter of Sector Policy with
sector and ensure that the
private and pub>lic services to  policy          annexed Water Policy Framework with a
the sector are delivered                         Project Implementation Plan for 1995-97
efficienty                  I
a' The underlined and italicized sections are conditions removed at negotiations



8
1.22    Initially, the ASTUP objective was to provide tactical support for the promotion of high-
value export produce and increased foreign exchange earnings and employment, thus helping
producers respond to the incentives brought about by structural adjustment. Govemment's
priorities were broader and included support for withdrawal from non-essential services while
simultaneously reinforcing essential services-like extension-which have public-good
characteristics. Initially seven areas were identified for support under ASTUP: agricultural
extension; irrigation development (improving efficiency); market development for export;
farmers' cooperatives institutions and groups; institutional support for MOA; and investments to
be identified. Later these were refocused taking into account other development partners'
comparative advantage, and reduced to five more narrowly defined: water measurement and
management in the JVA, groundwater management, agricultural research, agricultural extension,
and M&E of ASAL impacts. The relationship with ASAL components is shown in Table 3.
Table 3: ASTUP and ASAL Were Mutually Supporting
ASAL Component                                 ASTUP Component
Enforce volumetric monitoring of groundwater   Complete ongoing installation of meters on highland wells
Implement block tariffs in the Jordan Valley and  Complete installation of meters on the surface water distribution
recover the cost of improved 'efficient' operation and  system and provide minimum neoessary replacement operation and
maintenance                                    maintenance equipment
Minimum support to research and extension to help farmers during
Adjust prices, eliminate subsidies etc., and promote  adjustment.
efficiency                                     Monitoring and evaluation of the effects of adjustment to allow
correctve actions where and when required.
1.23    The ASTUP package of technical support, studies and consultancies, were confinanced
by the government, World Bank (IBRD), Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) and Deutsche
Gesellschaft fir Technische Zuzammenarbeit GmbH (GTZ), as indicated in Table 4.
Table 4: ASTUP Components and Costs
ASTUP Components                                                     Appraisal     Actual Cost, US$
Cost US$           millions
millions
Improvement of JVA's capacties for monitoring water quality and testing  5.15            5.23
soils, operation and maintenance of the irrigation system, and for staff
development and studies-IBRD
Improvement and support to WAJ's Basin Production Units for monitoring  3.06             3.60
and control of groundwater abstraction in the Highlands through volumetric
measurement of tubewell abstraction, monitoring of groundwater level and
quality- KfW
Provision of assistance to NCARTT to (a) implement the new agricultural  0.79            0.74
research and technology transfer strategy; (b) strengthen research, planning,
monitoring and budgetng capacity; (c) organize course for integrated pest
management; and (d) support for post-graduate training in priority areas
inciuding irrigation agronmy, biotechnology and dryland farming -IBRD
Provide assistance to MOA's department of extension and information: (a)  GTZ 1.45       1.75
formulate a new agricultural extension strategy; (b) undertake pilot testng of  IBRD 0.25  0.30
extension methodologies for poorer farmers; (c) build capacity and (d)
conduct special training as needed.
Assist MOA to monitor and evaluate the impact of ASAL on crop budgets,  0.67             0.70
household income and vulnerable populabons in key geographical areas -
GTZ
Contingencies                                                          1.94               =
Total                                                                  13.31             12.32



9
Negotiations
1.24    Negotiations were cordial but difficult, particularly over the issue of water regulations
and charges, some of the proposed price controls, and import controls for rice, wheat, and sugar.
And this was made more difficult, only a week before negotiations, because the government's
revised Letter of Sector Policy diluted several key policy targets.2' It was agreed that some of the
water supply/demand conditionality would be reduced (as indicated in Table 2), and only two of
the eleven conditions for defining the role of government in the agriculture sector were retained
as conditions.22 Even so, the Memorandum to the President stated: "Only certain key actions serve
as conditionality but implementation of the full program shown here is expected as part of the
overall adjustment program supported by ASAL." Some other conditionalities were rephrased
and strengthened (for example on subsidies), and a number were moved from conditions of Board
presentation to conditions of effectiveness. It was also agreed that an increase of 25 fils/m3 would
be implemented by April 1996.
Implementation Arrangements
1.25    Implementation was complex because of the multiplicity of agencies involved,
particularly for the ASAL. The Ministry of Planning coordinated the Jordanian government's
actions of ASAL conditionality which included the Ministries of Planning, Water and Irrigation,
Agriculture, Finance, Supply, and Industry of Trade, and it also coordinated the annual work
programs and budget of the ASTUP. The ASTUP activities and donor inputs were coordinated by
the Ministry of Agriculture and its specialized agencies, the National Center for Agricultural
Research and Technology Transfer (NCARTT) and the Department of Agricultural Extension and
Information (DOEI). The monitoring component was the responsibility of MOA's Policy and
Planning Department. The MoWI had oversight on all water issues, and its JVA was responsible
for all activities in the Jordan Valley, while the WAJ implemented the groundwater basin control
activities. And a major policy objective was to rationalize the organization and management of
water in Jordan.
2.      Implementation
2.1     The two IBRD loans were signed in Decernber 1994 and effectiveness of both was tied to
meeting ASAL first tranche conditionality.
2.2     ASAL First Tranche Release. The Bank delayed the release by five months to May
1995 to allow government time to introduce the first increase in irrigation charges and fully
comply with trade liberalization and privatization conditions. A major political issue was farmers'
21. For example, while price support for tomatoes was to be repealed, the announcement of the repeal was deleted.
Similarly, tariffs on agricultural produce would be set at "appropriate levels," rather then "not exceeding 30%
production weighted average." Dates for adoption of research and extension strategies were deleted, as were references
to the Water Policy Framework and all specific adjustment measures in the water sector. In the water area, private
agricultural well were not to be charged the same as private industrial wells (100 fils/m3); phasing out special licenses
for high water using crops was deleted in favor of "recognizing the rights of existing users through a systematic
rationing system." The proposal to centralize water resources data collection and processing was deleted. The
govemment deleted reference to the "polluter pays principle" and instead put "adopt a tariff system compatible with the
costs of wastewater treatment" thus spreading pollution costs inequitably across all consumers.
22. Non-conditional ASAL actions for the agricultural sector were: adopt a Agricultural Policy Charter; adopt a
program of institutional reorganization and change and implement it; adopt a strategy for research, prepare a strategy
for extension and implement the program; adopt a policy statement and restructuring program for the cooperative
movement and implement the restructuring program.



10
unrest in the Jordan Valley at the threat of increased water prices, not helped by misinformation
in the national press.23 There were also significant problems over government intervention in
tomato marketing contrary to the ASAL. The state-owned Agricultural Produce Marketing
Company (AMPCO) purchased high-grade tomatoes at JD 50/ton from Jordan Valley farmers,
however, another govemment-owned company (Shafa), following political intervention by
influential farmers in the highlands, purchased any quality of tomatoes for JD55/ton. This led to
an oversupply, and loss of incentives-for farmers to move to lower water-consuming crops or
increase water use efficiency and improve quality, and for AMPCO to stick with the unpopularity
of the lower prices. Once govemment reconfirmed its non-intervention in tomato pricing, action
on the privatization of AMPCO and Shafa, and completion of trade liberalization, the tranche was
released.
2.3    ASAL Second Tranche Release. The Bank's second tranche release was a year later
than expected. Compliance with macroeconomic and trade liberalization conditionality was
judged satisfactory in mid-1996, as scheduled. However, it was clear that "there was an adamant
refusal to make a second round of increases [of water tariffs] as long as market conditions for
agricultural produce did not improve and as long as issues of management of treated wastewater
have not been addressed. The Minister did confirm govemment's intention in future is to move
ahead with higher tariffs, particularly for high water users and for good quality water, but only
once the export marketing problem is resolved and markets improve."24 And in December 1996,
the Bank agreed a three-month extension of the government request for a year. Subsequently,
govemment affirmed that it would adopt an altemative policy of promoting efficient use of the
country's scarce water resources, including eliminating public subsidy on irrigation water,
addressing promotion of higher-value agriculture and its export, and gradually transferring
management and financing of Jordan Valley irrigation schemes to user groups.
2.4    There was slow progress on other issues too. Institutional reform of the three agencies
dealing with water (MoWI, WAJ, JVA) met opposition from them and there was a divergence of
opinion of the nature of restructuring needed. Rather than proposing a central apex authority,
MoWI proposed to keep the existing parallel organizations JVA and WAJ and add a new one-a
Water Planning Authority-funded by an additional US$0.7 million in technical assistance. A
National Water Council was proposed. In March 1997, the Minister said reorganization plans
were completed and an implementation plan agreed-a position the Bank accepted. Conversely,
full divestiture of AMPRO was delayed because govemment retained the core business of tomato
canning at the Al Arda factory. Instead, the Bank accepted assurances that once profits built up it
will be sold off and all other facilities would be either closed down or leased to the private sector.
2.5   In April 1997, the Bank agreed that 8 of 9 conditions for the release of the second tranche
had been met. Intemally and on a pragmatic note, staff also argued that the Deir Alla pipeline
capacity was fully utilized and that the second increase of agricultural water tariffs would not
improve reallocation from agriculture to urban use without new infrastructure. In doing so, staff
noted: "If the ASAL objective was to reach the lower bound of the efficiency price, then this
could be said to be achieved. The opportunity, however, to fulfill the spirit of the ASAL by
'ratcheting' the price step-by-step has been foregone at the moment."25 Accordingly, the Bank
asked the Board to waive the proposed increase of water charges to 25 fils/m3 due to widespread
political opposition and farmer opposition in the Jordan Valley as a result of substantial price
23. The Jordanian Times, May 23, 1995.
24. Bank fax to KfW. August 21, 1996.
25. Memorandum from Christopher Ward to Salah Darghouth. April 25, 1997.



11
adjustments in the economy.26 On approval, the Bankc released the second tranche of $30 million.
Germany objected, and withheld release of its share until such time as the agreed water tariff was
implemented. As this did not happen, KfW's second tranche remains frozen.
ASTUP
2.6    The ASTUP had initial start-up problems because the project was not included in JVA's
investment program and this caused delayed release of counterpart funds. Subsequently,
procurement was a time-consuming problem for both borrower and Bank. As a result, project
closing was extended twice for a total time of 18 months. All the physical targets (water meter
installation, well recorders) were either achieved or exceeded and the NCARTI technical support
and training program went according to plan. Extension staff were trained in Turkey. Under the
research component, technology transfer demonstration packages for optimizing water and
fertilizer use, improved agricultural by-product utilization, feeding systems for herders on
marginal land, and irrigation management systems in the Jordan Valley were piloted-but on too
small a scale to create demand. As a result, unutilized research funds were used to undertake
feasibility studies for irrigation rehabilitation in the Jordan valley. Even so, at completion,
US$0.7 million was cancelled.
3.     Ratings
OUTCOME
The outcome criteria take into account the extent to which the project's major relevant objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, efficiently.
3.1    The assessment rates the outcome of the ASAL as moderately satisfactory.
Achievement of ASTUP's more limited objectives is rated as moderately satisfactory. Both
operations were substantially relevant at appraisal and remain so, but overall efficacy was
modest. While most of the reforms promoted by the ASAL were necessary to improve water and
agricultural management, and eliminate barriers to agricultural trade, they were not sufficient to
ensure that farmers reaped the benefits of adjustment. Many small farmers and herders were
marginalized by reduced profitability and its impact on rural poverty was generally negative."
Overall achievement by objective and component is summarized in Table 5. And weighted by the
first objective-to support transition to an optimal use of water and land resource-overall
efficacy is modest.
3.2    The macroeconomic framework was supported by the ASAL and complemented by a
series of three broad-based Economic Reform and Development Loans (1995-99). Agricultural
market reform was achieved through elimination of subsidies, lifting of price controls,
liberalization of external trade and divestiture of most government monopolies, but Jordanian
farmers have yet to benefit. Several severe droughts over the period 1997-2001 are partly to
blame, and have made agriculture risk-prone. But on top of this, lower market prices,
overproduction of key crops, and higher water costs have squeezed profitability, yet a supply
response to improved export horticultural potential has languished because of inadequate
26. At its height, opposition to higher water tariffs included occupation of the Parliament floor, a crisis resolved only by
the intervention of His Majesty the King.
27. It is unknown how much of the savings generated through elimination of agricultural subsidies and tariff reform
were transferred to the government's social safety net activities.



12
attention to export market intelligence and trade promotion.28 And because of these factors,
deregulation of the land market in the Jordan Valley has had little impact to date.
3.3    Increases in agricultural water tariffs were only partial and uneven, and while meeting an
immediate objective of maximizing transfer of water to the highlands, a market-driven transfer of
water to higher-value export horticultural crops was not achieved. Water metering led to better
knowledge of water use, but this did not lead to increased cost recovery, higher water use
efficiency or water conservation. Agricultural research was substantially enhanced, but has not
yet resulted in effective technology transfer and extension services. Attention to institutional
reform of the agriculture and water sectors was late, partial, and only moderately effective, and
the WAJ is still losing as much money now as in the early 1990s.
RELEVANCE
Were the project objectives right? Relevance is the extent to which the project's objectives are
consistent with the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals.
3.4    Rating: Substantial. The objectives of both operations were substantially relevant to the
needs of the Jordanian economy and the Bank's country assistance strategy, but not all
stakeholders were convinced of its relevance. Relevance could have been improved by including
support and policy advice for higher technology agriculture, market intelligence, and export
promotion of horticultural production. As noted by a senior Jordanian civil servant, "the Bank
failed to ensure that all the policy reforms and support were linked in a continuous chain."29 In
consequence a supply-response from farmers was negligible as most incentives created by ASAL
were negative for producers because of cheap imports.
3.5    The ASAL was consonant with the IMF and government's program to redress
macroeconomic imbalances, reduce sector distortions, and restore economic growth. The 1994
Country Economic Memorandum argued that economic growth required structural reforms in
addition to monetary and fiscal stability. Subsequently, while the Bank's 1995 Country
Assistance Strategy questioned the efficacy of multiple tranche adjustment operations, it
reaffirmed the stabilization agenda, and the need to continue with removal of trade distortions and
privatization of state-owned firms. Thus the ASAL was enhanced with a series of three broad-
based Economic Reform and Development Loans (1995-99) which addressed the constraints on
Jordan's long-term growth imposed by its small domestic markets. Efficiency of the public sector
was also a concern. Raised by the Public Expenditure Review of 1991, and elaborated in the 1999
Public Sector Review, the Bank noted that government spends more than 40 percent of GDP and
provides 40 percent of employment in sectors that are notoriously inefficient, and that the poor
performance of the Jordan Water Authority was a prime candidate for reform.
3.6    The 1990 joint Government/Bank Agriculture Sector Strategy Paper was the basis for
reform which was elaborated in MOA's Agricultural Policy Charter of 1993. And this was the
basis of the Agriculture Sector Technical Assistance Program which linked policy adjustment and
technical assistance supported by a consortium of external development partners. Government
published its Agricultural Policy in 1999. This emphasized, inter alia, enhanced interaction
between public and private sectors, increased stakeholder participation in policy formulation and
implementation, and pricing water to reflect its importance and scarcity in Jordan.
28. See the discussion in paragraph 1.15.
29. Personal communication, Director-General, Ministry of Planning, May 2002.



13
3.7    Bank economic and sector work reemphasized the relevance of water sector reform and
adjustment under the ASAL in the 1997 Water Sector Review and its 2001 update.30 And this
built on the 1993-96 CIDA-supported Structural Adjustment and Policy Support Project which
assisted govemment to examine the structural and institutional issues facing the water sector.
3.8    Overall, the ASTUP was modestly relevant to ASAL reforms primarily because of its
limited objectives. The provision of tools for the volumetric measurement of agriculture water to
potentially enable better knowledge for management and regulation, and support for research and
extension-for example monitoring the economic status of farmers, the use of brackish and
recycled water, and training of extension workers-was and is highly relevant However, while it
was recognized in project design that support to fanners was necessary to enable them to develop
and market high-value crops for export, this was dropped when proposals did not receive
government support. It would have been more relevant to have increased the size and scope of the
ASTUP, and this could all have been done for the same overall loan size by reallocation from the
ASAL to ASTUP.
EFFICACY
Did the project achieve its stated objectives? Efficacy is a measure of the extent to which the
project's objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their
relative importance.
3.9    Overall Rating: Modest. The achievement of the ASAL by component is summarized
in Table 5. Considered independently, the efficacy of the ASTUP is also rated modest. None of
the various inputs (policy advice, water use and poverty monitoring, training) led to significantly
improved management and sustainability of Jordan's water resources, or reorientation of the
agricultural sector to export-led production. The rationale for these ratings is elaborated below
under each objective.
1. Support transition to an optimal use
of water and land resource.                        Figure 2: Total Irrigated Area in
3.10   Rating: Modest. Efficient use of                        Jordan
water and control of groundwater
remains elusive. Despite the ASAL and          90.000
ASTUP, the national area under irrigation       80,000 -
has expanded since 1996 (Figure 2). There  ,p   70,0o00                           Cps
is no evidence that this expansion was      4   60,000
achieved using water savings as a result of  <  50,000                            Cps
increased irrigation efficiency: Table 1     o 40,000
indicates that groundwater withdrawal           30,000
increased by 9 percent between 1995 and         20,000        .
2000. This undermines the ASAL objective        10,000  _.-     -
of reducing agricultural water use and              0
encouraging a transfer of scarce water for          19 94   1996    1998    2000    2002
higher value municipal and industrial use.  Source: Department of Statstcs, Jordan
Despite this, the enabling policy          _                       '       _
30. World Bank. The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan Water Sector Review. Report No. 17095-JO, October 15, 1997 in
two volumes and The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan Water Sector Review Update. Report No. 21946-JO, February 15,
2001.
31. The area for inigated vegetables in 1995 (39,241 ha) is high compared to 1994 (31,324 ha) and 1996 (25,852 ha),
suggesting that some of the underlying statistics may be in error for 1995.



14
environment was improved. In 1997, the MoWI published its Jordan Water Strategy and Utility
Water Policy, followed in 1998 by Policies for Groundwater Management, Irrigation Water, and
Wastewater Management. Transforming policy into action has been slow with the exception of
reforms to urban water supply and wastewater management which was supported by a later Bank
lending operation.32
Table 5: The Extent to Which the ASAL and ASTUP Development Objectives Were
Achieved
Objective       Components              ~~Relative           Achievement
Objective                     Components             Importance     Component        Overall
r       Water Institutions
Support transition to an optimal use                                High           Modest
of water and land resource         Supply -demand management         i                            Modest
of waterandlandresourcetHigh                       Modest
Improve the incentive structure            Subsidies                High          Modest
through liberalizabon and so promote
the development of markets,               Prie controls             High            High
induding intemal and extemal                                                                    Substantial
markets in agricultural produce, and      T     r                   H
land markets and transport                Trade regime              High            High
Land market reform        Substantial     Substantial
Define the strategic role of
govemment in the agricultural sector
and ensure that the private and public  National Agricultural Policy  High         Modest         Modest
services to the sector are delivered
efficiently
Water measurement and
management and support to       High           Modest
the JVA
Implement a complementary          Groundwater basin monitoring
Agricultural Technical Support Project  and control and support to the  High       Modest
to assist the agricultural policy            WAJ
adjustments and to build public and                                                               Modest
private service capacity to farmers    Agricultural research     Substantial        High
and livestock producers.
Agricultural extension        High          Negligible
M&E of the effects of ASAL on
farmers              Substntial      Substantial
Maintain a supportive
macroeconomic framework and         Macroeconomic framework        Modest          Modest         Modest
extemal financing
3.11    Increasing agricultural water charges had negligible impact on efficiency and
reallocation. According to the MoA (2001) the less-than-predicted use of water for agriculture
in 2000 (see Table 1) is the result of supply limitations resulting from severe drought since 1997,
rather than a full response to price signals. As indicated earlier (para 2.5), only the first water
tariff rise to an average of 15 fils/m3 was achieved by May 1997, when the second ASAL tranche
was released, and there has been no further increase since then. Even so, the sub-objective to
maximize the transfer of water from the Jordan Valley through the Deir Alla pipeline was
32. Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project. 1999.



15
achieved and its full capacity of 67 million m3/year was fully utilized. However, the instrument
used was administrative reallocation by the JVA rather than a reduction in demand brought about
by agricultural water pricing. In return, it is estimated that by 2000, about 72 million m3/year or
80% of treated wastewater was being recycled via the King Talal reservoir to the Jordan Valley -
the highest rate of reuse in the MENA region. Overall, attempts to reduce agricultural use and
increase wastewater reuse have been only modestly successful.
3.12    Average water tariffs in the Jordan VaOley remain far below ASAI, targets. The JVA
increased the water tariff 21/2 times and adopted an increasing block tariff structure in 1995
designed to yield an average tariff of 15 fils/m3.33 Over the period 1995-2000, the average tariff
based on billings was 11.1 fils/m3 and only 8.5 fils/m3 based on collections. But since 1997, the
effective tariff declined by 10 percent as JVA mitigated the adverse impacts of water shortages on
farm incomes by forgiving or delaying collection as a form of social relief. Even then, the rate of
meter tampering to reduce liability or obtain free water is quite high-levels of 20 percent were
observed in part of the Northern Directorate of the .VA in the fall of 2000.34
3.13    It was anticipated that increased water tariffs would reduce agricultural water use. This
did not happen. Water allocation is made by JVA on the basis of water availability and quotas
calculated from crop type.3" The first administrative priority for water allocation is perennial
crops: the needs of citrus and fruit orchards are satisfied first, followed by bananas. Residual
water is then distributed to vegetable farmers until fully spent. Citrus and bananas are the most
profitable crops although typically they require two to five times more water than vegetables.36 In
consequence of the assured water allocation, the area under tree crops in the Jordan Valley has
systematically increased over the period 1995-2000 by 713 ha/year and vegetables by 257
ha/year, while irrigated field crops - tobacco, lentils, garlic and clover - have steadily declined by
70 ha/year (Annex B). And the highest water using crop - bananas - has increased in area from
1,598 ha in 1994 to 2,060 ha in 2000. The area under irrigation in the groundwater-dependent
highlands also increased contrary to ASAL objectives. Between 1996 and 2000, it rose from
about 31,000 ha to 42,000 ha and most of this growth - 8,900 ha - came from tree crops.
3.14    Agricultural monitoring data from the MoA/GTZ clearly shows that when water is a
limiting production constraint, farmers with a fixed area of perennial crops reduce the water
application rate and suffer yield and quality reductions. As a result, profits fall, exacerbated by
the loss of protected markets under ASAL, Figure :3. Indeed, in 2001, JVA could not supply water
to 3,500 hectares of vegetable farms because of higher priority water allocation to citrus farmers
and transfers to Amman. Instead, following a 1991 precedent, JVA paid farmers the imputed
return of crops foregone (JD 500/farm). In 2002, government banned irrigation of summer crops
although it appears that in practice only a 40 percent reduction in irrigation use was implemented
(Annex C). In consequence, the efficacy of water pricing to bring about more efficient use is
precluded by political and administrative considerations, lack of incentives for farmers, and risk.
33. The tariff was levied on the number of cubic meters of water per farm of 3 ha per month. The first 1,000 cubic meters
was 8 fils/m3; up to 2,000 was 12 fils/m3; to 3000 was 20 fils/m:' and above 3,000 was 35 fils/m3.
34. Stephan, S. 2001. The illegal uses of irrigation water in the Jordan Valley and their penaltles. Irrigation News.
French Embassy Regional Mission for Water & Agriculture. October, 2001. p 4-18.
35. Law No 30 Amended Law of the Jordan Valley Development Law. Article 14 (1): "the board... .define the
maximum quantities of water to be delivered in light of water availability and the nature of crops planted in the unit".
16 June 2002.
36. Bananas need 1,700 to 2,500 mm of water a year; citrus typically requires 1,250 to 1,500 mm; vegetables from 350
mm (lettuce) to about 600 mm (tomatoes, green beans, eggplant).



16
3.15   The evidence shows that farmers         Figure 3: Average Profitability of Jordan Valley
maximize profits and water allocation from                    Farms
JVA by planting tree crops because trees
carry an explicit water right and water is a  2,500
small part of overall production costs. As a
result of this policy the area under tree     2,000
crops is expanding and this captures water             \
that would otherwise be distributed to      ,, 1500     \
vegetable farmers. And though few
individual vegetable crops are as profitable  1,000
as citrus, with good management it is      IL
possible to plant 2 or 3 crops a year and      500
make similar profits. Not only is this a less
risky strategy than reliance on a citrus        0
mono-crop, it is also allows seasonal             e   e1919  .9e 1997 199  1g9e 2000 z
adjustment to water shortages, and is more  Souroe: MoANGTZ Agncultural Policy Imract Monstonng Report. 2001
labor-intensive with significant
employment and social benefits. And during the 1998/99 drought farm incomes for citrus in the
Jordan Valley fell by 25 to 47 percent compared with the previous wet year (MoA/GTZ, 2001).
3.16   A case could be made that a free market for water under increased water costs would be
more equitable in terms of overall employment and incomes in the Jordan Valley. Higher water
costs would reduce the profitability of citrus and bananas, probably reverse the expansion of tree
crops, and force a drive for more water efficient and profitable crops. At present, this is unlikely
to happen. First, water is too cheap. Second, water rights continue to reside with government and
the idea of private water rights is anathema to those in authority. The idea of the private trading of
water in agriculture, when raised by the assessment mission, was hotly deprecated.
2. Improve the incentive structure through liberalization and so promote development of
markets, including internal and external markets in agricultural produce, and markets in
land and transport.
3.17   Rating: Substantial. This liberalization program was almost fully achieved; the
exception being that the govemment has not yet divested AMPCO and retains its tomato
processing plant. Procurement subsidies on domestically-produced cereals and feedstock prices
were eliminated in 1995. Official procurement prices for tomatoes and controls on major fresh
and processed agricultural commodities were all abolished by April 1997. Public barley and
wheat imports were eliminated in May 1997. Royal Jordanian airlines control of air freight and
air freight handling has been opened to competition. A new law for the JVA has allowed
extension of leases, pemlits buying and selling of land, and has increased the land tenure ceiling
from 5 to 25 hectares. Despite the liberalization program, however, markets have not substantially
improved.
3. Define the strategic role of government in the agriculture sector and ensure that private
and public services to the sector are delivered efficiently.
3.18   Rating: Modest. An Agricultural Policy Charter was published in November 1996 and
the Ministry of Agriculture was restructured in 1999 assisted by USAID and GTZ. However, the
private sector still has a modest role and public sector service delivery - particularly extension -
is weak.



17
4. Implement a complementary Agricultural Technical Support Project to assist the
agricultural policy adjustments and to build public and private service capacity to farmers
and livestock producers.
3.19   Rating: Modest. Water measurement and management support for the JVA did not
improve performance. In the Jordan Valley, only about half the inflow is sold, and there was
negligible improvement in accountability over the period 1995-2000.37 This is despite the
installation of 2,150 on-farm water meters and regulators and 1,727 additional flow-limiting
devices under the ASTAP project covering 7,500 hectares-or almost a quarter-of JVA's active
irrigated area.38 And while the proportion of billings paid rose slightly to peak in 1997, it has
since fallen to 73 percent partly induced by lower collections as a result of drought over the past
three years. Again, while physical improvements to the King Abdullah canal under ASTUP may
have increased operational efficiency, system efficiency has improved only marginally. After
taking into account administrative allocation, which is about a quarter of the inflow, the amount
of unaccounted-for water has fallen only slightly, from 47 percent in 1995, to 42 percent in 2000.
3.20   WAJ's groundwater management is ineffective. In the highlands, despite the
establishment of the groundwater basin and monitoring component under ASTAP, water charges
are not levied because of opposition from a strong agricultural lobby. The irrigated area has
actually increased, rather then decreased. The government approved a well-licensing program and
gave notice in 1997 that it would close down illegal wells - 77 illegal wells were closed in 2002
and 28 illegal drilling rigs were detained. It also passed regulations imposing a surcharge of JD
0.50 per cubic meter of water abstracted beyond the licensed amount. To manage groundwater,
GTZ assisted WAJ to install 2,300 flow meters on wells and provide a range of water level and
quality monitoring devices, and WAJ has licensed 500 government and 1,950 private wells. But
the many shallow wells drilled ovemight are difficult to find and almost impossible to license.
3.21   Although the means to regulate upland groundwater are in place, it is difficult to do-a
task made more onerous by the lack of political will to tax agriculture. The argument put forward
is that, unlike those in the Jordan Valley, upland farmers have to sink wells and pay the high
pumping costs without subsidy; and to cause them to pay more than Jordan Valley farmers would
be unfair. Even so, a large number of upland private wells are pumped to provide water for tanker
sales in Amman. Not only is this in competition with WAJ for the same resource, it also
undercuts the price of water paid by industry even when WAJ levies a tax on tankers.39
Additionally, the Amunan water tariff includes the cost of wastewater treatment and only
registered water buyers pay for wastewater treatment. Thus tanker water purchase allows users a
free ride on wastewater disposal and undermines the financial viability of the water utility and its
conservation efforts. There was more success, however, in reducing the use of groundwater by 28
percent (against the 25 percent ASAL target) in the Disi Mudawara area east of Aqaba where it is
used to irrigate 5,000 hectares of cereals for animal feed - although this appears to have been
subverted by increased upland irrigation elsewhere. And in Azraq, government banned
groundwater withdrawal for urban use in the winter of 2001-02.
3.22   Agricultural research flourishes, extension languishes. The National Center for
Agricultural Technology and Transfer (NCATT) was substantially strengthened and its research
37. See Annex for details.
38. The number of meters and regulators installed exceeded appraisal estimates by 287 percent.
39. Earlier tankers paid a fee of JD 0.8 per m3 while the industrial tariff of JVA is JD 1.5 per m'. In 2002, govemment
increased the price to JD 2.0 per m3 in Amman and JD 1.75 elsewhere. WAJ tankers sell at a lower rate of JD 1.5 per
m3 . Groundwater tariffs for wells selling to tankers has been increased to JD 0.25 per for M&I consumption, and JD
0. I per m3 for non-potable water.



18
program is highly relevant to the development needs identified by the ASAL, is fully-funded,
active and productive. However, its outreach activities are limited primarily to pilot
projects/farmers and its participation in the formal agricultural extension system is weak.
Agricultural extension, in contrast, is demoralized, seriously understaffed, and under-equipped. In
part this was due to withdrawal of GTZ support because of lack of progress on water tariff issues.
Extension effectiveness is not helped by the JVA's territorial control of the Jordan Valley, which
tempers the MOA's willingness to gear up its efforts. Indeed, the JVA-given the low level of
MOA extension input-fields a small irTigation advisory service, but even this cannot meet the
demand from farmers. While the MOA is active in promoting a greater role for private sector
service delivery, this is still nascent.
3.23   The impact of the ASAL on farmers was successfully monitored and evaluated.
Under this component, GTZ helped the MOA establish an M&E unit and supported it over the
period 1996-2002. Its late start occasioned by the design phase meant that the pre-ASAL status of
farm incomes was not monitored. Subsequently, however, annual surveys of most forms of
farming affected by the ASAL were conducted and these initially showed declining incomes due
mainly to a fall in market prices. Later surveys showed a continuing decline in farm incomes, not
only as a result of the ASAL, but because of reduced production due to the prolonged drought
that affected the late 1 990s (for example, para 3.15). The effect of the ASAL on vulnerable
households could not be determined as planned case studies were not undertaken.
3.24   The monitoring data indicate that the ASAL marginalized small farmers and herders on
rangelands who were dependent on livestock production. In the early 1 990s about 25,600
households supporting about 184,000 people were substantially dependent on livestock
production for their livelihoods.40 Prior to the ASAL, there were about 3.5 million ruminants, of
which two-thirds were sheep. Subsidized imported grains provided half their feed, local
production - some of it under irrigation (e.g. at Disi) - provided a quarter, the balance was from
the rangelands.
3.25   Safety-net provisions were very limited. Elimination of subsidies over the period 1995-
97 proved to be very effective in reducing herd sizes (Figure 4), rangeland degradation due to
overgrazing and thus further desertification of the low rainfall areas. From 1997, all direct
subsidies to owners of small livestock herds were removed.4' Loss of subsidy on imported feed
reduced profitability and the resultant slaughtering of herds increased the market supply of red
meat, further depressing retums. Milk
production was significantly reduced. Loss        Figure 4: Jordanian Livestock
of income curtailed adequate nutrition and            Declined After ASAL
veterinary care, reduced lambing and the
quality of livestock declined. While some      2,500,000
of these problems are being addressed         2,50,0 
through NCARTT research and trials, the      E 2,000,000
E                             S-
severe impact of the ASAL on herders was     C 1,500,000
made worse by the droughts of 1999/2001.     o
So much so, that the government supplied     , 1,000,000 -
subsidized fodder in 2000 to support sheep   E500,000 
farms as a safety net measure.               Z         -   _
3.26   The MoA/GTZ evaluation found                   1994  1996  1998  2000  2002
that individual herd sizes were reduced by  Source Jordan DepartmnentofStatslIcs
40. Ministry of Agriculture. National Rangeland Strategy for Jordan. October 2001. This work was financed by CIDA.
41. The subsidy was limited to herds of less than 100 animals.



19
25 to 50 percent depending on region. The poorest group - nomadic pastoralists - in the driest
areas have fared worst as they do not have the income to buy even subsidized concentrates. All
farmers monitored, with the exception of the medium-sized agro-pastoral farmers in the wettest
areas in 1997/98, had negative profits since 1996.
5. Maintain a Supportive Macroeconomic Framework and External Financing
3.27   Rating: Modest. This was achieved primarily through complementary Bank investment
and macroeconomic support and the ASAL made only a very modest contribution. A parallel and
in-depth OED evaluation of Jordan's econonic development in the 1990s rates the outcome of
the Bank's adjustment loans as moderately satisfactory.42
EFFICIENCY
Was the project cost effective? Efficiency is a measure of the extent to which the project achieved,
or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least
cost compared with alternatives.
3.28   The complex nature of the ASAL precludes a robust test of efficiency and it is not
rated. Overall, however, the price of the ASAL was small in comparison to the incremental
savings brought about by the elimination of farm subsidies, import/export restrictions, and the
poverty impact of cheaper food, which may outweigh the negative impact on farmers' incomes. A
major benefit from cheaper food imports is that they also effectively import water (described as
'virtual' water) from the regions where the crops are grown-representing the volume of water
needed to grow the crops. In its latest planning document, the MoWI states that virtual water
imports are on the order of 6 billion cubic meters a year, seven times Jordan's annual water
budget and 10 times its renewable supply. However, the incremental amount of virtual water due
to ASAL is unknown.
3.29   ASTUP Rating: Neglible. It would be possible to undertake a cost-benefit analysis of
the investments made under ASTUB but lack of data precluded calculation. As the ASTUP has
yet to yield results in terms of water conservation through better system and on-farm
management, its efficiency is rated negligible.
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Has the project led to better management of human andfinancial resources? Thtis is a measure of
the extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or a region to make more efficient,
equitable, and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through better
definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements.
3.30   ASAL Rating: Substantial. This rating trades off generally excellent performance on
the trade and subsidy reforms against the overall modest performance of the water sector
institutions. And the modest rating for water sector institutions balances the substantial advances
on policy against the slow progress on institutional reform and reorganization within the water
sector agencies. The ASAL policy dialogue during appraisal and conditionality leveraged
substantial institutional reform of agricultural and water sector policies and paved the way for the
government's attempts to reorient water sector institutions. The analytical and advisory services
for water resources-which drove new water sector policies-generated a signi Ficant body of
42. World Bank. Jordan Country Assistance Evaluation: Econpmic Developments in the 1990s and World Bank
Assistance. Operations Evaluation Department. Draft Report. September 18, 2002. 28 pp.



20
knowledge. Even though the govemment did not increase agricultural water tariffs to the Bank-
mandated levels because of political concems, they were significantly raised. Conversely, the
govemment subsequently raised urban water tariffs to acceptable levels partly as a result of the
debate initiated under the ASAL.
3.31   However, there remains significant duplication of responsibility and function as a
consequence of having three organizations running the water sector. A jealous guarding of each
agency domain means that essential water management and resource data are not readily shared,
and while WAJ and MoWI have relatively transparert finance and accounting systems, these are
still being developed by JVA assisted by USAID (FORWARD program). There are also
territorial problems, most notably JVA's monopoly on the Valley, which attenuates essential
Ministry of Agriculture extension activities to the potentially most productive and export-oriented
farmers. And WAJ's focus on urban water supplies means it pays little management attention to
upland irrigated agriculture.
3.32   Chronic overstaffmg of the water sector organizations, identified as a problem in 1994,
remains (Annex C). JVA's reduction of its staff by 8 percent since 1996 has been matched by a 7
percent increase in WAJ staff since 1995. In both organizations, the growth of unskilled staff has
outmatched the reduction of professional cadres through natural attrition and a ban on
recruitment. And a lack of suitably qualified staff and incentives continues to undermine
organizational effectiveness.
3.33   The water sector is still a chronic drain on the economy. Systematic annual accounts have
not been made available by JVA, but preliminary data for year 2000, for example, indicate that
only 5 8 percent of irrigation water available is accounted for and yielded revenues of JD 1.13
million.43 In comparison, overall staffing costs were JD3.02 million and O&M costs about JD 2.7
million. The situation for the WAJ is clearer. Its finances are in a trouble: its annual deficit, for
example, was more than I percent of GDP in 1995 and have not improved since then (Annex B).
On the one hand, government implemented in 2002 a general surcharges on water bills and
increased groundwater tariffs and tanker charges but its efficacy in addressing the deficit is
unknown . On the other hand, government effectively condoned WAJ's poor performance by
assuming its loans and writing them off on two occasions in the past five years.
3.34   ASTUP rating: Modest. Its substantial impact on NCARTT was balanced by negligible
achievements on agricultural extension. Although water infrastructure in the Jordan Valley was
significantly improved, and has led to more efficient water distribution in the primary irrigation
network, this has not yet lead to better water conservation or increased income for JVA.
Similarly, WAJ's installation of water meters on upland wells and enabling regulations for
licensing and fee collection remains ineffective because of political concerns.
3.35   Support for the MoA's M&E unit was only partially effective in building institutional
capacity. While the MoA was responsible for the work, most of this was done by GTZ-financed
consultants and little capacity was built within MoA. As a result, little use is made of the M&E
data for policy formulation and design of poverty alleviation programs to help the worst affected.
SUSTAINABILITY
Are the results likely to last? Sustainability is evaluated by assessing the resilience to risk of net
benefits flows over time.
43. In 1995, 70 percent of irrigation water was sold and 76 percent of bills were collected.



21
3.36   Sustainability is likely because high client ownership would make it virtually impossible
to reverse the trade and market reforms that have been enacted. The policy environment for water
is progressive, as the Amman management contract demonstrates. Jordan's strong partnership
with the development community, allied with the need for external financing, has firmly rooted
and expanded the reform agenda for agriculture and water.
BANK PERFORMANCE
This is a measure of the extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry
and supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of the project).
3.37   ASAL and ASTUP Rating: Satisfactory. Project preparation and appraisal were of high
quality and both government and development partners have praised the ASAL team's work for
its inclusiveness and willingness to share information during supervision. While the Bank's stand
on agricultural water tariffs created problems toward the end of the ASAL and a roadblock to
dialogue about the future, this was eventually resolved with the Bank's acceptance of the political
realties of Jordan. Thus, water sector policy quickly evolved thereafter according to Jordanian
priorities-most successfully with the Bank's assistance for the Amman urban water management
operation, but with slower progress in the agricultural sector. Follow-up on the agricultural sector
has been relatively ineffective due to a low level of input by the Bank.
3.38   Analytical and advisory services were key to creating awareness and partnership for the
successful reform agenda. The Bank's 1990 Agricultural Sector Strategy Paper was its basis, and
this was elaborated in the Ministry of Agriculture's 1993 Agricultural Policy Charter.
Development partners all acknowledge the value the Bank had provided to Jordan as a facilitator
that brings global knowledge to bear on local problems. They are notably more enthusiastic about
the Bank's ability to link sector and sub-sector projects to the broader economy through the CAS,
while sector agencies within Jordan were, understandably, less so partly because they felt it
enabled donors to form a coherent and comprehensive program, the sequencing of which did not
always meet government approval. In this context, both government and donors enthusiastically
endorsed Bank performance on the ASAL over the period 1990-96. Similarly, within the urban
water supply and sanitation sector the new program initiated from 1997 was well received.
3.39   The Bank relied on significant work by other development partners to deliver the ASAL
and was in the vanguard of raising agricultural water tariffs. Yet when the final tranche of the
ASAL was on the line, the Bank abandoned its stand on tariffs and alliance with KfW in favor of
disbursement. This was a pragmatic decision given that government was intransigent on
agricultural water tariffs and the inflexibility of the ASAL conditionality. As this problem was
well known in 1994 (paras 1.16, 1.19 and 2.23) and even identified - the expoit marketing
problem be resolved and local markets improved - the Bank would have been a better partner to
KfW and government if it had used its AAA to examine alternatives which in the longer term
may have achieved its water management and conservation objectives. As it was, the release of
the second tranche of the ASAL severely undermined the trust between the Bank and KfW, and
the subsequent partnership in the agricultural sector has been damanged.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Borrower performance is rated by the extent to which borrower assumed ownership and
responsibility to ensure quality ofpreparation and implementation, and complied with covenants
and agreements, toward the achievement of development objectives and sustainability



22
3.40   Borrower performance was satisfactory on the ASAL. Despite the high political risks
surrounding the ASAL reforms, almost all were achieved within the ASAL timetable, the notable
exceptions being the second increase in agncultural water tariffs and the divestiture of AMPCO.
3.41   Borrower performance on the ASTUP is also satisfactory, but only marginally so. This is
primarily because of JVA and WAJ's unwillingness to fully use facilities installed to improve
revenue generation and water conservation.
4.     Findings, Outlook and Lessons
FINDINGS
4.1    While very successful on trade and subsidy related issues in agriculture, the ASAL was
not a relevant instrument to leverage institutional reform and reorganization of the main water
sector institutions. Government's symbolic gestures of accord on water policy - for example the
1994 Water Policy Framework for Jordan - concealed deep rifts within the establishment about
the way to proceed. It was clear during appraisal - and raised by Bank reviewers at the time - that
the reform agenda proposed by the Bank would take far more then the two years proposed for the
ASAL and a more incremental approach was indicated. And this unrealistic approach created
problems for the Bank when the water reform agenda stalled on the water pricing issue: KfW saw
the Bank as a fickle partner and as a result, the partnership in agriculture and water languished. In
hindsight, Bank promotion of a more gradualist approach and support for institution-building may
have built a stronger partnership and Jordan's constituency for water reform.
4.2    All stakeholders perceived a shift in the quality of Bank non-lending services and advice,
and consultation after the closure of ASAL in 1997. Specifically, when the Bank lacks a sector-
wide approach and becomes focused on a narrow project-such as the Jordan Rift Valley
proposal-it appears to become notably less effective. Development partners felt they were not
consulted on many important issues and that the Bank appeared to operate in isolation. This was
particularly irksome for those development partners - USAID, GTZ and KfW who had continued
with significant capacity-building and infrastructure investment programs in agriculture and water
sub-sectors. They stated their specialist insight and knowledge often built on years of
engagement, and so vital to sound policy evolution and project design, was ignored by Bank
missions. Clearly this is an issue for Bank management.
4.3    There is considerable debate among high-level policymakers in Jordan about the
relevance of water pricing to ensure efficient use. Many high-level officials believe that in the
agricultural sector administrative allocation is a more socially-equitable policy than pricing.
Indeed, the Minister of Agriculture stated to the assessment mission that the cost (JD5 million per
year) of providing water to the Jordan Valley, which enabled sustainable livelihoods for the
300,000 people engaged in agriculture, was relatively small compared with the costs that would
be incurred if very high water charges caused farmers to abandon the land and migrate to Amman
for employment. This social-welfare dimension of water was the largest divergence of views
between the Bank and govemment over the agricultural sector. However, it is clear from the
continued growth of irrigated area that administrative allocation provides the wrong incentives to
conserve scarce water. The growth of the irrigated tree crops sector is crowding-out equally high
value but more drought-adaptable irrigated vegetables. This current trend is increasing inequity in
land and water use in the Jordan Valley contrary to government's stated policy. The Bank is well-
placed to assist govemment in resolving this policy dilemma and this could provide an
opportunity to build on the AAA initiated under the ASAL.



23
4.4     During the implementation of the ASAL the Bank supported studies for a follow-on
Jordan Rift Valley Improvement Project which has proved to be controversial. Bank leadership
appeared to be notably absent and the development of project objectives floundered due to a lack
of Bank managerial direction. Engagement of consultants by govemment was prolonged and only
occurred six months before the end of the project, thus precluding a satisfactory proposal. The
view in the donor community is that the Bank over-sold the JRVIP and this effectively froze other
donor interest. When JRVIP failed to deliver, there was considerable donor anger with the Bank
for the time wasted and lack of progress. Some even said the Bank derailed progress in
agriculture. These outcomes appear to have soured relationships between the Bank and the JVA,
as well as among the development partners, particularly USAID who were looking for the Bank
to provide a comprehensive perspective and strategic oversight for the agriculture sector as it did
in the period 1990-1996. Instead, ten years after it was first discussed, government and the Bank
launched a small private-sector orientated horticultural export development project in 2002. In the
meantime, GTZ and government signed an agreement in 2001 for technical assistance to improve
utilization of water resources in irrigated agriculture and facilitating participatory irrigation
management - one of the Bank's original components.
OUTLOOK
4.5     The Jordan Valley Authority, assisted by USAID, presented a strategic plan (2002-07)
that aims to make JVA a revenue resource, rather than a drain on the Treasury, through
commercialization of many of its activities. If this is successfully translated into action it could
completely change the face of Jordan's agricultural sector. On the Bank's side, preparations for a
private sector agribusiness export promotion project are well advanced, addressing one of the
ASAL's vital missing links.
4.6     More recently, the WAJ signed a private sector Bank-supported management contract for
the Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project (1999) which has well-defined efficiency
goals to international benchmark standards. The approach adopted by the urban water team
reflected lessons learned from the implementation of the ASAL and focused heavily on how to
move from the diagnostics provided by the ASAL's analytical work and OED's audits to practical
and politically acceptable solutions. Most importantly, it recognized that water tariff reform could
not be imposed, and that the financial woes of the sector could be improved if commercial
management and accounting procedures were adopted. In a major departure from earlier practice,
the Bank made appraisal of a project to assist Amman's water supply and sanitation utility
conditional on government's reform of tariffs and acceptance of a private sector management
contract." Unlike the ASAL, however, it did not prescribe water tariffs, leaving that to
government to decide. And the management contract emphasized clarity and specificity on the
managerial issue that would be tackled.45 Even then, the impetus for reform took place outside
and independently of the ASAL framework.
44. The Bank's Division Chief subsequently put this in a formal letter to government: "the tariff issue is a Jordanian
problem best solved by govemment taking ownership of the matter and resolving it, rather than the Bank trying to
enforce resolution according to a rigid timetable. For this reason ... the project should not have legal financial covenants
dealing with specific tariff increases... but the tariff issue is so serious it should be addressed realistically and
systematically before presentation to the Bank's Board." March 24, 1997.
45. Staffing, efficiency, tariffs, perfomiance targets and incentives, and investment components
46. The Bank's Division Chief subsequently put this in a formal letter to govemment: "the tariff issue is a Jordanian
problem best solved by govemment taking ownership of the matter and resolving it, rather than the Bank trying to
enforce resolution according to a rigid timetable. For this reason ... the project should not have legal financial covenants



24
4.7    Urban water demand is projected to almost double by 2020 while agriculture use is
expected to remain the same. To meet this challenge, government has launched an ambitious, but
significantly underfunded, 13-year US$5 billion investment program to increase supplies and
service efficiency.48 Providing the infrastructure investment is implemented without delay, it is
expected that the current water deficit being met from groundwater mining will grow by about a
fifth to 360 MCMIyear, Figure 5. However, increasing groundwater withdrawal is contrary to
government's stated policy. Government, noting in 1998 that the overdraft was 159 percent,
stated that it intended to reduce it to zero by 2005. However this intent is thwarted by an
unwillingness to apply regulations for agricultural water use which has led to excessive
withdrawal for agriculture. Not only is
this in direct competition with urban
consumers, it also increases pumping               Figure 5: A Worsening Long-Term Water Balance
costs as the water table falls. Water
quality declines also due to influx of
brackish and saline groundwater from the         2,000
bottom of the aquifers and one aquifer           1,500.
has already been lost for this way. The        m,o l            ~      F    F     x
only way to cut the overdraft is to reduce   E     50     E    E    .lI __
agricultural use, increase water use         EE        li      L  iIL        JI
efficiency and recycle more                         0
wastewater.49 The most effective way to      >    -500
do this is through pricing which                        1998   2005   2010    2015   2020
government is reluctant to accept for                     FUr bn UA-tculmJ3TDret DWd OSuppl )effde
agriculture. Conversely, in 2002,             Sowne Worldt ank We SecWrF
government introduced surcharges on all
WAJ urban water bills which, compared with agriculture, are quite high, and on groundwater
sold by tankers (see footnote 390. 5
LESSONS
4.8    Not everything can be done at once-it is better to have a sequence of more
narrowly focused goals prioritized according to the level of borrower ownership. The ASAL
was too ambitious in tackling both agriculture sector/trade and water reforms: political capital
was limited and did not extend to making farmers pay more for water at the same time as they
were being squeezed by elimination of subsidies and loss of import protection. The ASAL would
have been an appropriate instrument for institutional reform of the water sector if the Bank had
better understood government's concerns about the social, poverty and employment impacts of
higher agricultural water tariffs and worked with them to address these concerns. As it was, the
ASAL structure and timetable precluded time-consuming dialogue on these issues which may
have required a more incremental approach.
dealing with specific tariff increases... but the tariff issue is so serious it should be addressed realistically and
systematically before presentation to the Bank's Board." March 24, 1997.
47. Staffing, efficiency, tariffs, performance targets and incentives, and investment components
48. The MoWI released its ambitious US$5 billion master plan of water sector planning and its associated investment
program of 53 projects covering the period to 2011 at a donors' conference in March 2002. The investment program
includes 5 technical assistance, 10 private sector, 18 water supply and sanitation and 20 wastewater projects and is
expected to yield an additional 400 million cubic meters of water a year.
49. KfW is financing a study on wastewater reuse which started in November 2002.
50 . In Amman the surcharge is JDO.5 for less than 20 cubic meters a month, and JDI.5 for greater consumption.
Outside Amman there is a flat rate surcharge of JDI .0.



25
4.9    The Bank's credibility is harmed when it supports unrealistic targets linked to the
wrong instruments. High-quality analytical and advisory services allied with partnership-
building have a large payoff in the long term. The Bank's AAA services formed the basis of a
cross-sectoral and strategic framework for water and agriculture which all stakeholders accepted
- and increased water tariffs was a central objective. However, it became clear at the time the
ASAL was approved that the second increase in water tariff was politically unrealistic and would
be jeopardized by the need for disbursement to meet balance of payment support. Rather than
accepting this reality and working with government and KfW on alternatives to achieve the policy
objective, perhaps on a longer schedule, the Bank remained silent. Release of the second tranche
came as a surprise to KfW and undermined the partnership with them and other donors. It also
sent the wrong signal to government that increased agricultural water tariffs were not as important
as had been argued. Subsequently, the Bank's partnerships in the agricultural sector languished,
reducing the Bank's effectiveness in the late 1990s.
4.10   Reform cannot be imposed, and those that are, sometimes create roadblocks. Yet,
when the conditions are right for the particular issue, reform can go quickly, as the Amman urban
water tariffs and private sector management indicated. Therefore, the Bank has to become more
sensitive to the political economy of reform, its acceptability, and its timing.






27                                          Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
JORDAN AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (LOAN 3817-JO)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal          Actual or           Actual as % of
estimate        current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                           80             100                    125
Loan amount                                   80             80                    100
Cofinancing                                   20             13.4*                 67
Cancellation                                                 6.6-                  33
* KfW did not disburse DM 10 million pending raising of the agricultural water tariff to 25 fils/cubic meter.
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Dislbursements
FY95                    FY96                   FY97
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                    80                      80                     80
Actual (US$M)                                80                      50                     80
Actual as % of appraisal                     100                     62                     100
Date of final disbursement: May 13, 1997
Project Dates
Original                        Actual
Identfication                                                                       April 1993
Preparabon                                           June 1993                    December 1993
Appraisal                                            March 1994                      April 1994
Negotiafions                                          May 1994                August/September 1994
Letters of sector policy                                                          October 27, 1994
Board approval                                        July 1994                  December 8,1994
Signing                                                                          December 19,1994
Effectiveness                                       January 1995                   May 19,1995
First tranche release                                                              May 19, 1995
Second tranche release                               April 1, 1996                 May 13,1997
Project complebon
Closing date                                      December 31,1996                 April 30,1997
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual Staff weeks          Actual US$'000
Preappraisal to appraisal              255.7                      708.9
Appraisal to Board                      20.9                      80.5
Negotabon through Board                 19.3                      67.3
approval
Supervision                             33.6                      154.3
Complebon                               4.0                        12.3
Total                                   333.5                    1,023.3



28                                        Annex A
Mission Data
Date       No. of  Staff days     Specializations   Perfonman  Rating     Types of
(month/year)  persons  in field       represented       ce rating  trend     problems
Preparation   Feb 1993     7         17        TM,WS,SE,AG,CS,MS,LS
Jun. 1993    3         22        TM,SE,MS
Dec. 1993    14        17        TM,SE,IE,2WS,CS,LSAG,
ES,CS, 2 EVS
Appraisal     Apr 1994     5         16        TM, SE, LW, 2 WS, MS
Aug 1994     7                   TM, SE, LW, 2 WS, IE
Mar 1995     7                   TM, SE, LW, 2 WS, IE
Supervision   May 1995     1         10        TM
Aug. 1995    1         10        TM
Feb. 1996    1         10        TM
Jun. 1996    1         10        TM
Completon     May 1997     1         10        TM
TM=Task Manager, WS=Water Specialist, SE=Sector Economist, AG=Agriculturalist, CS=Credit Specialist,
MS=Marketing Specialist, LS=Uvestock Specialist, ES=Extension Specialist, EVS=Environment Specialist, IE=lrrigation
Specialist
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                          Credit no.        Amount           Year of Board
(US$ million)        Approval
Export Development                                Ln 3993                          1996
Economic Reform and Development Loan 11           Ln 4115                          1997
JORDAN AGRICULTURAL SECTOR TECHNICAL SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 3818-JO)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal          Actual or          Actual as % of
estimate       curTent estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                              13.31             12.32                  93
Loan amount                                      6.61              5.90                   89
Cofinancing                                      6.05               6.05                  100
Cancellabon                                        -                0.71                  11
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY95        FY96          FY97         FY98          FY99         FY00
Appraisal esimate   0.50        4.30          5.80         6.40          6.60
(US$ '000)
Actual (USS '000)   0.25        1.58         4.23          5.05          5.67         5.90
Actual as % of       50          37           73            79            86           89
appraisal
Date of final disbursement April 2001



29                                        Annex A
Project Dates
Original                      Actual
PCD                                                                             10/15/1992
Appraisal                                                                       04/06/1994
Board approval                                                                  12/08/1994
Effectveness                                       1/15/1995                    05/19/1995
MTR                                                06/30/1997                   02/14/1998
Closing date                                       06/30/1999                   12/31/2000
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual Staff Weeks     Actual US$
Identification/Preappraisal         48               171,400
Appraisal/Negotiation               43               143,300
Supervision                         80               329,918
Complebon                           8                 40,000
Total                              179               684,618
Mission Data
Date       No. of  Staff days  Specializations  Implementation  Devel.   Types of
(month/year)  persons  in field   represented     Progress     Objectives   problems
Identification/  October 1992                 FAO/CP          S             S
Preparation
Appraisal     April 6,1994  9                 IRR ENG, AGRIC S              S
AGRIBU, ENV, 2
ECON, EXTEN,
LIVE, FIN
Supervision   May 19, 1995- 3                 ECON, IRR ENG, S              S
July 31, 1997                    AGRIC
July 31, 1997-                   ECON, IRR ENG
Dec. 31, 2000
Completion    Jan. 2001   2                   ECON, IRR ENG S               S
IRR ENG=Irrigation Engineer, AGRIC=Agriculturalist, AGRIBU=Agrbusiness Specialist, ENV=Environment Specialist,
ECON=Economist, EXTEN=Extension Specialist, LIVE=Uvestock Specialist, FIN=Financial Analyst
Other Project Data
Bornower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERAnSoNs
Operation                                         Credit no.        Amount            Board date
(US$ million)
None






31                                        Annex B
Annex B. Supporting Information
Table B1: Relationship Between the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan and the Multi-
Donor Supported Agriculture Sector Technical Assistance Project
ASAL                      ASTAP                                           Financier
Water policy framework    Studies of waste water reuse, saline water and  USAID, GTZ
environmental impact in the Jordan Valley
Restructuring of water sector  Training needs assessment and training programs  USAID, GTZ, and
institutions              Restructuring study                             ASTUP
Support for JVA water quality monitoring        CIDA
Groundwater measurement   Completion of national well metering program     GTZ
and management            Equipping groundwater management teams           GTZ
Implement block tariffs for  Complete operation of meters and minimum O&M  Worid Bank
water in the Jordan Valley  equipment
and recover O&M costs
Revise land tenure        Revise land tenure regulations                   USAID
framework                  Rangeland resource and socio-economic study     CIDA
Reduce problem of pesticide  Revision of regulations                       USAID
use                       Implement integrated pest management             GTZ
Market libralization      Develop marketing institutions                   USAID, GTZ
Develop export testng services to intemational  USAID
standards
Divest AMPCO              Studies to implement divestiture                 Bank via Danish
Trust Fund
Restructure MOA           Institutional diagnosis and change               USAID, GTZ
Develop research          Support for NCARTT to develop research targeted at  World EBank
farmers affected by adjustments
Develop extension         Support for public extension for farmers affected by  World Bank
adjustment
Put rural finance on a    Implementation studies and support               CIDA and USAID
market basis
Restructure cooperative   Implement studies and support                    CIDA
sector
Monitor impacts of        Monitoring and evaluation program                GTZ
adjustment



32                                        Annex B
Figure BI: Irrigated Area in the Jordan Valley
--+ Tree Crops --Field Crops -6-Vegetables         Totalo
35,000
y = 713.18x - 1E+06
30,000 -
25,000
X 20,000                                                  257.4x - 4i9262
<  15,000    _       -
10,000     y   5253   - _
5,000                                               Y-69.821x + 143299
0
1993    1994     1995    1996    1997     1998    1999    2000    2001
Figure B2: Highland Irrigation
|+-Tree Crops -0-Field Crops --&--Vegetables          - Total
60,000
50,000 -
40,000-
e           y =1301.7x- 3E+06
. 30,000-
y = 2071x - 4E+06
20,000--
10,000 -                                                y = -782.81x + 2E+06
y = 13.509x - 22248
1993     1994    1995     1996     1997     1998     1999    2000     2001



33                                  Annex B
Organizational reform is proceeding slowly
GOJ agreed in 1994 to consider rationalizing the organization of the Ministry and its line
agencies to improve water management and reduce govemment expenditures. And in January
1999, the Minister introduced a restructured organization for "testing purposes" until approved by
the Cabinet of Ministers (the current status is pending.) Some of the impetus for this
reorganization followed the recommendations of a CIDA study and the increased attention to
MoWI as a result of the Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project which introduced a
foreign management contractor. The most important change within MoWI was greater
clarification and demarcation of its responsibilities for water resources planning and management
and absorption of WAJ's water resources studies ancd groundwater monitoring fijnctions in 1999.
The MoWI released an ambitious US$2.5 billion master plan of water sector planning and its
associated investment program of 53 projects covering the period to 2011 at a donors' conference
in March 2002.
While WAJ is undergoing reorganization, JVA-the biggest water user-has yet to
start.5" In 1997, WAJ unbundled bulk water and retail activities and water supply and wastewaLer
services. The Bank-funded Project Management Unit for the Amman water contracts (audited by
USAID TA) is the first step of this unbundling process, and its initial effectiveness demonstrates
that WAJ has considerable potential for better management. However, this has yet to be
replicated throughout the organization. At a much lower intensity, WVA is subject to
modemization pressure through grant TA from USAID, GTZ, and France. Currently, JVA with
USAID assistance, is in process of finalizing a Strategic Plan (2002-07) that will examine options
for: (a) improving bulk water supply and management; (b) private sector participation of its retail
water delivery functions; (c) restructuring and modernization of the organization; and (d)
maximize returns from land development and management in the Jordan Valley. The MoWI
expects an action plan to implement the strategy to be agreed by the end-2002.
Table B2: WAJ's Current Account (JD millions) Is An Unresolved Problern
1996     1997     1998     1999    2000
Net Revenue           -51.3     -55.2   -46.2    -55.0    -32.0
Accumulated Balance   -390.1   -450.2   -483.8   -549.6  -581.4
Table B3: Water Sector Public Sector Employment is Large
Mom7            WAJ            JVA            Total
Secretary General             1               1              1              1
Deputy Secretary General                                     1              1
Assistant Secretary General   4               5              6              15
Directorates                  8              16             15              39
Divisions                     33             77             61             101
Estimated total staff in 2002  400          7,789           2,074         10,500
51. In 1998, JVA managed the supply 31 percent of Jordan's water, conversely WAJ municipal water management
responsibility covered 26 percent of all water supply. WAJ also had responsibility, until 1999, for monitoring private
sector highland groundwater use.






35                              Annex C
Annex C. Comments from Government
THiE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                                i    W  i  TJI ivLJI
OF JORDAN 
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                       -
AMMAN
Ref.No.  i    J .... 1-  l                                             . .... t
Date      / .  .....                                              .......... 
~~...         . .,,,,.. ........... jh 1
Mr. Alain Barbu
Group Manager
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Departnent
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Barbu,
In reference to your letter dated December 9, 2002 and its
attachment the draft Performance Assessment Report of (ASAL) and
(ASTUP) projects prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) of the World Bank, I would like to thank you for your efforts at
putting together this detailed report. However, please note that there are
some comments that need to be taken into account so as to ensure
accuracy of the infornation presented in the report. These comments can
be summarized as follows:
a    Since the completion of ASAL and ASTUP, many
measures and policy reforms have been taken by the
Government to enhance the performance of the water
sector of Jordan. As the main objective of ASAL was to
support the transition to an optimal use of water and land
resources, it is recommended that the attached measures
be incorporated in the report, where relevant and
appropriate, as the report refers to some of these
measures, while neglects the rest.
o    The report (currency equivalents and abbreviations page)
mentions that the USS 1 I ID 0.67 at ASAL completion.
However, according to official figures was US$ 1 = JD
0.708 in 1997.



36                                     Annex C
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                        '2d dLo                     JI L.La,    dL   ..4Ji
OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING
AMMAN
Ref.No  .    ... ............ .                                      ...................... .. .  .
D ate  ..-...... ..................................
..   ........... . .......
a     The report (Page 1, Para 2) mentions that agriculture
generated about (28) percent of GDP and (24) percent of
employment in the early 1990s. These figures are
inaccurate since the official statistics indicate that
agriculture generated about (8) percent of GDP and (14)
percent of employment in the early 1990s.
Please accept my high esteem and consideration.
Sincerely,
Bassem I. Awadallah
|Minister of Planning
cc: H.E. Minister of Water and Irrigation
H.E. Minister of Agriculture
H.E. Diroctor General, Agriculture Credit CorDoration
: Dr. Mlahdi Al- Jazzaf / Executive Director



37                                Annex C
List of measures and policy reforms undertaken by the Government of Jordan and Ministry of
Water and Irrigation to enhance the water sector and assure financial riability, in accordance
with the Ministry plans and Donors requirements.
Resource Management Aspects
The Ministry has recently prepared an Action Plan which represents a valuable initiative. It
also effectivelv identifies the major structural and policv reforms required for a sustainable
development of the water sector nationwide- This document provides an excellent basis for
common understanding between the Jordanian Government and the various donor agencies on
key issues.
*  Development of appropriate institutional capacity building and legislative framework
for water management.
*  A strategic Plan for the Jordan Valley Authority is being developed with the assistance of
the USAID, foUowed by support for invesunent and institutional reforms which would
support sustainable groNvth and improved efficiency.
*   Significant improvements in equipping private wells with water meters have been
achieved. To date 93% of all wells within the k-ingdom have been metered. During the
day-to-day fieldwork of the staff the level of acceptance to get the abstraction from the
private wells metered improved. In his decision No. 85/12/l/7788, dated September
06, 1997 the Prime Minister authorized the Ministry of Water and Irrigation to enforce
regulations or to close unlicensed wells according to a Dlan, which differentiates
procedures according to the location of the wells. In addition there is the mechanism
where owners have to revert back to WAJ for licensing to clean the well, for example,
and such authorization will be tied, among other conditions. to settlement of account.
In addition of the continuing installment of water meters on the private wells, WAJ also
put sians on each well. 2054 signs were installed on all water basins.
a  Crroundwater allocations for all purposes in the uplands shall be based on groundwater
sustainability principles. The GOJ has made recent policy decisions to stop the abuse of
critical water resources and promote better management of those resources. A recent
GOI policy calls for massive reduction in ground water abstractions to prevent the loss
of some highland aquifers. A recent C;OJ policy calls for massive reduction in
groundwater abstaction to prevent the loss of some highland aquifers.
* Stopping the puinpage of goundwater for urban supply from Azraq wellfeild during last
winter season.
*  The irrigated areas in the highlands are limited to 600,000 Dunums, whereas in Jordan
Valley are limited to 420,000 Dunums.
* The planting of all summer crops has been banned for the suimner of 2002 in order to preserve
scarce water resources for urban water supply.
  A reduction of irrigation water of up to 40% has been implemented for the summer 2002 for
the Jordan Valley through a water rationing program-
  The government has agreed to rent lands from farmers im order to prevent them from planting
any crops.



38                                Annex C
' In agnculture, greater use is to be made of treated wastewater and brackish water as a
substitute for fresh water.
e  A study financed by KfW on waste-ater reuse will be launched in November of 2002. This
study will formulate an action plan for reuse of treated water in agriculture purposes
Using modem irrigation techniques in the Jordan Valley to raise efficiency is being undertaken
through pilot projects with support from USA[D, GTZ and France.
e  Implementation of the new regulations related to industrial and commercial wastewater
eftluent to the public network. Any excess of the certain pararneters will be paid for
according to a fonnula.
  MWI has been implementing a public awareness program. A public awareness campaig
through the USAID project / WEPIA is being implemented through media, lectures, interviews,
etc.
Financial Management Aspects
*  An investmen-t program for all sector related investments was prepared in 1997 and has
recently undergone an update in 2002. This program will be reviewed and updated every five
years to ensure that the program reflects current realities on an ongoing basis.
v  Further enhancement of efficient financial management, accounling and controlling
tools in the utlities.
*  Introduction of socially acceptable cost recovery tariffs for all types of water use.
*  Several measures have been introduced to mobilize PSP in the management of water and
wastewater facilities and in urban operations and promotion of users management in irrigation.
*  A new tariff for groundwater abstraction for agricultural use has been implemented.
This will generate an annual revenues of JD 4.0 million.
*   Implementarion of additional surcharge on all water bills issued by WAJ of 0.5 JOD
for consumption < 20 cum and 1.5 JOD for consumption > 20 curn for all bills issued
inside Greater Amman area. 1 00 JOD for bills issued outside the capital. This will
generate an annual revenues of JD 2.723 million.
b  Groundwater tariffs for water (private wells) transported by tankers have been increased
to 250 fils per cubic meter for municipal and industrial consumption, and 100 fils per
cubic meter for all other non-potable water. This will generate an annual revenues of
JD 1.0 million.
*  New tariff for public wells (governmental deparnrents, Force armv municipalities, 25
fils/m3 for agriculre and 100 fils/m3 for other purposes. This will generate an annual
revenues of JD 0.6 million.
* A water tariff of 250 fills/ m3 has been levied on petroleurm refinery for its use of
groundwater. This w~ill generate an annual reveaue of JD 0.60 million.
*  The price of water sold by private tankers has been increased to JD 1.75 per cubic meter
for water sold outside the capital and JD2 for water sold within the Greater Amman
area.
* The price of water sold by WAJ tankers to the consumers has been increased to JDI .50
per cubic meter. This will generate an annual revenues of JD 0.4 million.



39                                 Annex C
*  Treated w-astewater of the As Samra wastewater treatment plant will be sold at 100 fills
per cubic meter to a new plant for electricity generation to be esTablished by the private
sector. The new plant is expected to purchase up to 7 MCiM per year. This will
generate an annual revenues of JSD 0.7 million.
* Raw waler tariff for indusnial usage by the Arab Potash Company in the Mujib and
Southern Ghors regions has been increased to 530 fils per cubic meter. The
groundwater tariff for water abstracted for the same company have also been increased
to 250 fils per cubic meter. This will -enerate an annual revenues of JD 2.0 rmillion.
*  Agreement with Phosphate Company to substitute freshwater with treated wastewater
from newly wastewater treatnent plant to be constructed in Aqaba.
* Agreement with farmers and other users to use treated wastewater, the tariff set 10
fils/m;
Institutional Aspects
* A study of the Assessment of Options for Water Sector Regulatory Reform is currentiv being
undertaken with the assistance of the World Bank.
* New laws and bylaws and consequent organization charts for MWI, WAJ, and JVA will be
prepared on the basis of the Regulatory Framework Study findings.
*  Ministry personrel have been reduced by 350, where few qualified technical and financial
employees have been employed.
* Implementation of a new commercially based Financial Accounting System for 1VA, and the
introduction of similar systems into MWT and WAJ.
* Autonomous commercialized entities have been established at the governorate level for Irbid
and Aqaba.
*  Implementation of a new Customer Ilnformation System for the entire Kingdom is curenbtly
under way.
*  Implementatin of a new Archiving System for technical & administratve data related to well
permits, drilling data and deposits.
*  Implementation of a centmlized GIS to have complete data related to water and wastewater
projects.
* Intensified donor coordination.
 Fostering of regional cooperation
Legislative Amendments
*  WAJ law has been amended to enhance Private Sector Participation and allow for the
establishment and ownership by the government completely or partially of private companies.
* Amendments to the same WAJ law have recenTly been adopted to enhance enforcement
measures with regard to removing any violations and contraventions of the laws pertaining to
illegal use of water resources through the establishment of a Judicial Police.



40                                 Annex C
*  A new by-law for Groundwater well usage has beeQ approved and published in the official
gazette to reduce and control over drafting and illegal wells and provide for substantive
penalties for illegal use. This bylaw sets a new tariff for all agricultuYal goundwater
wells.
*  By-laws pertaining to wastewater regulations have been amended in order to allow for the
smooth implementation of wastewaEer networks through private lands and plots-
 Wastewater connection fees are now to be deternined and set by WAJ based upon criteria from
the Council of Ministers in order to enhance financial viability and cash flows and increase
connections rate.
* Enforcement measures with regard To illegal drilling have also been strengthened by the recent
legal amendments. To dare, 28 illegal drilling rigs have been detained and 77 illegal wells have
been closed.
* The fVA law has also been amended to reflect and promote greater Private Sector Participation
in the Jordan Valley.
*  The same law has been modified to allow for the operations under commercial means for all
projects in the Jordan Valley except for those related to irrigation antd water resources
development
*  The laws pertaining to the sale of land in the valley have been restuctured to allow for the 5ale
of property in order to allow agriculture farm units to be consolidated up to 250 dunums in
order to assure enhanced economic viability.



41                                Annex D
Annex D. Comments from Development Partner
"BWP"                    To: <Abarbu@Worldbank.Org>
f <bwp@go.com.lo>        cc: "Hauser, Heinz-Michael" <Hauser.Gtz-Jorclanien@Jo.Gtz.De>, Hans
01/02/2003 07:48 AM         Jochen Regner \(E-Mail)" <J-Regner@Go.Com.Jo>, "Volkmar Hasse
Please respond to          \(E-Mail\)" <Gtzipm@Go.Com.Jo>
"BWP"                Subject: Re: JORDAN: Agricultural Sector Adjustment (Loan No. 3817-JO) and
Agricultural Sector Technical Support (Credit No. 3818-JO) Projects
---Draft Project Performance Assessment Report
Dear Alain Brabu,
Thank you very much for giving us opportunity to comment the Draft Report.
i) First of all the quite open and frank style of the report is appreciated; the perspective is objective and
even critical comments towards the Bank are clearly stated. You don't find this attiticle and professionality
everywherel
ii) Spelling, figures etc.
* The correct spelling of GTZ's name is: Deutsche Gesellschaft fOr Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ)
GmbH this has to be corrected several times throughout the report.
* Footnote 5: So far the capacity of the Deir Alla-Zai pipeline was told to be 45 million cubic meters a year.
* The figure of 67 million cubic meters seems to be rather high. Perhaps this was the design capacity?
* Table 1: The figures on the right side of the table under "Water Supply" have to be checked. It seems
that the uTotal Supply" does not represent the sum of the items above. In the footnol:e of this table the per
capita consumption should most probably read 135 Vc/d.
iii) Waste water use
chapter 3.11: The fact that already more than 80 % of the treated effluent from WWTPs in Jordan is used
for irrigation should be acknowlegded. Most of it is applied to the area in the middle and southern Jordan
Valley. This reuse rate is far above any other country in the region.
iv) Water use efficiency
chapter 3.13: It is stated that the irrigated area slightly increased from 1995 to 2000. In the same period
the supplied irrigation water quantity decreased. Does this indicate an increased water use efficiency on
the fields? If so, it might be worth mentioning.
v) Cooperation
chapter 3.39 and 4.2: Very true and helpful remarks on the potential for improvements in the
donor-government and donor-donor cooperation. This openess is very much appreciated and will
hopefully reflect positively in our future cooperation. In this respect we are willing to lurther contribute our
special insight and knowledge built on years of engagement in Jordan.
Regards and the best wishes for the year 2003.
Dr. Andreas Kuck






W  * ) . 1\ 2NATIOAL WATERRESOURCE
<So)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n Rier and\ Was
! g  W  W %  %-.% \^               JOR~~DAN
i   N          n
D> | ~ ~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                     ~~~ 10 00 _ 0 Up0n Iri0te AesOan
.   'e                                 0      0 d0        00J  ar;ISWel ied
/~~                                                  ~~~~ Th bona,o  ealons dea~ omt,n a and alood, Rtnior Bosins
v   )  K?  'r_   *  s   A  - 0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~o,ioooear * h,.51,00ag unyon,10',nen doo.nn  non
j                     \}  k 1 t X Pum~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rarpraaeetonhhonndr.
/ Ld
9~ ~~~~~~~~NTOA WAE RESOURCES=AS==.
-  /  /   I   {     Ctsw  G ;?7  ==z===/~~~~~~~~~~'-ploEmLib
1,~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             0  S-~TttP.t
~~~~~~~~~~~F                                               P. Pm   s0{~-_*t olo2030..E
/  > D W I  '   -   \\                 he bndoris cod0{3 dt a s  A;e o> 5 e Wrd gok GL>.P 
r                                         ASuL  . j. F- _  X  ont sudgmeal on Lt &t s^ut ol un-y  .c. m mIr o n drsmm






< > Jorm \~t 4                               .                                   _,\= &
(;                            \      I      . -u'-'''''' .- StW =  I~~~~~~~~~~~~S~  S~ 
-N ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~     -
l,d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pooe bo f,
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T <S.- I                     )
O  2  4  6  8  0 KIOMnETERS
11~ ~  ~   ~    ~   ~~~                       ~    ~    ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MILES-  -   29
T., Zonys
Siobbz-t-on Po-ds  -
< \\ / / ~~~~~~~~~~~~JORDAN
IRRIGATION IN THE
JORDAN VALLEY
_                                                                      b, p <   \  w   C rrevy  ~r   n to pressureI t  p
Css-g=dIby g,6  SS~  6  66.6pp
D /oms ond R -senoo,ns (Resenso-ns not no scale)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El                       El  {// Pum'pmgS-%in
w         /ireinDom j // ,,,D..        ..                         C-nls.. 
5 Seeo9  T-et-n,f Pl-nt
O   81  >  %                                             O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ T.-n gnd Gdi.s  
0
RE _   booodmon ohs mop dononnonimph a .ndn   .,o,   0  2  0  '  b  10 KILOMETERS     V
0    /      k  or oeebneh h,, sop do  npnfao h. pan a Tn                            Bodar-
aoY1sganoteeatSbufotsn yonnadasnnn 0 20  6 MILES0






IMAGING
R'eport No.:       25407
Type:     PPAR



