Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3817 JO
                               Loan Agreement
                    (Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan)
                                   between
                       THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated December 19, 1994
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3817 JO
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1994, between THE HASHEMITE
KINGDOM OF JORDAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
       WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated October 27,
1994, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the
Borrower's agriculture and water sectors (hereinafter called the
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of
urgently needed imports required during such execution;
       (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) a loan in an amount equivalent to thirty
million Deutsche Marks (DM 30,000,000) to assist in financing the
Program on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and KfW, which carries out the
financial cooperation of the Federal Republic of Germany;
       (C)   the Borrower has requested assistance from the Bank to
finance an Agriculture Sector Technical Support Project, and the Bank
has decided to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making a
Page  2
loan in an amount equivalent to $6,600,000 on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the ASTSUP Loan Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Bank; and
       (D)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
       (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
             "'Project' means the imports and other activities that may
       be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the
       provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
       (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
             "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
       such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
       Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish
       to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
       Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program
       referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
       performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
       obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
       the purposes of the Loan.";
       (c)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
       (d)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
             "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
       which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
       inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
       the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
       (a)   "AMPCO" means the Agricultural Marketing and Processing
Company; and
       (b)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986).
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
       Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of eighty million dollars ($80,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
       Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Page  3
Agreement.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
       Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
       Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester,
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during
such Interest Period.
       (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
       (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
             (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
                   the date immediately preceding each date specified
                   in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
                   the Interest Period in which this Agreement is
                   signed.
            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                   reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
                   a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                   borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                   1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof
                   as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
                   investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the
                   Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
                   determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                   (a) of this Section.
           (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second
                   six months of a calendar year.
       (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
             principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
             from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
             the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
             the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2
             of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
             this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
             on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
             Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
             during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
             Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
             of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
             Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
             commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
             a calendar year."
       Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
Page  4
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
       Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
       Section 2.08. The Borrower hereby entrusts the Central Bank of
Jordan with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal
applications under the Loan and for the collection of the documents
and other evidence to be furnished to the Bank in support of such
applications; such withdrawal applications shall to the extent
practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of
aggregate amounts of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.
                                 ARTICLE III
                            Particular Covenants
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
       (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
       (c)   Without limitation to the foregoing and to the Borrower's
obligations under Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, commencing
six months after the effective date of this Agreement the Borrower
shall: (i) cause the Ministry of Planning to submit semi-annual
reports concerning implementation of the Program in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request; and (ii) cause the Ministry of
Agriculture to submit semi-annual reports concerning trends in
production, resource use, incomes, employment and prices through
household surveys and case studies.
       Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
       Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
        (b)        The Borrower shall:
             (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                   case not later than six months after the end of each
                   such year, a certified copy of the report of such
                   audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
                   and
           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the audit
                   thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
       (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
             (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                   with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                   received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                   which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                   made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                   bills, receipts and other documents or customs
                   certificates, as appropriate) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
           (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                   records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included
                   in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of
                   this Section and that the report of such audit
                   contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                   whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                   during such fiscal year, together with the
                   procedures and internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
       Section 3.04. For the purpose of ensuring the proper
supervision of the execution of the Program and to coordinate its
components, the Borrower shall maintain a Coordinating Team, which
Team shall include senior officials from the Ministries of Planning,
Water and Irrigation, Agriculture, Finance, Supply, and Industry and
Trade; the Water Authority of Jordan, and the Jordan Valley
Authority.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                       Additional Event of Suspension
       Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Effective Date; Termination
       Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ASTSUP Loan
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
       Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
       Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
             Ministry of Planning
             P.O. Box 555
Page  6
             Amman
             The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
             Cable address:                       Telex:
                   MINISTRY OF PLANNING             21319 JO
                   Amman
       For the Bank:
             International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                       Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                       248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                                   197688 (TRT)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                         By /s/ Fayez Tarawneh
                                                   Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                                Middle East and North Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:
       Group            Subgroup       Description of Items
Page  7
       112                 --          Alcoholic beverages
       121                 --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                       refuse
       122                 --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                       or not containing tobacco
                                       substitutes)
       333                 --          Petroleum oils, and oils obtained
                                       from bituminous minerals, crude
       334                 --          Petroleum oils and oils obtained
                                       from bituminous minerals (other
                                       than crude); preparations,
                                       N.E.S., containing by weight 70%
                                       or more of petroleum oils or of
                                       oils obtained from bituminous
                                       minerals, these oils being the
                                       basic constituents of the
                                       preparations
       525                 --          Radioactive and
                                       associated materials
       Group            Subgroup       Description of Items
       667                 --          Pearls, precious and
                                       semiprecious stones, unworked
                                       or  worked
       718              718.1          Nuclear reactors, and
                                       parts thereof, fuel elements
                                       (cartridges), nonirradiated for
                                       nuclear reactors
       728              728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
       897              897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                       platinum group metals
                                       (except watches and watch cases)
                                       and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                       wares (including set gems)
       971                 --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                       gold ores and concentrates)
    (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
    (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $16,000,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after August
19, 1994;
    (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less
than $10,000 equivalent;
    (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any
national or international financing institution or agency other than
the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
    (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.  Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 may be
required by the Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.
4.  No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
Page  8
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have
reached the equivalent of $50,000,000, unless the Bank shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01
of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program, and (b) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to the Bank.
5. If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within
90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved
progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan or any part thereof.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                            Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
July 1, 2000                                    1,535,000
January 1, 2001                                 1,590,000
July 1, 2001                                    1,650,000
January 1, 2002                                 1,705,000
July 1, 2002                                    1,765,000
January 1, 2003                                 1,830,000
July 1, 2003                                    1,895,000
January 1, 2004                                 1,960,000
July 1, 2004                                    2,030,000
January 1, 2005                                 2,105,000
July 1, 2005                                    2,180,000
January 1, 2006                                 2,255,000
July 1, 2006                                    2,335,000
January 1, 2007                                 2,420,000
July 1, 2007                                    2,505,000
January 1, 2008                                 2,595,000
July 1, 2008                                    2,685,000
January 1, 2009                                 2,780,000
July 1, 2009                                    2,880,000
January 1, 2010                                 2,980,000
July 1, 2010                                    3,090,000
January 1, 2011                                 3,200,000
July 1, 2011                                    3,310,000
January 1, 2012                                 3,430,000
July 1, 2012                                    3,550,000
January 1, 2013                                 3,675,000
July 1, 2013                                    3,805,000
January 1, 2014                                 3,940,000
July 1, 2014                                    4,080,000
January 15, 2015                                4,240,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General
    Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                           Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
Page  9
                                    The interest rate ex-
                                    pressed as a percentage
                                    per annum) applicable to
                                    the Loan on the day of
                                    prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                 0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                 0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                   0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not                0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                 1.00
    maturity
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                                 Procurement
1.  Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
    (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following
is substituted therefor:
    "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international community should be notified in a timely
    manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
    advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
    invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid; such
    advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper of
    general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in addition,
    in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                Development Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                technical journal of wide international circulation;
                or
        (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries and
                territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
                potential suppliers of the goods required."
    (b)  The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the
    bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely used in
    international trade and specified in the bidding documents."
Page  10
    (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
    (d)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding
documents or the request for extension shall provide for appropriate
adjustments of the bid price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs
for the contract over the period of extension. Such an increase in
the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
    (e)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
paragraph 1, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.
2.  Procurement of pesticides shall be consistent with guidelines
for use and selection of pesticides agreed with the Bank.
3.  Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:
    (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank; and
    (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from
suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct contracting
procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where considered
appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
4.  Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international commodity
markets or other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to
the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.  With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
6.  With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 3
and 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documentation
and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
7.  The provisions of the preceding paragraph 6 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                     Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4
                       of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
Page  11
1.  The macroeconomic framework of the Borrower is consistent with
the economic policies stated in the Program, including adequate
arrangements for external financing.
2.  The Borrower has developed an action plan for coordinated water
resource management and for restructuring of the management of the
water sector in order to maximize efficiency.
3.  Charges on water in the Jordan Valley have been increased to
yield an average tariff of 25 fils/m3.
4.  The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in implementing basin
management plans for each water basin of the country, based on
volumetric metering and licensing of all groundwater production,
supply and usage, and imposition of appropriate penalties for
withdrawals in excess of licensed amounts.
5.  The four remaining commercial farming concerns drawing water from
the Disi aquifer shall have agreed to eliminate farming of cereals
by 1996, or such farming concerns shall have agreed to reduce
groundwater extraction commencing in 1996 by 25% from 1993 levels.
6.  The Borrower has agreed to reduce the level of barley imports by
the public sector for 1996 by at least 60% below the average annual
imports of barley by the public sector for 1992-94, and has agreed
to eliminate barley imports by the public sector commencing in 1997.
7.  The Borrower has eliminated margin controls and price controls on
fresh fruits and vegetables, and the price of such products is
determined by the free market.
8.  The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in implementing an
action program satisfactory to the Bank for the divestiture of AMPCO.
9.  Legislation permitting the lease for at least thirty years of
land in the Jordan Valley has been approved by the Council of
Ministers and presented to Parliament for enactment.
