              Document of
           The World Bank




                                        Report No: 29151

 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
    (CPL-38870 SCL-38876 SCPD-3887S)

                 ON A

                 LOAN

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 132.5 MILLION

                TO THE

      GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA

                FOR A

BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




              June 16, 2004

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective March 1995)

                               Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
                                Rp 1 million = US$ 456
                                   US$ 1.00 = Rp 2,193
                                     Academic Year
                                     July 1 - June 30
                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1     December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB       -     Asian Development Bank
ICB       -     International Competitive Bidding
ICR       -     Implementation Completion Report
IKIPs     -     Teacher Training Institutions
INT       -     World Bank Department of Institutional Integrity
LCB       -     Local Competitive Bidding
NTEC      -     National Textbook Evaluation Committee
PIU       -     Project Implementation Unit
PMU       -     Project Management Unit
PusTekKom -     Center for Educational Technology, Commication and Information
QAG       -     Quality at Entry



                              Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                           Country Director      Andrew D. Steer, EACIF
                            Sector Manager       Emmanuel Y. Jimenez, EASHD
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Alfonso F. de Guzman, EASHD

                                         INDONESIA
                   BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24

Project ID: P003968                                                  Project Name: BOOK & READING DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: Alfonso F. de Guzman                                    TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 16, 2004


1. Project Data
                    Name: BOOK & READING DEVELOPMENT                              L/C/TF Number: CPL-38870; SCL-38876;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3887S
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Secondary education (47%); Primary education (47%); Tertiary
                            education (2%); Sub-national government administration (2%);
                            Central government administration (2%)
                   Theme: Education for all (P); Social analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/14/1992                                     Effective: 09/27/1995                08/24/1995
     Appraisal: 11/28/1994                                         MTR: 03/15/1998                  11/01/1998
      Approval: 05/23/1995                                      Closing: 10/01/2000                 12/31/2001



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Indonesia/MOEC
                      Other Partners:      Provincial Offices of the Dept. of Education and Culture; Book Center

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russell Cheetham
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:                 Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                            Himelda Martinez
Team Leader at ICR:             Alfonso F. de Guzman                           Brigitte Duces
ICR Primary Author:             David A. Klaus


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                      Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
Sustainability for this project is modest. See section 6.1

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project aimed to improve the quality of basic education in Indonesia (Grades 1-9) through producing
and distributing more and better-quality textbooks, increasing their availability in the classroom, and
increasing their use by teachers in delivering the curriculum. A secondary objective, in line with the
Government objectives for all sectors, was to decentralize and privatize some of the textbook production
and distribution functions which had theretofore been carried out centrally by the Ministry of National
Education (MoNE) (formerly the Ministry of Education and Culture).

Three policy changes deriving from the project objectives were: (1) the provision of all required textbooks
to all children in basic education (replacing a previous de facto policy of about one textbook per every four
children); (2) competitive procurement of junior secondary textbooks from private sector publishers and
Balai Pustaka, the state-owned publishing house of the Department of Education and Culture (replacing the
previous policy of centralized production of some textbooks and shopping for others); and (3) the
decentralization of junior secondary textbook purchasing decisions to the provincial level (replacing the
previous policy of centralized purchasing decisions at the national level). These objectives also reflected
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy which places emphasis on: (i) the importance of quality in education,
especially in basic education, (ii) ensuring poor children had access to the necessary educational materials
and (iii) supporting decentralization in the delivery of educational services. It complemented a series of
parallel investments in school facilities and teachers, made through the six primary and junior secondary
school projects.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not Applicable

3.3 Original Components:
Component 1. Improving Textbook Availability and Quality. This component, accounting for over 90
percent of estimated total project cost at appraisal, was intended to assist in the production and distribution
of more and better-quality textbooks to primary and junior secondary schools nationwide. It consisted of
the following subcomponents:

    Improving Textbook Availability. Under this sub-component, textbooks and teachers guides were to
    be provided to all children in basic education. In primary schools, student textbooks and teachers
    guides were to be provided in all subjects (civics, mathematics, Indonesian language, science, and
    social science) for all grades; teachers' guides only were to be provided for three subjects (arts and
    crafts; local content; and sports and health). In junior secondary schools, student textbooks and
    teachers' guides were to be provided for eight subjects (Indonesian language, mathematics, physics,
    biology, world and national history, economics, geography, and English); teachers' guides but not
    textbooks were to be provided for another three subjects (arts and crafts, local content, and sports and
    health). The Government was to fund, from its counterpart contribution to project funding, the entire
    requirement of primary textbooks and teachers guides. During the project period, most of the junior
    secondary textbooks and teachers' guides were to be funded from the proceeds of the Bank loan. The
    project was initially intended to provide about 157 million textbooks to primary schools and about 85
    million textbooks to junior secondary schools.

    Improving Textbook Quality. A National Textbook Evaluation Committee (NTEC) was to be
    established within the Department of Education and Culture, to evaluate junior secondary textbooks
    submitted by private publishers and Balai Pustaka and ensure that only textbooks of sufficiently high



                                                      - 2 -

    quality would be purchased under the project, following detailed and transparent evaluation criteria.
    Technical assistance was to be provided to support the working of this committee.

    Changing the Role of the Book Center. The Book Center, an agency of the Department of Education
    and Culture, had been primarily concerned with the production and distribution of textbooks. Under
    the project, it was to phase out its involvement in the physical production of textbooks, except for some
    subjects in which there is a limited demand, and develop into the government body responsible for
    setting and maintaining quality control standards for the education publishing industry. Technical
    assistance and training, including study overseas, was to be provided under the project to assist the
    Book Center in this transition.

Component 2. Reading Promotion. This component was to consist of a series of activities intended to
improve the quality of children's books and promote reading. Subcomponents were (a) the holding of
workshops and training in writing, editing, illustrating and publishing children's books, targeted at
interested teachers, writers, editors, and publishers in all provinces; (b) the production and distribution of a
guidebook for schools and teachers giving suggestions and guidance on how to promote reading among
children; and (c) the preparation of multi-media educational programs aimed at the general public and
containing messages promoting reading, to be broadcast on educational channels.

Component 3. Teacher Education. This component was to consist of the production of multi-media
educational programs for the in-service training of teachers demonstrating how textbooks and reference
materials can be used in the classroom.

Component 4. Monitoring and Evaluation. This component was to consist of activities to provide
timely and accurate information on the actual receipt of books in the schools and their use, including (a)
self-reporting from the schools, (b) on-site visits to randomly selected schools, and (c) two in-depth studies,
one for primary education and one for junior secondary education, to assess the long-term effects of
improving learning in basic education. Technical assistance was to be provided to carry out the monitoring
and evaluation.

Component 5. Project Implementation. The project was to be managed by a Project Management Unit
at the national level and implemented by Project Implementation Units in each province and in the Book
Center. Technical assistance was to be provided to help manage the project and to build capacity at the
provincial level.
3.4 Revised Components:
The fourth round of tendering for textbooks was cancelled due to inability of the Bank and GOI to reach
agreement on procurement procedures.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is judged to have been unsatisfactory. No QAG review was undertaken at project
inception. However, the available documentation indicates that an appropriate level of resources were
provided for project preparation from both the Bank (for Bank staff and missions) and other donors, in
particular, a Japanese grant for preparation which was used to hire consultants to undertake a number of
relevant studies. The project was subject to review within the Bank, and comments were taken into account
in the project design. General guidelines for the quality evaluation of textbooks were developed during
appraisal, with the understanding that specific guidelines for this technical evaluation, which would provide
transparency during the evaluation process, were to be developed during project implementation. On the
Government side, the project benefited from experienced and dedicated individuals who had worked with
the Bank previously and had been involved in all aspects of project preparation. Detailed arrangements had



                                                       - 3 -

been made to strengthen the various implementing agencies through training and technical assistance.

In retrospect, the major flaw in project design at entry was the arrangements for the procurement of
textbooks, which were exceptions to the Bank's standard international competitive bidding procedures and
the failure to design, in detail, alternative arrangements on procurement which would have minimized
opportunities for collusion in textbook pricing. Another factor contributing to the unsatisfactory rating is
the lack of a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system that systematically looked at the impact of
textbooks on student learning. The absence of school-level procedures to ensure that students return
textbooks at the end of each school year is also a failing.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Although the appraisal report suggests that student achievement, retention, and dropout might be worth
monitoring towards the end of the project period, there was no monitoring to determine whether the project
improved the quality of basic education in Indonesia. The appraisal document provided evidence from
other countries demonstrating that an increase in the availability of textbooks in particular, provision of
textbooks to each and every student--had had a major positive impact on students learning outcomes. It
was therefore taken as axiomatic that if good-quality textbooks were provided on a one-to-one basis to
students in basic education in Indonesia, the quality of education and students learning outcomes would
improve. It would have been very difficult in any case to develop an indicator to measure changes in
education quality deriving solely from the provision of textbooks over the project period, since the
Indonesian education system was growing rapidly, and many other factors were also having an impact.

The appraisal team therefore developed indicators which measured outputs and processes, rather than
impact. The quantitative indicators, in particular, the number of textbooks and teachers guides produced
and distributed, are set forth in Annex 1 and discussed below in Section 4.2.

In addition to the quantitative indicators, three qualitative indicators were developed during appraisal:

How effectively books are distributed to schools. Books were distributed to schools and the achievement
of this indicator is satisfactory. The contracts with publishers required distribution of the books to
individual schools, and spot checks in one province during the completion mission indicated a one-to-one
correspondence between the number of books procured and the number of books arriving in the schools.

How effectively teachers and students use textbooks in the classrooms. Independent monitoring done
by teacher training institutes during the project period and spot checks done during the completion mission
indicated that teachers and students used the books heavily, although their impact on learning was not
measured. The condition of the books after three or four years of use also indicate that they have been used
thoroughly. Discussions with teachers during the completion mission revealed that the teachers found the
textbooks to be of high quality (thorough, good presentation of the subject matter) but in some cases too
comprehensive to be taught in a single school year. In many cases, teachers were using supplementary
materials (other textbooks available on the open market) which presented less material and had more
examples and more problems/questions to help students learn. The achievement of this indicator is rated
partially satisfactory.

How well teachers, parents, and administrators understand the objectives and procedures of the
system. Spot checks during the completion mission indicated that teachers, parents, and school
administrators probably did not understand that students were required to return the books at the end of



                                                       - 4 -

every year so that they could be used by the students in the following year's class. Although books were
provided in junior-secondary education at a 1:1 book-student ratio, as of six months after the Closing Date,
many of the books (one third to over half of those purchase in the first round of procurement) were not
returned or accounted for. At least in some schools, there was no system developed by school
administrators or teachers to keep track of the distribution of textbooks to individual teachers and students,
and no sanctions for students who did not return books at the end of the school year. All parties
(administrators, teachers, parents, and students) apparently believe that the Government will eventually
resupply the missing books. Meanwhile, students share the remaining textbooks on a 2:1 or higher
student-book ratio and/or use supplementary materials bought by the school or the parents on the open
market. Due to the high rate of loss and apparent misunderstanding of procedures for returning books the
achievement of this indicator is rated unsatisfactory.

The project's decentralization objective was achieved modestly: the responsibility for the procurement of
textbooks was devolved from the national to the provincial level. It is now the Department of Education's
intention to decentralize this responsibility further, to the district level. However, a system of checks and
balances on procurement and monitoring have yet to be put in place. Moreover, during the project itself
alleged procurement irregularities led to an investigation by the World Bank Department of Institutional
Integrity (INT) and a declaration of misprocurement. At a very minimum, the irregularities led to higher
prices paid for textbooks than should have been the case, and fewer books reaching the schools. The
project's privatization objective was also achieved modestly: many key activities provided by the
government before the project are now provided by the private sector. Before the project, all textbooks
were written by Department of Education teams. The books were not popular and often were judged to be
too theoretical. Now, private publishers find their own authors; the Department of Education has only to
provide the curriculum and exercise quality control. Publishing also used to be done by the Government,
but now it is done by the private sector.

The three policy changes deriving from the project objectives: (1) the provision of all required textbooks to
all children in basic education on a one-to-one basis; (2) competitive procurement of junior secondary
textbooks from private sector publishers; and (3) the decentralization of junior secondary textbook
purchasing decisions to the provincial level were implemented with varying degrees of success, as described
elsewhere in this report.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Improving Textbook Availability and Quality. Improving Textbook Availability.
During project implementation, the targets for textbook provision were revised upwards to about 197.5
million textbooks for primary schools and about 101.5 million textbooks and 1.9 million teachers' guides
for junior secondary schools. The outputs of this sub-component are mixed. The primary education
portion of this component was implemented by the Government of Indonesia with its own funding, its own
schedule and its own arrangements because the interdepartmental issues and budgetary issues related to
primary school books were considerably more complex and difficult to solve than the junior secondary
schools. In primary education, 243.7 million copies (120 percent of the revised target) of 70 titles (70
percent of the target) were produced and distributed to schools in the early years of the project at a 1:1
book-pupil ratio. The Department of Education estimates that about 70 percent of these books are still
available, the others having disappeared or become unusable because of damage. Despite the loss of books
there was progress made in the availability of textbooks at the primary level.

In junior secondary education, 60.3 million textbooks (59 percent of the revised target) and 1.4 million
teachers guides (74 percent of the revised target) were produced and distributed in three annual rounds of
procurement. Coverage in these first three rounds approached a 1:1 book-pupil ratio. However, many of


                                                        - 5 -

the books provided to junior secondary schools in the first round have also disappeared. The reasons the
overall target of a 1:1 ratio was not met in junior secondary education were: (1) an under-estimation of the
rapid growth in junior-secondary enrollments and (2) the cancellation of the fourth of the four annual
rounds of procurement due to the disagreements between the Bank and Government on procurement
methods to be used.

In both primary and junior secondary schools progress was made toward achieving numerical targets in the
provision of the desired number of books. Despite progress toward numerical targets, the output of this
subcomponent is rated partially satisfactory. This is due to the fact that the fourth round of procurement
did not take place thereby ensuring that the targets in junior secondary education would not be achieved..
In addition, both primary and junior secondary schools experienced reduction in the overall numbers of
books available due to loss and damage. Some of this can be attributed to the fact that the project design
did not include school-level procedures to ensure that students returned textbooks at the end of each school
year.

Improving Textbook Quality. The National Textbook Evaluation Committee (NTEC) was established
with a professional staff of 11 drawn from senior teachers, university professors, and staff of teacher
training institutes hired as consultants under the project. Based on the government-approved curriculum,
private publishers submitted textbooks and teachers guides to the NTEC for review. Perhaps because
books were needed in the Indonesian language, the publishers who submitted books for review were all
Indonesian, with the exception of one publisher in Singapore who submitted a textbook to be used for
teaching English. The NTEC reviewed the books on the basis of content, presentation, language (ease of
understanding), and graphics, and then informed the publishers whether they had been approved. Books
not approved initially could be re-submitted by the publishers after they had dealt with the comments of the
NTEC on their earlier submissions.

One problem with this process was that the evaluation criteria and the weights given to each were not
known to publishers, nor was the fact that the NTEC was willing to approve books in some subjects which
covered only 80 percent of the curriculum. This meant that the process was not as transparent as it should
have been aggravating deficiencies in the procurement process. Some progress was made in enhancing the
quality of textbooks and teacher guides (not previously available) but the fact that the procurement process
did not function meant that in the final analysis, financial considerations overrode technical ones.
Therefore, the output of this subcomponent must be rated unsatisfactory.

Changing the Role of the Book Center. The role of the Book Center changed during the project period as
envisioned at appraisal. It no longer produces textbooks. Instead, it has taken over the role of the NTEC
(which existed only during the project period) to exercise quality control over textbooks. In addition, the
Book Center is developing a book information system, eventually to be on-line, which provides information
on textbooks including grade level of use, author, publisher, and printer. Consultants services from
Indonesian universities were procured successfully to assist the Book Center during the project;
internationally recruited technical assistance was sought but not found. Training for Book Center staff was
carried out successfully, including training overseas (in Singapore, Malaysia, and Thailand). Book Center
staff reported to the completion mission that they learned useful things abroad which were used to improve
their own procedures. The output of this subcomponent is rated satisfactory.

Component 2. Reading Promotion. The Book Center provided training, as foreseen: a team from
Jakarta visited all the provinces and held workshops in writing, editing, illustrating and publishing
children's books, targeted at interested authors, editors, illustrators, and publishers. The Book Center also
produced a guidebook for schools and teachers giving suggestions and guidance on how to promote reading


                                                      - 6 -

among children, although it is not clear how widely the guidebook was distributed or what use has been
made of it. The largest part of this component was the production of promotional materials, which was the
responsibility of the Department of Education's Center for Educational Technology, Communication, and
Information -PusTekKom. PusTekKom produced large numbers of materials for several media, including
radio, television, film, and print. Radio spots and stories were broadcast throughout Indonesia. Four
series, each with 12 topics, were produced for television in each of the four years of the project.
Thirty-minute films were produced for television, as were 30- to 40-second fillers. A jingle and a logo were
developed as a musical introduction to the films. The jingle, "You never read it!", indicating that
individuals in various life situations had missed something important by not reading, is familiar to virtually
all Indonesians with access to the media. (The Project Implementation Unit estimates that about half of
Indonesia's students have access to television.) Leaflets, posters, and calendars promoting reading were
sent to all schools, nutrition centers, and other village government organizations. The private sector has
picked up and is using some of the messages to promote the buying of books. The output of this
component is rated satisfactory.

It is impossible to measure the impact that these activities have had on reading in Indonesia. In any case,
changes in a society's reading habits are likely to occur slowly and take a generation or more. Some
anecdotal evidence is available. Independent monitoring and evaluation teams working out of universities
in every province have concluded that the promotional activities have increased awareness of the
importance of reading, but it is not clear whether this means that the public is actually reading more. Most
teachers interviewed during the completion mission said, however, that they believed their students were
reading more now than students did before the project started.

Component 3. Teacher Education. PusTekKom produced 1,250 audiocassettes and an equal number of
videocassettes in different junior-secondary-school subjects. These cassettes were sent to some 2,500
central schools in subdistricts throughout Indonesia, where they were used in teachers' workshops. The
output of this component is rated satisfactory.

Component 4. Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation were carried out in the first
instance by the junior secondary schools themselves, who sent postcards upon receipt of the books,
reporting whether the books had arrived on time, at the right place, and in sufficient number. Staff from
provincial Project Implementation Units made random visits to schools in their provinces to verify that
books had arrived. Site visits were also made by six-member teams from universities employed with
funding from the project but independent of the Department of Education. In each province, the university
team visited 30 primary schools and 30 junior secondary schools, chosen at random and visited without
prior warning. The university teams reported on the receipt of books and promotional materials in schools,
their use, and on the tendering process in the province. Each university team did two in-depth studies, one
on the primary schools and one on the secondary schools visited, each year books were procured. The
provincial reports were used to prepare five national reports, one for each year of the project, with the
assistance of a national consultant from the tertiary-level Teacher Training Institute of Bandung hired by
the (national-level) Project Management Unit. The output of this component is rated satisfactory.

Component 5. Project Implementation. A Project Management Unit (PMU) was established at the
national level and functioned effectively in terms of coordinating the project, providing guidance to the
provinces, and moving ahead with project implementation. Project Implementation Units (PIUs) were
created in all provinces and, with assistance from the national Project Management Unit, carried out the
first three rounds of procurement. The NTEC, the Book Center, PusTekKom, and the independent
monitoring and evaluation teams functioned as foreseen at appraisal and as described above. Although the
national PMU, the provincial PIUs, and the NTEC appeared to be functioning effectively, an investigation


                                                       - 7 -

by the Bank's INT department has provided evidence that led the Bank to declare misprocurement on a very
significant portion of the loan. The otherwise effective performance of the national PMU and the
provincial PIUs is tainted by this factor, and the output of this component must therefore be rated
unsatisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a substantial impact on the provinces' capacity to undertake procurement of textbooks, a
skill which will become increasingly important as responsibilities for the provision of government services
are increasingly decentralized from the national to the provincial, district, and local levels. However, much
more needs to be done to ensure development of a comprehensive and transparent process with a system of
internal controls is developed. The Book Center's capacity to evaluate textbooks and teachers' guides and
to provide training to authors, illustrators, editors and publishers was strengthened significantly under the
project. PusTekKom's capacity to prepare promotional materials was also built up under the project. One
university in each province has developed its ability to do monitoring and evaluation. Department of
Education staff who worked in the Project Management Unit learned many new skills related to project
implementation and reported that their expertise is sought by many others in the Department. Standard
bidding documents in Indonesian for the procurement of textbooks were developed which could be used in
future tendering of textbooks with financing from the Government and other sources provided there are
internal controls to monitor transparency and fairness. Finally, each year, more private-sector publishers,
whose main business is the publishing of textbooks, have submitted textbooks to the Department of
Education for a technical review. To date, some 150 publishers, or about 40 percent of the publishers in
Indonesia, have participated, however in some cases their experience has been tainted by irregularities
experienced in the procurement process. The project's institutional development impact has therefore been
decidedly mixed, and for purposes of this ICR is rated modest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The East Asian financial crisis slowed and made more difficult the implementation of all development
activities in Indonesia, including this project. The provision of books for primary education, which was
financed entirely by the Government, took place before the crisis started. Thereafter, no further books were
provided for primary education. Towards the end of the project, the Government found it increasingly
difficult to provide counterpart funding, particularly to finance the propose acquisition of copyrights.

The devaluation of the Rupiah which accompanied the East Asian financial crisis enabled the Government
to purchase more books for fewer dollars (the World Bank Loan was denominated in dollars) which
suddenly bought far more Rupiahs than previously. Domestic costs rose during the crisis, but not nearly as
much as the devaluation. However, the overall scope of the potential impact of the project was reduced
when Government cancelled large portions of the loan due to debt concerns.

Near the end of the project, the uncertain security situation in East Nusa Tenggara (West Timor) and
Maluku made project supervision impossible in those provinces and resulted in a suspension of
disbursements to activities in those provinces.




                                                       - 8 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The MoNE was unwilling to provide extrabudgetary funding in the middle of 2001 to buy copyrights which
could have helped to break the log jam over the fourth round of procurement. Government should have
exercised greater diligence with respect to oversight of procurement and investigated complaints of
irregularities more aggressively and earlier on.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Following complaints at the end of the second round of tendering about the lack of transparency in the
textbook evaluation process carried out by the NTEC, the Department of Education could have ensured
that the criteria and weights for determining how textbooks would be selected were articulated in detail and
made known to any and all publishers. This would have ensured that the process was fairer and more
transparent.

Similarly, following complaints about the fairness and transparency of the third round of tendering, the
MoNE could have investigated the situation and reported its finding to the appropriate government
authorities and to the Bank. Its failure to do so contributed to the Bank withdrawing from the fourth round
of procurement, and an investigation by the Bank's INT department into project procurement. That
investigation concluded that collusion in the pricing of textbooks led to substantially higher prices being
paid for textbooks than would have been the case had the procurement process not been corrupted.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project became effective September 27, 1995 and was costed at that time at US$130.4 million. The
original loan amount of US$ 130.4 million was reduced to $51.6 million after a cancellation of $36.5
million due to a debt reduction effort during the financial crisis and $44.4 million of undisbursed funds
resulting from failure to complete the final rounds of procurement.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability rating is modest. The new National Education System Law (No. 20/2003) has devolved
procurement of textbooks to the school level. The government is developing procurement guidelines, but
has yet to actually put in place a system for monitoring the availability of textbooks and proper checks and
balances on procurement. The latter might include asking schools to seek bids in sealed envelopes, public
bid openings, and publication of results. Isolated schools might find some protection from local marketing
monopolies if publishers were encouraged to print a "suggested retail price" on the books.

Other aspects of the project are more likely to be sustained. The Book Center continues its activities in the
quality evaluation of textbooks, just as PusTekKom is continuing its reading promotion activities.
Workshops for in-service training of teachers are also continuing. Overseas training as well as monitoring
and evaluation in the provinces are unlikely to continue, now that the Bank financing is no longer available.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
With the transfer of the responsibility for procuring textbooks to the school level, the national Project
Management Unit is being dismantled and staff absorbed elsewhere in the Department of Education. Staff
of the provincial Project Implementation Units have, for the most part, been redeployed to other parts of the
education offices in the provinces. The Book Center and PusTekKom are on-going parts of the MoNE and
receive annual budgets. Some central government funds are earmarked for textbooks in each year's budget
although (as discussed above) they are unlikely to be adequate to supply all the needs.




                                                     - 9 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
As discussed above under Quality at Entry, the Bank's performance during project preparation and
appraisal was unsatisfactory. Bank lending in this sector, as well as AAA work, covered all sub-sectors
and provided the foundation for ongoing policy dialogue and guidance for the whole sector. Bank funding
provided incremental additional funding for the challenges of improving quality of basic education and
decentralization of the delivery of educational services. Appropriate resources were provided to field
comprehensive teams for project development and numerous relevant studies were undertaken to ensure the
quality of the project design. However, the one major flaw during this period was the arrangements for the
procurement of textbooks. In retrospect the team would have benefited from the new guidelines for
procurement of textbooks.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision effort must be rated unsatisfactory, in light of the major procurement problems this
project experienced. The Bank was notified, after the second round of procurement, that the technical
evaluation was not fair and transparent and a supervision team modified the procedures in a effort to
address this issue. These modifications were included in the third round of procurement. However, further
complaints were received, following the third bidding. At that point, the Bank began to conduct a detailed
review of the complaints and sought to determine whether the allegations were based on fact. This
investigation showed that there were significant problems with textbook procurement during the life of the
project. In retrospect, it would have been wise of the Bank to have moved more aggressively to investigate
publishers' complaints that the technical evaluation was not fair and transparent.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is rated as unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The MoNE was closely involved in the preparation process and the studies carried out as part of project
preparation. Borrower performance during preparation is therefore rated satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Department of Finance provided counterpart funds and budgets as required and facilitated the
decentralization measures implemented under the project. As noted above, however, the MoNE should
have moved forward more aggressively to investigate the allegations of procurement irregularities when
they began to emerge. MoNE implementation performance must therefore be rated unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Much of the Department of Education's performance, including the Project Implementation Units, the Book
Center, and PusTekKom, was satisfactory. Many aspects of project implementation were carried out
competently. On the negative side, as noted above, the Department of Education also should have moved
forward more aggressively to prevent misprocurement and deal with complaints about procurement from
publishers as they arose. Its lack of concern over the matter (expressed in a letter to the Bank saying that
procurement irregularities among the publishers was not the Department's responsibility) led to the Bank's
withdrawal from the project. Thus, despite the positive factors, the Implementing Agency's performance
must be rated unsatisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:




                                                     - 10 -

Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated as unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

l The Bank and Government should have been doubly careful to ensure that procurement procedures,
    both the technical evaluation of textbooks and the bidding thereafter, were fair, open, and transparent.
    If the Bank is involved in a future textbook procurement in Indonesia, it should insist that the technical
    criteria and weights for textbook evaluation be specified to the extent possible and be widely
    advertised. Care should be taken to ensure that there are no criteria, other than the ability to write
    correctly in Indonesian, which effectively eliminate interested foreign suppliers. It also seems advisable
    that the bidding process thereafter be divided into (i) acquisition of copyrights; and (ii) competitive
    bidding (with the documents in English as well as Indonesian) for printing. The Bank's new textbook
    procurement guidelines are a useful guide. If schools use shopping for procuring textbooks they
    should: (i) shop with bids in sealed envelopes and have public bid opening and (ii) make available to
    the public the results of the shopping process. Isolated schools might find some protection from local
    marketing monopolies if publishers were encouraged to print a suggested retail price on the books.

l Universal school-level procedures for the initial distribution of textbooks and mechanisms to monitor
    and ensure that they are returned at the end of the school year should be developed and widely
    disseminated at the beginning of the project. These mechanisms should include (i) titles and numbers
    of copies of books distributed to teachers, (ii) lists of books distributed to each student, (iii) records of
    whether the students return the books, (iv) transparent penalties for failure to return the books
    (normally, the student or the parents should pay for the missing book), and (v) widespread
    information-sharing on these measures at the beginning of the school year, so that parents and students
    know what is expected.

l Textbook projects should include carefully designed M&E systems that attempt to measure the impact
    of new books on student learning and compare the effectiveness of various textbooks for achieving
    curricula objectives.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
From the Department of National Education:

With regard to the World Bank's performance during supervision, its is felt that after late 1999, there
was no one in the Resident Mission to help assist the MoNE with procurement and other problems.

With regard to the cancellation of the fourth round of procurement, it was felt that the World Bank
made a one-sided decision in canceling the fourth round of procurement. It was believed that a solution had
been agreed with the World Bank to buy copyrights of approved books and then have international
competitive bidding for the printing only - and it was point out that standard bidding documents for the
printing had been approved by the issuing of a no objection letter from the World Bank. It came as a
surprise when the World Bank later informed MoNE that it could not proceed. The cancellation of the
fourth round of bidding had a major negative impact on some 11 million junior-secondary-school students
and was the reason the project did not achieve its development objectives.

MoNE would like to give its view of what happened at the time both sides were attempting to work out an
alternative solution to the fourth round of bidding. In respect to the advice given by the Bank's Task
Manager (1999-2000) to split the (re)tendering process into two steps, i.e., the acquisition of the copyrights
from the approved publishers and the competitive bidding of the mass printing and deliveries, MoNE's



                                                      - 11 -

Project Management Unit took appropriate actions in close consultation with the Bank's Task Manager and
other Bank staff in preparing a retendering schedule and the two sets of bidding documents required.

The PMU sent draft documents entitled Provision of Manuscripts of Junior Secondary School Learning
Materials under An Arrangement of Temporary Transfer of Publishing Rights/Copyrights. Considering
the budget structure of the Loan, in which there was no specific category to allow funds to be used for
payments of copyrights, the bidding documents prescribed in some GCC clauses a payment mechanism
which would have avoided the revision of Loan categories, i.e., by introducing a method by which
payments of copyrights were incorporated into the contract to be made for the mass printing and deliveries.
The payment methods were set forth in a revised Section IV. GCC Data Sheet and Special Conditions of
Contract, which was prepared at that time (a copy was given to the Bank's Completion Mission).

While developing the bidding documents for the printing and deliveries of books, the PMU was in intensive
consultation with the Bank's Task Manager and other Bank staff, which resulted, inter alia, in (a) the
alteration of the bidding proceedings, from a condition of prequalification prior to bidding to
postqualification within the bidding process, (b) the package amount allowed for the bidders to bid in
relation to their capacities, and (c) the breaking down of the workload into a number of packages by means
of certain considerations. The most important thing to clarify here is that the PMU's adjusted plan stuck
to the agreement made during the consultations and supervision that the bidding should bluntly follow ICB
rules. A revised Section II. ITB Data Sheet, which concerned the ICB/LCB question, was prepared at the
time (a copy was given to the Bank's Completion Mission).

The bidding documents which the Bank had approved were not the ones that were supposed to be used for
the planned alternative bidding. The Bank objected to the documents used in the initial biddings, despite its
earlier no objection. The first three rounds of bidding had run exactly according to the procedures reflected
in the initial bidding documents. Although the final draft of the revised bidding documents for printing and
delivery was completed, it was not eventually submitted to the Bank, because in such a situation the PMU
could not possible proceed with the bidding of the copyright acquisition.

With regard to sustainability, the Government of Indonesia will in the future adopt a different approach.
The Book and Reading Development Project was the last project in which the national Department of
Education played a major role in the procurement and distribution of textbooks and teachers guides for
junior secondary schools. This responsibility was decentralized in part to the provincial level under the
project. In the future, it will be progressively decentralized to the districts (District School Committees)
and then to the schools (School Boards) themselves. The provision of books for primary schools will be
mainly the responsibility of the districts, which receive funds from the national Department of Internal
Affairs. At the national level, the Book Center will continue to carry out its quality-control function of
evaluating new textbooks submitted by publishers for review. The Department of Education team believes
that future sustainability of textbook provision in Indonesia will depend on this cost-sharing: grants from
the national government, funding from provincial and district governments, and funding from the schools
themselves.

With regard to collusion, collusion among suppliers during bidding is not good for any country in the
world. Nevertheless, the prices of the books procured under the three successful rounds of bidding were
incredibly cheap: on the order of US$ 0.35 per book. Indonesia got a lot for its money, and the World
Bank should be pleased that its money bought so much.

With regard to replacement of books supplied under the project, the Department of Education will not
be involved in attempts to replace books which were initially supplied under the project but which have


                                                     - 12 -

since worn out or otherwise gone missing. As agreed during appraisal, publishers are expected to reprint
the books which were supplied, and then the schools themselves are responsible for buying replacements.
If replacement books are not found in local markets, schools have the option of writing directly to
publishers and buying the books from the publishers inventories. Under other ADB- and
World-Bank-assisted projects in Indonesia, block grants are made to schools for this purpose.

With regard to the evaluation of textbooks by the National Technical Evaluation Committee (NTEC),
the NTEC did indeed have a team of 11 professionals (university professors and prominent experts as well
as one person from the Department of Religion and one person representing private schools), but these 11
did not themselves review textbooks submitted by publishers. That job was done by technical evaluation
teams, usually 9 people for each series of textbooks drawn from among senior teachers and expertise from
universities and Teacher Training Institutes (IKIPs). The main team of 11 people then reviewed the results
of the technical teams.

The Department of Education's team feels that it is not true that the NTEC evaluation process was not
transparent. Evaluation criteria had been given to bidders through bidding documents; however, since the
publishers submitted available books already in the market for evaluation instead of preparing new books
to meet the Department of Education's requirements, the scoring system was not revealed to publishers.
The Department of Education's team feels that the evaluation was done in as fair a manner as possible,
meaning that all bidders were treated in the same way. The team also pointed out that when the project
began, there was not time for the publishers to go back to the authors to prepare new books. The first
round of procurement began almost immediately, and therefore the publishers could but submit books
already available on the market for review.

To clarify this point further, the team would like to point out that up to now, it is broadly accepted that in
the handling of the evaluation of a bid, accountability governs rather than transparency. To some extent
transparency takes its role as an evaluation mechanism to be applied, and this criterion is always found in
normal bidding documents of any kind, but the exposition of a detailed scoring system has so far seldom
been practiced.

Concerning accountability, an effort was made by the NTEC to assure how they had evaluated accountably
the series of the books submitted by the bidders of the fourth round of bidding. Some time after the results
of the book evaluation were released, the NTEC invited relevant bidders of all the unsuccessful series and
their writers to a workshop. There the NTEC explained in details, and opened discussions on the reasons
their series had failed. To our experience the authors all could accept the explanations and could agree
with the NTEC on the weaknesses found in their series.

With regard to bid evaluation, and in response to question asked by the Completion Mission, the
Department of Education notes that the Bank's consultant had helped in preparing and reviewing bidding
documents but was never involved in the bid evaluation process.

(b) Cofinanciers:
None.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Monitoring Indicators
Part A: Textbook Availability
                                              Target                     Actual as of 5/31/2000
1. Primary school textbook       l 197.5 million copies of 100       l 243.7 million copies (120
production and distribution        textbook and teachers guide         percent of target) of 70 titles
                                   titles for 6 subjects for 6 grades  (70 percent of target)
                                   available in 6 years,               distributed to 27 provinces as
                                   FY1993/94-FY1998/99, at 1:1         of FY1998/99, at 1:1
                                   book pupil ratio                    book-pupil ratio
                                 l Textbooks and teachers guides
                                   actively used in class            l 26 teacher training institutes
                                                                       independently reports as of
                                                                       February 2000 books generally
                                                                       received before school opening,
                                                                       85 percent in good condition,
                                                                       and used in class
2. Junior Secondary School       l Textbooks for 8 subjects,         l Textbooks for 8 subjects (100
Textbook Selection                 teachers guides for 11 subjects     percent of target), teachers
                                   evaluated and ready for             guides for 10 subjects (90
                                   procurement                         percent of target) evaluated
3. Junior Secondary School       l 101.5 million textbooks and 1.9 l 60.3 million textbooks (50
textbook production and            million teachers guides             percent of target) and 1.4
distribution                       available in school                 million teachers guides (74
                                                                       percent of target) delivered.
                                                                       Round 4 procurement (35.2
                                                                       million textbooks and 1.1
                                                                       million teachers guides) was
                                                                       canceled.
                                 l Books used actively in class      l Monitoring reports books are in
                                                                       school and used heavily
4. Book Center staff development l Comparative study program: 27 l 0.8 staff month used
to assume new role of technical    staff months
support in textbook evaluation
                                 l Local degree program: 6 staff,    l 5 staff (83 percent of target)
                                   96 staff-months total               awareded 165 staff-months
                                                                       (170 percent of target) for
                                                                       graduate degree
                                 l Other local training (creative    l 18 staff-months: 460 staff days
                                   writing, proofreading): 30 staff    (60 percent of target)
                                   months
                                 l Book information system: 1        l Publishing director (100
                                   directory, 16 other items           percent of target), 12
                                                                       publications (75 percent of
                                                                       target) produced and
                                                                       distributed
Part B: Reading Promotion                     Targets                    Actual as of 5/31/2000
1. Training of writers, editors, l Publishing skill in the industry  l 16,134 staff days (85 percent of
publishing staff                   developed: 18,900 staff days        target)
                                   total




                                                    - 14 -

                                  l Workshops                       l Workshops
                                  (a) Copyright (400 staff days)    (a) 242 staff days (60%)
                                  (b) Children's books (500 s/d)    (b) 301 staff days(60 %)
                                  (c) Writing (5,400 s/d)           (c) 5577 staff days (103%)
                                  (d) Editing (3000 s/d)            (d) 3384 staff days (113%)
                                  (e) Illustration (3000 s/d)       (e) 2520 staff days (84 %)
                                  (f) Book design (3000 s/d)        (f) 720 staff days (24%)
2. Promotion and distribution of  Reading promoted regularly in
promotional materials             the media
                                  l 130 radio spots, stories        l 124 radio spots, stories
                                                                        produced (95 percent of target),
                                                                        aired on RRI

                                  l 104 TV advertising spots        l 48 TV spot fillers produced (46
                                                                        percent of total, aired on RCTI,
                                                                        SCTV,Anteve, TPI, Indosiar

                                  l 52 TV stories broadcast         l 60 TV stories produced (115
                                                                        percent of target) aired on
                                                                        RCTI, TPI

                                  l 1,000,000 posters               l 1,260,000 posters and
                                                                        calendars printed and
                                                                        distributed (126 percent of
                                                                        target) to schools and public
                                                                        over 3 years.
   Part C: Teacher Training                      Target                  Actual as of 05/31/2000
1. Production and distribution of   l 10 audio and 10 video          l 9 audiotape program (90
teacher training materials             programs on textbook use          percent of target); 9
                                       actively used by teachers in      videotape programs (90
                                       class                             percent of target) produced
                                                                         and distributed to 3750
                                                                         teacher training sites
The above indicators represent the project achievement prior to the cancelation of the fourth
round of textbooks procurement.




                                                      - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal      Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                               Estimate        Estimate            Appraisal
                        Component                             US$ million      US$ million
1. Improving Textbook Availability and Quality
   SD Textbooks                                                182.40
   SLTP Textbooks                                              107.30
   Approval Process                                               1.10
   Book Center                                                    3.60
2. Reading Promotion                                              5.50
3. Teacher Education                                              1.20
4. Monitoring and Evaluation                                      1.20
5. Project Management Units                                     12.60

Total Baseline Cost                                            314.90               0.00
  Physical Contingencies                                        11.90
  Price Contingencies                                           28.40
                           Total Project Costs                 355.20               0.00
                   Total Financing Required                    355.20               0.00
Note: Actual project costs were not provided based on Project Components as indicated in Table 4.l in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). Actual project costs were collected based on the SAR Table 4.3 Financing
Plan and these figures are reported below.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
                                                 Procurement Method1
      Expenditure Category              ICB          NCB             Other2         N.B.F.          Total Cost

1. Teaching Materials:
SD Textbooks/Teachers' guides           0.00         0.00             0.00           182.4        182.4
                                       (0.00)       (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
SLTP Textbook/Teacher guides           108.4         25.0             10.0                        143.4
                                       (81.7)       (18.8)            (7.5)                       (108.0
                                                                                                     )
2. Educational Promotional              0.00          3.5            6.0/c                          9.5
Material
                                                     (2.8)            (4.8)                        (7.6)
3. Overseas training                    0.00         0.00             0.30            0.00         0.30
                                                                     (0.30)                       (0.30)
4. Local Training/Workshops             0.00         0.00              1.9            0.00          1.9
                                       (0.00)       (0.00)           (1.50)          (0.00)       (1.50)
5. Consultant Services                  0.00         0.00              8.8            0.00          8.8
                                       (0.00)       (0.00)            (8.4)          (0.00)        (8.4)
5. Project Management                   0.00         0.00             8.90            0.00         8.90
/Incremental Operating Costs           (0.00)       (0.00)           (6.70)          (0.00)       (6.70)




                                                 - 16 -

       Total                              108.4          28.5             35.9            182.4       355.2
                                         (81.7)         (21.6)           (29.2)           (0.00)        (132.5)

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million
   equivalent)
                                                     Procurement Method1
          Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB            Other2            N.B.F.      Total Cost

    1. Teaching Materials:
   SD Textbooks/Teachers' guides           0.00          0.00             0.00            200.00     200.00
                                         (0.00)         (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)     (0.00)
   SLTP Textbook/Teacher guides           59.00          0.00             0.00                       59.00
                                         (44.20)        (0.00)           (0.00)                      (44.20
                                                                                                       )
   2. Educational Promotional              0.00          3.20             0.00                        3.20
   Material
                                                        (2.60)           (0.00)                      (2.60)
   3. Overseas training                    0.00          0.00             0.08             0.00       0.08
                                                                         (0.08)                      (0.08)
   4. Local Training/Workshops             0.00          0.00             0.50             0.00       0.50
                                         (0.00)         (0.00)           (0.40)           (0.00)     (0.40)
   5. Consultant Services                  0.00          0.00             3.10             0.00       3.10
                                         (0.00)         (0.00)           (2.90)           (0.00)     (2.90)
   5. Project Management                   0.00          0.00             2.30             0.00       2.30
   /Incremental Operating Costs          (0.00)         (0.00)           (1.40)           (0.00)     (1.40)


       Total                              59.00          3.20             5.98            200.00     268.18
                                         (44.20)        (2.60)           (4.78)           (0.00)        (51.58)

   Note: The Project Management Unit did not provide project costs based on procurement arrangements.
   Therefore, the figures shown are estimates and based on the Bank Integrated Controller's System and
   information from the project files.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                              Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                 Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest Estimate
                             Bank       Govt.      CoF.        Bank       Govt.      CoF.       Bank  Govt.   CoF.
1. Teaching Materials
 SD Textbooks                           182.40                           200.00                       109.6
 SLTP Textbooks             108.00      35.40                  44.20      14.80                 40.9   41.8
 Educational Promotional     7.60        1.90                  2.60       0.60                  34.2   31.6
Materials
2. Overseas Training         0.30        0.00                  0.10       0.00                  33.3   0.0
3. Local Training and        1.50        0.40                  0.40       0.10                  26.7   25.0
Workshops
4. Consultnat services
 Provinces                   6.80        0.00                  1.90       0.00                  27.9   0.0
 Central MOEC                1.60        0.40                  1.00       0.20                  62.5   50.0



                                                     - 17 -

5. Project Management        4.40        0.00                    0.60       0.00                   13.6  0.0
6. Incremental Operating     4.50        2.20                    0.80       0.90                   17.8 40.9
Costs

   Note: The Project Management Unit did not provide overall project costs for the Government. Therefore,
   the figures shown are estimates and based on the Bank Integrated Controller's System and information from
   the project files. There were four cancellations during the project implementation period totalling
   US$80,889,225.09. They were as follows:
   Cancelled as of August 26, 1998:          US$ 31.5 million
   Cancelled as of December 31, 1999:        US$    5.0 million
   Cancelled as of December 5, 2001:         US$ 40.8 million (precisely $ 40,799,192.77)
   Cancelled as of October 18, 2002:         US$    3.6 million (precisely $ 3,590,032.32)




                                                       - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                        (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year     Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              7/92 Study                   6    2 Operations Officers, 1 Reading       S               S
              Pre-Identification                Specialist,1 Education
                                                Researcher, 1 Book Industry
                                                Specialist, 1 Textbook Specialist
              11/92 Study Cont.            6    2 Operations Officers, 1 Reading       S               S
                                                Specialist, 1 Education
                                                Researcher, 1 Book Industry
                                                Specialist, 1 Textbook Specialists
              2/93 Identification          2    2 Operations Officers                  S               S
              11/93                        5    2 Operations Officers, 1               S               S
                                                Deregulation Specialist, 1
                                                Textbook Organization
                                                Specialist, 1 School Book Policy
                                                Specialist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              2/95                         3    2 Operations Officers, 1                               S
                                                Monitoring & Evaluation
                                                Specialist
              4/95                         4    1 Operations Officer, 1                                S
              Pre-Negotiations                  Education Specialist, 1
                                                Operations Analyst, 1 Textbook
                                                Publishing Specialist
              4/95                         4    1 Operations Officer, 1                                S
              Negotiations                      Operations Analyst, 1 Lawyer, 1
                                                Disbursement Specialist

 Supervision

              09/22/1995                   4    1 Operations Officer; 1                HS             HS
                                                Procurement Officer; 1
                                                Publishing Specialist; 1
                                                Disbursement Specialist
              05/10/1996                   3    1 Operations Officer; 1                S               S
                                                Procurement Specialist; 1
                                                Textbook Publishing Specialist
              11/12/1996                   3    1 Operations Officer; 1                S               S
                                                Procurement Specialist, 1
                                                Textbook Publishing Specialist
              07/30/1997                   2    2 Operations Officers                  S               S
              05/07/1998                   2    2 Operations Officers                  S               S
              11/6/1998                    3    2 Operations Officers, 1               S               S
              Mid-term                          Textbook Publishing Specialist
              03/12/1999                   3    2 Operations Specialist; 1             U               U
                                                Textbook Specialist
              11/8/1999                    2    1 Sr. Education Specialist; 1          S               S



                                                 - 20 -

                                                 Operations Officer
               6/5/2000                      3   1 Education Specialist, 2           S    S
                                                 Procurement Specialist
               9/22/2000                     4   1 Education Specialist, 1 Sr.       S    U
                                                 Procurement Specialist, 1
                                                 Procurement Specialist, 1
                                                 Implementation Specialist
               06/28/2002                    3   1 Human Resources Specialist, 1     U    U
                                                 Implementation Specialist, 1
                                                 Program Assistant


 ICR
               6/2002                       2    1 Sr. Education Specialist, 1       U    U
                                                 Procurement Specialists

Information provided comes from project files.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 190.0                              611
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       30.0                               96
  Supervision                                110.0                              356
  ICR                                         20.0                               60
  Total                                      350.0                            1,123




                                                 - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Project Information Document (PID)
Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
Grant Agreement
Memorandum of the President
Minutes of Negotiations
Project Status Reports (PSRs)
Mission Aide-memoires
Back-to-Office Reports
Project Financial Reports
Project Correspondences




                                      - 24 -

- 25 -

