Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14016-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 1, 1995
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Country Department III
Population and Human Resources Division



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 1995)
US$1.00    = Rp2,193
Rp 1 million = US$456
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
SCHOOL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
APBN        - National government budget
Balai Pustaka - State-owned publishing house
Buku Bacaan - Reading books
CRC         - Camera Ready Copy
DGPSE       - Director-General for Primary and Secondary Education
DIP         - Development budget
DT          - Poor Villages (Desa Tertinggal)
GOI         - Government of Indonesia
ICB         - International Competitive Bidding
INPRES SD  - Special budget fund targeted for primary schools
Kandep      - District Office of MOEC
Kanwil      - Provincial Office of MOEC
MOEC        - Ministry of Education and Culture
NCB         - National Competitive Bidding
NTEC        - National Textbook Evaluation Committee
PIU         - Project Implementation Unit
PMU         - Project Management Unit
Repelita    - Five-Year Development Plan
SD          - Primary School (Sekolah Dasar)
SLTP        - Junior Secondary School (Sekolah Lanjutan Tingkat Pertama)
TA          - Technical Assistance
TOR         - Terms of Reference



- l -
INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
LOAN AND PROJECr SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Indonesia
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC)
Poverty:          No targeted interventions.  Textbooks will be distributed
nationwide to all children; poorest children will benefit the most,
since they currently lack textbooks almost entirely.
Amount:           US$132.5 million equivalent
Terns:            Repayable in 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives
and Description:   The five-year project would aim at improving the quality of basic
education by addressing critical factors affecting both the supply
of, and demand for, textbooks. This would be achieved through
establishing government policies, regulations, procedures, and
practices related to school books, and making textbooks available
in classrooms in sufficient quantity and in a sustainable way.
Specifically, the project would support:  (a) provision of
textbooks in all required subjects, for all children in primary (SD)
and junior secondary (SLTP) schools, public and private, giving
priority attention to poor children; (b) procurement of the SLTP
textbooks from private publishers and Balai Pustaka, through a
transparent and rigorous evaluation and approval process, with
the objective of achieving a high quality in the books; (c) greater
involvement at the provincial level, through implementing the
procurement process for SLTP textbooks at the Kanwil level;
(d) giving help to teachers in how to use the books better in the
classroom; and (e) the promotion of reading, especially for
children.
Benefits:         The ultimate benefit would be increased educational quality and
improvements in literacy in schools providing basic education.
The more immediate benefits would be quality enhancement of
textbooks, the provision of about 157 million textbooks to SD
students and 85 million to SLTP students, and a better use of
textbooks in the schools.



- U -
Risks:            The project would be exposed to some risks, but those seem
manageable.  First, within MOEC, current procedures and
organizational units would be affected by the decentralization and
privatization proposed under the project. However, most policy
changes have already been introduced, and others seem fuily in
line with the statements in the Government's new five-year
development program.  Second, the project's objective of
providing good-quality textbooks, with fair competition among
publishers at the provincial level, is complex and will require
Kanwil expertise currently not available.  The procurement
procedures that will be followed for textbook procurement are
expected to safeguard quality and competition, while also
providing adequate control of the process at the Kanwil level.
Estimated Costs:                         Local       Foreign     Total
==---------- (US$ million) -----
Improving Textbook Availability
and Quality                             263.8         30.6      294.4
Reading Promotion                           3.8          1.7       5.5
Teacher Education                           0.6         0.6         1.2
Monitoring and Evaluation                   1.0         0.2         1.2
Project Management                         11.2          1.4      12.6
Baseline Cost                 280.4         34.5     314.9
Contingencies:
Physical                                  10.5          1.4      11.9
Price                                     26.9         1.5       28.4
Total Proiect Costs /a               317.8         37.4     355.2
Financing Plan:                          Local       Foreign     Total
------------ (US$ million) ----------
Government of Indonesia              204.5         18.2     222.7
IBRD                                 113.3         19.2      132.5
Total                         317.8        37.4      355.2
/a Inclusive of identifiable taxes and duties estimated at US$0.3 million equivalent.



Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year        1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Annual                   3.0    12.0    30.0    39.0    39.0        9.5
Cumulative               3.0    15.0    45.0    84.0   123.0   132.5
Economic Rate
of Return:      Not applicable
Map:            IBRD No. 26860






- 1v-
INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
Contents
Page No.
1 BOOK AND READING ACTIVITIES IN INDONESIA ..................                                                         1
A.  Background ......................................................1
B.   Major Issues .....................................................                                            1
C.   Current Government Organization, Policies, and Regulations ........5... 
2 BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED ..................                                                              7
A.  Previous Involvement ......................................................7
B.   Lessons Learned  .....................................................                                        8
C.   Bank  Strategy ......................................................9
3   THE  PROJECT  .....................................................                                              12
A.  Project Objectives .....................................................                                     12
B.   Project Components and Description ................................................                         12
Improving Textbook Availability and Quality ..................                         .................  13
Reading Promotion ..................                        ....................................          15
Teacher Education .................                       .....................................           15
Monitoring  and Evaluation ......................................................                         15
C.   Project Management and Implementation .........................................                             16
4 PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT,
AND DISBURSEMENTS                                     .......................................  18
A.   Costs ......................................................18
B.   Financing .....................................................                                            20
C.   Procurement .....................................................                                          22
D.  Disbursement .....................................................                                          25
E.   Accounts, Audits, and Reports .....................................................                        26
5   BENEFITS  ANDRISKS .....................................................                                        27
6 AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................. 28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Idonesia in
January 1995, comprising Messrs./Mmes. Brigitte Duces (task manager),
Mieko Masuda, Antonio Pereira (EA3PH), Marsoedi Soedjak (RSI), Stavros Syrimis
and Archie La Pointe (consultants). Mmes. Marianne Haug (Director, EA3DR) and
Himelda Martinez (Chief, EA3PH) have endorsed the project.



-v.-
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
Table 1.1    Book Center Funding ......................................                                           5
Table 3.1    Technical Assistance Requirements ......................................                            16
Table 4.1        Summary of Project Costs by Component ......................................   18
Table 4.2        Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure ...................   19
Table 4.3    Financing Plan ......................................   21
Table 4.4    Allocation of Loan ......................................                                          22
Table 4.5 Procurement Arrangements .24
ANNEXES
1.  Basic Education Data .......................................................                               29
2.   Comparative Regional Education Statistics ..................................... .........    31
3. Recent World Bank Assisted Projects Including Textbook Support ..........  32
4.  Bank Group-Financed Education and Training Projects ............................    33
5.  Book Industry .......................................................                                      35
6.   Textbook Provision and Implementation ..................................................    41
7.  Textbook Procurement Responsibilities and Arrangements .......................    50
8.  Book Center .......................................................                                        56
9.   Technical Assistance .......................................................                              60
10. Project Activities and Implementation Schedule: Improving SLTP
Textbook Availability .......................................................                          62
1 1   Organization of the Ministry of Education and Culture .............                       ................    71
12. Detailed Project Cost Estimates and Summary Accounts by Year and
Project Component .......................................................                              72
13.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ......................................................    79
14.  Project Monitoring and Evaluation .......................................................                  80
15.  Project Implementation Reporting and Supervision Schedule ....................    84
16.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files ..........                          ...........    89
CHARTS
Chart 1  Overview  of Factors Affecting Reading Development ............                            ............    91
MAP IBRD No. 26860



1. BOOK AND READING ACTIWITIES IN INDONESIA
A. BACKGROUND
1.1    Since Independence, Indonesia has carried out an intensive and active program of
education improvement, particularly in expanding primary education.  With the
introduction of a special, additional presidential budget for primary education (INPRES
SD) in 1973, the increasing number of primary schools and rising enrollments throughout
the country have resulted in virtual universal primary education (see Annex 1). Today,
about 27.4 million children are enrolled in about 137,000 public primary schools (Sekolah
Dasar or SD), and a further 1.9 million children in about 10,000 private primary schools.
The latter are government-supported, but managed privately, mainly by religious groups.
A typical SD school consists of six classrooms, one for each grade, but increasingly,
additional three-room blocks are being added for multi-purpose activities (e.g., principal's
office, teachers' room, library, sick room). Each school has an allotment of at least nine
teachers: a principal, six classroom teachers, and sports and religion teachers. Other
models exist, especially in the remote areas, where multigrade schools are more common.
1.2    With universal primary education virtually achieved, the Government has now
embarked on the accelerated expansion of enrollment for junior secondary schools
(SLTP). The Government intends to extend, over the next 15 years, basic education to
nine years. This entails a renewed program of building of schools and training of teachers
to bring the total SLTP enrollment from about 6 million children at 20,000 schools now,
to a total of about 13 million children by the year 2009. SLTP schools consist of three
grades (grade 1 through 3), and typically will have 6 to 9 classrooms. Twelve subjects are
taught by subject teachers.
1.3    The Government also intends to address quality throughout the education system.
At the primary level, its fast expansion did result in quality trade-offs. Making sure that
there were enough classrooms and teachers for all children has meant that not all buildings
and teachers were of good quality. In addition, there has always been a shortage of
educational materials. Budgets have been chronically inadequate. In recent years,
Indonesia spent about 9.1 percent of its government budget for education purposes, of
which about half for primary education. This compares with about 16 percent in Korea
and the Philippines and about 20 percent in Singapore and Thailand (see Annex 2). Also,
most of the primary education budget (about 85 percent) is used for teacher salaries.
B. MAJORIssuEs
1.4    Quality Problems The shortage of resources has had an impact on the quality
of education, which is still being felt today. Although there is a high initial enrollment,



-2-
there is also a retention problem: only 68 percent of primary school students complete six
years in school, with wide variations from province to province (87 percent in Bali vs.
48 percent in West Kalimantan). Furthermore, transition rates to junior secondary schools
are about 56 percent, and have been declining in the last few years. There is also evidence
that children learn less in school than could be expected. Recent school assessment work
in mathematics in Grades 5 and 6, carried out by Bank staff,' shows that tests on
knowledge of material from the Grade 3 and 4 curriculum were variable, but low in many
schools (for applied number problems, mean school scores ranged from 7 percent to
68 percent).
1.5    To correct these quality problems, improvements are now being carried out in a
number of areas. A program has been started for upgrading pre-service primary teacher
training, as well as strengthening in-service training. A program for improving secondary
teacher training is also being prepared. Teacher salaries are being increased, and specia
premiums are given to teachers who are being sent to teach in remote areas. Many
primary schools are receiving additional classrooms, which can be used for a variety of
purposes, and additional junior secondary schools are being constructed. For those areas
where the basic school model is not appropriate, the Government is adjusting the model
(e.g., multi-grade schools with fewer classrooms and teachers in low-population density
areas). In addition, the INPRES SD progran, which started out primarily for school
building purposes, is now increasingly being used for school maintenance and to purchase
textbooks and supplementary reading and reference books for primary schools.
1.6    Reading Achievement. The achievement of reading and literacy is one of the
main objectives to be accomplished during primary education. However, reading levels in
the country are generally still very low, largely because of the lack of a receptive reading
environment and reading culture. Indonesia traditionally does not have a strong reading
culture, and emphasis has normally been placed on oral traditions, story telling, and visual
drama. In addition, Bahasa Indonesia-the language of instruction-is not spoken as a
first language by the majority of the population (only 15 percent of the population speak
Bahasa Indonesia as their first language). The size and the diversity of the country, with
large differences among regions and groups, make changes in reading behavior and the
introduction of intervention programs slow and difficult.
1.7    Textbooks. Despite an official policy of free textbooks for all students, the
availability of books to students-both in the school and at home-is very limited.
Textbooks are published officially by the Government; several private publishers also
publish textbooks, which are used in many schools. In recent years, the Government has
been distributing free textbooks at a ratio of about one book per four students. Each year,
some provinces are targeted, and then receive a much higher number of textbooks.
During FY94/95, new curriculum books were provided for Grades 2 and 5 in SD schools
and for SLTP Grade 2 in a 1:4 ratio. During FY95/96, books will be provided to all
schools in poor villages (Desa Tertinggal, DT) schools in a 1:1 ratio. The distribution
Somerset, Tony. Some Basic Number Skills in Twelve Primary Schools: An Exploratory Study. December
1994.



-3 -
within the provinces is handled by the provincial and district offices (Kanwil and Kandep)
of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) with uneven results. Usually, the
farther the schools are from the provincial capitals, the fewer books they receive.
Warehouses have been built in all provinces to store the books, but their use is sporadic
and not well managed.
1.8    Since there is such a shortage of government-produced textbooks, several private
publishers have established large and thriving textbook publishing businesses. There are
about 12 such textbook publishers, who, together, cover most of the country. Private
publishers work largely through a sales force, outside of the bookstores, that market
books to school principals and teachers. As a result, there are many more private,
unofficial textbooks available in the schools than there are government textbooks.
Quality-wise, some of the privately published textbooks are better than the government-
produced books (better and more interesting treatment of the material, as well as better
physical quality), and others are worse. In schools in more well-to-do areas, up to
70 percent of the children in the classroom may have their own textbooks, while in poorer
areas none, or maybe only one or two, have a textbook.
1.9    Reading Books. To foster reading skills and behavior, reading and reference
books play an important role, and are essential in broadening the vocabulary, creating the
motivation to read, and providing information beyond the basics from textbooks.
Establishing the habit to read should be done early in life, at the primary school level.
Unfortunately, despite increasing book purchases by the Government, there is still a great
shortage of accessible and interesting books. Separate rooms used as school libraries now
exist in most secondary schools and in some primary schools, and there are book
collections for general reading in virtually all schools. The books in most of these
collections are old, poorly maintained, and of little interest; in many schools, large
numbers of old textbooks are used as reading collections.
1.10   Publishing and Book Trade. Estimates of total book sales (excluding imports)
are about 40 million books in 1991, with gross sales amounting to the equivalent of about
US$55 million per year. This includes both textbooks and general books, and is less than
US$1 per person, and about one book for every four to five people in the country, quite
low by international standards (see Annex 5).  Textbooks and other schoolbooks
constitute about 70 percent of total book sales. With the exception of schoolbooks, the
Government imposes very few regulations on publishers, printers, and booksellers.
Business permits are easy to obtain, and there are no special restrictions on foreign
investment in publishing and printing. As a result, barriers to entry for publishing and
printing are low, and there are many players at every level, contributing to a competitive
environment, and a book industry continuing to grow in size, technical competence, and
sophistication. Controls and regulations on schoolbooks exist. Textbooks from private
publishers for use as supplementary books in the schools must go through an elaborate
approval mechanism that is highly centralized. Selection of reading books for use in
schools is done in Jakarta, resulting in a select list of titles that are then distributed to all
schools throughout the country. Although criteria for the selection processes have been
established, actual book selection has not always been based on best quality.



-4 -
1.11   Distribution and Access Problems. One of the main difficulties in making
books available in Indonesia is the extreme geographic dispersion and the need to provide
access across wide areas, many of which are difficult to reach. This has affected
Government distribution of textbooks, which therefore have required specific distribution
budgets at the local levels to allow for distribution to the school level. Particularly for
Maluku and Irian Jaya provinces, the scale and magnitude of the distribution difficulties
will require specific targeted action to resolve. It is also a problem for the private sector,
which has to make a sufficient number of retail outlets available, which carry a large
enough selection of books to be appealing to the local clientele. So far, retail outlets for
books are largely concentrated in the cities and towns. Although the book industry is
showing signs of initiative everywhere in finding alternative ways of bringing their books
to the customers, there is still considerable scope for improvement. In recent years, the
Government has contributed to building up the local book trade by decentralizing printing
of its textbooks to printers at the provincial level and by requiring public libraries to buy
for their collections from local bookshops.
1.12   Textbook Financing. Based on current Govenmment budgets and textbook
purchases by parents from private publishers, an average of about 30 million textbooks
annually have been produced and purchased in recent years.  Total government
expenditures for primary education are currently approximately US$70 per student per
year.2 In addition, average parental expenditures are estimated at roughly US$35 per
student (in student fees, uniforms and textbooks), although, obviously, there are wide
differences in how much parents spend depending on income and their capacity to pay. Of
the annual Government of Indonesia (GOI) primary school budget of Rp 3,000 billion,
about Rp 75 billion (approximately US$1.20 per student per year) has been allocated for
textbooks for FY94/95 and for FY95/96. In addition, parents spend an estimated Rp 90
billion per year on textbooks for all grade levels and school types, based on estimated sales
figures of books sold currently by private publishers. To give all children in SD and SLTP
(Grades 1-9) textbooks in all subjects would cost an estimated Rp 710 billion (Rp 400
billion for SD and Rp 310 billion for SLTP) during Repelita VI. The Government is
planning to provide the necessary textbooks to cover all subjects, including teachers'
guides. The GOI budget allowance for textbooks for the next five years would cover the
provision of textbooks for SD, while Bank loan funds would be used to cover SLTP
books.
2 Based on 1992/1993 GOT budget data.



-  -
Table 1.1: BOOK CENTER FUNDING
Fiscal Year        Development Budget
(SD and SLIP)
(Rp billion)
1988/89                   1.6
1989/90                  2.2
1990/91                  17.0
1991/92                 31.5
1992/93                 40.1
1993/94                 43.0
1994/95                 48.0
1995/96                 97.0
C. CuRRENT GovERNmENT ORGANATION, POLICIES, AND REGuLATIONS
1.13  Government Organization.  Several government agencies are involved in
furthering book distribution and reading in the country:
(a)   The National Book Development Council was established by Presidential
Decree No. 5 of 1978 to help the Government in preparing book-related
policies. It is responsible to the Minister of Education and Culture, with a
membership covering the full range of government and private interests,
including representatives of publishers, printers, distributors, writers, and
translators. Over the past 16 years, it has made a host of recommendations
for solving book-related problems, prepared drafts of laws and regulations,
carried out research and studies, and cooperated with international
agencies on seminars and training. This has contributed to the country's
increased recognition of the importance of books as an essential input for
the development process.
(b)   The Book Center acts as the Secretariat of the Council (with the Book
Center Director as the Secretary), and was established by Presidential
Decree No. 4 of 1978, and elaborated on in Ministerial Decree No.
0274/0/1987. It is an executive agency, reporting directly to the Minister
of Education and Culture. It fails administratively under the Secretary
General, and takes technical guidance from relevant Directorates-General
of MOEC. It is responsible for book matters in MOEC, both textbooks
and reading books, but has been mostly concerned with the production and
distribution of textbooks.



-6 -
(c)   The Baku Pustaka, a state-owned enterprise, is the printing house of
MOEC. It reprints, among others, the books produced by the Book Center
and, in addition publishes its own textbooks and other books. It is
estimated that Balai Pustaka covers approximately 5-7 percent of core-
subject textbook needs.
1.14 School Book Evaluation. All books received or purchased by the schools need
the endorsement of the Directorate-General of Primary and Secondary Education of
MOEC. Books produced by the Book Center are not evaluated, but all privately
published textbooks, reading books, and reference books for school use have to pass an
evaluation process, managed by the Directorate of Education Facilities of the Directorate-
General, to be put on the "list of school books published by private publishers which have
been legalized". Books are evaluated on the basis of (a) contents, (b) national security,
(c) language, and (d) graphics, and the list of approved books is then circulated to the
regions. However, the evaluation process is cumbersome, time-consuming, and not
always the best books are selected.
1.15   Reading Book Evaluation and Distribution. Reading books (buku bacaan) are
intended for school libraries, and can be assigned by teachers to students as extra reading.
Since 1973, part of the INPRES SD (special budget, targeted for primary schools) budget
(recently about Rp 37 billion) has been used for the purchase of reading and reference
books in primary schools. Each year, depending on the budget, a list of titles is selected
by central government officials, managed by the Directorate of Education Facilities. The
number of titles has been as high as 120 (in 1992), but is usually less. In principle, one
copy of each selected title is sent to each primary school in the country. In practice,
however, far fewer copies are printed and distributed. Also, the same distribution
problems that plague the Book Center's textbooks are evident with these INPRES SD
books. As a result of the selection and distribution problems, much of the substantial
investment in reading books is wasted. Recently, the reading book selection process has
been much improved; in addition to the existing evaluation and selection procedures,
proposed reading books are read by children in three provinces, whose evaluation also
contributes to the overall score.



2. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. PREVIOUS INVOLVEMENT
2.1    Since the early 1970s, the Government has undertaken an ambitious program of
formal and non-formal education and training development. The Bank Group has
supported 31 education and training projects (US$1,860 million total) in the sector, of
which 20 projects (USS1,263 million total) were or are implemented through MOEC (see
Annex 4).
2.2    The Bank supported two textbook development projects in Indonesia from 1973
to 1988 [Third Education Project (Cr. 387-IND) and Second Textbook Project (Ln. 2102-
IND)]. Both projects had as their central objective to improve the availability and quality
of textbooks. The Third Education Project-the first Bank operation anywhere to deal
with the problem of inadequate and inappropriate textbooks-produced about 300 million
textbooks and teacher guides, while its successor produced an additional 150 million.
While this represented a great improvement over the previous, textbook-starved era, the
projects produced textbooks whose physical quality and content was less than adequate.
In addition, the lack of storage facilities along the distribution chain meant losses and wear
and tear even before the books reached the classrooms. The Book Center, with a network
of almost 300 warehouses and depots to assist in the large-scale distribution of textbooks
from one central agency, was created to address these problems.
2.3    The Bank is also supporting several ongoing and proposed projects aimed at
quality improvement at the basic education level. The Primary Education Quality
Improvement Project (Ln. 3448-IND) provides a package of quality improvements in
schools in six pilot provinces; it aims to improve the local management of primary schools;
supports in-service training for principals, teachers, and tutors; and fosters a better school
environment through greater community participation, educational materials, and teacher
motivation. Simultaneously, the Primary School Teacher Development Project (Ln. 3496-
IND) focuses on pre-service training of teachers and a better system of teacher supply,
allocation, and distribution.  In addition, the Second Secondary Education and
Management Project (Ln. 3158-IND), as well as future planned Secondary Education
Development Projects, address requirements and weaknesses at the secondary level.
These projects combined represent an extensive and intensive approach on the part of the
Government and the Bank to deal with the quality weaknesses that are currently evident in
basic education.
2.4    The Government now plans to specifically address the availability and use of
textbooks in basic education schools, as one of the major educational inputs into
education. In the delivery of a quality basic education system, textbooks are essential.
Creating a better workforce and improving the quality of basic education means not only



-  -
improving the teachers, but providing them also with the necessary tools to carry out
teaching. Putting books in the schools is one of the most cost-effective ways of improving
education quality.
B. LESSONS LEARNED
2.5    Much experience has been gained from earlier Bank-assisted projects and sector
work in basic education in general and textbook development in particular. The proposed
project reflects the lessons learned from the Project Performance Audit Report Ion the
previous two textbook projects (both with a satisfactory rating), the Bank's "Indonesia -
Basic Education Study"' and recent informal sector work carried out by Bank staff in
Indonesia. It also reflects Bank experience with education and textbook projects
elsewhere in the world, as well as with current research on the importance of reading. The
main lessons are:
(a)   Financing of Textbooks. The Government must ensure that children in all
schools in the country have textbooks available to them. A comparison
with recent activities in textbook provision in other developing countries is
useful. Annex 3 provides an overview of recent World Bank-assisted
projects for textbook support in nine countries. As can be seen from the
table, a range of activities and policies is evident. While some countries
provide free textbooks for all (Brazil in some provinces, Chile, Romania
and the Philippines), others target textbooks to poor areas or students, with
cost-recovery from richer parents in some cases (China, and Venezuela).
In India (Province of Uttar Pradesh), textbook costs have been kept vezy
low and all parents are expected to purchase for their children. In all these
cases, however, the objective is and has been to ensure that adequate
numbers of textbooks are available in the schools, and that a continuing
supply is possible on a sustainable basis.
(b)   Textbook Procurement and Distribution.  Bank experience with
textbook projects throughout the world shows that there are frequent
problems with  the currently used methods of procurement.  Most
importantly, the distribution mechanisms down to the school level are
frequently deficient or not enough taken into account in the procurement
process. Unless distribution down to the school is made an integral part of
the procurement contract, books often remain in warehouses and are not
received in the schools. In the project, distribution to the school level will
be given close attention, and will be carried out as a part of the
procurement contract.
3  OED Report No. 10678, Apri 15, 1992.
4  Report No. 7841-IND, Deember 22, 1989.



-9 -
(c)   Policy and Regulatory Environment.  The policy and regulatory
environment can be an important restricting influence on the production
and distribution of books. In Indonesia, the regulatory laissez-faire for
general books is matched with a restrictive framework for school books.
There are large time lags in getting school books approved, and these drive
up publishers' costs unnecessarily. In addition, the annual large-scale
government purchasing of reading books under the Inpres SD budget has a
distorting effect on the book industry. Therefore, a major emphasis on
increasing the production and improving the quality of books-both
textbooks and general reading books for school use-should be
accompanied by streamlined procedures, allowing for fair and equitable
competition.
(d)   Relative Roles of Government and Private Sector. During the past 20
years, the Government has played a major role in the provision of
textbooks, and the establishment of the Book Center institutionalized the
Government's position. Nevertheless, budgetary support has been limited,
especially after the closing of the two Bank-supported projects. As a
result, the private sector has tried to fill the gap, and now produces
80 percent of all textbooks in the country. There is a need to clarify this
relationship between the Government and private publishers, and to
establish what each partner will be responsible for. It seems that the Book
Center should shift from textbook production to becoming a policy and
quality control body while production and distribution should be largely
handled by the private sector. It is also expected that the Book Center will
support textbook evaluation for use in schools. Greater attention on the
part of Government to its role in quality control should result in better-
quality books being introduced in the schools.
C. BANK STRATEGY
2.6   The Bank's Basic Education Study5 concluded that the quality of education in most
of the country's primary and secondary schools was deficient, and this is basically still the
case. The study recommended that more resources should be given to schools, especially
to schools where parents are unable to contribute. Improvements in teacher competence
and streamlining of the budget process were also identified as needing attention. Based on
this study, and on the Government's priorities as laid down in its five-year development
plans, recent Bank strategy in basic education has been to address quality improvements
through a multi-pronged approach, of which this project would be a critical element.
Quality issues are being addressed in the following areas: pre-service teacher training, in-
service teacher training, budgetary management, budgetary support targeted to poor areas
(underserved schools), and the provision of educational materials.
5  lndonesia - Basic Education Study (Report No. 784 1-IND), 1989.



- 10-
2.7   The Book and Reading Development Project supports the Bank's 1995 CAS for
Indonesia, which was presented to the Board on March 21, 1995. The CAS places
emphasis on the importance of quality in education, especially of basic education. Poor
children will be ensured of having the necessary educational materials they cannot afford.
The Project also supports regional development, by placing textbook purchasing decsion-
making in the hands of the provinces. The Bank's comparative advantage in textbook
provision lies in its systematic overview and support of basic education, its
complementarity with ongoing and future projects in primary and secondary education-
including previous textbook projects-and its global expertise with textbook production
and distribution.
2.8    The main goals of basic education are to develop, at the primary level, basic
numeracy and literacy skills, as well as the ability to apply basic skills to new problems.
Children who have gone to school for six years should have basic literacy; be able to
transfer their knowledge to related problem solving; and know basic arithmetic operations.
If these goals are not accomplished during the primary education process, it compromises
the entire education system, and produces students who are poorly prepared for secondary
and tertiary level education. The acquisition of literacy requires children who not only can
read-become literate-but will read-develop a reading habit. Instructional materials
are key elements in this process. They are also the main instruments used by teachers in
delivering the curriculum. Good textbooks help students to learn, in addition to the time
spent in the classroom. It is, therefore, essential that sufficient textbooks of good quality
are available in all classrooms. In addition, and equally important, children should have
access to reading and general reference books, including dictionaries and atlases. At the
secondary school level, textbooks are equally important, to deliver a more complex
curriculum, and with subject matter that may require repeated coverage and individual
study by the students.
2.9    A  recent comprehensive coverage of this subject in "Improving Primary
Education in Developing Countries" by Lockheed and Verspoor, states explicitly that,
because textbooks typically deliver the curriculum, they are regarded as the single most
important instructional material. Nothing has ever replaced the printed word as the key
element in the educational process and, as a result, textbooks are central to schooling at all
levels. Sufficient availability of textbooks can ensure that instructional time is not wasted.
Without them, teachers and students copy text on and off blackboards. Over the past
decade, researchers have documented the consistently positive effect of availability of
textbooks and other instructional materials on student achievement in developing
countries. For example, in Nicaragua students in classes randomly assigned to receive
textbooks scored significantly higher, by about one-third of a standard deviation, on a test
of mathematics achievement than students in classes with no supplementary materials. In
the Philippines, first and second grade children were supplied with textbooks under two
different conditions: a student to textbook ratio of 2:1 and a student to textbook ratio of
1:1. A comparison group was drawn from students in school the previous year when the
ratio of students to textbooks was 10:1. The effect of having textbooks was substantial,
with students in both textbook conditions scoring about one-third of a standard deviation
higher on tests of science, mathematics and Filipino than the comparison group. In Brazil,



- 11 -
the effects on student learning of adding various "school quality" elements to poor rural
schools were studied over a five-year period 1981-1985; one element was textbooks.
Second and fourth grade students in schools receiving textbooks scored significantly
higher on tests of mathematics and Portuguese than students in schools lackig textbooks.
More recent research in Northeast Brazil confirms the crucial imporance of textbooks for
education performance.



- 12 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. PRoJEcT OBJEcTIvEs
3.1    The project aims to improve the quality of education for primary (SD) and junior
secondary (SLTP) school children (9-year compulsory education). In particular, the
project would be expected to contribute to improving the production and distribution of
more and better quality textbooks, their availability in the classrooms, and their use by
teachers in the curriculum. These supply and demand objectives would be achieved by
assisting in the implementation of a textbook provision and distribution system to all
elementary and junior secondary school children on a sustainable basis; giving help to
teachers in how to use the books better in the classroom; and motivate and promote
reading habits among children. The efforts would be fully in line with the Government's
inter-sectoral objectives of decentralization and privatization.  They also support
Government's intentions in Repelita VI (1994 to 1999), to improve the quality of basic
education.
3.2   The project will accomplish the implementation of three policy changes, all of
which have been agreed by the Government:
(a)   complete coverage of textbooks to all children in basic education;
(b)   competitive procurement of junior secondary textbooks from private
sector publishers and Balai Pustaka; and
(c)   decentralization of junior secondary textbook purchasing decisions to the
provincial level.
B. PRoJECr COMPONENTS AND DESCRIPTION
3.3   The project would consist of the following components:
(a)   support the production, distribution and use of more and better textbooks
through:
(i)   provision of textbooks in all required subjects, for all children in SD
(primary schools, public and private), giving priority attention to
poor children;
* during the project period, SD textbooks will be provided by
GOI, with its own funding, and its own procedures.



- 13 -
(ii)    provision of textbooks in all required subjects for all children in
SLTP (unior secondary schools, public and private);
* procurement of the SLTP textbooks will be from private
publishers and Balai Pustaka, through a transparent evaluation
and approval process, with the objective of achieving a high
quality in the books;
* greater involvement at the provincial level will be ensured
through implementing the procurement procedures at the
Kanwil level.
(iii)    giving help to teachers in how to use the textbooks better in the
classroom.
(b)    support and increase reading habits, through the promotion of reading,
especially for children.
3.4   Improving Textbook Availability and Quality (Total estimated cost US$331.2
million, including contingencies). This component would assist in the production and
distribution of more and better-quality textbooks to primary and junior secondary schools
nationwide.
(a)   Improving Textbook Availability.  The Textbook Component will
provide textbooks to all children in SD and SLTP schools. For SD,
student textbooks and teacher guides will be provided in all subjects (as
required) for all grades. For SLTP, student textbooks and teacher guides
will be provided for nine subjects, with teacher guides only for the
remaining three subjects.6 Textbooks are expected to last for four years,
and would be replaced every four years. The budgetary issues related to
SD books are considerably more complex and difficult to solve than those
for SLTP books. For that reason, GOI will handle the implementation of
the SD books with its own funding, its own schedule and its own
arrangements. GOI will develop its own implementation plan, taking into
account the interdepartmental issues that need to be resolved first. The
implementation plan for SLTP textbook distribution, starting with fiscal
year 1996/1997, and until FY 1999/2000 is shown in Annex 6. Books will
be provided to all schools, with implementation on a subject basis, covering
all provinces by FY 1999/2000. GOI will gradually increase its textbook
budget over the next five years, to become fully sustainable by FY 2000.
During the project period, most of the SLTP textbook requirements will be
6   For SD, student textooks are for Pancasila, Mathematics, Bahasa Indonesia (grades 1 and 2), and in
addition Science, and Social Science (for grades 3 through 6); teacher guides for these plus for Arts
and Crafts, Local Content, and Sports and Health. For SLTP, student textbooks are for Bahasa
Indonesia, Mathematics, Physics, Biology, World and National History, Economics, Geography, and
English; teacher guides for these plus Arts and Crafts, Local Content, and Sports and Health.



- 14 -
provided through Bank loan funds. The GOI textbook budget will be used
to cover the remainder of the SLTP textbooks and the entire requirement
of SD textbooks.
SLTP textbooks will be procured at the provincial level, based on a
modified international competitive bidding process, and based on the list of
approved textbooks. A procurement committee will be established in each
Kanwil, and will be provided with the necessary technical assistance by
November 30, 1995; assurances to that effect were obtained during
negotiations [see para. 6.1(e)]. Each Kanwil will select at least three titles
for each subject and grade, for which it would like to receive bids. To
ensure that books are received in the schools, contracts must include the
distribution provisions, down to the school level. Interested companies will
be asked to propose bids for publishing and distribution. In each province,
only one title for each subject and grade will be selected for distribution to
all schools. An independent review panel in MOEC will review all
selections, before contract awards are made. Model bidding documents
were submitted to the Bank during negotiations for review. A detailed
explanation of the procedures is in Annex 7.
(b)   Improving Textbook Quality.   A  National Textbook Evaluation
Committee (NTEC) will be established in MOEC, to evaluate SLTP
textbooks submitted by private publishers and Balai Pustaka to be included
for use in the schools. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Committee would be established by October 1, 1995 [see para. 6.1(a)].
The Committee would ensure that only SLTP textbooks of a sufficiently
high quality will be purchased, following detailed and transparent
evaluation criteria. SLTP textbooks will be evaluated, based on camera-
ready copy and physical specifications, or on the printed book, submitted
by private publishers, and can be resubmitted after improvements and
adjustments are made. The project would provide technical assistance to
support the working of the Committee.
(c)   Book Center Role. During the project, the Book Center will adjust to
emphasize additional functions as a service center catering to the needs of
both the public and private sectors. Specifically, the Book Center would
function as the government body responsible for setting and maintaining
quality control standards for the educational publishing industry and for
assisting as the Secretariat of the National Book Development Council; the
Book Center would also support the National Textbook Evaluation
Committee for SLTP textbooks. At the same time, the Book Center would
phase out its involvement in physical production, except for some subjects
for which there is limited demand. The production of textbooks for all
other subjects and all distribution activities would be left to the private
sector or to Balai Pustaka. Technical assistance and training, including
comparative study overseas, would be provided during the project, to assist



- 15 -
the Book Center in this transition. A detailed explanation of the proposed
Book Center functions is in Annex 8.
The project would assist the Center in acquiring the necessary skills, mainly
through individual training and development programs. Training would
consist of local and some overseas training. A detailed study program for
the first year of project implementation was prepared and agreed at
negotiations. To achieve the Book Center's role vis-a-vis the private
sector, the project would also provide for workshops for writers, editors,
translators, printers, and distributors, as well as for the publication of a
Directory of Indonesian Publishing and a Book Trade Newsletter.
3.5   Reading  Promotion  (Total estimated  cost US$6.2  million, including
contingencies). This component would help to stimulate the demand for reading,
especially by children both in and outside school, through a series of activities, addressing
the quality of children's books and a reading promotion. Workshops and training on the
different aspects of children's book writing and publishing will be carried out in all
provinces, and will be targeted to interested teachers and small publishers. A guidebook
for schools and teachers, giving suggestions and guidance on how to promote reading in
children will be produced and distributed. Reading promotional materials, such as radio
and TV programs, with reading promotion messages, to be broadcast on the educational
channels will also be prepared.
3.6   Teacher  Education  (Total estimated  cost US$1.4  million, including
contingencies). To assist teachers in making better and more intensive use of textbooks,
and to assist teachers to understand better how to teach reading, the project would assist
teachers with in-service programs. A series of video and radio programs, would be
developed, showing model lessons and examples of how textbooks and reference materials
can be used in the classroom. These programs would be broadcast over the educational
channels, as well as being made available on cassette.
3.7   Monitoring and Evaluation  (Total estimated cost US$1.5 million, including
contingencies). Monitoring will focus on providing timely and accurate information on
actual receipt of books in the schools and on their use. Terms of reference of monitoring
and evaluation activities will be prepared by October 1, 1995 as agreed during
negotiations [para. 6.1(b)].  Annex 14 provides information of the objectives and
monitoring activities that will be carried out. Monitoring will be accomplished through
ongoing self-reporting from the schools and through on-site visits of randomly selected
schools each year. The on-site visits will be contracted out and carried out independently.
The project will also support two in-depth studies (one for SD and one for SLTP and
based on classroom observations), to assess long-term effects of improving learning in
basic education.
3.8   Technical Assistance. The project would require a limited amount of technical
assistance, both international and domestic, to help manage the project, provide
monitoring and evaluation, strengthen the Book Center and to provide assistance in



-16 -
capacity building in Kanwils. TORs and draft TA contract for consultants to strengthen
the Book Center waee mibitted at negotiations and found satisfctory. A summary of the
required consultants' services is presented in Table 3.1 (see Annex 9 for details).
Table 3.1: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUREMET
International           Domestic
(person-month)        (person-month)
Capacity Building                     26                       106
Studies                                10                       10
Project Support
- Project Management                    -                      180
- Kanwil Support                                             1,620
- Monitoring & Evaluation               -                      154
Total                                36                     2,070
C. Nwzcr MANAGEmEN AND hLEMENTATON
3.9    The project would be managed by a Project Management Unit (PMU), reporting
to the Director General for Primary and Secondary Education (DGPSE), and be subject to
advice from the National Book Development Council. Implementation would be located
in Project Implementation Units (PIUs) in the Kanwil of Education and Culture in all
provinces and in the Book Center. These project implementation units would form an
integral part of the existing organization, using, to the extent possible, staff already in
place in the units. Assurances were obtained at negotiations of the establishment of the
PMU and of the Book Center PIU by October 1, 1995 [see para. 6.1(c)] and of the
Kanwil PIUs by November 30, 1995 [see para. 6.1(d)].
3.10   The PMU would be headed by a Project Director who would: (a) monitor and
coordinate procurement and disbursement of the loan, (b) prepare estimates of necessary
government counterpart fiunding, (c) submit withdrawal applications to the Bank,
(d) provide semi-annual progress reports to the DGPSE and the Bank, as well as copies
for the heads of the implementng agencies and departments, (e) arrange for timely audits
of project accounts, (f) participate in the management of the monitoring and evaluation;
(g) prepare the implementation completion report, and (h) raise any issues of interest to
MOEC management and/or the Bank. The Director would be assisted, on a fill-time
basis, by a project management staff in Jakarta, and by designated staff in all Kanwil
offices. The PMU will also coordinate in implementation with representatives from the
Ministry of Religious Affairs. It was agreed at negotiations that the Project Director
would be appointed not later than August 17, 1995. See also Annex 11 for PMU
organization. The Project Director and PMU specialists will be recruited locally.



- 17-
3.11   Implementation Scbedule. The project would be implemented over a period of
four-and-a-half years, starting October 1, 1995 and ending April 1, 2000. Project
activities would initially focus (during the first six months) on training Book Center and
Kanwil staf advising the private sector on the new procedures, ensuring that the Kanwils
are equipped to handle textbook procurement, and preparing the teacher education
program. Full implementation (including procurement activities in Kanwils) is expected to
start at the beginning of FY1996/97.
3.12   A project activities and implementation schedule for SLTP textbook procurement
and the Book Center (see Annex 10) and detailed project cost estimates (see Annex 12)
will serve as the basis for project implementation, and will be updated annually by the
PMU in cooperation with Bank staff The closing date of the project will be October 1,
2000.
3.13  Environment. The environmental impact of the project is expected to be neutral
(Class C). There are no civil works under the project.
3.14 Impact on Women. Although there is substantial equality between men and
women in Indonesia, there are remaining cultural hurdles. This is also reflected in gender
stereotyping in school books, and the project would aim to correct this by including
workshops focusing on gender issues and treatment, in the series of workshops for writers
and editors.
3.15 Progress Reports and Reviews. The PMU will prepare semi-annual progress
reports, and submit them to the Bank by April 30 and October 31 of each project year.
The reports will contain a review of the previous activities against the annual plan, and
make recommendations for improvement. Annex 15 provides a progress reporting
blueprint, including performance indicators and progress report format, during the project
implementation period. Data from GOI's implementation monitoring (see Annex 14) can
also be used to support the progress reports. Each year, an annual review meeting wilU be
held in October/November, in time for reflection of the recommendations in the next
year's budget. A mid-term review will be held by March 31, 1998 [see para. 6.1(e)].
Within six months after the closing of the project, the DGPSE will submit an
implementation completion report to the Bank.
3.16 Technical Audits. In addition, technical audits of project implementation will be
carried out by April 1 in each year, starting April 1, 1997 during the implementation of the
project (except for the years of the mid-term review and the Implementation Completion
Report) by an independent, qualified firn, to conduct a review of key project activities
[see para. 6.1(f)]. The audit will be conducted in a sample of provinces. The monitoring
and evaluation activities (see para. 3.7) that will be carried out as described in Annex 14,
including the on-site visits and the in-depth studies will provide the basic information for
the technical audits.



18 -
4. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT
AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. COSTS
4.1    %ammary of Cots  The total cost of the project is esdmated at US$355.2 million
equival-nt (Rp 778.9 billion), including contingencies and identifable taxes and duties.
Tables 4.1 ad 4.2 smunmari  the esfimated costs by project component and category of
penditre, respectivdely. Detailed project costs are given in Annex 12.
Table 4.1: SUMKARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONINT
%     % Total
Bp biillon           USS million        Foreign   Base
Coponent        n      Local Forign  Total   Local Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
IprDPOVing Textbook Availabilty and QuliEty
LSE Textbook   k      360.0  40.0  400.0/a  164.2  18.2  182.4        10       58
SLTP TeXtbOoks        211.9  23.5  235.4    96.6  10.7  107.3         10       34
Appoval ProS            1.8   0.6    2.4      0.8   0.3    1.1        24       /b
BookC enBer             4.9   2.9    7.8      2.2   1.4    3.6        37        1
Subtotal            571.6  67.0  645.6   263.8  30.6  294.4          10      93
-ead"hgPremotl           8.3   3.7   12.0      3.8   1.7    5.5        31        2
Teacher EdcaiAoN         1.4   1.3    2.7      0.6   0.6    1.2        50       lb
Motboring a  EvahlUation  2.2   0.5    2.7     1.0   0.2    1.2        20
Prohe Usgemn M    UW
P       mU              7.1   1.1    8.2      3.3   0.4    3.7        13        1
PlUs                   17.4   2.1   19.5      7.9   1.0    8.9        11        3
Subtotal             24.5   3.2   27.7    1L2    1.4   12.6          12       4
Tota BaselInC Cost    615.0  75.7  690.7   280.4  34.5  314.9         11      100
Physal Contingencie     23.0   3.0   26.0    10.5   1.4   11.9          11       4
Price Cont5encis        58.9   3.3   62.2    26.9   1.5   28.4          5        9
Totd PLoiet Cos  s    6c9.s  820  778.9   317.8  37.4  355.2          11      113
Esmated GOI budget alocaon for SD  xtbooks.
Repr_se8 les than 1s .
Inclusive of idfiable tes and duties estimated at USs0.3 million equivalent
4.2     Baseine Costs Baseline costs are estimated at March 1995 prices. Unit costs for
textbooks and teachers manuals are based on current per-page costs, based on quotations



- 19 -
from and experience with the Book Center and private book suppliers. CoNs for
interational and domestic consultants are in line with recent education and trainiqg projects
for appropriately qualified experts.
Tabl 4.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDJrruR
%     % Total
Rv billion           USS milLion      Foeign   Ben
Category                     Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Exchanp   Cods
Teaching Materials
SD texabooks/teachers' guides    360.0  40.0  400.0/a  164.2  18.2  182.4  10       58
SLTIP textbooks/teachers' guides  211.9  23.5  235.4    96.6  10.7  107.3  10       34
Handbooks/directories          5.7   2.5    8.2      2.6   1.2    3.8      30        1
Promotional materials          5.9   3.9    9.8      2.7   1.8    4.5      39        1
Subtotal                   583.5  69.9  653.4   266.1  3L9  296.0        11       94
Overseastruning                 0.1   0.5    0.6      0.0   0.3    0.3      90       t
Loca Trainiag
In-onDtrytaraing               1.5   0.2    1.7      0.7   0.1    0.8      15       h
Workshops                      1.6   0.3    1.9      0.7   0.1    0.8      15       &
SubtoDl                      3.1   0.5    3.6      14   0.2    L6        15        1
Techaical Asistance
Local                         14.1   1.2   15.3      6.4   0.5    6.9       8        2
Foreign                        0.1   0.9    1.0      0.1   0.4    0.5      90       &
Subtotal                    14.2   2.1   16.3      6.5   0.9    7.4      11        2
Projec Management msupport c    6.6   L6    8.2       3.0   0.7    3.7      19        1
Incremental Operating Costs Id    7.5   1.1    3.6    3.4   0.5    3.9      13        1
Total Baseline Costs         615.0  75.7  690.7   280.4  34A5  314.9      11 
Physical Contingencies         23.0   3.0   26.0    10.5   1.4   11.9       11        4
Price Contingendes             58.9   3.3   62.2    26.9   1.5   28.4        5        9
Total Project Cosb /e        696.9  82.0  778.9   317.8  37.4  355.2      11      11
/Ja  Emated GOI budget alcation for SD textbooks.
k  Represents ss than 1Y.
/C  Inlludes expeditumrs for btavel, per diem and honoaria.
Id  Includes consumables and operation and maintenane for PMU and PUs.
IS  Inclusive of idenbfable tae and duties estmated at US$0.3 millon equialent
4.3     Contingency Alloances.  Physical contingencies (USS11.9 million) represent
4 percent and price contingencies (US$28.4 million) 9 percent of basline costs. Physical
contingencies have been allocated as follows: 10 percent for SLTP textbooks; and
5 percent for all other categories, including educational materials, TA, overseas training_



-20 -
and workshops. Price contingencies have been calculated at 5 percent per year for local
costs and at 2.2 percent for foreign costs for all categories except textbooks.  For
textbooks, price contingencies have been calculated at 7 percent (local cost) to take into
account world wide expected price increases for paper. For SD books, no contingencies
have been calculated.
4.4   Foreign Exchange Costs. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$37.4
million (representing 11 percent of total project costs) and are based on a detailed analysis
of expenditures under similar projects in Indonesia. The foreign exchange percentages for
the major expenditure categories are estimated as follows: (a) textbooks - 10 percent;
(b) overseas training and international consultants - 90 percent; (c) local training -
15 percent; and (d) project management - 19 percent.
4.5   Taxes and Duties. Taxes and duties are estimated at US$0.3 million, based on the
current 10 percent value added tax on all contracts for goods and materials and tax
exemption of educational books.
B. FINANCING
4.6   The total project cost of US$355.2 million equivalent would be financed by a
proposed Bank loan of US$132.5 million equivalent, covering 37 percent of total project
costs, excluding taxes (51 percent of foreign and 36 percent of local expenditures). The
Government would finance the remaining costs of US$222.7 million equivalent (63 percent
of total project costs including taxes), as detailed in Table 4.3 below. For SD books, the
funds need not be located in the development budget, but should be provided in the
Government's overall education budget. Table 4.4 shows the loan allocation of central vs
provincial funding by category of expenditure, which shows 90 percent of loan finds
located at Kanwil level. This would be done through annual Kanwil-level development
budgets.



- 21 -
Table 4.3: FINANCING PLAN
(USS million)
Esed
share of
GOI                             IBRD
Non-DIP DIP   Total  IBRD Total financig(%)
Teaching Materials:
SLTP txboostacb' guides          -    35.4   35.4  108.0 143.4      75
Educatioial prmoiona materials   -      1.9    1.9   7.6  9.5       80
Overseastraining                  -      0.0    0.0   0.3  0.3       100
Local traniing and wokshops       -      0.4    0.4   1.5  1.9        80
Consultants' services:
Provinces                        -      0.0    0.0   6.8  6.8       100
Central MOEC                     -      0.4    0.4   1.6  2.0        80
Project management support        -      0.0    0.0   4.4  4.4    100
Incremental operating costs       -      2.2    2.2   2.3  4.5        50
Subtotal                       0.0   40.3   40.3  132.5 172.8      77
SD textbooks/teacher's guides  182.4/a   -    182.4   0.0 182.4       0
Grand Total                   182.4   40.3  222.7  132.5 355.2      37
/a Will be implemented by GOI with its own finding, own anangemans, and own
schedules.



-22 -
Table 4.4: ALLOCATION OF LOAN
(USS million)
Provincial
Central      MOEC
Category of Expenditure             MOEC          Kanwil      Total /a
Offices (27)
Teaching materials:
SLTP textbooks/teachers' guides      0.0          108.0       108.0
Educational promotional materials    7.6            0.0         7.6
Overseas training                     0.3            0.0         0.3
Local training and workshops           1.5           0.0          1.5
Consultants' services                  1.6           6.8         8.4
Project management support             1.4           3.0         4.4
Incremental operating cost            0.3            2.0         2.3
Total                              12.7         119.8        132.5
% of total loan                      10%          90%         100%
/a Including contingencies.
4.7   Financial Sustainability. Counterpart funding for the project would be provided
for under the national government development budget (APBN/DIP) of MOEC. This is in
line with the current funding of textbooks and reading books for SLTP schools. Most of
the GOI-supported funding for SD books would come from the INPRES SD funds. The
Government would gradually increase its funding of textbooks (both for SD and SLTP)
during the project from an initial Rp 75 billion to Rp 180 billion after four years,
representing a 140 percent increase over the project period. This would be accomplished
through gradually transferring existing INPRES SD funds from school construction to
purchasing of textbooks.
C. PROCUREMENT
4.8   The loan proceeds would be used to finance procurement in the following
expenditure categories:
(a)   Textbooks and Teachers' Guides (US$143.4 million equivalent).  As
detailed in Annex 7, SLTP books would be procured by the Kanwils in
accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. The Kanwils would
use the list of nationally approved SLTP textbooks, and invite bids from all
qualified suppliers who meet production and distribution requirements.
Packages of US$200,000 or more would be based on the modified



- 23 -
international bidding procedures described in Annex 7. Contracts costing
more than US$50,000 and less than US$200,000 up to a total of US$25
million would be awarded on the basis of NCB procedures. Packages of less
than US$50,000 could be awarded on the basis of local shopping, following
government procedures acceptable to the Bank, and subject to an aggregate
total of US$10 million.
(b)   Educatioal Promotional Materials (US$9.5 million equivalent). This
includes direct contracting for development and preparation of a series of
radio and TV programs for the reading promotion and teacher education
components, and national shopping. Each contract for development and
production of educational promotional materials is estimated to cost less
than US$200,000. Contracts for development of a series of educational
promotional materials, including radio and TV program3, for the reading
promotion and teacher education components, estimated to cost less than
US$200,000 per contract up to an aggregate of US$5.5 million equivalent,
may be awarded by direct contracting. Educational promotional materials
estimated to cost more than US$50,000 and less than US$200,000 per
contract and up to an aggregate of US$3.5 million would be awarded on the
basis of NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Educational materials
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 up to an aggregate of US$500,000
may be purchased through national shopping.
(c)   Overseas and Local Training (US$2.2 million equivalent). In-country
training/workshops and overseas training would be organized and contracted
out in accordance with government procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(d)   Technical Assistance (US$8.8 million equivalent).   Domestic and
international consultants would be selected in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
4.9   Procurement Review. The following are the guidelines regarding procurement
review:
(a)   Except for those in paras. (b) and (c) below, all contracts for goods at or
over US$200,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank, whereas
contracts under US$200,000 in value would be subject to random post-
review;
(b)   The first contract in each of the 27 provinces would be subject to prior
review by the Bank;



- 24 -
Table 4.5: PRoCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS million)
Total cost
Procurement procedures       including
Category of expenditure      ICB/a  NCB    Other /b   NBF   contingencies
Teaching materials:
SD textbooks and teachers' guides                     182.4      182.4
()        ()
SLTP textbooks and teachers'  108.4    25.0   10.0               143.4
guides                    (81.7)  (18.8)    (7.5)             (108.0)
Educational promotional                3.5      6.0/c               9.5
materials                          (2.8)    (4.8)               (7.6)
Overseas training                               0.3                 0.3
(0.3)              (0.3)
Local training and workshops                    1.9                 1.9
(1.5)              (1.5)
Consultants' services                           8.8                 8.8
(8.4)              (8.4)
Project management support and                  8.9                 8.9
incremental operating cost                    (6.7)               (6.7)
Total                      108.4    28.5     35.9   182.4       355.2
(81.7)  (21.6)   (29.2)     (-)    (132.5)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
N.B.F. - Not Bank Financed.
/   Adjusted for textbooks (see Annex 7).
/b Includes national shopping, selection of consultants following the Bank guidelines, and
training and workshops using Government administrative procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
/c  Includes direct contracting for development and preparation of a series of radio and
TV programs for the reading promotion and teacher education components, and
national shopping.
(c)   All contracts for consultants and overseas training programs costing more
than US$50,000 for individuals and US$100,000 for firms would be subject
to prior review by the Bank; and
(d)   In-country training would be subject to random post-review by the Bank.



- 25 -
It is expected that prior review would cover about 75 percent of the contracts to be funded
from the loan.
D. DISBURSEMENT
4.10   The proposed loan of US$132.5 million equivalent would be disbursed over a
period of 5 years (see Annex 13). Disbursements are expected to be completed by
October 1, 2000, the Loan Closing Date. The disbursement schedule is based on the
implementation schedule and the disbursement profile for education and training projects in
Indonesia. Disbursements estimated for FY96 are based on the proposed initial deposit into
the project Special Account and replenishment. Disbursements would be made as follows:
Amount         % of expenditures
Category                (US$ million)      to be financed
(1)  Textbooks and teachers' guides for
junior secondary schools              100.0     75% of total expenditures
(2)  Educational promotional materials      7.3      800/o of total expenditures
(3) Training
(a) Overseas                           0.3      100% of total expenditures
(b) Local                               1.4     80% of total expenditures
(4)  Project Management Support             4.1      100% of total expenditures
(5)  Incremental Operating Costs            2.2     50% of total expenditures
(6)  Consultants' services
(a) Placed at provinces                6.5      100% of total expenditures
(b) Placed at Central MOEC              1.5     80% of total expenditures
(7)  Unallocated                            9.2    --
Total                   132.5
4.11 Disbursements from the loan for contracts for goods valued at or above
US$200,000; overseas training programs and consulting firms valued at or above
US$100,000; and individual consultants valued at or above US$50,000 will be made against
full documentation.  All other disbursements would be made against Statements of
Expenditure, for which relevant documents would be retained by responsible agencies, and
made available for review as requested by visiting Bank missions. In order to facilitate
disbursements, the Government would establish a Special Account in the amount up to
US$6 million in Bank Indonesia. This account would be maintained by the Directorate
General of Budget, MOP. All disbursements from the Bank Loan would be made through
the Special Account. Replenishment applications to the Special Account will be made on a
monthly basis, or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been used, whichever comes
first.



-26 -
E. ACCOUNTs, AuDrrs, AND RzIoTS
4.12 Designated govunment authorities would establish project accounts for all project
expendiures, to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting practOes. Accounts
and documentation supporting the Statements of Expendi  and Special Account would
be maintained separately. The PMU would consolidate and prepare the financial report.
The financid tatements and financial report for each fiscal year would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit report would contain a separate
opinion by the auditors as to whether the Statements of Exp , sbmitted during the
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in ther prepaation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
4.13 Certified copies of the financial reports on the project for each fiswal year, together
with the audito's statement, would be fuInished to the Bank as soon as available, but not
later than six months after the end of each government fiscal year.



- 27 -
5. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1   Benefs  Successfil implementation of the project would result in increased
availability, improved quality, and greater use of textbooks for basic education. The
ulimate benefit would be increased educational quality and improvements in literacy in
schools. The immediate benefits would be quality enhancement of text books, increased
access to textbooks by all students, and stronger private sector book production in general
and of school books in particular. The project would provide a total of 250 million
textbooks, and will result in a major revision of the school book production and distribution
system. The latter alone is already of major benefit to the more rapid development of the
private book industry.
5.2  Investment in textbooks in other countries has shown, through a substantial research
body, that improvements in quality are substantial, while textbooks generally represent only
a small proportion of the education budget (in Indonesia, 4 percent of the primary education
budget). Overall, investments in primary and secondary education achieve high social rates
of return, by comparison to other education inputs. The continuing provision of textbooks
will have a substantial quality benefit, at a relatively low cost. Other benefits are the
increase in private sector involvement and the purchase of books in large series, which
should result in a reduction in book prices, estimated at 20 percent.
5.3   Risks. The project would be exposed to some risks, but those seem manageable.
(a)   There is strong Government commitment on the policy to provide complete
coverage of textbooks to all students, and to allocate sufficient budget to
become fully sustainable after project completion. The budget amount
currently allocated for SD school construction would be partly transferred to
allow procurement of books, ensuring long-term sustainability.
(b)   Procurement procedures and involvement from the private sector will
require a great deal of adjustment, while improving textbook quality. The
procedures that will be followed provide for adequate quality control at the
national level, through the National Evaluation and Approval Committee.
Sufficient competition in the bidding process will also result in lower prices
for the textbooks.
(c)   The decentralization of procurement to the provincial level will require the
acquisition of skdlls and expertise in the Kanwil that currently may not exist
or be inadequate. Kanwil offices will be supported throughout the project
period with technical assistance, to ensure that provincial staff become
capable in carrying out their new functions.



- 28 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1   During negotiations, the Government agreed to the following:
(a)   Establishment of the National Textbook Evaluation Committee (NTEC) in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, not later than
October 1, 1995 [para. 3.4(b)];
(b)   Indicators and Terms of Reference for Monitoring and Evaluation Activities
would be prepared not later than October 1, 1995 (para.3.7);
(c)   Establishment and maintenance of the PMU with assigned responsibilities
and of the Book Center PIU starting not later than October 1, 1995
(para. 3.9);
(d)   Establishment of Kanwil PIUs, including related consultants' services, and of
procurement committees in each province by November 30, 1995 [para.
3.4(a) and 3.9];
(e)   Mid-term review to be carried out, together with the Bank by March 31,
1998 (para. 3.15); and
(f)   Technical audits of Project implementation to be carried out by April 1 in
each year, starting with April 1, 1997 (except for the mid-term and final
year) (para. 3.16).
Recommendations
6.2   Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project is suitable for
a Bank Loan of US$132.5 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia for a term of 20
years, including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 29 -
Indonesia                          BASIC EDUCATION DATA                             ANNEX 1
Book and Reading
Development Project
1993
General Country Data
GNP Per Capita (US$)                                                 670
Area (Thousand Square Kilometers)                                  1,905
Population Estimate (Millions)                                       183
Annual Rate of Population Growth (%)                                   2
Basic Education Data
Adult Illiteracy Rate (% of people over 15)                           23
Average years of schooling of pop. over 12                             5
Primary Gross Enrollment Age 6-11 (%)                                110
Secondary Gross Enrollment Age 12-15 1%)                              52
Education Expenditure Data
Total Govt Spending on Education (USS million)                     2,934
Total Education Spending (% GDP)                                    3.40
Education Spending (% of total Govt. Spending)                      9.10
Total spending on Primary Education (% of total                       46
education spending)
Total Spending on Junior Secondary Education (% of                    14
total education spending)
Primary Education Data
Total Primary Enrollment (public and private)                 29,598,290
Public (% of students)                                           92.60
Private (% of students)                                           7.40
Total Number of Schools (public and private)                     148,257
Total Number of Classes (public and private)                     994,597
Total Number of Teachers (public and private)                  1,276,217
Student-Teacher Ratio                                              23.19
Student-Class Ratio                                                29.76
Percentage Graduating                                              68.22
Percentage Dropouts                                                31.78
Junior Secondary Education Data
Total Junior Secondary Enrollment (public and private)         6,741,940
Public (% of students)                                           34.00
Private (% of students)                                          66.00
Total Number of Schools (public and private)                      18,295
Total Number of Classes (public and private)                     146,229
Total Number of Teachers (public and private)                    461,920
Student-Teacher Ratio                                              14.59
Student-Class Ratio                                                46.11
Percentage Graduating                                              97.90
Percentage Dropouts                                                 2.10
Islamic Enrollment(public and private) is 11.01 % of total enrollment for
primary schools and 12.78% for junior secondary schools.
Source: Ministry of Education and Culture, 1992/93             4/27/95 06:52 PM EDUCBAS.XLS



INDONESIA                 PRIMARY and JUNIOR SECONDARY SCHOOLS, BY PROVINCE
BOOK AND READING                          Includes public and private schools
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                               MOEC, 1994
PRIMARY                             JUNIOR SECONDARY
Total    Total      Total    Total       Total    Total    Total    Total
Schools  Pupils     Teachers  Classes    Schools  Pupils    Teachers  Classes
DKI Jakarta                   3,515  1,106,517   37,463     28,771    1,336  474,234    32,504      9,786
WestJava                     24,624  5,829,653  174,329     173,026   3,312 1,319,390    90,431    21,363
Central Java                 22,002  4,550,024  185,302     139,955   3,473 1,129,163    77,393    20,834
Yogyakarta                    2,335    372,334   21,254      15,756     542  157,549    10,798      3,677
EastJava                     22,460  4,653,925  169,370     141,775   4,425 1,176,989    80,671    21,445
Dl Aceh                       2,995    623,030   24,281      19,772     626  142,568     9,772      3,057
North Sumatra                 9,257  2,117,339   78,139      65,143   2,189  610,157    41,820     12,061
West Sumatra                  4,161    695,861   30,979      28,750     656  206,771    14,172      4,326
Riau                          2,936    628,438   22,041      20,680     601  142,096     9,739      2,753
Jambi                         2,139    446,223   16,745      14,242     402   81,160     5,563      1,691
South Sumatra                 5,469  1,157,583   42,521      38,370    1,123  262,081    17,963     6,046
Bengkulu                      1,489    227,235   10,503       9,364     259   49,460     3,390      1,236
Lampung                       4,282  1,036,775   38,418      37,155    1,367  221,567    15,186     4,963
West Kalimantan               3,567    596,062   24,122      23,016     642  115,096     7,889      2,558
Central Kalimantan            2,546    257,746   14,448      13,375     332   49,548     3,396      1,317
South Kalimantan              2,886    449,915   20,731      17,555     456  100,904     6,916      1,653
East Kalimantan               1,993    364,569   15,333      13,917    396   97,985      6,716      2,178
North Sulawesi                2,916    347,905   26,386      18,550     509   97,847     6,706      2,949
Central Sulawesi              2,305    313,774   15,712      14,516     430   64,061     4,391      1,696
South Sulawesi                7,129  1,100,807   55,439     48,138      936  273,286    18,731      6,497
South East Sulawasi           1,666    261,293   12,549      10,565     606   56,933     3,902      1,386
Maluku                        2,470    368,226   14,458      15,598    465   86,600      5,936      2,269
Bali                          2,698    353,693   22,314      16,034    466  114,285      7,833      3,231
West Nusa Tenggara            2,774    575,698   21,785      17,589     556  131,732     9,029      1,985
East Nusa Tenggara            3,838    574,368   26,020     23,768      519  100,242     6,871      2,897
Irian Jaya                    2,027    279,873   11,709      12,352     253   62,816     4,305      1,500
East Timor                     587    109,612    4,556        3,818     92   19,380      1,328        893
Total                       147,066 29,398,478 1,136,907    981,550  26,969 7,343,900   503,352    146,247
Source: Mlnistry of Education and Culture, Balitbang, 1994
4/18/95 09:42 AM SCHLSTAT.XLS



INDONESIA                                     COMPARATIVE REGIONAL EDUCATION STATISTICS
BOOK AND READING
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
India   Thailand   China  Indonesia Malaysia Philippines   Korea    Japan   Singapore Hongkong
Total Population (millions)         867       57    1,150        181       18         63       43       124          3          6
Adult Illiteracy Rate
Total                               52        7        27       23        22        10         4        >5         >5        >5
of which female                     66       10       38        32       30         11         7        >5        >5         >5
Education Expenditures
M% of Government spending)         2.50    20.20       NA      9.10       NA      16.10     15.80       NA       19.90        NA
Use of printing and writing paper
(kgs/1000 people)                i1ios    1,800   10,204      1,455    4,410      1,150    15,474    45,992    42,402     22.786
Daily Newspapers
{copies/ 000 people)                31       52       39        21       151        56       281       589        289       564        I
Book Production
(copies/1000 people)
Textbooks
(per primnary school student)
Radio Receivers
(units/1000 people)                 78      177      184       146      438        135       986       863        307        634
Television Receivers
(unitsiO000 people)                 41       24      247         7      589        142       203       360        104         37
Percentage of Age Group
enrolled in education
priffary school                   97        85      135       117       93        111       108       101        110        106
secondary school                  44        32       48        45       56         73        87        96         69        NA
Source: World Devwopentn Report, World Bak, 1993
World Education Report, UNESCO, 1903                                                                    4/2719507 04 PM COMPSTAT.XLS



INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RECENT WORLD BANK ASilSTED PROJECTS INCLUDING TEXTBOOK SUPPORT
County                       T geted Area                      Nmrts of Textbooks                          Costs                              Surbidalbon
INDIA - UTTAR PRADESfH       One of the poorest state-rUttar   83 million copie, for 84 titles per year, produced Per book prices range from US$ 10 to  Parents purchase; no targeted subsidy, since price are assumed to be low
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT   Pradesh; primary schools             by private publishemr  Of poor quality, but  US$30.                            enough
reaches all children.
CHINA - TEXTBOOK             Entir country; primary schools    2.2 billion copie for 180 million students each   Per student year expenditues range   Parents purchase at subsidized prices; in addition, provincial govta to
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT AND                                        year. Produced by the state,                from US$3 to USt8.                  provide subsidies of from US$1 to 3 per student for 300 identified
PROPOSED BASIC EDUCATION                                                                                                                      poorest countie 15% of all students). New project planned to target
IN POOR AND bANORITY                                                                                                                          textbook subsidy to poor girls.
AREAS PROJECT
VIETNAM - PRIMARY            Entir country; primary schools    Textbooks to all children; produced by the stats.  Per book price of approx. USI .15.   Parents purchoa; project propoes book rental scheme to lower cost to
EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                              parents, allowing choio of buying or renting.
BRAZIL - SECOND md THIRD   Northeast provincee; targeted       100 million textbooks needed per year; project   Total cot of US$83.1 million;  All textbooks provided trea to all students in target provino_e
NORTHEAST BASIC              because of extreme poverty end low  will provide on 1 I beeis. Produced by private   approximately US$50 per book.
EDUCATION PROJECT            educational achievement           publishem.
ROMANA - EDUCATION           Entire country; pdmary schools (S   Project provides for 7 million books lgr 1-41 and   Total cost of US$41.4 million;  Textbooks allocations ar provided to schools for book purch_ing.
REFORM PROJECT               gred_l, with objective of privat  8.7 million books Igr 5-81, rprenting 75% of   approximately US$1 35 per book
sector pertcipetion and textbook   quirements 120 mill books for 2.5 mill childrenl.
subsidy at school level.
CHILE - PRIMARY EDUCATION  Entire ountry; quslity Inmprovemants  Project provides for production of 24.5 million   Total coat for textbooks: US$25  All textbooks provided free to all students
INMOVEMENT PROJECT           targeted mainly to deprived urban    textbooks to be distributed for 1.9 million  million.
poor nd rural Ischoo,            children over  years. Produced by private
publishers.
PHILIPPINES - SECOND         Entire country; primary schools   I st of books IS books) provided for every child; Total project cost for textbooks: US    All schools received books on 1:2 redo. Rich parents could purchaS own
ELEMENTARY EDUCATION                                           lo be renewed eery 3 Vym. Produced centrally  $50 million for 44 million books  sets; lost books can be rpurchsed. Starting 1992, project aims to
PROJECT                                                        by govemment.                               Average coat per book: US$1.       achiee 1:1 retio.
VENEZUELA - IMPROVING        Entire country; baeio education    4 textbooks per yar for all studnSt. Total of   Project cost of US$ 23 million I approx Targeted to all students in rural end urban schools in marginal areas;
QUALITY OF BASIC             school                            1 1.3 milion textbooks during project. Produced  US $2 per bookl.              rougNy equal to 70% of all enrolled students.
EDUCATION PROJECT                                              by private sector.
NEXICO - PRIMARY             Four states with highest incidence of Goverrment provides full eat of free textbooks to  Project to _sist in better distribution   All children nd schools in project provinces.
EDUCATION PROJECT            poverty arid lobwt eduction       all studet 170 million bookelyesrl. but many  mechanism threugh buLiding of                                                                       ;m
indicators,                     rnvr reach poor,ural are.                     warehouses.
4127195 07:07 PM TXTPROJ.XLS



- 33 -                                   ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANK GROUP-FINANCED EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECTS
Loan/   Year of  Year of                                                              Amount
Credit   Board    Actual                                                          (less cancellations) /a
Number Approval Closing  Projects                                        Agency         IBRD        IDA
-USS million -
Projects with MOEC
219     1970      1976  First Education                               MOEC /b                    4.5
387     1973      1981   Third Education                              MOEC                      13.5
1237     1976      1981  Fourth Education                             MOEC            24.1
1433     1977      1984  First Teacher Training                       MOEC            17.8
1486     1977      1984  Nonformal education                           MOEC            8.3
869     1978      1985  Polytechnic                                   MOEC                     49.0
1904     1980      1987  First University Development                  MOEC           43.1
2101      1982     1990  Second Teacher Training                       MOEC           79.1
2102      1982     1988  Second Textbook                               MOEC           24.9
2290      1983     1990  Second Polytechnic                            MOEC          106.0
2355      1983     1990  Second Nonformal Education                    MOEC           43.0
2472      1984     1990  Secondary Education and Mgmt Training         MOEC           76.6
2547      1985        -   Second University Development                MOEC          147.0
2944      1988        -   Higher Education Development                 MOEC          140.3
3158      1990        -   Second Secondary Education and Mgmt          MOEC          154.2
3311     1991         -   Second Higher Education Development          MOEC          150.0
3431     1991         -   Third Nonformal Education                    MOEC           59.6
3448     1992         -   Primary Education Quality Improvement        MOEC           37.0
3496      1992        -   Primary School Teacher Development           MOEC           36.6
3754      1994        -   University Research for Graduate Education   MOEC           58.9
Subtotal of Projects with MOEC                          1,195.5       67.0
Projects with Other Ministries
288     1972      1978  Second Education (Agriculture Training)       MOA /c                     6.3
1692     1979      1985  Second Agricultural Training                 MOA             34.7
2258     1983      1988  Public Works Manpower Development             MOPW /d        29.8
2341     1983      1992  Third Agricultural Training                   MOA            62.9
2599     1985      1993  Science and Technology Training               MORT /c        93.0
2705      1986        -   Manpower Development and Training            MOM/f          58.1
2940      1988        -   Accountancy Development                      MOF Lg        113.0
2992      1988        -   Tree Crop Human Resource Development         MOA            18.4
3112      1988        -   Public Works Institution Dev. & Training     MOPW           36.1
3134      1989        -   Professional Human Resources Development    BAPPENAS,  117.5
3721-     1994         -   Skills Development                          BPPT Ah        27.7
Subtotal of Projects with Other Ministries                591.2        6.3
GRAND TOTAL                                             1,786.7        ,
l "The amount less cancellation" applies only to the projects which were closed (with "Year of Actual Closing"). The
amount for other ongoing projects was taken from the Staff Appraisal Reports.
Ib MOEC - Ministry of Education and Culture.
&  MOA  - Ministry of Agriculture.
/d MOPW - Ministry of Public Works.
/e MORT - Ministry of Research and Technology.
if MOM - Ministry of Manpower.
/g MOF - Ministry of Finance.
Lg BPPT - Agency for Assessment and Application of Technology.



-34-                                       ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHOOL BOOK SUBSECrOR-RELATED, COMPLETED AND ONGOING PROJECTS
AND PROJECT COMPLETION AND PERFORMANCE AuDrr REPORTS
Credit/                                                                        PCR            PPAR
Loan            Dates                                                         Report         Report
Number  Effective   Closing /a  Original Project              Credit/Loan  Number Date  Number Date
(US$ m) /b
C0219   Jan 1971    Dec 1976    First Education                   4.5                         2998 1980
C0387  Mar 1973    Dec 1981    Third Education                    13.5       4562   1983   10678 1992
L2102   Jun 1982    Jun 1988    Second Textbook                  25.0        9107   1990   10678 1992
la Actual closing dates for the completed projects and revised closing dates for the ongoing projects.
/b  The amount less cancellation for the completed projects and the amount as in Staff Appraisal Reports for the
ongoing projects.



-35-                           ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BooK INDUSRY
1.    The Market. The salient feature of the book industry in Indonesia is the limited
extent of the market. A general-book publisher will be satisfied if its sales are 3,000 copies
a year for the average title on its list. A book is considered a best seller if it sells more than
about 10,000 copies a year. One of the principal reasons for the limited number of book
sales lies with weak demand. For many reasons, the number of Indonesians that would like
to buy books, at present prices, is relatively small. The reading public for books by
mainstream publishers is restricted mainly to a section of the middle- and upper-income
groups.
2.    Regulatory Environment. With the exception of schoolbooks, the Government
imposes very few regulations on publishers, distributors, and printers. Business permits and
industxy permits are easy to obtain. Censorship does not appear to be a great concern to
publishers. There are no special restrictions on foreign investment in the publishing or
printing businesses. Therefore, the only barrier to entry into the publishing business is the
need for a relatively small amount of capital, mainly working capital.
3.    Publishing. According to IKAPI (the Indonesian Publishers' Association), 7,229
new titles were published in 1991, compared with 1,421 in 1981-an average annual
compound growth rate of 18 percent Again according to IKAPL 40 million books were
produced in 1991, compared with 21 million in 1981-an average annual compound growth
rate of 7 percent. Assuming an average book price of Rp 2,900 (70 percent schoolbooks at
Rp 2,000 and 30 percent general books at Rp 5,000), total gross sales revenue might be
about Rp 116 billion in 1991. The 1992 book list from EKAPI lists 273 publishers that are
IKAPI members and an additional 181 nonmembers. Other data for 1991 showed a total of
254 publishers in Indonesia, 145 of which were in Jakarta and 85 in the rest of Java, leaving
only 24 outside Java. Data on industiy concentration are difficult to obtain. Incomplete data
from IKAPI suggest that the top four publishers account for no more than 10 percent of the
total number of book copies sold. It is generally believed in the trade that schoolbook
publishers are more highly concentrated.
4.    Noteworthy features of the Indonesian publishing industry include a lack of skilled
labor in many areas of the business: editorial work, translation, management, marketing.
These deficiencies are not unique to the publishing industry, but the lack of market
knowledge is more unique. Very little formal market research is carried out to learn who
readers are and what they want. Publishers feel that it is too expensive to conduct market
surveys, and they question their value. Instead, good publishers study market trends and
carry out informal observations at bookstores to see who is reading and buying different



- 36 -                           ANNEX S
kinds of books. There is a tendency to focus attention on the government as customer rather
than on the ultimate consumer of books. Pressure groups lobby to get lucrative government
contracts, since there are greater profits to be realized this way than by taking the trouble to
size up and cater to the market of anonymous consumers. Other characteristics of the
publishing industry that may affect its ability to respond quickly to changing demand are the
following:
*      A common opinion is that it is difficult to find good local authors because of the low
level of remuneration. Royalties run 5-15 percent of the list price, which is normal
in the trade, but since the expected production quantity is low (3,000 copies sold in
two years would not be unusual), the incentive may not be enough to entice many
talented writers. This is one of several vicious circles found in the Indonesian
publishing business.
Many publishers appear to set their prices based on untested assumptions and do not
give enough attention to more sophisticated pricing strategies.
*     Most publishers pay little attention to advertising and promotion as a way to generate
sales. They feel they cannot afford it-an example of another vicious circle.
5.    The unauthorized reproduction of locally produced books (pirating) is considered a
serious problem by publishers, but its true extent is not known. While some best-selling
novels are pirated, most affected seem to be those books with a steady long-term demand,
such as dictionaries and other reference books; these books present the least risk for the
pirate. Textbooks are also prime targets. Investigation of the offense and enforcement of the
copyright law by government authorities are weak, though recently, more attention has been
given to the issue.
6.    Printers. It is difficult to know how many book printers there are. Lists of printers
are of little use, since many are commercial printers, dealing in forms, stationery, product
packaging, etc. Many printers exist in name only, having been set up to profit from various
government contracts. They then subcontract out the work to genuine print shops. There
are a great number of book printers in the Jakarta area, entry is easy, and competition is
intense. Little investment is needed to start up a small print shop; many exist in the back
rooms of people's homes. There is great variation in size and competence, and, according to
reports, many printers lack technical and managerial skills. The greatest potential constraint
for printers in general is paper supply, but Jakarta printers have no complaints on this count
at the present time. Printers keep very little paper in stock, as they can obtain it quickly from
their distributors.
7.    Distribution and Independent Wholesalers/Distributors.  Some publishers
complain about the difficulties of distributing their books, but the real problem is often that
their books will not sell or that they know little about marketing. Distribution is a complex
problem in the book business because of the highly differentiated nature of the product: each
of many bookstores needs to have the products of many publishers. The problem is being
addressed in a number of ways in Indonesia, and it appears that the private sector is capable



-37-                             ANNEX5
of developing new solutions to meet the evolving demand of publishers. Publishers
generally deal with the large bookstores (e.g., the chains) directly, and then perhaps use
independent distributors to reach the smaller stores. Distribution by publishers is handled
routinely. There is very little training of sales representatives; little promotion is carried out;
it is usually expected that the book will sell itself to even the smaller retail outlets.
8.    It is estimated that there are about 10 important distributors in the Jakarta area and
about 50 in Indonesia as a whole. Most distributors receive the greater part of their revenue
from the distribution of schoolbooks. There are a number of specialized distributors, e.g.,
for dictionaries and other reference books, medical books, etc. Independent distributors are
performing a useful service in the book business:
They cut down on administrative and shipping costs by consolidating orders and
shipments.
They give the same trade discount to bookstores regardless of how many books are
purchased from a single publisher, whereas the small bookstore would often receive
a lower rate on a small order placed directly with the publisher.
They can help deal with the problem of uncollectible accounts, because bargaining
power is increased when many publishers' accounts are consolidated.
9.    Shipping. Shipping costs account for 1-2 percent of a book's list price on average.
Many shipping methods are used: post office, air freight, private shipping agents, and freight
forwarders. Private shipping agents and forwarders, who give speedy, reliable, door-to-door
service, are preferred for large shipments-say, for more than five kilograms (usually 15-30
books). Within Java, costs are very low. For most of the distant locations in Indonesia,
shipping costs by private shipping agents amount to no more than 5 percent of the retail
value. Surface parcel post generally cannot compete because of the long delivery time,
though it has the advantage of being inexpensive and capable of reaching more parts of the
country than the private-sector services.  The high cost of air parcel post becomes
burdensome for direct mail sales of just a few books, unless their value is relatively high.
10.   Retailers. According to IKAPI (1992 book list), there are 2,895 bookstores in
Indonesia, 346 in Jakarta and 1,381 in the rest of Java. It is not known for how many of
these the major activity is book selling or how many have more than a tiny range of titles in
stock. A recurring opinion is that most Indonesian bookstores lack management skills,
marketing strategies, and well-trained staff who can lead people to the books they might
want.
11.   National and local chains together probably account for more than half of all book
sales from bookstores. The chains are competitive and will take potentially marketable
books from any publisher, apparently without discrimination. Several companies are
involved in door-to-door sales of encyclopedias and similar books. Some publishers have
tried mail-order sales without much success: the response rate is low. One successful



-38 -                          ANNEX S
company, however, has a list of about 75,000 confirmed buyers throughout Indonesia, even
outside major towns, where well-supplied bookstores are scarce.
12.   Book Imports. There is no import duty on book imports. But unofficial fees may
work out to 4-8 percent of the sales price of the books. The import process is usually fairly
rapid, taking about two weeks.
13.  Informal Sector: Cheap ("Pasar") Books. Alongside the conventional book
industiy exists another, operating through different channels, and catering to a different
segment of the market. In Indonesia, true mass-market books are sold in the traditional
bazaars (pasar) and by street vendors. There, cheap romance and horror novels sell for
Rp 1,000, compared with some Rp 3,000 for a bookstore novel. The language and style are
simple and the physical quality of the books is poor. Very little appears to be known in a
systematic way about this informal segment of the industry, which is unhindered by
government regulation or controls. Readers appear to come mainly from segments of the
population below the middle-income groups, many perhaps with only a primary school
education.
14.   Exports of Books. Exports of books are insignificant at the present time, amounting
to only US$594,000 in 1992. But several printers believe that, if paper costs could be
reduced, Indonesia could offer competitive prices for printing jobs done for foreign
publishers. Export printing jobs are undertaken from time to time-often, it appears, with
Singapore publishers.
15.   The School Textbook Industry. The production of school textbooks is a very
different business from the production of ordinary books for several reasons:  first, the
Government itself plays a direct role in producing these books; second, school textbooks
published by the private sector must first be approved by the Government; third, the
particular nature of demand for the books is shaped by the school curricula and national
exams developed by the government. There are three primary actors in the production of
textbooks for primary and secondary schools. (1) The Book Center (Pusbuk) is the unit
within the Department of Education and Culture (MOEC) responsible for the production and
distribution of free textbooks. (2) Perum Balai Pustaka, a state-owned enterprise, is the
printing house of MOEC. It reprints the books produced by the Book Center and, in
addition, publishes its own textbooks and other books. (3) Private publishers are permitted
to produce and sell school textbooks so long as they have been approved by MOEC, in
particular the Directorate of Educational Facilities (Direktorat Sarana Pendidikan).
(a)  Book Center. The Book Center produces main textbooks for certain subjects.
(b)  Balai Pustaka. Balai Pustaka reprints Book Center book, and sells them as if
it were a private publishers. Distribution is mainly carried out by private
distributors. A rough estimate suggests that Balai Pustaka is covering
5-7 percent of core-subject textbook needs. The figures make it clear either
that demand for "required" books is lacking or that Balai Pustaka is not able to
supply the number of books demanded.  Balai Pustaka also develops



- 39 -                          ANNEX 5
supplementary texts entirely on its own, as if it were a private publisher. The
approval process is the same as for supplementary texts published by private
publishers. Balai Pustaka sometimes issues a supplementary text for the same
course for which it is reprinting a required text.
(c)   Private Sector. Private publishers are free to produce and distribute school
textbooks so long as the books have been approved by the Directorate of
Educational Facilities in MOEC. The basic procedure involves an evaluation
and clearance by the Directorate of Educational Facilities of the text submitted
by a private publisher. The books must be in complete, ready-to-sell form (no
proofs accepted). An evaluation team looks at four aspects: contents, national
security and state philosophy, language, design and physical quality. If the
book submitted by the private publishers is for one of the designated courses, it
is by definition considered a "supplementary text," since "main texts" for
these courses are a government monopoly, produced by the Book Center. In
practice, the contents may be exactly like that of a main text, and the book may
be used as a main text by the school or teacher. Once the book is approved, the
private publisher carries out the rest of the process without further government
supervision or regulation. Promotion takes place at the levels of the provincial
MOEC office and school. Private publishers like to sell direct to schools and
teachers.
16.   Reading/Library Books. Reading/library books (buku bacaan) are intended for
school libraries. In the "Inpres SD" program, directed at primary school libraries, the
Directorate of Educational Facilities purchases from private publishers. Some book titles are
specifically developed by publishers with a view to selling them to the Inpres SD program;
many of these books are of little interest to children and would generate negligible sales if an
attempt were made to sell them in bookstores. However, the result of the Inpres SD
program can be a boon to a private publisher, who might otherwise be selling only 2,000-
4,000 copies of the book through normal channels. Books were purchased from 151
publishers in 1992/93. This program may have a considerable impact on aggregate demand
for books. Based on IKAPI figures for total book production during the period 1988-91,
15 percent of all books produced were purchased through the Inpres SD program.
17.   The Book Center is responsible for library books at the high school level. The size of
the program is much smaller than the Inpres SD program, however. In contrast to the SD
program, only a small percentage of the books are selected and purchased directly by the
Book Center; most are purchased by the provincial MOEC offices at their own discretion,
usually from local bookstores.
18.   The Price of Books. An analysis of the costs of producing and selling a typical
book is useful for estimating what the impact on the average price would be if publishers
sold more of each title, instead of the 1,000-4,000 that is said to be typical now. The price
decrease comes about because the fixed costs involved in the production of each title can be
spread over a larger number of copies. Increasing the number of copies sold would have a
considerable impact on the average price. For a publisher now selling in the range of 3,000-



-40 -                           ANNEX 5
6,000 copies, doubling production would permit a decrease of 25-30 percent in the price of
its books.
19.   Paper is relatively expensive, but almost all the paper used in book production in
Indonesia is now produced domestically; only special papers are sometimes imported. The
quality of the best local paper is quite good, though there is considerable variability among
producers. The tariffs on ordinary printing paper (25 percent) and newsprint (40 percent)
are higher than needed, but the likely impact on the price of a book is limited; prices would
come down by no more than 6 percent if tariffs were reduced to zero.
20.   Publishers and distributors with annual sales over Rp 120 million and retailers (e.g.,
bookstores) with sales over Rp 1 billion must register and pay VAT of 10 percent on the sale
of books. However, the Govermnent has made the decision to declare certain kinds of books
nontaxable: (a) books used by schools, universities, etc., in support of the curriculum; and
(b) sacred scriptures and other educational religious books. Publishers must submit their
requests for nontaxable status through IEAPI. IKAPI then forwards the books to the
appropriate department (Education or Religion) for its recommendation. The list is then sent
to the Department of Finance for final approval. The entire process is said to take three to
four months. IKAPI estimates that about 90 percent of all titles in print have been declared
nontaxable.



-41-                           ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TEXTBOOK PROVISION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Basic Assumptions:
1.    Enrollments
Enrollments used for calculating the number of textbooks are for 1998/99, as
provided by MOEC. This ensures some margin for the supply of textbooks so that
shortages can be avoided. While for Primary education there is only a slight difference
between the present and projected enrollments, for junior secondary education, the
Government's expansion target is about 4.5 percent per annum during this period.
2.    Teachers and Teacher Guides
(a)   Total number of teachers for primary schools was provided by MOEC. The
number of classroom teachers was estimated on the basis of the number of
classrooms. Each classroom teacher is provided with five teacher guides for
grades SD1 and SD2, and seven for grades SD3 - SD6. Sports teachers are
provided with a teacher guide each (see footnote in Table 3).
(b)   The number of teacher guides for junior secondary schools was calculated on the
basis of the number of schools, assuming that each school has three grades. As the
number of subjects for each grade is 12, the number of teacher guides required for
each school is 36.
3.    Textbook Prices
(a)   Unit costs of textbooks were based on the figures provided by MOEC and include
10 percent escalation cost. Paper is of good quality (60 grams per square meter
for the text and 180 grams per square meter for the cover). Since costs vary with
the volume of production it was assumed that: (i) for primary school textbooks,
the average production will be in the range of 50,000-100,000 per title, and for
teacher guides, in the range of 25,000-50,000; (ii) for junior secondary school
textbooks, the average production of both textbooks and teacher guides was
estimated to be in the range of 25,000-50,000.
(b)   For primary school, unit costs were differentiated by grade as follows:
Grades 1 and 2     Rp 1,500 per book
Grades 3 and 4     Rp 2,000 per book
Grades 5 and 6     Rp 2,500 per book



- 42 -                        ANNEX 6
For teacher guides, the average unit cost was estimated at Rp 3,000 per book.
(c)   For junior secondary schools, the average unit cost of textbooks was estimated at
Rp 2,500 per book and for teacher guides, Rp 3,000 per book.
4.    Transportation Costs
Transportation costs vary substantially from province to province. Based on past
experience provinces were divided into four categories as shown in the relevant
Tables. Transportation costs per category is as follows:
Category A         5% of book cost
Category B        7% of book cost
Category C         20% of book cost
Category D        Rp 2,000 per book.



INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY TABLE
Number of Textbooks and Teacher Guides Required for Prlmary and Junor Secondary Schools and Estimated Costs
PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                               JUNIOR SECONDARY SCHOOLS
No. of     Etimated Costs (Rp. '000) /a                                    Estimated Costs (Rp. '000) /a  GRAND    % of
No. of     Teacher                  Teacher                   No. of     Teacher               Teacher                TOTAL   Total
Province        Textbooks     Guides   Textbooks       Guldes       Total     Textbooks    Guides  Textbooks      Guides      Total    (Rp. M.)
DKiJakarta              5,902,857     176,141    12,193,729   554,844    12,748,573    5,031,538    48,096   13,207,787    151,502  13,359,289    26,108   4.4%
WestJava               31,220,689    1,087,498    63,647,854   3,425,619    67,073,473    16,104,906    119,232  42,275,378    375,581   42,650,959   109,724  18.6%
Central Java           24,340,742     908,384    49,819,206   2,861,409    52,680,615    12,565,599    125,028   32,984,697    393,831   33,378,528    86,059  14.6%
Yogyakarta              1,976,834      99,122    4,127,811    312,234     4,440,045    1,667,461    19,512   4,377,085    61,463    4,438,548    8,879   1.5%
EastJava               24,876,073     920,368    51,035,150   2,899,160    53,934,310    12,827,024    159,300  33,670,938    501,795   34,172,733    88,107  14.9%
DIAceh                  3,355,313     124,452    7,708,277    448,026     8,156,303    1,723,040    22,536    5,169,120    81,130    5,250,250    13,407   2.3%
North Sumatra          11,372,703     409,421    23,499,925    1,314,242    24,814,167  7,265,758   78,804   19,435,903    252,961   19,688,864    44,503   7.5%
West Sumatra            3,740,290     180,768    7,700,555     580,266    8,280,821    2,468,419    23,616   6,603,021     75,807    6,678,828    14,960   2.5%
Riau                    3,387,131     129,970    7,768,919    467,893     8,236,812    1,903,533    21,636   5,710,599     77,890    5,788,489    14,025   2.4%
Jambi                   2,403,856      89,626    5,516,834     322,652    5,839,486    1,020,847    14,472   3,062,541     52,099   3,114,640    8,954   1.5%
South Sumatra           6,245,015     241,170    12,739,120    774,157    13,513,277    3,224,194   40,428   8,624,719    129,774    8,754,493    22,268   3.8%
Bengkulu                 1,224,408     60,794    2,503,112     195,150    2,698,262     606,897      9,324    1,623,449    29,932    1,653,381   4,352   0.7%
Lampung                 5,559,668     231,340    11,337,529   728,722    12,066,251    2,581,952    49,212   6,777,624    155,011    6,932,635    18,999   3.2%
West Kalimantan          3,230,875    149,335    7,300,155     537,606    7,837,761    1,548,033    23,112    4,644,099    83,203    4,727,302    12,565   2.1%
Central Kalimantan       1,393,630     87,254    3,175,176     314,116    3,489,292      555,638    11,952    1,666,914    43,027    1,709,941   5,199   0.9%
South Kalimantan         2,430,925    114,068    5,546,088     410,644    5,956,732    1,186,462    16,416   3,559,386     59,098    3,618,484   9,575   1.6%
East Kalimantan          1,956,981     87,483    4,536,137     314,939    4,851,076    1,189,328    14,256    3,567,984    51,322    3,619,306   8,470   1.4%
North Sulawesi           1,870,749    120,399    3,849,380     386,482    4,235,862    1,090,012    18,324   2,915,782     58,820    2,974,602   7,210   1.2%
Central Sulawesi         1,686,434     94,240    3,476,062     302,509    3,778,571      660,561    15,480    1,767,001    49,691    1,816,692   5,595   0.9%
South Sulawesi           5,920,439    302,834    12,168,105    972,097    13,140,202    3,104,891   33,696   8,305,583    108,166   8,413,749    21,554   3.6%
South East Sulawesi      1,415,517     68,578    3,205,657     246,880    3,452,537      705.403    21,816   2,116,209     78,538    2,194,747   5,647   1.0%
Maluku                   1,981,827    101,257    7,765,010     506,287    8,271,297    1,062,409    16,740   4,780,841     83,700   4,864,541    13,136   2.2%
Bali                     1,890,421    104,247    3,958,378     334,632    4,293,010    1,211,302    16,776   3,240,233     53,851    3,294,084   7,587   1.3%
West NusaTenggara        3,106,096    114,171    6,331,390     366,489    6,697,879    1,587,666    20,016   4,247,007     64,251    4,311,258    11,009   1.9%
East NusaTenggara       3,110,461     154,369    7,055,240     555,727    7,610,967    1,135,603    18,684   3,406,809     67,262   3,474,071    11,085   1.9%
Iran Jaya               1,521,573      80,256    5,882,311     401,282    6,283,593     811,486      9,108   3,651,687     45,540    3,697,227   9,981   1.7%
EastTimor                 604,872      24,040    1,309,744      86,546    1,396,290     264,872      3,312     794,616     11,923     806,539    2,203   0.4%
Total          157,726,379    6,261,585   335,156,852   20,620.610   355.777,462    85,104,834    970,884  232,187,012   3,197,168  235.384.180   591,162 1000%
/a Baseline costs.
rD >
3 z
2 0
e



INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Primary School Enrollment by Province and Grade (1998/99)
(includes both public and private schools)
Number of Pupils                                           % of
Province              Grade I      Grade 2      Grade 3       Grade 4      Grade 5       Grade 6       Total      Toral
DKI Jakarta                  185,730      184,542       184,201       184,773      183,287      183,984     1,106,517      3.8%
West Java                   1,038,436    1,033,988     1,024,510      975,560      915,025      842,134     5,829,653     19.8%
Central Java                 806,472       784,150      779,468       765,036      742,323      672,575     4,550,024     15.5%
Yogyakarta                    55,981        59,183       63,016        64,925       66,393       62,836       372,334      1.3%
East Java                    809,081      797,367       796,089      782,547       764,441      704,400     4,653,925     15.8%
Dl Aceh                      125,178       114,985      108,677       100,819       93,294       80,077       623,030      2.1%
North Sumatra                404,650       381,358      359,244       342,021      327,022      303,044     2,117,339      7.2%
West Sumatra                 134,773       126,212      120,680       114,534      107,203       92,459       695,861      2.4%
Riau                         128,550      116,391       109,408       100,225       92,475       81,389       628,438      2.1%
Jambi                         89,369        83,372       78,859        71,474       65,272       57,877       446,223       1.5%
South Sumatra                239,917      217,183       200,890       184,797      166,717      148,079     1,157,583      3.9%
Bengkulu                      45,550        42,683       40,049        36,857       33,414       28,682       227,235      0.8%
Lampung                      191,148       184,645      174,476       164,230      154,668      167,608     1,036,775      3.5%
West Kalimantan              135,059       115,506      104,346        91,788       80,636       68,727       596,062      2.0%
Central Kalimantan            58,604        46,296       43,448        40,030       36,160       33,208       257,746      0.9%
South Kalimantan              97,151       84,199        76,954        70,035       64,262       57,314       449,915      1.5%
East Kalimantan               67,997       66,139        62,884       60,125        56,968       50,456       364,569      1.2%
North Sulawesi                68,270        62,954       60,270        56,521       52,702       47,188       347,905       1.2%
Central Sulawesi              61,641        55,923       53,959        50,859       48,324       43,068       313,774      1.1 %
South Sulawesi               212,615      203,789       194,265       177,980      164,328      147,830     1,100,807      3.7%
South East Sulawesi           60,352        48,700       44,743        40,497       36,488       30,513       261,293      0.9%
Maluku                        71,320        69,377       63,972        59,640       54,889       49,028       368,226       1.3%
Bali                          61,958        59,998       59,693        58,266       58,320       55,458       353,693       1.2%
West Nusa Tenggara           119,395       108,211      101,432        91,535       83,673        71,452      575,698       2.0%
East Nusa Tenggara           133,419       105,202       97,895        88,129       78,780       70,943       574,368      2.0%
Irian Jaya                    69,091        53,117       46,263        46,345       34,575        30,482      279,873       1.0%
EastTimor                     34,565        22,247       17,564        14,378       11,434        9,424       109,612      0.4%
Total               5,506,272    5.227,717     5,067,255    4.833,926     4,573,073    4,190,235    29,398,478    100.0%
0z
em
Source: Pusat Perbukuan, MOEC, May 1994                                                                                                   x



INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Number of Textbooks Required for Prdmary School Students for Five Subjects /a
on a 1:1 Basis by Province and Grade (based on 1998/99 projection)
Number of Textbooks (coples)                                          % of
Province             Grade 1      Grade 2      Grade 3       Grade 4      Grade 5      Grade 6        Total       Total
DKI Jakarta                1,114,380    1,107,252      921,005      923,865      916,435       919,920    5,902,857      3.7%
WestJava                   6,230,616    6,203,928     5,122,550    4,877,800    4,575,125    4,210,670    31,220,689     19.8%
Central Java               4,838,832    4,704,900     3,897,340    3,825,180    3,711,615    3,362,875    24,340,742     15.4%
Yogyakarta                   335,886      355,098      315,080      324,625       331,965      314,180     1,976,834      1.3%
East Java                  4,854,486    4,784,202     3,980,445    3,912,735    3,822,205    3,522,000    24,876,073     15.8%
DIAceh                      751,068       689,910      543,385      504,095       466,470      400,385     3,355,313     2.1%
North Sumatra              2,427,900    2,288,148     1,796,220    1,710,105    1,635,110    1,515,220    11,372,703     7.2%
West Sumatra                 808,638      757,272      603,400      572,670       536,015      462,295     3,740,290     2.4%
Riau                         771,300      698,346      547,040      501,125       462,375      406,945     3,387,131      2.1%
Jambi                        536,214      500,232      394,295      357,370       326,360      289,385     2,403,856      1.5%
South Sumatra              1,439,502    1,303,098     1,004,450     923,985       833,585      740,395     6,245,015     4.0%
Bengkulu                    273,300       256,098      200,245      184,285       167,070      143,410     1,224,408     0.8%
Lampung                    1,146,888    1,107,870      872,380      821,150      773,340       838,040    5,559,668      3.5%
West Kalimantan             810,354       693,036      521,730      458,940       403,180      343,635     3,230,875      2.0%
Central Kalimantan           351,624      277,776      217,240      200,150       180,800      166,040     1,393,630     0.9%
South Kalimantan             582,906      505,194      384,770      350,175       321,310      286,570    2,430,925       1.5%
East Kalimantan              407,982      396,834      314,420      300,625       284,840      252,280     1,956,981      1.2%
North Sulawesi              409,620       377,724      301,350      282,605      263,510       235,940     1,870,749      1.2%
Central Sulawesi             369,846      335,538      269,795      254,295       241,620      215,340     1,686,434      1.1%
South Sulawesi             1,275,690    1,222,734      971,325      889,900       821,640      739,150     5,920,439      3.8%
South East Sulawesi          362,112      292,200      223,715      202,485       182,440      152,565     1,415,517      0.9%
Maluku                       427,920      416,262      319,860      298,200       274,445      245,140     1,981,827      1.3%
Bali                        371,748       359,988      298,465      291,330       291,600      277,290     1,890,421      1.2%
West NusaTenggara           716,370       649,266      507,160      457,675       418,365      357,260     3,106,096      2.0%
East NusaTenggara           800,514       631,212      489,475      440,645       393,900      354,715     3,110,461      2.0%
Irian Jaya                   414,546      318,702      231,315      231,725       172,875      152,410     1,521,573      1.0%
EastTimor                   207,390       133,482       87,820       71,890        57,170       47,120      604,872       0.4%
Total             33,037,632    31.366,302    25,336.275    24,169,630    22,865,365    20,951,175   157,726,379  100.0%
/a Grades 1 and 2: Pancasila, Bahasa Indonesia and mathematics; Grades 3-6 same plus science and social studies.
0z
11z
em
MX
x
a)



INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs of Teacher Guides for Primary School Teachers /a
(Rp. 000)
No. of Teacher Guides Required              Estimated Costs
Grades     Grades
Province                     1 and 2    3 thru 6                          Guide-   Transpor-                  % of
(5 subj)    (7 subj)    Sports    Total     book       tation        Total      Total
DKI Jakarta               (A)         71,928    100,699      3,515    176,141    704,564     35,228       739,792      2.7%
West Java                 (A)        370,770    692,104    24,624   1,087,498   4,349,992    217,500     4,567,492    16.7%
CemtralJava               (A)        233,258    653,123    22,002    908,384   3,633,535    181,677      3,815,211    13.9%
Yogyakarta                (A)         33,763      63,024     2,335     99,122    396,487      19,824      416,312      1.5%
East Java                 (A)        236,292    661,617    22,460    920,368   3,681,473    184,074      3,865,547    14.1%
Dl Aceh                   (C)         42,369      79,088     2,995    124,452    497,806     99,561       597,368      2.2%
North Sumatra             (B)        139,592    260,572      9,257    409,421   1,637,685    114,638     1,752,322     6.4%
WestSumatra               (B)         61,607     115,000     4,161    180,768    723,073      50,615      773,688      2.8%
Riau                      (C)         44,314      82,720     2,936    129,970    519,881     103,976      623,857      2.3%
Jambi                     (C)         30,519      56,968     2,139     89,626    358,502      71,700      430,203      1.6%
South Sumatra             (B)         82,221     153,480     5,469    241,170    964,682     67,528      1,032,209     3.8%
Bengkulu                  (B)         15,607      43,699     1,489     60,794    243,177      17,022      260,200      1.0%
Lampung                   (A)         82,567    144,492      4,282    231,340    925,361      46,268      971,629      3.5%
WestKalimantan            (C)         38,360    107,408      3,567    149,335    597,340    119,468       716,808      2.6%
Central Kalimantan        (C)         22,292      62,417     2,546     87,254    349,017      69,803      418,821      1.5%
South Kalimantan          (C)         29,258      81,923     2,886    114,068    456,271      91,254      547,525      2.0%
East Kalimantan           (C)         29,822      55,668     1,993     87,483    349,933      69,987      419,919      1.5%
North Sulawesi            (B)         30,917      86,567     2,916    120,399    481,597     33,712       515,309      1.9%
Central Sulawesi          (B)         24,193      67,741     2,305     94,240    376,959      26,387      403,346      1.5%
South Sulawesi            (B)        103,153    192,552      7,129    302,834   1,211,335     84,793     1,296,129     4.7%
South East Sulawesi       (C)         17,608      49,303     1,666     68,578    274,311      54,862      329,173      1.2%
Maluku                    (D)         25,997      72,791     2,470    101,257    405,029    202,515       607,544      2.2%
Bali                      (B)         26,723      74,825     2,698    104,247    416,987      29,189      446,176      1.6%
WestNusaTenggara          (B)         29,315      82,082     2,774    114,171    456,684      31,968      488,652      1.8%
EastNusaTenggara          (C)         39,613    110,917      3,838    154,369    617,475    123,495       740,970      2.7%
Irian Jaya                (D)         20,587      57,643     2,027     80,256    321,025    160,513       481,538      1.8%
EastTimor                 (C)          8,181      15,272      587      24,040     96,162      19,232      115,394      0.4%
Total                      1,890,826   4,223.694   147,066   6,261,586  25,046,343   2,326,790    27,373,133    100.0%
/a Grades 1 and 2: teacher guides for Pancasila, Bahasa Indonesia, Mathematics, Arts and Crafts, and Local content.                  z
Grades 3 through 6: same plus science and social studies.                                                                       em



INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Junior Secondary (SLTP) Enrollment (1998/99), Number of Textbooks Required and Estimated Costs (Rp. 000's)
Number of Students                Number of Textbooks (copies) /a     Estimated Cost of:  /d          % of
Province                                                                                               Trans-                 Total
Grade 1   Grade 2    Grade 3    Total   Grade 1&2   Grade 3      Total   Textbooks /b portation /c    Total
DKI Jakarta      (A)   182,326    172,542    164,762    519,630  3,548,680  1,482,858   5,031,538   12,578,845    628,942   13,207,787    5.7%
West Java         (A)   579,359    558,349    525,314   1,663,022  11,377,080  4,727,826   16,104,906   40,262,265  2,013,113   42,275,378   18.2%
Central Java     (A)   461,713    425,675    410,191   1,297,579  8,873,880  3,691,719   12,565,599   31,413,998  1,570,700   32,984,697   14.2%
Yogyakarta       (A)    56,613     57,727     58,229    172,569  1,143,400    524,061    1,667,461    4,168,653    208,433    4,377,085    1.9%
East Java        (A)   466,874    437,427    420,446   1,324,747  9,043,010  3,784,014   12,827,024   32,067,560   1,603,378   33,670,938   14.5%
Di Aceh          (C)    67,844     58,749     50,790    177,383  1,265,930    457,110    1,723,040    4,307,600    861,520    5,169,120    2.2%
North Sumatra    (B)   286,915    245,565    215,662    748,142  5,324,800  1,940,958   7,265,758   18,164,395  1,271,508    19,435,903    8.4%
West Sumatra     (B)    97,280     82,070     74,991    254,341   1,793,500    674,919   2,468,419    6,171,048    431,973    6,603,021    2.8%
Riau             (C)    74,012     64,513     57,587    196,112  1,385,250    518,283    1,903,533    4,758,833    951,767    5,710,599    2.5%
Jambi             (C)    41,255    33,917     29,903    105,075    751,720    269,127    1,020,847    2,552,118    510,424    3,062,541    1.3%
South Sumatra    (B)   124,390    108,402     99,586    332,378  2,327,920    896,274   3,224,194    8,060,485    564,234    8,624,719    3.7%
Bengkulu         (B)    24,885     20,241     17,293    62,419    451,260    155,637     606,897    1,517,243    106,207    1,623,449    0.7%
Lampung          (A)   101,095     88,099     76,668    265,862  1,891,940    690,012   2,581,952    6,454,880    322,744    6,777,624    2.9%
West Kalimantan   (C)    62,627    52,138     44,487    159,252  1,147,650    400,383    1,548,033   3,870,083    774,017    4,644,099    2.0%
Central Kalimantan  (C)    21,627  19,265     16,302     57,194    408,920    146,718    555,638    1,389,095    277,819    1,666,914    0.7%
South Kalimantan  (C)    46,685    39,509     36,058    122,252    861,940    324,522    1,186,462    2,966,155    593,231  3,559,386    1.5%    v
East Kalimantan    (C)    44,265   40,124     38,382    122,771    843,890    345,438    1,189,328   2,973,320    594,664    3,567,984    1.5%
North Sulawesi    (B)    43,932    37,315     30,838    112,085    812,470    277,542    1,090,012   2,725,030    190,752    2,915,782    1.3%
Central Sulawesi   (B)    25,941   22,620     19,439     68,000    485,610    174,951    660,561    1,651,403    115,598    1,767,001    0.8%
South Sulawesi    (B)   118,930    106,321    94,709    319,960  2,252,510    852,381    3,104,891    7,762,228    543,356    8,305,583    3.6%
South East Sulawesi (C)    29,050  23,691     19,777     72,518    527,410    177,993    705,403    1,763,508    352,702    2,116,209    0.9%
Maluku           (D)    42,548     36,026     30,741    109,315    785,740    276,669    1,062,409   2,656,023  2,124,818    4,780,841    2.1%
Bali             (B)    45,333     41,167     38,478    124,978    865,000    346,302    1,211,302   3,028,255    211,978    3,240,233    1.4%
West Nusa Tenggara (B)    61,079   53,584     49,004    163,667  1,146,630    441,036    1,587,666   3,969,165    277,842  4,247,007    1.8%
EastNusaTenggara (C)    45,858     37,312     33,767    116,937    831,700    303,903    1,135,603    2,839,008    567,802    3,406,809    1.5%
Irian Jaya       (D)    34,026     26,743     22,644     83,413    607,690    203,796    811,486   2,028,715  1,622,972    3,651,687    1.6%
East Timor       (C)    12,255      8,726      6,118    27,099    209,810     55,062     264,872    662,180    132,436      794,616    0.3%
Total      3,198,717  2,897,817   2,682,166   8,778,700  60,965,340 24,139,494   85,104,834  212,762,085  19.424.927   232,187.012  100.0%
/a For 9 subjects: Bahasa Indonesia, Mathematics (2 books each for Grades 1 & 2), Physics, Biology, History (National and World), Economics, Geography
and English.
/b Based on an estimated unit cost of Rp. 2,500 per book.
/c Varies with the province: (A) = 5% of book cost; (B) = 7% of book cost; (C) = 20% of book cost; and (D) Rp. 2,000 per book.
/d Baseline costs.                                                                                                                           4)
Sz
Source: Balitbang, Ministry of Education and Culture 
A. x



INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Number of Teacher Guides Required and Esimated Costs for Junior Secondary School Teachers
(Rp. 000)
No. of     Total
No.of    toacher     No. of        Estimated costs of:             % of
guides    Teacher    guide-     Trans-                  Total
Province               Schools   perSLTP    Guides       books    portation     Total
DKI Jakarta        (A)         1,336         36     48,096    144,288      7,214     151,502       4.7%
West Java          (A)         3,312         36    119,232    357,696     17,885     375,581       11.7%
Central Java       (A)         3,473         36    125,028    375,084     18,754     393,838       12.3%
Yogyakarta         (A)           542         36     19.512     58,536      2,927      61,463        1.9%
East Java          (A)         4,425         36    159,300    477,900     23,895     501,795      15.7%
DI Aceh            (C)           626         36     22,536     67,608     13,522      81,130       2.5%
North Sumatra      (B)         2,189         36     78,804    236,412     16,549     252.961       7.9%
West Sumatra       (B)           656         36     23,616     70,848      4,959      75,807       2.4%
Riau               (C)           601         36     21,636     64,908     12,982      77,890       2.4%
Jambi              (C)           402         36     14,472     43,416      8,683      52,099        1.6%
South Sumatra      (B)         1,123         36     40,428    121,284      8,490     129,774       4.1%
Bengkulu           (B)           259         36      9,324     27,972      1,958      29,930       0.9%
Lampung            (A)         1,367         36     49,212    147,636      7,382     155,018        4.8%
West Kalimantan    (C)           642         36     23,112     69,336     13,867      83,203        2.6%
Central Kalimantan   (C)         332         36     11,952     35,856      7,171      43,027        1.3%
South Kalimantan    (C)          456         36     16,416     49,248      9,850      59,098        1.8%
East Kalimantan    (C)           396         36     14,256     42,768      8,554      51,322        1.6%
North Sulawesi     (B)           509         36     18,324     54,972      3,848      58,820        1.8%
Central Sulawesi   (B)           430         36     15,480     46,440      3,251      49,691        1.6%
South Sulawesi     (B)           936         36     33,696    101,088      7,076     108,164       3.4%
South East Sulawes  (C)          606         36     21,816     65,448     13,090      78,538       2.5%
Maluku             (D)           465         36     16,740     50,220     33,480      83,700        2.6%
Bali               (B)           466         36     16,776     50,328      3,523      53,851        1.7%
West Nusa Tenggara  (B)          556         36     20,016     60,048      4,203      64,251        2.0%
East Nuea Tenggara  (C)          519         36     18,684     56,052     11,210      67,262       2.1%
Irian Jaya         (D)           253         36      9,108     27,324     18,216      45,540        1.4%
East Timor         (C)            92         36      3,312      9,936      1,987      11,923       0.4%
Total                  26,969        972    970 884  2,912.652    284,526    3,197178      100.0%
NOTES:          (a) The number of teacher guides was calculated based on 36 teacher guides per school                     < >
(3 guides per subject for 12 subjects). Subjects are Bahasa Indonesia, Mathmathics, Physics,              - z
Biology, History (National and World), Economics, Geography, Arts and Crafts, Physical                      m
Education, English and Local Content.                                                                     O X
(b) Unit cost: Rp. 3,000 per guidebook; (c) transportatiorn cost varies from province to
province as shown In Table 4.
Source: Balitbang, MOEC



- 49 -                                    ANNEX 6
Table 6
INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Plan for SLTP Textbooks
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
GOI                                                      Rp. billion  /a
Fiscal Year              Coverage
Total      GOI  IBRD Loan
96/97    Textbooks for English and Economics in     59.0       14.9       44.1
all grades (1-3) and teachers' guides
for these subjects plus Arts and Crafts
in all 27 provinces.
97/98    Textbooks for National History, World      94.2       23.3       70.9
History and Geography in all grades (1-3)
and teachers' guides for these subjects
plus Physical Education/Health in all 27
provinces.
98/99    Textbooks for Bahasa Indonesia and         90.1       22.3       67.8
Mathematics (I & II) in all grades (1-3)
and teachers' guides for these subjects
plus Local Content in all 27 provinces.
99/00    Textbooks and teachers' guides for         71.2       17.7       53.5
Physics and Biology in all grades (1-3)
and in all 27 provinces.
Total /a                   314.5       78.0       236.5
100%        25%        75%
/a Inclusive of contingencies.



- 50-                         ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BOOK PROCUREMENT RESPONSIBILITIES AND ARRANGEMENTS
A. Textbooks
1.    The procurement of textbooks and the related teachers' guides under the project
would consist of purchase of all necessary textbooks and teachers' guides at a 1:1
book:student ratio for all subjects in all SLTP schools (procurement of books for SD
schools would continue under sole GOI funding and procedures). The selection and
procurement of the books would be carried out at each of the 27 provincial education
offices (Kanwil) with input from school principals, and would be based on a list of
successfully tendered titles.
2.    The main components of textbook procurement are as follows:
(a)   The series (of titles for grades 1-3) to be selected may be published by
either private publishers or Balai Pustaka. Only series that have been
reviewed and approved through a National Textbook Evaluation
Committee (NTEC) can be placed on the list for possible selection, and
Kanwils are required to select only from this Approved List.
(b)   Procurement will be carried out at the provincial level by Kanwils, which
will select for tendering a minimum of three approved series for each
subject.
(c)   For series from the private sector, bids will be accepted from publishers
(i.e., those holding the copyright/publishing rights to the series ) or
booksellers/distributors working in association with the copyright holders.
For series from Balai Pustaka, in which publishing rights are deemed to be
non-proprietary, bids may be accepted from any qualified company
(publisher, printer, bookseller, etc.) if successful such a bidder will enter
into a license agreement with Balai Pustaka. All bidders will be required to
post-qualifSy in conjunction with the bid itself.
(d)   MOEC will review all selections made before contracts are awarded.
Further details on the procedures follow.
Evaluation and Approval Process
3.    A National Textbook Evaluation Committee will be established in MOEC, to
evaluate textbooks and approve those to be included in the approved list for procurement.



-51-                            ANNEX7
The Committee should include relevant government officials from different government
departments, to evaluate the legal, national, security, and book quality aspects; it should
also include principals, teachers and IKIP staff. The Committee could also co-opt non-
government members, on an ad-hoc basis, depending on the subject and the requirements;
these would be in an advisor or observer capacity.
4.    Titles must form a series comprising work for all three grades of SLTP, preferably
(but not necessarily) in the format of one pupils' book and teachers' guide per grade (or
one teachers' guide per grade where no pupils' books are required). Titles can be
submitted by either private publishers (local or foreign) or Balai Pustaka for evaluation by
the Committee. Titles can be submitted either as ready printed books or as unpublished
camera-ready copy (CRC) with a printed sample chapter. Clear and specific pedagogical
and technical criteria will be established on the minimum quality required (with standards
set sufficiently high to guarantee good pedagogical quality and technical durability); and a
merit point system will be developed to reflect the relative weight that should be attached
to each pedagogical criterion in order to enable quality comparisons.  The criteria
developed for the Book and Reading Development Project proposal can be used as a basis
for further development. A minimum of three approved titles will be required for each
grade before tendering can begin.
5.    Written feedback will be prepared for each title (series), and publishers will have
access to this feedback for their own titles in order to assist them with revisions. Titles
which do not reach the required number of merit points (80 percent) will be returned to
the publishers unapproved; such titles may be re-submitted for a second evaluation and
possible approval after revision according to the suggestions of the evaluation panel. The
merit points scored by each title will be incorporated into the technical evaluation of any
bids resulting from selection by the Kanwils.
Procurement Process
6.    At the national level, advertisements will be placed within Indonesia and
internationally (in line with Bank guidelines), inviting publishers to submit series for
inclusion in the evaluation process, with a view to possible selection for bidding. After the
evaluation process has been completed, the full list of approved textbook series and
evaluation scores will be sent to all Kanwils, together with (at least 2) copies of each
approved book/CRC.
7.    At the provincial level, Kanwils will select from the list at least three series for
each subject (basing their choices on local content, relevance, experience, etc.). Bids will
be invited for supply and distribution of each of the selected series. For series from
private publishers, bids will only be accepted from de facto copyright/publishing rights
holders (whether under license or original proprietors) or from booksellers bidding in
association with the rights holders. For series published by Balai Pustaka, in which
copyright is non-proprietary, bids will be accepted from any qualified supplier (whether
printer, distributor or other). Post-qualification will require the bidders to show, as part of
their offers, that they have both the organizational and financial capacities to accomplish
the work.



- 52 -                         ANNEX 7
8.    Scheduling of the advertising, evaluation and bidding procedures must be sufficient
to allow reasonable time for each of the processes. The National Textbook Evaluation
Committee will therefore set deadlines for the various stages of the process, and will
announce the dates as part of the advertisement procedures: (a) dates and procedures for
obtaining guidelines on submission of manuscripts for evaluation and approval; (b) final
date for submission of titles to ensure inclusion on the Approval List for the first round of
bidding; (c) timing of the notification of evaluation results to publishers; (d) final date for
re-submission of books not initially approved to ensure their inclusion on the Approved
List for the first round of bidding. However, procurement schedules should not be
delayed solely for the purpose of second-round evaluation (publishers will, in any case,
have opportunities to enter the bidding process during the second year of the Project).
9.    All the books to be purchased will be in Bahasa Indonesia, and non-Indonesian
bidders will be required to show a competence in this language. Furthermore, in order to
facilitate the bid evaluation process at the Kanwil level, bids will be supplied in both
Bahasa Indonesia and English. (The bid evaluation will be carried out using the Bahasa
Indonesia versions, though in the case of foreign bids the ruling language in cases of
dispute will be English). Specific evaluation criteria for all of the components will be
developed and included in the bid documents (which will be provided in both languages).
10.   In order to permit the bidders to plan the distribution component accurately, the
bidding documents will include the address of each school that will receive the books and
the number of copies required for each school (plus a 5 percent overage). In order to
ensure that the publisher/producer retains an investment in the distribution process,
contracts will be written to provide (against suitable guarantees) for 10 percent payment
on signing of contract, 40 percent payment on completion of production (e.g., against
shipping documents), and the final 50 percent on completion of delivery to schools
(against signed and stamped delivery dockets). Schools will retain copies of the delivery
dockets for stock-keeping and later monitoring and supervision purposes.
11.   Bids will be evaluated on the basis of technical and financial components, which
will be evaluated separately. The aim of the bid evaluation is to place greater emphasis on
the quality of the book, while retaining price competitiveness. The winning bid will be
that which is ranked highest. Domestic preference will be in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines, January 1995 (Annex 2).
12.   The Financial bid will include the Unit Price per copy supplied on CIP basis to
each SLTP school in the province, broken down into two subcomponents for comparison
purposes: unit price per copy CIF the respective provincial capital; and average unit cost
of distribution to each SLTP school in the province. Points for the Financial Score are
comparative with the lowest (adjusted) bid, which automatically achieves the maximum
(20) points. Points are then awarded to each bid according to the equation:
Merit points =    Value of lowest (adjusted bid)  x 20
Value of (adjusted) bid under evaluation



- 53 -                         ANNEX 7
13.   The Technical Bid will comprise four subcomponents with the following suggested
weightings:
(a)   Technical quality of the book (i.e., that it meets the minimum technical
specifications required and is therefore responsive to the bid request), and
technical capacity of bidder to perform the services required - YIN (i.e., no
merit points to be scored).
(b)   Pedagogical score achieved during the approval process (taken from
selection list) - maximum 40 points, calculated according to the formula:
Merit points = Percentage awarded by NTEC x 40
100
(c)   Detailed plan of distribution to each school, showing mode of delivezy and
proposed delivery schedule - maximum 15 points.
(d)   A proposal on how the supplier intends to make the series commercially
available within the province - maximum 5 points.
In order to ensure that distribution and marketing will be successful,
bidders must receive at least ten of the twenty merit points for items (c)
and (d) combined. Bids not attaining this level will be deemed non-
responsive.
14.   On the basis of the evaluation, one series per subject will be selected for use in all
schools in the particular province, and will be introduced in all three grades
simultaneously. The possible disruption caused by introduction of a different series (e.g.,
for Grade 3 pupils) is assumed to be low (due to existing book:pupil ratios) and short-
term because of the present low book:pupil ratios, and would be outweighed by the
advantages of improved supply and distribution.
Review Process
15.   The selected bids will be reviewed by MOEC in Jakarta and by the Bank.
B. Textbook Evaluation and Approval Procedures
Textbooks and Related Teachers' Guides
16.   The objectives of the evaluation and approval procedure are to:
(a)   ensure that materials used in schools are of high pedagogical quality,
presentation and relevance; and
(b)   assist teachers, principals and other educational officials to identify
appropriate materials.



-54-                           ANNEX 7
17.   On a national basis, the evaluation and approval process would be planned,
administered and implemented by the NTEC and technical subcommittees.  Publishers
would be required to contribute to the funding of the evaluation process by providing
necessary copies of the evaluation materials. The textbook evaluation criteria given below
are intended for guidance. The NTEC will be assisted to fully define and weight the actual
criteria to be used. The final criteria and weightings will be reviewed by the MOEC and
the Bank.
Textbook Evaluation Criteria
Textbook
Any textbook should present correct scientific, technical and other facts using an
appropriate and acceptable method of presentation, well integrated and clear
illustrations and layout, and ethically acceptable text.
Textbook writer
A textbook writer (either an individual or a team) must have expertise and teaching
experience in the subject matter and creative skills for the planning and generation
of manuscripts.
Criteria for evaluation
T The evaluation should consider at least five aspects of any textbook, i.e.,
content, methodology, language, security and graphical presentation.
Content aspect
The content aspects of the book should consider:
* The starting level of knowledge of its readers.
X Presentation of the material should be consistent with similar disciplines for the
same educational level.
* Coverage of the subject matter must be relevant to the scope and sequencing
of material as expressed in the existing curriculum
* Information should be linked to suitable questions (with and without given
answers) and exercises designed to assist the learning process and test pupil
progress.
* Information taken from other sources should be acknowledge.
* For later grades, contents should be indexed where appropriate.
Methodology aspect
* The approach used in the book should reflect the approach suggested by the
curriculum (e.g., pupil-centered, learning by discovery for science).
* Scope and sequencing should be logically planned, starting with content
familiar to the pupil, and followed by new, complex and abstract subjects.
* There should be a clear and consistent hierarchy of presentation (i.e., Chapter,
Subchapter etc., headings).



-55-                           ANNEX 7
Language aspect
* The language used in the book should be relevant to the users, and easily
understood according to their language abilities in terms of
O vocabulary (special terminology, wording, spelling)
0 sentence structure
0 paragraphing
Security aspect
Textbooks should:
*  Be in line with and not contradictory to Pancasila, UUD-1945, and MPR
Decisions.
*  Be in line with and not contradictory to Government Policies.
*  Not lead to the disunity of the Nation.
*  Not be contradictory to the Laws, existing Regulations and Ethics.
*  Not create conflicts between Religions, Races, Tribes or local cultures and
traditions.
Graphical Presentation
Specifications for graphical presentation must be considered as a single aspect in
combination with the content being presented. For example, various combinations
of typeface, font size, line length, margin depths, etc. may be more or less suitable
for different kinds of material presentation and page format. The specifications
given below are thus intended only as general guidelines and examples, and more
detailed specifications will be provided in the bidding documents for each title.
The following aspects should be considered in book design and layout:
*  Illustrations (and relevant captions) should support the text, be clear and easily
understood.
*  Use of color should be relevant to needs (for economy purposes, screened 2-
color printing is deemed more efficient than spot 4-color).
*  Spatial relationships between text and illustrations should be consistent.
*  Typefaces and font sizes should be selected according to the age and
experience of the reader (e.g., texts should use a serif typeface, Grade I -
18-29 pts, Grade II - 16-21 pts, Grade III - 14-18 pts, Grade IV - 12-14 pts,
Grade V and above - 11-12 pts.
*  Suitable line lengths are 26-50 ems (depending on the font size).
*  Suitable line spacing is 1-1.5 (for example 20/24 pts to 20/30 pts).
*  Suitable book sizes naturally depend very much on press size, but could be A4,
A5, B5, Crown Quarto, for example.



- 56 -                        ANNEX 8
INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BOOK CENTER
1.    Background. During the 1970s and early-1980s, one of the results of a weak
private sector publishing industry, combined with insufficiently coordinated government
efforts, was poor availability of good quality textbooks to the education system. During
the Integrated Textbook Project, the need was identified for a central body to execute
operations relating to educational materials, and so the Book Center was founded under
Presidential Decree (Keppres No. 4 of 1987), and its role elaborated and defined under
the Decree of the Minister of Education and Culture (Kepmen No. 0274/0/1987).
Under Article 2 of this decree, the Book Center is charged with the development and
implementation of writing, translation, evaluation, selection, procurement and
production, and also distribution of books on the basis of the policy defined by the
Minister of Education and Culture.
2.    Adjustment. The Book Center must re-emphasize its role as the government
body responsible for setting educational materials standards, and expand its monitoring
functions to ensure those standards are met and maintained. In terms of ensuring
availability of sufficient numbers of quality textbooks, the Book Center must de-
emphasize its role as a line production and distribution unit, and become increasingly
involved in guiding and monitoring the private sector production and distribution. A
carefully planned introduction of quality guidance and control functions must be
implemented in parallel with the phasing out of line operations. The Book Center will
carry out these quality control functions in support of the National Evaluation and
Approval Comrnittee.
3.    The proposed project would assist the Book Center to focus on its new
functions as a service center, collaborating with the supporting publishers, and bodies
such as the National Book Development Council (NBDC), public libraries, IKAPI,
book reading promotion, NGOs, etc. instead of its present line production and
distribution center functions.  In general terns, the Book Center's objectives of
coordinating book issues under the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC), and
ensuring the provision of relevant books to the education sector, would remain
unchanged. The methods and procedures by which it achieves these objectives would
be adjusted to take account of the growing capacity of the private sector and the
Government's wish to encourage this growth. During the project, the Book Center's
activities would emphasize:



- 57-                           ANNEX 8
(a)   strengthening of the policy-making process and monitoring of policy
implementation;
(b)    promotion of competition in the publishing industry;
(c)   facilitating private sector development;
(d)    making delivery of public services more effective;
(e)    making decentralization work; and
(f)    strengthening of copyright legislation and/or enforcement.
Functions
4.    Beginning from 1995/1996, the Book Center will focus its activities on, among
others:
(a)    Evaluation of textbooks and teachers' guides published by the private
sectors.
(b)   Monitoring textbooks distribution.
(c)    Evaluation of book quality.
(d)   Handling, organizing training and workshops regularly for:
- writers
- translators
- editors
- illustrators
- distributors
(e)    Writing and distributing handbook for
- textbook writing
- textbook publishing
- evaluation criteria
- selection criteria
- criteria of acceptable quality books
(f)    Setting up Book Information System.
The Book Center, periodically, will collect, print and disseminate, books
and price lists published in Indonesia, to the Book consumers, especially
schools.



- 58 -                       ANNEX 8
(g)   Publish Indonesian Publishing Directory.
Organization
5.    The organizational structure of the Book Center will remain same as elaborated
on in the Decree of the Minister of Education and Culture, May 8, 1987. The job
description in the Sections, Subsections, Divisions, and Subdivisions was also clarified
in the Ministerial Decree, February 12, 1988. The new functions due to the change in
policy of the provision of textbooks would be accommodated and integrated into the
existing organization.
6.    Although the Book Center's responsibility on producing textbooks for primary
school will finally be transferred to the private sector, it would still perform many of the
previous functions such as the production of reading materials for vocational and
secondary education.



- 59-                                               ANNEX S
BOOK CENTER ADJUSTMENT
ORGANIZATION CHART
DIRSCTR       !
I                                      lAdministration Section
t                                      !     Section Head    !............
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  :. :., ........ ..
Subsection of                 Subsection of           SubBection of       |     Staff
|  | General Affairs  |        | Financial Affairs        E |quipment Affairs      Davelop_unt
I                    ,      I                      I I                      I    Comittee
j      stff a f                     staff           j        staff
Division of Manuscript I  I Division of Manuscript    I   I   Division of                           Division of
DwlU.mmt of Language|    Development of Mathemtics                  Procurexent and  |          |   Distribution    |
Social. Science, and |        Natural Sciences, and    I   I    Production
aritur          |  |         Technology            I   I                     I
|'  |                             |   |  Division Head                   Division Head
Division Hzd    |             Division Head
subj et sp cialisto           s  ubject specialistx                      
trenalatore      I            translators           j I                            I     Subdivision of
editors        I  I            ditors             I I I Subdivision of   I    I   IDistributian Plan 
correctors                    correctors           j I I    Design                      a |   and Organization
*  II    staff              I   I          taff
j !I    book des.                        pla Ies
*                 I.                     I
........................   ....................... ........                             @. Ir - .I  
* P~biabimg Develct.nt  .   . Publishing Development  .         | Subdivision of  I    |         Subdivision of
t G itt o . Se. Cl              C Comittee (YM  NS, T)        H      Reprography   I    I-IBook Trnmportation|
........................... ...........................             i                 -1    I   i                       i 
i  I     staff              I   I         staff
|  | reprographer   I    I   I
|    Subdivision of                Sudivision of
H-I    Production                   War-homing
i  t     staff        t    t   t         staff
I  I   cont./|st.    I    I                            |
I  *             X~~~~~~ I 
I B I |  I
|  Subdivision of |    |   |   Subdivision of
L   Book Procurement L|    I       Book Information
*     staff        I                  staff
-   procurement
*.  Publis;hing                  iubis;hing
Quality Control                  Information
Comittee                    C   nitt-e



- 60 -                           ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONSULTANT SERVICES BY COMPONENT AND FIELD
Component and Field                             Consultant Services
(located in Jakarta)                       International      Domestic
(person-month)    (person-month)
Textbook Component
Technical Assistance for textbook evaluation       10                96
Training Specialist for Book Center                16                10
Subtotal                                           26              106
Project Implementation
1. Project Director                                     -               60
2. PMU Specialists                                      -              120
3. PIU assistance                                       -             1,620
Subtotal                                            -             1,800
Monitoring and Evaluation
1. Annual monitoring program                            -              154
2. Evaluation study                                    10                10
Grand Total                                        36             2.070



INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNuCAL ASSISTANCE
TECHNCAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS BY TYPE AND FIELD OF EXPERTISE
Estimated Cost        Status of                            Standard
Type of TA/                   Implementing     Total    Person-      TOR (Date)       Short List (Date)    Contract       Responsibility
Activity   Purpose/Objective  Agencies/Units  (USS'000)  Month  Prepared Expected  Prepared Expected  Prepared (Y/N)    for Supervision
A. Capacity Building
1. Training   Design and carry out Book Center    272    16(F)
Specialist  BC staff training                           10(L)
2. Textbook   Assist in textbook   PMU             433    10(F)
Specialist  evaluation                                  96(L)
B. Policy Studies
Evaluation  Project evaluation   PMU            228    10(F)
Study      after 3 years                                lo)
C. Implementation Support
1. Project    Overall coordination PMU             192    60(L)
Director   of the project
2. PMU        Assist in overall    PMU             876   120(L)
Specialist  project management
3. PIU        Assist Kanwils in   Kanwils        3,755  1,620(L)
Specialist  project implementation
4. Monitoring Annmal Monitoring  PMU               877   154(L)
Total /a                                      6633   ,2.106
/a Baseline cots



o      0,
-    - ~~~~~~~4   0               6a   aa                                                              a aa   
0                                                                             n0  .  C   bW0- -IE  -0  -4m-~
an     a
~~.  I  ~~~~~~  !      :1      jC
I *                                                                                                z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* N                                                                                        a            m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
*  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  N                                                                             Co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
a                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~
----   __                             -~~~~
__                r~~~
'~ g~G
a~~~a
I                                  0~~~~>
B                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-o
A                                            (0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0lG
U  U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
U                                                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C 
U                                                                 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c 
0, 
(0
0~~
.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .
(0
(0
10
01 X3NNV                                                        - Z9-



-z                                                                                            a   -4
~~- -4  4 ~ -4  L4   aac  c   n                                      c
ar~~~~~~~ 
3c  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~        ~~                                                             II~
a  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    j  I I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C      Z
.......................................    .        .- 0                                              z
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
CA0G
0
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0
0 ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     0
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
"I   .... ...................... ......... ........    ......... ......0
It3
.. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . 0..I. . . .
so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b
.. . .. . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . .. .. .. . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . ... . .. . .. . . .. . ... . .. . .. . . .. . .. . 0
o I x3wNlv                    C9 -~~~~~~~~~~~~



-4   -J    4   -4   -d   -4   aIt*                  m   i          i un    i
-u  ~~~~~~~~                  1414 0        a,- .OM                   G
L.          M                                                              =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'      '       
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g
5.~~
CA                                                      a              >~~~~~~~~~~
en M                   go 
go                -&        a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-C>O
I                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~-.
- -9,
C.) 
( 2 . 
El                                                             C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0C
C i                                                                                    m
0  C
24
'401
,0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
C0
C0
0 1   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...-- - - - - - . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . ..-



0  a -
o                                       m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c      
k  9- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~    
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I3.
o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~~~~ 00 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-u-u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-.  '~~~~  I
L~~~~~~
0
4,0 0
NU                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-4
I                       _   _   _       _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ... .......    ......    .......    .... 
I   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ao..........---  ..........
_           - Cfli0~~~~~~~~~4
-u o                                        -jmU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I)4%
Ii~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....................................
ol XaNNV    99 -~      ~ ~ ~ ~               IG



Todbook Approval:          Purchase textbooks                                                      AwiSbiy
Scwoltyr 97/9              Sdhooyr 9719                                 Pn      oofdbackan          1095      b27
10/3/95    JQ4M9            V/5       ,Yj7119                                      /29
/     ^              .    ~~~~~~~~~DM-bnlt to KarnwX
Coffmmit  soliclb tWes     Evaltats titles                  Makesna seWcUion         _
hbr bvw                _                                                                Y99  WM
10@96    F1/2-7-           121195    I11/9                      6     1496
IE  Pq t             I =*
W,M       p7M    IEWbY MOEC wd 
78|Mfl6  by MOEC .n
Bank prv
IPdrntbooh 1
|RoW bodt In hdwu|
WM47    ,tMW            



Pr.ldes %b.K* Vand
Commfee soki Wdes                   Evaluates                      M           secn            Dsbtes Ist to Kww1s
review~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rvewb OCm
11/10/97    P MM117197   -                                    _7 _7
131f97    fW                        14
|Ewb b_ 
1297          7       ]
m R   yMOEC and
Bank appmvd
WWQa7    17/17/97     L
Bakappr><I
8/15197    1/1598                   1
RePe booah ks
i2s                  1
1/16/9  Pa                                    z



Textbook Approval:         Purchase textbooks:
Schootyr 990               Srcho tyre9900                          iPrksfeR                                                                         bedback and
8/1/97  11/30/98   814897    ,bl26199                    numaunrourid
11i1089i_ _ _ _ 119/9
Dh   .    |D   liSt to Kanwtn |
/   M     final selection  1_12/98 _
Ifor review                             1 e|                12Q2M97   t                1/12/98   |1/30by                          C
rinsort  bl
Start tbird year poe 
8/1197    B/17 Reo_wm K=817
a/4197    8/8197                                                     |jrwete b     I sol
Evahkd proposabs
4/27/98   ,ti2298       Ban Revbw v byMEC and
|P epre contmct         5Qt8      ,198
98la                pl171998
aReview by MOEC and
Bank approval
7/20/98    ,/48
Print bookr
Receive   St/C59
1/1 8/99   W326/99 1



;IG     - 'u' :l                                                 uon 
ComtesolicKs tKbs      Evaluates tKtles                          Mksfnlselection             Dlstribues list to KanvAls
for review__
. 4o98 tn ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1s /1 I 19l11m /1 2M                                      WI/9
Start foujrther mes
SeWc short list
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8498  2NIO9 81
Ilnvibe bids
|Evakbse proos        l
4/27M9    ,15241S8    1_
Reb  yMOEC and
Bank approval
Prepare contract      rsss            |/19
162299     P/'9Mg 
RvebyMOEC and    l
Prirvt books ~Ban approval
18117/99    11/17/00
|Receive books In schools|
I /1/0 &OO   27/00



Book Cantw       
9/1/95     16117/99
Pmpwe Boo Cenbr sbff                                                                                     Pubish  htn
Itrhnk  progr m
911/95    rZ19                         |ConuctW"hp                                                   5/4        P2
\                   ^~~~~~5124M  WnQ7
Book bahirrgi
training_                                            PubbshNevslettrX 
I1\ 524/95 
I  \                       1FZ ~~~~~~~~~year                         1123         MI
;       \~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Secornd edWc n
W496-~~|tWf W/17n9    I               15r2M5 16O/6
Book lnfomiabm    Develop Pmeadures  DistrbAe ~ ~ ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ;
System~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Indonesia
Book and Reading Development Project
Organization of the Ministry of Education and Culture
[                 ~~~~~Minstry of Education|
|                    ~~~~~~and Cul tume
Inspector-ae                 IOffice of Educational                              Secretariat
Genwpectrate                                & Cultural Research                                General
& Developc at _t
Center forBook          Grpic 
Technology          e         C          OtI
Admiistafon
Bureau
|Directorate General of   ||Directoratc G:nmal  ||Directomate General                                                   ||DirectorateGanmal
Education                                              Educaltion                                    Youth, Sports                 Culture
S      a SecrdariatSecreaSetriat
[ i1          1    A     1    1t1               ;;    2    | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Provincial OtI ces Min. of|   ecoas                etrts 
Directorate of    D Iretrt of  Drcoaeof    4 other                      4         P4oiDcalOffcesMmtof5s
Prim Educ.  Seco   duc.    duc. Facilities  Drectoate       Directorates    Educ. & Culture (Kanwil)
PH  nea prvic



INDONESIA
Book and Reading Development Project
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                       Totals Including Contingencies
Rp                                                                   USS
1995/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99   1999/00        Total       1995/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99   1999/00        Total
A. Improv.Textbook Avail.
1. SD Textbooks                       0.0  100000.0  100000.0  100000.0  100000.0  400000.0              0.0       45.6       45.6      45.6       45.6      182.4
2. SLTP Textbooks                     0.0   59005.8   94212.1   90053.1   71185.7  314456.7               0.0      26.9       43.0      41.1       32.5      143.4
3. ApprovaL Process                 577.6      779.9     627.3      654.9       92.6    2732.3            0.3       0.4        0.3        0.3       0.0        1.2
4. Book Center                      344.6    2440.5    2346.3    2099.2    1903.6    9134.2               0.2       1.1        1.1        1.0       0.9        4.2
Sub-TotaL                              922.2  162226.2  197185.6  192807.2  173181.9  726323.2               0.4      74.0       89.9       87.9      79.0      331.2         b
B. Reading Promotion                  2434.5    5277.3    3500.3    1806.7        608.3   13627.1            1.1        2.4       1.6        0.8        0.3       6.2
C. Teacher Education                   101.5      796.0      769.4     740.0      766.1    3173.0            0.0       0.4        0.4        0.3        0.3       1.4
D. Monitoring & Evaluation               4.3      549.4      573.9    1456.0      626.6    3210.2            0.0        0.3       0.3        0.7        0.3       1.5
E. Project Management
1. PIU                             1416.9    1939.9    2030.0    2124.5    2223.6    9734.8              0.6        0.9        0.9        1.0       1.0        4.4
2. PlUs                            3073.3    4615.4    4833.0    5061.2    5300.6   22883.5               1.4       2.1        2.2        2.3       2.4       10.4
Sub-Total                             4490.2    6555.2    6863.0    7185.7    7524.2   32618.3               2.0       3.0        3.1        3.3       3.4       14.9
Total PROJECTS COSTS                  7952.8  175404.1  208892.3  203995.7  182707.0  778951.8               3.6      80.0       95.3       93.0      83.3      355.2
Values Scaled by 1000000.0
z
z
m
A)



INDONESIA
Book and Reading Devetopment Project
Suamary Accounts by Year
Totals IncLuding Contingencies                                      Totats Including Contingencies
Rp                                                                  USS
1995/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99   1999/00       Totat       1995/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99   1999/00        Totat
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Teaching haterials
1. SD Textbooks                      0.0  100000.0  100000.0  100000.0  100000.0  400000.0              0.0      45.6       45.6       45.6      45.6      182.4
2. SLTP textbooks                     0.0   59005.8   94212.1   90053.1   71185.7  314456.7             0.0      26.9       43.0       41.1      32.5      143.4
3. Handbooks/Directories           1639.9    3050.8    1532.4    1596.8    1664.1    9484.0             0.7        1.4       0.7        0.7       0.8        4.3
4. Promotional Materials            143.2    3611.1    3696.4    2546.7    1374.3   11371.7             0.1        1.6       1.7        1.2       0.6        5.2
Sub-Total                             1783.1  165667.6  199440.9  194196.6  174224.1  735312.4             0.8       75.5      90.9       88.6      79.4      335.3
B. Overseas Training                     0.0     234.1      355.0       75.3       0.0      664.5          0.0        0.1       0.2        0.0       0.0        0.3
C. Local Training
1. In-country Training             583.2      670.6     661.5       60.2        0.0    1975.5           0.3       0.3        0.3        0.0       0.0        0.9
2. Workshops                       663.9      534.5      308.8     318.7      278.5    2104.2           0.3        0.2       0.1        0.1       0.1        1.0
Sub-Total                             1247.1    1205.1      970.2     378.9      278.5    4079.7           0.6        0.5       0.4        0.2       0.1        1.9
D. Technical Assistance
1. Local                          1755.2    3892.6    3863.5    4890.6    3724.4   18126.4              0.8        1.8       1.8        2.2       1.7        8.3
2. Foreign                         237.8      487.4      166.5     170.7        0.0    1062.3           0.1        0.2       0.1        0.1       0.0        0.5
Sub-Total                             1993.0    4380.0    4030.0    5061.3    3724.4   19188.8             0.9        2.0        1.8       2.3        1.7       8.8
E. Project Manage. Support            1902.9    1815.9    1897.1    1982.1    2071.1    9669.0             0.9        0.8       0.9        0.9       0.9        4.4
F. Incre. Operating Costs             1026.7    2101.3    2199.0    2301.5    2408.9   10037.4             0.5        1.0       1.0        1.0        1.1       4.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                   7952.8  175404.1  208892.3  203995.7  182707.0  778951.8             3.6       80.0      95.3       93.0      83.3      355.2
Values Scaled by 1000000.0
2
m
x



INDONESIA
Book and lading Devepa nt Project
Sumamry Accomt by ProJect Coapcnent
Rp
Monitori                                           Physical          Price
SD       SLTP                         Reading   Teacher   nig                                             Contingencies     Contingencle
Textbook  Textbook Approval    Book    Prootio  Educatlo Evalu ti                                          .................................
s         a      Process   Center       n         n        an        PHU      PlUs           TotaL        X     Anount      X   Anoint
1. IMNESTIENT COSTS
A. Teaching Materials
1. SD Textbooks                   400000          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0       400000          0         0       0         0
2. SLTP textbooks                       0    235384         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        235384        10    23538       24     55534
3. HNncbooks/Directories                0         0         0      5185      303b         0         0         0         0          8215         5       411      10       859
4. Pranwtional Materials                0         0         0         0      7075      2737         0         0         0          9812         5       491      11      1069
Sib-totaL                           400000    235384         0      5185     10105      2737         0         0         0        653411         4     24440       9     57461
B. Overseas Training                     0         0         0       599         0         0         0         0         0           599         5        30       6        36
C. Local Training
1. In-country Training                  0         0         0       312      1440         0         0         0         0          1752         5        88       8       136
2. Uorkshops                            0         0         0       683       450         0         0       700         0          1833         5        92      10       180
Sub-total                                0         0         0       995      1890         0         0       700         0          3585         5       179       9       316
D. Technical Assistance
1. Local                                0         0      2007        60         0         0      2664      4500      6075         15306         4       644      14      2177
2. Foreign                              0         0       373       596         0         0         0         0         0           969         5        48       5        45
Sib-total                                0         0      2380       656         0         0      2664      4500      6075         16275         4       692      14      2221
E. Project manage. Support               0         0         0       130         0         0         0      2451      5670          8251         5       413      12      1005
F. Iicre, Operating Costs                0         0         0       225         0         0         0       570      7776          8571         3       283      14      1184
Total BASELINE COSTS                400000    235384      2380      7789     11995      2737      2664      8221     19521        690692         4     26037       9     62223
Physical Continencies                  0     23538       119       389       600       137       133       411       709         26037
Price Contingencies                    0     55534       233       955      1032       299       413      1103      2654         62223         9      5330
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  .. .... ....  _... ... ... ...  _... ....  _.... ..... __..... ... ...
Total PROJECT COSTS                 400000    314457      2732      9134     13627      3173      3210      9735     22884        778952         4     31367       8    62223
*----- -^==w ---  Ss=sXX--Xsts"-w-X--==X -  SS--s =sXUusaa'                                 n... W=z==Bs=sS=SgSS=sw-- ...g--- 
Tes                                    0         0         0         0       370       262         0         0         0           632         5        30
Foreign Exchae                     40000     28461       618      3173      4037      1530       590      1188      2339         81937         4      3229
Values Stated by 1000000.0
p
N
N



INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs by Component and by Responsible Organizatlonal Unit
(Including contingencies)
(US$ thousand)
Organizatonal units       Improving Textbook Availability                                          Project Management
responsible for                   and quality                   Reading   Teacher   Monitoring                                 Tot al
implementaton       SD        SLTP      Approval      Book      promot-  education      and
textbooks  textbooks    process     center      ion                evaluation    PMU         PlUs       Amount       %
Kanwil Offices
DKI Jakarta              6,507      8.138       -            -                    -          -                      386       15,032      4.2
West Java               34,321     25,982                        -                           -                      386       60,690     17.1
Central Java            26,985     20,333                         -          -               -          -           386       47,705     13.4
Yogyakarte               2,286       2,704                             -           -               -                 388       5,376      1.5
EastJava                27,622     20,816       -            -          -         -                     -           386       48,825     13.7
DI Aceh                  4,179      3,198       -            -          -                    -          -           386        7,764      2.2
North Sumatra           12,705      11,995            -                -          -                -                386       25,086      7.1
West Sumatra             4,264       4,069             -          -               -          -                      386        8,719      2.5
Riau                     4,223      3,526                                    -               -                      386        8,135      2.3
Jambl                    2,992       1,897                  -                -               -          -            386       5,276      1.5
South Sumatra            6,929       5,333             -          -          -               -          -            386      12,648      3.6
8engkulu                 1,390       1,007      -            -          -         -          -          -           386        2,784      0.8
Lampung                  6,193      4,223             -           -               -          -          -           386       10,803      3.0
West Kalimantan          4.034      2,880              -          -          -               -          -           388        7,300      2.1
Central Kalimantan       1,808       1,042      -            -          -         -          -          -           386        3,236      0.9
South Kalimantan         3,066      2,204              -                -         -          -          -            386       5,657      1.6
East Kalimantan          2,494      2,205                   -          -                     -          -           386        5,085      1.4
North Sulawesi           2,196       1,812      -                       -                                           386        4,395      1.2
Central Sulawesi         1,952       1,107      -            -          -         -          -          -           386        3,445      1.0
South Sulawesi           6,774      5,126              -          -          -          -               -            386      12,286      3.5
Southeast Sulawesi       1,778       1,337      -            -          -         -          -          -            386       3,502      1.0
Maluku                   4,212      2,963             -                 -         -          -          -           386        7,562      2.1
Ball                     2,216      2,007                    -          -         -          -          -           386        4,609      1.3
West Nusa Tenggara       3.431      2,626       -            -          -         -          -          -           386        6,444      1.8
East Nusa Tenggara       3,922      2,116       -            -          -                    -          -           386        6,425      1.8
Irian Jaya               3,202      2,253       -                       -         -          -          -            386       5,841      1.6
East Timor                 717        491       -            -          -         -          -          -           386        1,595      0.4
Subtotal        182.399    143,391           0           0         0          0          0          0      10 435     336 224     94.7
Directorate General for      0          0        1 246       4.165     6.214      1.447      1.464      4.439 b       0       18 974      53
Prim.& Sec. Ed., MOEC                                                                                                                               >
z
z
TOTAL /a         182,399    143.391       1.246        4.165    6.214       1.447      1.464      4.439     10.435     355 199    100         m
a Some totalc may not a Id up due to rounding   /b                                                                            x
/a Some totals may not add upduestorounding.          lb Includes $2 million of consultant services to assist Kanwil PiUs.                          i



INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs by Component and by Responsible Organizational Unit
(including contingencies)
(Rp. million)
Organizational units      Improving Textbook Availability                                           Project Management
responsible for                   and quality                    Reading   Teacher   Monitoring                                 T o t a I
implementation      SD         SLTP      Approval      Book      Promot-  Education      and
textbooks  textbooks    process      center      Ion                Evaluation   PMU          PlUs       Amount       %
Kanwil Offices
DKI Jakarta              14,270     17,847       -           -           -         -          -           -           848       32,965      4.2
WestJava                 75,266     56,979             -                 -         -          -           -           848      133,093     17.1
Central Java             59,178     44,591       -           -           -         -          -                       848      104,616     13.4
Yogyakarta                5,014      5,929       -            -          -         -           -                      848       11,790      1.5
East Java                60,575     45,650       -           -           -         -          -           -           848      107,072     13.7
Dl Aceh                   9,164      7,014       -           -           -         -          -           -           848       17,026      2.2
North Sumatra            27,862     26,305       -           -           -         -          -           -           848       55,014      7.1
West Sumatra              9,350      8,923       -           -           -         -          -           -           848       19,121      2.5
Riau                      9,260      7,733       -           -           -         -          -                       848       17,841      2.3
Jambi                     6,562      4,161       -            -          -         -           -          -           848       11,570      1.5
South Sumatra            15,195     11,695             -           -          -          -                -           848       27,738      3.6
Bengkulu                  3,049      2,209       -           -           -         -          -           -           848        6,105      0.8
Lampung                  13,581      9,261       -                       -         -          -           -           848       23,690      3.0
West Kalimantan           8,846      6,316       -           -           -         -          -           -           848       16,009      2.1        cr
Central Kalimantan        3,965      2,284             -           -               -          -           -           848        7,097      0.9
South Kalimantan          6,723      4,834       -            -          -         -           -          -           848       12,405      1.6
East Kalimantan           5,468      4,835       -            -          -         -           -          -           848       11,151      1.4
North Sulawesi            4,816      3,974       -           -           -         -          -           -           848        9,637      1.2
Central Sulawesi          4,280      2,427       -           -           -         -          -           -           848        7,555      1.0
South Sulawesi           14,856     11,241             -           -          -          -                -           848       26,944      3.5
Southeast Sulawesi        3,900      2,932                   -          -                -                -           848        7,679      1.0
Maluku                    9,238      6,499       -           -           -         -          -           -           848       16,584      2.1
Bali                      4,860      4,401       -           -           -         -          -           -           848       10,108      1.3
West NusaTenggara         7,525      5,760       -           -           -         -          -           -           848       14,132      1.8
East Nusa Tenggara        8,602      4,641             -           -          -               -           -           848       14,091      1.8
Irian Jaya                7,022      4,940       -           -           -         -           -          -           848       12,809      1.6
East Timor                1,572      1,078       -           -           -         -          -           -           848        3,498      0.4
Subtotal        400.000    314,456           0            0         0          0          0          0      22,884     737.340     94.7
Directorate General for      0          0        2,732        9,134    13.627      3,173      3,210      9.735          _       41,611      5.3
Prm.& Sec. Ed., MOEC
TOTAL /a         400,000    314,456        2,732       9,134    13,627      3.173       3.210      9.735     22,884     778.951    100.0        z
z
x
/a Some totals may not add up due to rounding.         /b Includes Rp. 4,506 million of consultant services to assist Kanwil PlUs.                     _
MG



INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure and by Responsible Organizational Unit
(including contingencies)
(USS thousand)
Category of Expenditure
Budget allocation and                           Educational              Local                 Project   Incrementa           T o t a I
procurement decisions      SD          SLTP      promotional Overseas   training/   Technical  manage-   operating
textbooks    textbooks    materials   training   workshops  assistance    ment     costs         Amount       %
Kanwil Offices
DKI Jakarta                   6,507        8,138                                         121        112          154       15,032      4.2
West Java                    34,321       25,982                  -                      121        112          154       60,690     17.1
Central Java                 26,985       20,333                  -                      121        112          154       47,705     13.4
Yogyakarta                    2,286        2,704       -          -          -           121        112          154        5,376      1.5
East Java                    27,622      20,816        -                                 121        112          154      48,824      13.7
DiAceh                        4,179        3,198       -          -          -           121        112          154        7,764      2.2
North Sumatra                12,705       11,995       -          -          -           121        112          154       25,086      7.1
West Sumatra                  4,264        4,069       -          -          -           121        112          154        8,719      2.5
Riau                          4,223       3,526        -          -          -           121        112          154       8,135       2.3
Jambi                         2,992        1,897       -          -          -           121        112          154        5,276      1.5
South Sumatra                 6,929        5,333       -          -                      121        112          154       12,648      3.6
Bengkulu                      1,390        1,007       -          -          -           121        112          154        2,784      0.8
Lampung                       6,193        4,223       -          -                      121        112          154       10,803      3.0
West Kalimantan               4,034        2,880            -                -           121        112          154        7,300      2.1
Central Kalimantan            1,808        1,041                  -          -           121        112          154        3,236      0.9
South Kalimantan              3,066       2,204             -                -           121        112          154        5,657      1.6
East Kalimantan               2,494       2,205                   -          -           121        112          154        5,085      1.4
North Sulawesi                2,196        1,812            -                -           121        112          154        4,395      1.2
Central Sulawesi              1,952        1,107       -          -          -           121        112          154        3,445      1.0
South Sulawesi                6,774        5,126       -          -          -           121        112          154       12,286      3.5
Southeast Sulawesi            1,778        1,337       -          -          -           121        112          154        3,502      1.0
Maluku                        4,212        2,964       -          -          -           121        112          154        7,562      2.1
Ball                          2,216       2,007        -          -          -           121        112          154        4,609      1.3
West Nusa Tenggara            3,431        2,627       -          -          -           121        112          154        6,444      1.8
East Nusa Tenggara            3,922       2,116        -          -          -           121        112          154        6,425      1.8
Irian Jaya                    3,202        2,253       -          -          -           121        112          154        5,841      1.6
EastTimor                       717         492        -          -                      121        112          154        1,595      0.4
Subtotal             182399      143,391           0         0          0       3 266      3.021        4,147     336.224     94.7
Directorate General for           0           0        9 510       303       1 860      5,484 l    1,388         430       18,975      5.3
Prim.& Sec. Ed., MOEC
TOTAL /a             182.399      143,391       9,510       303       1,860      8.750      4.409       4,577      355.199    1000z
m
/a Some totals may not add up duestorounding.   /b Includes$S3.5million ot consultant services to assist Kanwil PlUs andtfor monitoring &evaluaton.  x
N.



INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure and by Responsible Organizational Unit
(including contingencies)
(Rp. million)
Categor of Expenditure
Budget allocation and                          Educational             Local                Project   Incremental          T o t a I
procurement decisions     SD          SLTP      promotional Overseas   training/   Technical managemen1 operating
textbooks    textbooks    materials  training   workshops  assistance  support   costs        Amount       %
Kanwil Offices
DKI Jakarta                 14,270      17,847                  -                      265        245         337      32,965      4.2
West Java                   75,266      56,979       -          -                      265        245         337      133,092    17.1
Central Java                59,178      44,591                  -          -           265        245         337     104,616     13.4
Yogyakarta                    5,014       5,929      -          -          -           265        245         337       11,790     1.5
East Java                   60,575      45,650       -          -                      265        245         337     107,072     13.7
Dl Aceh                      9,164       7,014       -          -          -           265        245         337      17,026      2.2
North Sumatra               27,862      26,305       -          -          -           265        245         337      55,014      7.1
West Sumatra                 9,350       8,923       -          -                      265        245         337      19,121      2.5
Riau                         9,260       7,733             -               -           265        245         337      17,841      2.3
Jambi                        6,562       4,161       -          -                      265        245         337      11,570      1.5
South Sumatra                15,195      11,695                 -          -           265        245         337      27,737      3.6
Bengkulu                     3,049       2,209       -          -          -           265        245         337       6,105      0.8
Lampung                      13,581      9,261             -               -           265        245         337      23,690      3.0          x
West Kalimantan              8,846       6,316                                         265        245         337      16,009      2.1
Central Kalimantan            3,965      2,284       -          -          -           265        245         337       7,097      0.9
South Kalimantan             6,723       4,834       -                     -           265        245         337      12,405      1.6
East Kalimantan              5,468       4,835       -          -          -           265        245         337      11,151      1.4
North Sulawesi               4,816       3,974       -          -          -           265        245         337       9,637      1.2
Central Sulawesi              4,280      2,427       -          -          -           265        245         337       7,555      1.0
South Sulawesi               14,856     11,241                  -          -           265        245         337      26,944      3.5
Southeast Sulawesi           3,900       2,932       -          -          -           265        245         337       7,680      1.0
Maluku                       9,238       6,499       -          -          -           265        245         337       16,584     2.1
Bali                         4,860       4,401       -          -          -           265        245         337      10,108      1.3
West Nusa Tenggara            7,525      5,760       -          -          -           265        245         337       14,132     1.8
East Nusa Tenggara           8,602       4,641       -          -          -           265        245         337      14,091      1.8
Irian Jaya                   7,022       4,940       -          -                      265        245         337      12,809      1.6
East Timor                   1,572       1,078       -          -          -           265        245         337       3,498      0.4
Subtotal            400,000     314,456           0         0          0      7 163      6,626       9.095     737.340     94.7
Directorate General for          0           0       20,856      665      4,080      12.026 b   3,043         942      41.611      5.3
Prim.& Sec. Ed., MOEC
TOTAL /a             400,000     314456       20,856      665       4,080     19,189      9,669      10.037     778.951    100.0          Z
z
m
/a Some totals may not add updue to rounding.  /b Includes Rp. 7,716 million of consultants' services to assist Kanwil PILUs and for monioring & evaluation..  x



- 79-                             ANNEX 13
INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$ million)
Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year   Amount per           Cumulative        Disbursement profile /a
semester       Amount       %                    %
--------(US$ million)-----------------
1996
1                  2.0            2.0         2             0
2                   1.0            3.0         2             1
1997
1                  4.0            7.0         5             3
2                   8.0           15.0        11             6
1998
1                 15.0           30.0        23             14
2                  15.0           45.0        34            22
1999
1                 19.5           64.5        49            34
2                  19.5           84.0        63            46
2000
1                 19.5          103.5        78            58
2                  19.5          123.0        93            70
2001
1                  9.5          132.5        100           78
Expected Effectiveness Date:   October 1995
Project Completion Date:       April 1, 2000
Project Closing Date:          October 1, 2000
/a Latest standard disbursement profile for education projects in Indonesia dated
August 1993.



- 80-                      ANNEX 14
INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECr MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Introduction
This plan is designed to monitor progress toward the following:
* How well teachers, parents and administrators understand the objectives and
procedures of the system.
* How effectively books are distributed to schools.
* How effectively teachers and students use them in classrooms.
There is a compelling body of research evidence that suggests a positive qualitative
effect on the achievement of children when good textbooks are available to each and every
student in a classroom. It is further accepted that the availability of supplementary reading
materials in houses and libraries is positively correlated with enhanced learning in school
subjects. These positive relationships seem easily explained on three levels; their impact
on student behavior, on teachers and parents and on the local school environment.
As far as students are concerned, the presence and ready availability of attractive
and interesting text-books and supplementary reading materials make it possible for self-
motivated and interested students to advance their own learning. Even in the presence of
poor or ineffective teaching, well designed books can become self-instructional tools and
useful learning aids.
Interested parents can use these same materials to encourage their children in
developing good learning habits and motivating them to enrich and extend their school
experiences.
Well designed textbooks, and available library and "reading corner" materials,
often can help even poorly trained teachers perform more effectively. Well structured
lessons, adequate exercises for drill and practice and clear teachers' guides can be of
enormous assistance in improving the performance of even the better trained and
experienced teachers by suggesting new and improved pedagogical techniques.
Finally, a school that is filled with good, attractive learning materials, with
sufficient copies for each student and with a rich array of supplemental reading materials,
is clearly a place dedicated to teaching and learning. The children and adults who occupy
that building have access to the tools to accomplish a great deal.



- 81-                       ANNEX 14
In order for these good effects to occur, three essential goals must be met:
*  Parents, teachers, school and regional administrators must understand and appreciate
the objectives of the program and how the "system" functions.
*  Books and teachers' guide must be delivered to schools in a timely and efficient
manner and in sufficient number so that each student has access to personal copies.
*  Books and teachers' guide must be in the hands of students and teachers and used
appropriately as learning tools.
Proposed Monitoring Process
The proposed process would consist of two separate activities:  ongoing
monitoring from the regular school reports and annual visits to a randomly selected
number of schools for on-site inspection.
Indicator #1: How well teachers, parents and administrators understand the new system
(a)   Ongoing monitoring
Add 1-5 questions to Information Center's Annual School Report concerning the
new system. These questions would push teachers' and principals' understanding of how
the new selection system is designed to function, how to order books, how to prepare
parents and students for the new textbooks and library materials, etc.
These reports are aggregated at the district and provincial levels and are sent to
Jakarta (the Information Center) with about a 90 percent response rate.
Using existing information on school characteristics, these findings can be reported
annually by categories of schools and regions, e.g., rural vs. urban, private vs. public, Java
vs. other, etc.
(b)   Visits to schools
Select a sample of 120 SDs and 60 SLTPs from which national data could be
estimated. Select and train interviewers/observers who would each visit several schools
each year to:
(a)   Interview principals, teachers and parents, asking specific questions about
the new textbooks, how well they are liked, if they seem to be helpful,
problems with selection, ordering, deliveries, etc.
(b)   Interview a small number of students asking similar questions.
(c)   Observe and report activities of two or three classroom sessions involving
textbooks and library materials.



- 82-                      ANNEX 14
The interviewers' reports would be analyzed and reported by categories of schools
(e.g., urban vs. rural, etc.) and reports of findings prepared. These findings would be
compared to those reported in the School Reports and discrepancies noted.
Visits to schools should be made unannounced and the activity should be done by
an independent organization. For example universities or teacher training colleges could
be contracted for this purpose.
Indicator #2: How effectively books are distributed to schools
(a)   On-going Monitoring
Each shipment of books to a Province, a district and a school, will include a simple
self-addressed, postage-paid post-card which will provide the following information:
* date books received;
* condition upon arrival;
* sufficient quantity or not.
The returned cards would be sent directly to the Information Center where they
would be collected and the data analyzed and reported by categories of schools and
regions of the country, on a quarterly basis.
(b)   Visits to schools
Interviewers described above, during their visits to sampled schools (120 SDs and
120 SLTPs) would ask teachers and principals a small number of questions about
deliveries, inspect damaged books and report findings.
indicator #3: How effectively students use their textbooks and the reading materials
(a)   Annual reporting
Add 1-5 questions to Information Center's Annual School Report, concering
teachers' and school principals' perceptions of the appropriateness and effectiveness of
student usage of textbooks. Other questions would probe sufficiency of quantities and
impressions of positive or negative effects.
Resources will have to be provided to the Information Center to extract these data
from the School Reports, analyze the responses and to report the findings according to
categories of schools and regions of the country.
(b)   Visits to schools
Interviewers described earlier, during their visits to sampled SDs and SLTPs, will
observe students and teachers during classes using textbooks.



- 83-                      ANNEX 14
During these observations, they will complete standardized observation check-lists.
In addition, they will interview teachers and students about the impact of text
books on the leaming environment of the classroom. These reports will be analyzed and
findings will be reported by categories of schools and regions of the country.
Mid-level findings may be used to alter or supplement project activities. Fnal
findings will describe how well objectives have been met.



- 84 -                     ANNEX 15
INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECr IMPLEMENTATIoN REPORTING AND SUPERvisION SCHEDULE
Introduction
1.    Project progress reporting to the Bank will be on a semi-annual cycle. The half-
yearly progress report will cover the project status (physical progress, financial and
performance status) and will include status of the performance indicators. The progress
report will be prepared in advance of the half-yearly supervision missions from the
Bank. In this Annex, the details of this reporting process are described.
Project Performance Monitoring Indicators
2.    The performance status of the project will be monitored through performance
indicators. Project performance will be monitored on the basis of several types of
indicators:
(a)   Performance Monitoring Against Milestones and Due Dates of
Implementation Plan
Annex 11 gives detailed information on the milestones and tasks that
need to be carried out. At each supervision, these will be reviewed, their
status evaluated, and the plan updated to reflect progress. The updated
version of the CPM Implementation Plan would indicate actual vs
planned implementation and show adjustments made accordingly.
(b)   Quantitative Indicators
In each progress report and at each supervision, the indicators as listed in
Table 1 will be reviewed. The actual against planned data will be filled
out by the PMU, and will be discussed during supervision.
(c)   Qualitative Indicators
At each supervision, an evaluation will be undertaken by the supervision
team of progress regarding several qualitative indicators. The PMU will
mention, in its progress report, the status of these indicators, which will
then form the basis for the supervision discussion. For each indicators,
specific evidence of progress should be provided.  Table 2 shows
indicators and reporting format.



-85-                       ANNEX1S
Format of Progress Report
3.    The half-yearly progress report should be organized in the following way and
should include the following sections:
*     A narrative section describing progress of each of the components. Issues that
have arisen, problems, delays, suggested changes, decisions that were made
should be included in this section under the relevant component.
*     An update on the indicators, as listed above: actual status against planned
implementation; quantitative indicators; qualitative indicators.
*     A section listing the recommendations and agreements made during the last
Bank supervision mission and actions or present position, six months later.
*     A list of all contract activities expected during the next year.
*     A set of tables covering the following:
Expenditures to date (SAR plan and current status) shown in two ways: by
category of expense and by component.
Training activities: (SAR plan and current status) listing number and type of
training courses; number of participants; duration of each course; cost of each
course.
Status of Technical Assistance contracts (foreign and local):  number of
personmonths planned and currently used. Costs of contracts and status of
disbursement.
O     If available, a report from the auditing consultants.
Supervision Schedule
4.    Supervision  missions will be held twice a year, during  the project
implementation period. At mid-term, the mid-term review mission will consist of a
more thorough review. The mission will consist, each time, of at least one book
specialist and one educator. The planned mission schedule is listed in Table 3.



- 86-                               ANNEX 15
Table 1
INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
QUANTITATIVE PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
FY95196*        FY96/97        FY97/98          FY98/99         FY99/00
Perfornance Indicators      Plamed  Actual  Planned Actual  Planned Acul   Plamed  ActOL   Planned  A1ual
Number of Textbooks Purchased
by province
by grade
Newsletter Published
Directories Published
Book Information System Issues
Published
Book Center Training Staff
(in months)
Book Center Workshops
Carried Out
Reading/Writing Workshops
Carried Out



-87-                            ANNEX 15
Table 2
INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
QUALITATIVE PERFORMANCE MONrrORING INDICATORS
Indicators                 Current Status           Planned Future Actions
Textbooks
Kanwil staff can select textbooks
from a shortlist
Private publishers can compete
freely for textbooks purchased by
the province
Children in schools have more
textbooks available in the
classroom
Teachers use textbooks in an
imaginative fashion
Textbooks have little or no gender
bias
Textbook quality is improving,
with textbooks being more
pedagogical and giving better
information
Book Center has taken on a more
leading and advisory role
regarding books in schools
Reading Promotion
Evidence of greater conumunity
involvement in reading
Greater availability of good
children's books on the market
Achievement Impact *
Changes in Retention Rate *
Changes in Dropout Rate *
Changes in Achievement Tests *
* These indicators will not show any differences in the initial years of the project, but may
be worth monitoring towards the end of the project period.



- 88 -                          ANNEX 15
Table 3
INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PLANNED SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
Timing             Length         Type of Mission     Team Composition
(weeks)
1.   September 1995           2        Start-up              Economist
Book specialist
Educator
2.   March 1996               2        Full supervision      Book specialist
Educator
3.   September 1996           2        Annual review         Book specialist
Educator
Implementation
specialist (RSI)
4.   March 1997               2        Full supervision      Book specialist
Educator
5.   September 1997           2        Annual review         Book specialist
Educator
Implementation
specialist (RSI)
6.   March 1998               3        Mid-term review       Economist
Book specialist
Educator
Implementation
specialist (RSI)
7.   September 1998           2        Full supervision      Book specialist
Educator
8.   March 1999               2        Full Supervision      Book specialist
Educator
9.   September 1999           2        Full supervision      Book specialist
Educator
10.  March 2000               2       Annual review          Book specialist
Educator
11.  September 2000           2       Final supervision      Economist
ICR preparation       Book specialist
Educator
Implementation
specialist (RSI)



- 89 -                       ANNEX 16
INDONESIA
BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECrED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE m THE PRWECr FILES
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
A 1  Suryadi, Ace, Improving the Educafional Quality of Primary Schools. Jakarta:
Department of Education and Culture, 1982.
A.2  Jiyono and Ace Suryadi, 'The Planning, Sampling and Some Preliminary Results of
the Indonesian Repeat 9th Grade Survey." Evaluation in FducafionA Vol. 6, pp 5-30,
1982.
A.3  Jiyono and Johnstone, 'The Influence of Out of School Factors on the Determination
of Achievement Levels in the Indonesian Language." Journal ofMultilingual and
MulticulturalDevelopment. Vol. 4, No. 1, 1983.
A.4  Indonesia - Basic Education Study (Report No. 7841 -IND), IBRD, December 22,
1989.
A5 Indonesia - Public Expenditures, Prices and the Poor, IBRD, 1993
A6  Venesksy, Richard L. e.a. TowardDefiningLiteracy. Newark, DI: International
Reading Association, 1990.
A.7 Verspoor, Adriaan and Kim Bing Wu. Text Books and Fducational Development.
IBRD, December 1990.
A8  Lockheed, M. and Verspoor, A Improving Primary Education in Developing
Countries: A Review of Policy Options, IBRD, 1990.
A9 UNESCO. BasicEducation and Literacy, World Statistical Indicators, 1990.
A 10 Project Performance and Audit Report - Third Education Project (Cr. 387-IND) and
Second Textbook Project (Ln. 2102-IND), OED, April 15, 1992.
A.ll Elley, Warwick, B., "Lifiing literacy levels in third world schools: Some implications
from an IEA survey." Paper presented at Promoting Independent Reading Seminar,
World Bank, Washington D.C., December 11, 1992.



-90-                         ANNEX 16
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B. 1 DHV/Consultants BV, 'Analysis of the Communication and Information
Dissemination Environment"Aiuersfoort, 1993.
B.2 Opifer Ltd., 'Reading Materials Market Survey."Helsinki, 1993.
B.3  IIR, 'Reading and Teacher Training Study,"Arlington (VA), 1993.
B.4 Spector, Paul, Gunadi T., et al. 'A Qualitative Assessment of a Sample of Indonesian
Textbooks,"Arlington (VA), 1993.
B.5  Luwarsih, P., et al., 'School Library Survey,"Jakarta, 1993.
B.6 Murti P., et al. 'Training in Children's Authorship,"Jakarta, 1993.
B.7  Shugart, Christopher and Shaikh Hafeez, 'The Indonesian Book Industry,"
Washington D.C., 1993.
B.8  MOEC. Proposed Book and Reading Development Project. October 1994.
C. Working Papers
C. 1 Detailed Project Cost Tables.



INDONESIA
Book and Reading Development Project
Factors Affecting Reading Development
Reading           llSchool                                                                        Tetokarl
motivation         ll                                                                             used effectively &l
incorporated into    r   _Teachers                                                                   are integrated ini
teacher training                                                               lhelp        /the classroom\ 
- develop,\                                     |
I   haabits ogf           Students have      \
Effective link with                                                     l      students                opportunity &\
curriculum        llmotivation to read\                                                                                   \
l                             l                              ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~Textbooks   \
GOI measures        lAuthors                                           ldistributed evenly|\\
to deregulate                    write good                                                        &available free toK\\
publishing          \           books (text                                                         poor student     
industry      \|& reading)                                          |.\                                                         \
Reaonbl \                                          Efficient                                    Good reading                     hIldr\n   o
Reasonable &   I   \                    ~~~~~~~~~~distribution  I_                      books easily    _    |      |Cide   h
efficient               \system to                                                            _available in the   _               cn & will read
approval   _              \         r                  schools                                        school\
process of          P-ublisihersl /
books in           |produce                                          L   ------------
schools                    _good books          /                                  ----               -- __              L     / 
(text &    _ /                                                                                //
Quality ~ ~~              redig coto          retail-----lets                             [books available in 1    
of textboos||  o ks                                   s                                                 |village reading |1 
' | g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~everywvhere                                       ~l|corners l/ 
funds for    1 1|1                                                                                             
distribution                                                                                       PaMreadnts caneil buy
where industr                       Supply-Related Factors                                         redn materials         /
IGO[ commits                                                            l//                                                 l
I to promoting  |  I                                |   | P~~~~~~~~~~arent                        /
to promtng-tr                                                              0    support |_|Reading activities /             |t
|reading habits |                                                                 reading |      |     in home and                 
!                             |                          X                 0    0                                      a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cmunt
GOI                                    Industry                                   H ome & Community                                Outcome






IBRD 26860
`-L2%THAILAND                                                                                                   -                                                      .iNDONESIA
--         -           -  ~~BOOK AND READING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
'~~~~ ' '~~~~~~~~~                                         BRUNEL ~~~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPINES
BRUNEI                                                                                             5 ~~~632    PK8R.7A SCHOOLS9 ', Tn... -,so
MALAYSIA  ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      .-                                                                                   0       JUN0OR S00' .DAK~ SCHCOOLS T. -
-                                         /                                                                  .2                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROV.NCF CAP~TALS
K                              TA~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                           ~~ALAYSIA   )  A 780NA).2 CAPITAL
* 22                                                     P,~,,                                                                           M.o          /ROV'INCE 80L02I.R8 ES
N,.,-  -08--SINGAPORE                                                         -      'r-.~J                 U2                                             2---                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
7~~~~~~~~~@71
I  D K I,AKAR7A                                       607NGKA                   .                                                                                                                                                                       --' 
2  JA A BARAT                                                  N                             Pa,I. Ra,I.'A.'N
JAWATENGAil                              06,,,o                             27/.                                                                            25
4  TI 70074AA8T                     -                      '.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e                             I At                                              RA
5  A.ATIMJR                                             B  E21223,V UN"                                                         7                                   BuRt)                               J- 
6LAA,PUN0      8-,;.,                                                                                                                                                   -b- ~ LdK27                 -,                     0
B8NKAO NkA/S,-jTN@72
9  "IAU) Z08185.28''
20  2677                                                 37                                                          C..7'v;2-                       BL2TON
22I   SMTERA GARAT                        B-MOG 92       0  
2  SJMATERA0 04TAR
~~~3    E ~~~~~~~~~)~AKARTA                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C
3DI ACEI
5  KALI,772 TENAH 2_,7720
27  ".2M2A 1 NTIMU-                                                .1      3.              2'8'2                         2                       ~Q
22  841[ 
25                               .77822            77,9707-~                                                                                                         2'                       "'               .'                  2
26  IRANI 2878                    T        oLGop27  .208
-AUSTPALIA
4 24 1995   l h c             3 ,;-D                 0  












