LOAN NUMBER 3968 TH
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Highway Sector Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                      , 1996


﻿IDAN NUMBER 3968 TH
IDAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                , 1996 , between KINGDOM OF
THAILAND (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and
WHEREAS: the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follo::
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made:
(a)   on account of expenditures in the territories of
any country which is not a member of the Bank or for
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
territories; or
(b)   for the purpose of any payment to persons or
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by
a decision ol the United Nations Security Council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."


﻿-2-
(c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Action Plans" means:
(i)   the Borrower's Action Plan to Reduce Vehicle
Emissions and Noise Pollution dated August 27,
1991, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to
such action plan; and
(ii) the Borrower's Road Traffic Safety Action Plan
dated August 27, 1991, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to such action plan;
(b)   "MOTC" means the Ministry of Transport and Communica-
tions of the Borrower;
(c)   "MOSTE" means the Ministry of Science, Technology and
Environment of the Borrower;
(d)   "DPC"  means the   Department  of  Pollution  Control
established and operating within MOSTE pursuant to the Borrower's
National Environmental Quality Act of 1992;
(e)   "DOH" means the Department of Highways within MOTC;
(f)   "LTD" means the Department of Land Transport within
MOTC;
(g)   "APCU" means the Action Plans' Coordinating Unit
established and operating within the Policy and Planning Bureau of
MOTC;


﻿- 3 -
(h)   "fiscal  year" means   the  Borrower's  fiscal  year
commencing October I and ending September 30;
(i) "Seventh Highway Plan" means DOH's seventh highway plan
which sets out, inter alia, DOH's investment plan for the period
1992 to 1996, as the same may be amended from time to time, and also
includes any subsequent highway plan covering, inter alia,
investment plans for periods beyond 1996;
(i)   "Implementing Agencies" means the Borrower's agencies
responsible for Project implementation referred to under Part B of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(k)   "OEPP" means the Office of Environmental Policy and
Planning established and operating within MOSTE pursuant to the
Borrower's National Environmental Quality Act of 1992;
(1)   "Sub-project" and "Sub-projects" means singularly a sub-
project and collectively the sub-projects included in Part A of the
Project (Schedule 2 to this Agreement);
(m)   "Environmental  Assessment  Guidelines"   means  the
Borrower's policy framework and guidelines referred to under Part
C.1 of the Project (Schedule 2 to this Agreement); and
(n)   "Land  Acquisition,  Resettlement  and  Compensation
Guidelines" means the Borrower's policy framework and guidelines
referred to under Part C.2. of the Project (Schedule 2 to this
Agreement).
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate value
equivalent to the amount of one hundred fifty million dollars
($150,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this


﻿-4-
Agreement for expenditures made or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund:
(A) the Bank's investments; and


﻿- 5 -
(B) loans which may be made by the Bank after
July  1,   1989  bearing   interest  rates
determined otherwise than as provided in
paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c)   (iii)  'Quarter'  means  a  three-month  period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due


﻿-6-
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, administrative, financial and environmental practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)  prepare, on the basis of the guidelines acceptable to
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future
operation of the Project; and
(b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1996 and,
thereafter, by March 31 of each subsequent year until completion of
the Project:
(a)  carry out, jointly with the Bank, a progress review of
the scope and implementation of the Seventh Highway Plan and the
Action Plans; and
(b)  consult with the Bank with regard to the scope and
nature of activities to be carried out under the Action Plans in the
course of the following fiscal year, paying due regard to the
Bank's comments and recommendations.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(1)  have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than nine months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;


﻿-8-
(iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)  ensure that such    records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
togRther with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Action Plans shall have been amended, repealed or waived,
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Rama VI Road
Bangkok 10400
Kingdom of Thailand
Cable address:                Telex:
MINANCE                       82823 FISPOLO TH
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.              248423 (MCI),
64145 (MCI) or
82987 (TRT)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Categorv             Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
1. Civil works under
Part A of the Project     139,810,000      50%
2. Consultants' services       10,190,000      100%
and training
TOTAL                 150,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify, by notice to the Borrower for
the following expenditures:
(a)   contracts for works, not exceeding $15,000,000 each;
(b)   training; and
(c)   consultants' contracts not exceeding $100,000, each, for
consulting firms; and not exceeding $50,000 each, for individual
consultants.


﻿- 12 -
SCEULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to:
(a) improve safety, and mitigate the environmental impact, of its
road sub-sector; and (b) improve the quality of service of its road
network.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Increasing the Capacity of the Road Network
Carrying out of civil work Sub-projects for capacity
improvement, rehabilitation, and/or safety improvement of selected
sections of the road network, pursuant to the Seventh Highway Plan.
Part B: Improvinc the Institutional Capacity of DOH
Development and implementation of an action plan for the
financing of the expansion of the Borrower's highway network.
Part C: Improvinc the Borrower's Environmental Manacement Capacity
1.    Improving the institutional capacity of DOH's Environmental
Unit and OEPP to design and implement an environmental assessment
policy framework and guidelines to, inter alia:
(a)   carry out and review environmental impact assessments
for highway works;
(b)   design and implement appropriate environmental measures
to mitigate the negative impact of road transportation; and
(c)   monitor  and  evaluate  the   effectiveness  of  said
assessments and measures.
2.   Design of a policy framework and guidelines to assist DOH in
resolving land acquisition, resettlement and compensation issues
arising out of the planning, construction and operation of the
Borrower's highway network.


﻿- 13 -
Part D: Implementation of the Action Plans
1.    Improving the institutional capac.ty of the Implementing
Agencies to carry out the Action Plans, through the provision of
advisory services, equipment and training for the staff of said
Agencies.
2.    Monitoring of implementation, and periodic review of the scope
of the Action Plans.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning July 15, 2001
through July 15, 2012                     6,250,000
and on January 15, 2013                         6,250,000


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                      Premium
The  interest   rate
(expressed as a per-
centage per annum)
applicable  to   the
Loan on the day of
prepayment    multi-
plied by:
Not more than three years                          0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                          0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                            0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years before                     1.00
maturity


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Works
Part A: General
Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines)
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B: International Comvetitive Bidding
1.    Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5
of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to works to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a) Prequalification
Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project shall
be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9
and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b) Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equiva-
lent or more shall include the provisions for a dispute review board
set forth in the standard bidding documents for works referred to in
paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
Part C: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement P1anning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for
the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all works shall be


﻿- 17 -
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have
been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said para-
graph 1.
2.    Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $15,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedure set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2..   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to:
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or
(b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said
exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (i) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (ii) single-source selection of
consulting firms; (iii) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank; (iv) amendments to contracts for
the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to


﻿- 18 -
$100, 000 equivalent or above; or (v) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A: Implementation Actions
1.    In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
(a) throughout Project implementation, select Sub-projects to
be financed under the Project using technical, environmental and
economic criteria agreed between the Borrower and the Bank. Such
criteria to include, without limitation:
(i)    a minimum economic rate of return of twelve (12%)
percent;
(ii)   for each Sub-project involving the involuntary
resettlement  of   any  persons   due  to   the
acquisition of land by DOH to carry out such Sub-
project,   a    separate   resettlement   plan,
satisfactory   to   the   Bank,   prepared   in
consultation with affected persons on the basis
of    policies,   planning    principles    and
institutional arrangements designed to improve
the living standards of said persons, together
with satisfactory operational procec- _3 adequate
to enable the Borrower to properly monitor and
evaluate the implementation of the resettlement
plan; and
(iii) for each Sub-project involving the acquisition of
new   rights-of-way,  an  environmental  impact
analysis of each proposed Sub-project, together
with a survey identifying any existing or
potential adverse environmental impact or effect,
and the proposed measures to be carried out to
remedy such impact and effect.
(b) by not later than December 31, of each year until
completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank, for its review and
approval, a list of proposed Sub-projects to be financed under the
Project, together with all supporting documentation, all in
accordance with the criteria set forth in Sub-paragraph 1 (a) above;
and


﻿- 20 -
(c) promptly after receiving the Bank's approval thereof,
carry out the Sub-projects.
2.    In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) by June 30, 1996, discuss with the Bank the results and
findings of the long-term strategic investment study dated May 24,
1995;
(b) prepare in consultation with the Bank and, not later than
June 30, 1997, furnish to the Bank, a time-bound action plan based
on the findings and results of the above-mentioned study; and
(c) promptly thereafter, take all necessary measures to
implement such action plan.
3.    In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall
approve   and  thereafter,  implement  in   accordance  with   an
implementation timetable agreed between the Borrower and the Bank:
(a) the Environmental Assessment Guidelines; and
(b) the Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Compensation
Guidelines.
4.    In carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall
implement the measures resulting from the periodic updating of the
Action Plans, with due regard to the monitorable performance
indicators and implementation timetable included in the said Action
Plans and acceptable to the Bank.
5.    The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than March 31, 1998, carry out jointly with the
Bank, a mid-term  Project implementation review to, inter alia:
(i)    evaluate progress achieved by the Borrower, in
general, and by the Implementing Agencies, in
particular, in carrying out the Project, on the
basis of performance indicators agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank;
(ii)   review and update the Action Plans;


﻿- 21 -
(iii) evaluate progress achieved by the Borrower in
designing the Environmental Assessment Guidelines
and the Land Acquisition, Resettlement and
Compensation Guidelines referred to under Parts
C.1 and C.2, resnectively, of the Project, and
update the timetable for the implementation of
said Guidelines;
(iv)   discuss and exchange views on all other related
activities in the road sub-sector financed by
other donor agencies; and
(v)    exchange information among Implementing Agencies
and propose solutions to any current implementa-
tion issues.
(b) not later than January 31, 1998, furnish to the Bank,
through MOTC and APCU, a report in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, including:
(i)    an  evaluation  of  progress achieved  by   the
Borrower in Project implementation; and
(ii)   a draft work plan to be carried out until the
completion of the Project; and
(c) promptly after completing the mid-term review, carry out
those recommendations arising out of said review, as agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank.
Part B. Implementing Agencies
Responsibility for implementation of the Project shall be
vested in the Implementing Agencies as follows:
1.    Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC)
(a) MOTC shall be responsible for the overall coordination
and implementation of the Project, in close cooperation with MOSTE.
(b) In discharging its responsibilities under the Project,
MOTC shall ensure that its Department of Highways (DOH) , Department
of Land Transport (LTD) and APCU, appoint and maintain, throughout
Project implementation, technical and counterpart staff in


﻿- 22 -
sufficient numbers and with qualifications, experience and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Department of Highways (DOH)
DOH shall be directly responsible for carrying out Parts A, B
and C of the Project.
3.    Department of Land Transport (LTD)
(a) In carrying out its respective components of the Action
Plans, LTD shall take all necessary measures to ensure the continued
development of an effective program of vehicle inspections,
including LTD direct inspection and/or LTD supervision of licensed
vehicle inspection stations, and maintenance of the vehicle
registration system;
(b) LTD shall ensure that its staff participates in the
training programs provided under Part D.1 of the Project (Schedule
2 to this Agreement); and
(c) LTD shall, jointly with the Department of Pollution
Control (DPC) and in close collaboration with the Borrower's traffic
enforcement agencies, implement an on-road emissions inspection and
enforcement program to be carried out under the Project and as set
out in the Action Plan to Reduce Vehicle Emissions and Noise
Pollution referred to in Section 1.02 (a) (i) of this Agreement.
4.    Department of Pollution Control (DPC)
DPC shall, through its Air Pollution Control Division:
(a) oversee and monitor air quality programs and air quality
monitoring systems carried out under the Project;
(b) update the Action Plan to Reduce Vehicle Emissions and
Noise Pollution in coordination with Action Plan implementing
agencies;
(c) prepare and submit for approval by the National
Environmental Board vehicle standards and emissions regulations; and
(d) carry out specific components of the Action Plans, as
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿- 23 -
5.    Office of Environmental Policy and Planning (OEPP)
OEPP shall, through its Reviewing Committee:
(a) assist DOH in carrying out Part C.1 of the Project
(Schedule 2 to this Agreement);
(b) review and approve environmental impact asCessments (EAs)
carried out under the Project; and
(c) oversee compliance with such EAs.
Part C: Coordination among Implementing Agencies
The   Borrower    shall   maintain,    throughout   Project
implementation, the following inter-institutional coordination
mechanism.
Action Plans' Coordinating Unit (APCU)
APCU shall assist the Implementing Agencies in:
(a) reviewing the implementation of procurement procedures
for goods and services financed under the Project, pursuant to the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b) reviewing and coordinating budget proposals prepared by
the Implementing Agencies to finance their annual work plans;
(c) monitoring and coordinating activities referred to under
Part D of the Project;
(d) preparing progress reports to be discussed with the Bank
pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and
(e) updating the Action Plans.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


