Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14674
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2779-MOR)
JUNE 26, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EVOLUTION OF THE EXCHANGE RATE
At Appraisal          April 1986     US$ I = DH 10.1
Period Average        1987           US$ I= DH  7.8
1988          US$ 1 = DH  8.2
1989          US$ 1 = DH  8.1
1990          US$ I = DH  8.0
1991          US$ 1 = DH  8.2
1992          US$ 1 = DH  9.0
Estimate              1993           US$ 1 = DH 9.3
BORROWER FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS
AFPFC          Vocational Training Administration
Administration de la Formation Professionnelle et de la Formation des Cadres
BAD            African Development Bank
Banque Africaine de Developpement
CNSS          National Social Security Fund
Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale
CQP            Vocational Training Centers
Centres de Qualification Professionnelle
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ISTA          Higher Institute of Applied Technology
Institut Superieur de Technologie Appliqu6e
ITA           Institutes of Applied Technology
Instituts de Technologie Appliqu6e
ITAC          Institute of Applied Commercial Technology
Institut de Technologie Appliquee Commercial
MPW           Ministry of Public Works and Vocational Training
OFPPT         Office for Vocational Training and Employment Promotion
Office de la Formation Professionnelle et de la Promotion du Travail
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
VTT           Vocational Training Tax



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Morocco
Second Vocational Training Project (Ln. 2779-MOR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Morocco Second Vocational
Training project (Ln. 2779-MOR, approved in FY87) prepared by the Middle East and North
African Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The project was designed to complement the earlier First Vocational Training project
(OED Report No. 12320, September 17, 1993) which focussed on expanding the capacity of
the public vocational training system. The objectives of the second project were to
consolidate the gains made under the first project, to improve the quality of vocational
training, to reduce unit costs and to increase cost recovery.
The short time between the projects did not allow the design of the second project to
benefit sufficiently from the experience of the first. As a result the project design was
deficient in several areas, for example, manpower projections and institutional development.
However, the project was consistent with the government's key subsector objectives, and
addressed the key issues in vocational training. A willingness to be flexible allowed the Bank
and the borrower to adjust many of the project components during implementation to better
align them with the needs of the sector. For example, data processing equipment was
provided to most training centers rather than the few identified at appraisal; and instead of
fully equipping a few vocational and technical training centers, nearly all centers were fitted
with selected, specialized equipment, allowing the supply of training places to be better
matched to demand. Some unneeded components were canceled (e.g., mobile maintenance
units), others were deleted when alternative funding became available.
In the vocational training sector much remains to be done to improve funding,
strengthen the institutional framework and forge better links with the private sector. But, the
project was a step in the right direction and the Government is fully committed to further
improving the vocational training system. The project outcome is therefore rated as
satisfactory, sustainability as likely and institutional impact as modest. Bank performance,
while deficient during design, was exemplary during implementation.
An audit of this and the preceding project is planned.
Attachment                                    c         <
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 2779-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE   .             ................................................(i)
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................(ii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ................ 1
Project Identity    .            ............................................  1
Project Background   ...........................................  I
Project Objectives and Description    ................................. 2
Project Design and Organization ................................... 4
Project Implementation   ......................................... 5
Project Amendments ......................................... 6
Project Adjustments   ......................................... 7
Project Results and Outcome   ..................................... 8
Major Lessons Learned .                ....................................... 11
PART II. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                 ...... 13
A.  Office of Vocational Training and Employment Promotion   ............... 13
Introduction .............................................. 13
Loan Withdrawals . ......................................... 13
Repartition of Loan Funds   ..........                       ..........................  14
Project Scope   .        ...........................................  15
Project Description  .........................................  16
Tasks at OFPPT    ..........................................  18
Project Implementation    .             .....................................  20
Impact of Project of OFPPT's Training Apparatus    .....................  27
Relations with the World Bank    .................................  30
B.  Vocational Training Administration   ..............................  31
Technical Assistance  .            .......................................  31
Computer Equipment . ....................................... 33
PART HI.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ............................ 34
Table 1:  Project Timetable    ..........                       ..........................  34
Table 2:   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements   ................. 34
Table 3:   Timeline of Disbursement Schedule   ......................... 35
Table 4a:  Project Cost by Category    ........... ..                           .................. 36
Table 4b:  Project Financing    ....... ....... ..                           .................... 36
Table 5:   Project Results   ......................................  37
Table 6:   Studies   ........................................                                                 38
Table 7:   Status of Covenants   .................................... 39
Table 8:   Bank Missions   ......................................  41
Table 9:   Staff Inputs   .           .......................................  42
Map - EBRD 19859
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                                      l






KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINNG PROJECT
(Loan 2779-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Vocational Training
Project in Morocco, for which a loan of US$22.3 million (Loan 2779-MOR) was approved
on January 20, 1987. The loan was closed on December 31, 1993, eighteen months behind
schedule, and disbursements continued through May 9, 1994 reaching 98 percent of the loan.
The undisbursed amount was cancelled in July 1994 for US$0.3 million.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources Division of
the Middle East and North Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and Il),
and the Office de la Formation Professionnelle et de la Promotion du Travail (Part I).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank project completion mission in
May 1994, and is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, the Project
Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and
internal Bank memoranda.






- ii-
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAJNING PROJECT
(Loan 2779-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION STNUMARY
Objectives
1.    The project objectives of the Second Vocational Training Project were to consolidate
and improve the quality of Morocco's vocational training system and to implement cost
reduction and cost recovery mechanisms. It was designed to be complementary to the
previous First Vocational Training Project (Loan 2479-MOR) which focused on expanding
the capacity of the public vocational training system. Project beneficiaries included the
Office of Vocational Training and Employment Promotion (Office de la Formation
Professionnelle et de la Promotion du Travail, OFPPT) and the Vocational Training
Administration (Administration de la Formation Professionnelle et de la Formation des
Cadres, AFPFC). The project would address its objectives by (i) improving instructor
training; (ii) upgrading training programs, particularly, the re-equipment and minor
refurbishing of 33 existing training centers and 15 technical centers;
(iii) minor construction and equipping of 10 regional coordination units and 50 sub-regional
units; (iv) equipping of 10 training/repair service units; (v) improving planning and
management of the system; (vi) providing financing for expert services, fellowships and
studies.
Project Implementation
2.    The project closing date was postponed from December 31, 1992 to December 31,
1993 to allow for the completion of two studies. In addition two sub-components were
cancelled with the Bank's agreement: the provision of 10 mobile maintenance units and the
provision of 10 production units. The financial covenant that the OFPPT would ensure the
financing of 100 percent of recurrent expenditures by the end of 1990 was also amended to
lower the target to 70 percent. By the end of 1993 OFPPT was financing 73 percent of its
recurrent expenditures. Several components were implemented outside the project
framework, under bilateral, UNDP and budgetary financing. Some remain to be completed,
as for example the training programs for instructors.
3.    The provision of equipment for specific vocational and technical training centers was
changed, with the agreement of the Bank, to the provision of equipment for specific training



- iii -
specializations in practically all vocational and technical training centers. This allowed the
OFPPT to better target training activities according to identified needs, as opposed to
providing equipment for specializations for which little or no demand existed at all.
Similarly, the initial provision to equip a number of vocational and technical training centers
with data processing equipment was modified to include most of the training centers plus
OFPPT's regional offices and headquarter offices. This modification helped implement a
general managerial accounting system for the OFPPT.
4.    At the time of the project closing date (12/31/93) total disbursement had totaled
US$21.5 million, or 96 percent of the original loan. At the time of the account's closure,
total disbursements had totaled US$21.9 million, or 92 percent.
Project Results and Outcomes
5.    Overall, the project has had a positive impact in improving the quality of training of
the public system in Morocco. The need to develop solid links with enterprises is now a
strategic concern of the OFPPT. Important developments have taken place in the areas of
contractual training, alternate training and developing links with enterprises, although further
expansion of these activities vis-a-vis traditional residential training is necessary; industrial
experience for trainers is an area where further improvements are also necessary. There are
important decentralization initiatives that have been implemented, like the strengthening of
the 10 regional offices of the OFPPT, but further work is needed, particularly, at the level of
the training centers themselves. Further progress on decentralization will depend on greater
autonomy in the management of the investment budget. Important initiatives have been
adopted to keep track of students after graduation. Tracer studies tend to show a low
insertion rate, at around 40-50 percent. It would be a mistake however to conclude that the
other half of the graduates are unemployed. Some of them find jobs in the informal sector,
either as self-employed workers, or as employees in small firms, but declare themselves as
unemployed because their actual occupations do not correspond to their expectations.
Greater coordination with other training institutions is necessary. The AFPFC needs to
strengthen its role as a coordinator of training activities including the private sector.
Major Lessons Learned
6.   Project design. A project aiming at qualitative improvements, in the context of a
rapidly expanding OFPPT, would have required the identification, at the moment of project
design, of operational mechanisms and incentives to support change, particularly as a guide
to develop links with enterprises or to move towards decentralization. Project
implementation would have benefited from early identification of such concrete mechanisms.
Such mechanisms should take into account the specific pace of change which can be
efficiently implemented and establish realistic and quantifiable goals. Of equal importance is
the development of outcome indicators for each major component of the project that would
allow a measurement of the extent to which the objectives have been achieved.



- iv -
7.    In order to improve the efficiency of training such a project needs to reach beyond the
OFPPT and address the national vocational system, including training programs under other
ministries and private training institutions. The support of competition between different
public and private training institutions could have improved the quality, demand
responsiveness and efficiency of the existing system. This is where the AFPFC could play a
central role, and as such, remains an objective still to be achieved.
8.    Manpower projections of future labor demand should be avoided as the sole
justification for capacity expansion or change. Such projections should be part of a more
comprehensive analysis of labor market trends, that should include more thorough
quantitative and qualitative analysis. Moreover, building institutional linkages between
employers and training providers can help improve the analysis of actual skill needs.
9.   Implementation. A certain degree of flexibility in implementation can be efficient as
shown by the adjustments made to the project. It requires, however, careful monitoring on
the part of the Bank, as was the case in the project. The more mature (i.e. capable of
developing relevant strategic options) the executing agency, the more flexibility can be
introduced. This also enhances the process of ownership by the Borrower.
10.  Some of the studies conducted under the project did not lead to concrete
recommendations. It is important that the terms of reference of the studies ensure that the
results and recommendations of studies financed under a loan are translated into operational
guidelines and measures to facilitate project implementation.
11.  Project impact. The problem of the financing of further improvements of the system
remains unresolved. The VTT is earmarked to finance the OFPPT recurrent expenses.
Thus, the financing of dual training activities (enterprise/training center) and of in-service
training will need to be addressed, especially if such activities are open to all training
operators, public and private. The financial participation of enterprises as well as the
possibility of using part of the VTT for these new activities has also to be considered.
12.  Decentralization is one of the main ingredients for a system that is flexible and
responds to a rapidly changing demand for training. The OFPPT has started a process in
which regional offices have greater autonomy in managing recurrent expenses. However, the
investment budget for training remains tightly controlled at the central office of the OFPPT,
and thus, impedes a true decentralization. Further progress in this area will have to be
measured in terms of greater responsibility, at the level of regional offices, for investment
decisions.
13.  The lack of instructors' industrial experience remains a major weakness and hinders
quality improvements in training. To a large extent, this is the result of trainers' civil
service status, as public sector wages do not seem to attract experienced private sector staff.
The OFPPT approach has been to develop in-plant training for instructors through contractual
agreements with employer's associations, but the number of beneficiaries is still low.



- v 
Flexibility in the setting of instructor's salaries would help attract instructors with work
experience.
14.  There has been a clear effort on the part of the OFPPT to enhance the relevance of
training vis-a-vis the needs of enterprises. "Dual training", contractual training agreements
with employers' associations and night courses have become a permanent and growing
feature of public vocational training. The system is, however, still dominated by the need to
accommodate a large number of school dropouts from general education which explains the
current predominance of pre-employment training. The necessary shift from pre-employment
to in-service training can only be achieved through substantial improvements in the quality of
general education, and a clear definition of the respective roles of general education and
vocational training.
15. Tracer studies tend to show a low insertion rate (i.e. 50 percent) among vocational
training graduates, but some caution should be exercised in interpreting these results.
Vocational training graduates have built-in expectations of access to formal employment,
particularly in the public sector, in the context in which the share of formal sector
employment is declining throughout the Moroccan economy. Questionnaires are designed to
measure insertion in formal employment, and many graduates who are actively employed
may declare themselves unemployed if their current occupation does not correspond to their
built-in expectations of formal employment and wages. The impact vocational training has
had on the informal sector has yet to be measured and determined.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINNG PROJECT
(Loan 2779-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect Identity
Project Name            Second Vocational Training Project
Loan                    2779-MOR
RVP Unit                Middle East and North Africa
Country Department I
Country                 Morocco
Sector                  Education
Sub-sector        :     Technical and Vocational
2.    Project Background
2.1   Vocational Trining Strtegy. In 1984, the Government of Morocco introduced a
basic reform in its vocational training system to ensure its optimal development. The reform
had two key objectives: (i) economic, to provide the emerging industrial sector, especially
export-oriented activities, with skilled labor corresponding to their projected manpower
requirements; and (ii) sca, to absorb secondary school leavers and give them job specific
sldls to enhance their prospects to find a job or generate self employment opportunities.
Priority to capacity extension, as provided by the 1981-1985 Development Plan, was
confirmed, with an emphasis on the need to meet manpower demand from the industrial
sector (ad&quation emploi/fornation).
2.2    The Ministry of Public Works and Vocational Training (NPW) has relied on its
training agency, the Office for Vocational Training and Employment Promotion (Office de la
Formation Professionnelle et de la Promotion du Travail, OFPPT), to implement its
vocational training strategy. As a result, it has supported capacity expansion for its
Vocational Training Centers (Centres de Qualification Professionnelle, CQP), and



- 2 -
introduced, in 1981, a post-secondary technician level in the new Institute of Applied
Technology (Institut de Technologie Appliquee, ITA). In 1984, the Vocational Training
Administration (Administration de la Formation Professionnelle et de la Formation des
Cadres, AFPFC) was created within the MPW to coordinate the national vocational training
system, including training institutions from other ministries and the private sector.
2.3.  Consolidation of the Vocational Training System. Following the reform of 1984, the
MPW gave priority to the expansion of the vocational training system and launched a major
expansion program. This strategy was supported by the Bank's First Vocational Training
Project (2479-MOR) which became effective in September 1985. The first project was
designed primarily to support the expansion of the OFPPT's vocational training capacity
(creation of 22 new CQPs). It also introduced some initiatives for the coordination and
financial management of the OFPPT. Massive capacity expansion with a projected upgrade
in skill levels implemented in a public agency raised issues of adequacy in terms of quality
(pedagogic equipment, skills and experience of new instructors, relevance of training
programs to the industrial world) and internal as well as external efficiency to fulfill the
economic and social objectives. Finally, financial viability of the fast expanding OFPPT
became an issue. As a result, the Government and the Bank agreed to a second project in
order to give priority to improving the quality and management of the existing vocational
training system in order to consolidate its expansion.
3.    Proiect Objectives and Description
3.1    To address key issues concerning the consolidation of Morocco's vocational training
system, the project objectives were:
3.1.1  To improve the vocational training programs of the OFPPT so as to meet the
needs of the Borrower's economy for skilled manpower and to enhance
employment opportunities for skilled workers, and in particular for women and
for low income groups;
3.1.2 To increase the efficiency of the vocational training system through the
decentralization of its activities so as to enhance the system's responsiveness to
local labor markets and improved coordination of vocational training services;
3.1.3 To improve recovery of the costs of the vocational training programs of the
OFPPT.
To achieve these objectives, the project included provisions for:



-3-
A.   The OFPPT
3.2.1       (a) Re-equipping and refurbishing of 33 Vocational CQPs, and (b)
developing an upgraded training program in electronics at 15 lTAs with
the provision of electronics equipment and training of instructors;
3.2.2       Technical assistance to establish in-plant instructor training program;
3.2.3       Technical assistance for periodic upgrading of vocational training
courses;
3.2.4       Technical assistance to develop specialized programs to upgrade the
skills of employees, introduce entrepreneurship, and pre-employment
training courses;
3.2.5       Establishment of 10 pilot training/repair production units in 10 CQPs;
3.2.6       (a) Establishment of 10 Office regional coordination units with (b) the
provision of equipment and 10 mobile maintenance units;
3.2.7       Technical assistance for implementation of a management training
program for about 50 CQPs and ITAs directors, and provision for data
processing and office equipment;
3.2.8       Technical assistance to upgrade the system of selection, testing and
certification of instructors and trainees;
3.2.9       Fellowships to enhance the skills of staff and managers of OFPPT.
B.   The AFPFC
3.2.10      Provision of data processing equipment and other office equipment to
enhance the planning and management capacity of the AFPFC;
3.2.11      Technical assistance to upgrade the skills of AFPFC staff;
3.2.12      Technical assistance for studies on planning, management and
evaluation of the vocational training system, for tracing graduates, and
studies on manpower needs in several key economic sectors;
3.2.13      Technical assistance to improve its system of accreditation and quality
control of private training programs.



- 4 -
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1   The Second Vocational Training Project was designed to build upon the First
Vocational Training Project. However, the short time span between the launching of the two
projects (one and a half years) did not allow preparation of the second project to benefit from
the operational experience of the first project and, in particular, to better identify some of the
key constraints in the vocational training system. This was accentuated by the fact that
activities under the first project were, at the beginning, almost exclusively focused on
capacity expansion. Moreover, both projects were grounded on studies and approaches to
manpower supply and demand projections aimed at showing that the supply of skilled
workers would be insufficient to meet demand "over the next decade". In fact, most of these
projections showed to be poorly adapted to Morocco's labor market as later empirical
evidence was able to show. Surprisingly, the projections of skilled labor demand were not
focused on the new export-oriented industries which, at the time of appraisal, were already
showing a period of rapid growth. As a result, although the second project did properly
identify key qualitative issues and objectives, and rightly stressed the needs for
responsiveness to enterprise demand, flexibility, overall efficiency, and financial viability, it
lacked sufficient perspective to design activities capable of meeting these objectives.
4.2   Project Activities. The project aimed at achieving its objectives through a large scope
of activities designed to improve key operational functions of the vocational training system.
Except for construction and equipment components which were precisely outlined, most
activities were structured to provide essential guidelines to achieve objectives. This approach
gives a significant level of flexibility to the process of implementation of activities, and
proved to be a very valuable one in the context of a changing environment. It also implies
that the different structures responsible for carrying out these activities share the project's
objectives and priorities, and have the means to implement them (which will not always be
the case during implementation). In as much as the project introduced a wide range program
to improve the quality and efficiency of relatively young and fast growing public agencies, it
did not include precise incentives and/or guidelines to develop operational and institutional
mechanisms that would: (i) facilitate the achievement of key objectives (e.g.
employers/vocational training system relations); and (ii) meet basic structural constraints
(e.g. the "decentralization process" of OFPPT, or the coordinating role of AFPFC). Such
mechanisms could have contributed to better identify key success factors during
implementation, especially within the proposed flexible framework of activities. It could also
have helped define levels of qualitative success indicators which are somewhat lacking in the
project (e.g. enterprise implication in training programs design). Finally, it could have
helped achieve a better coherence in the many activities designed to meet project objectives.
4.3   Response to Manpower Demand. The project correctly emphasized the importance of
responsiveness of the vocational training system to the demand of enterprises. However,
qualitative needs at all levels appeared to be so prevalent in the newly expanded vocational
system, and the shortage of skills supply to be a potential major constraint to industrial
output, that a significant part of the project focuses on the technical improvement of "supply"



of training (equipment, pedagogy, management), without developing the corresponding
approaches and mechanisms to take into account the evolving needs of the industrial
environment, i.e. to structure the output of vocational training in terms of the "demand" of
enterprises.
4.4   The Vocational Training System. The project was designed to provide support to the
public vocational training system of the MPW (i.e. OFPPT and AFPFC). It does not deal
with institutions from other ministries, and its only provision for the private sector is
"improving the system of accreditation and quality control". At the time of appraisal, the
Government relied primarily on the MPW to develop a public vocational training structure
that could meet its economic and social objectives, which required heavy investments for
capacity expansion, and qualitative skill training. In view of other existing training
structures, public or private, OFPPT represented a potentially efficient and adaptable tool to
meet the Government's objectives. Thus the support given by the First and the Second
Projects. It would have been relevant at that time to anticipate support for the evolution of
vocational training towards a more diversified system, and allow for the development of
other efficient operators. The project remained at the level of regulatory provisions, and did
not stress needed legal changes to support the development of the private sector.
4.5   Financial Viability. In order to achieve financial viability for the OFPPT (i.e. cover
recurrent expenditures), the project identified different procedures to augment receipts,
including increase of the vocational training tax (VTI) from 1 % to 1.6%, and extending the
base of the levy to public enterprises. The project also estimated that certain activities would
contribute to this objective, i.e. income from the production units, shorter training courses,
etc. However, besides Annex 14 which gives a summarized status between expected
revenues and budget, the SAR does not propose a comprehensive analysis of potential costs
increases in OFPPT's budget, especially on the impact of the rapid expansion and higher
levels of training programs on salaries and operating costs.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1   The project closing date was postponed from December 31, 1992 to December 31,
1993 to allow for the realization of two studies for the OFPPT (managerial accounting
system, and organization of the OFPPT) which had been added to the project. The two
studies were not completed at the expected date, but will be continued under OFPPT's
budget. As described below, implementation of the project was characterized by a series of
amendments and adjustments.



-6 -
Project Amendments
A.   OFPPT
5.2   Two components were cancelled with the Bank's agreement: (i)
component 3.2.6 b for the provision of 10 mobile maintenance units which were intended to
provide maintenance services to the temporary training premises built in advance of the fully
equipped centers. With the rapid pace of construction of CQPs and ITAs which had their
own maintenance services, the temporary centers were phased out, and the need for mobile
units disappeared; (ii) component 3.2.5 for the provision of 10 production units in CQPs.
Since the 10 units were potentially in competition with the private sector, the OFPPT decided
to introduce another approach in the form of "practical activities" realized within the
framework of some of the training programs (e.g. leather goods manufacturing). The goods
produced by trainees are sold to manufacturers, and the proceeds from these "special
contracts" are entered in the Center's account outside the regular budget. This initiative
meets the component objectives.
5.3   As part of the financial covenant of the loan, and in order to meet the objective of
financial viability, the OFPPT was to ensure that the VTT would cover at least 100% of its
total current expenditures by 1990. While revenues from the VTT regularly increased and
grew at an average rate of 19% between 1987 and 1992, the OFPPT's operating costs grew
at an average rate of 22% during the same period. Enrollment remained stable, but overall
training costs increased particularly as a result of the development of higher training levels in
new sectors. The covenant had to be amended in February 1992 on the basis that VIT
should cover no less than 70% of operating costs. Figures from 1993 indicate that coverage
was 73%.
5.4   Three components were implemented outside the project framework: (i) component
3.2.2 for the development of permanent in-plant training programs for instructors was, from
the beginning, difficult to put into place except in sectors where mechanisms of cooperation
with employers' associations were initiated. The OFPPT established statutory in-plant
training for all instructors, but only few have benefited from this provision. Some
instructors also received fellowships to visit European training structures. As a result, in
plant training and experience of OFPPT's instructors remains limited (except for sectors
where contractual agreements were established), and the component objectives only partly
met; and (ii) components 3.2.7 management training programs and component 3.2.9
fellowships for the staff and managers of the OFPPT were implemented under bilateral
agreements (e.g. Directors spent two weeks in the French public vocational training system).
B.    AFPFC
5.5   Three components were implemented outside the project framework: (i) component
3.2.11 training program for AFPFC staff was realized under bilateral agreements (e.g. 10
fellowships per year in France); (ii) within component 3.2.12, the feasibility study for a



research center in vocational training was realized by the Ministry of Labor (financing from
BAD), and sector studies on tourism and textiles were financed by UNDP.
Project Adjustments
A.   OFPPT
5.6   Two major components were modified and adjusted during implementation: (i)
component 3.2.1 (a) with provision for equipment of 33 specific CQPs was utilized to equip
or re-equip specific training sectors in most CQPs and ITAs. This adjustment was coherent
with the OFPPT's sectoral approach to training which implied the possibility to create,
modify, or close training sections according to identified demand, rather than focusing on
equipping whole centers. It was also beneficial in supporting contractual agreements with
employers' associations (e.g. textile and leather industries) by financing pedagogic equipment
necessary to train skilled personnel for the enterprises. This adjustment was implemented in
agreement with the Bank through acceptance of procurement specifications; and (ii)
component 3.2.7 with provision for data processing equipment to about 50 CQPs and ITAs
was modified to provide computer equipment to all vocational training centers (60 CQPs and
55 ITAs) as well as to the 10 regional units and to 12 directors' services at OFPPT's head
office. This adjustment responded to the need to improve management and cost control at
the OFPPT, and provide equipment for the planned managerial accounting system.
Development of the computer organization and system was to a large extent (75 % of total
costs) financed by the project, but was not initially part of planned technical assistance.
5.7   Other components were either transferred from the First Vocational Training Project
i.e. technical assistance for the ITA Berb Ghallef, and three studies covering professional
orientation and pedagogic tools, or added to the project, i.e. two key studies on (i)
managerial accounting, and (ii) reorganization of the OFPPT which were requested by the
Bank to support achievement of the objectives of efficiency (especially within the framework
of decentralization and increased autonomy for the centers), and cost control.
B.    AFPFC
5.8   Studies that were intended to foster the development of suitable approaches and
procedures, aimed at establishing efficient training policies and coordination of the national
vocational training system (e.g. appropriate tracer studies, new employment creation
programs, planning of vocational training programs) were conducted without the introduction
of new methodologies (e.g. the annual insertion studies). Efforts were focused on classical
sectoral studies considered necessary by the AFPFC to provide an information base to
analyze the needs for skilled labor in Morocco's major sectors of activity.
5.9   Financial Status. The total amount disbursed at the project closing date (12/31/93)
was US$21.5 M (96.4% of loan), and US$21.9 M at the closing date of the account
(4/30/94). The undisbursed balance of US$356,309. 10 was cancelled. The single risk



- 8 -
identified in the SAR was that implementation could be slowed by budgetary shortages in the
context of the Government's austerity program, which did not materialize during
implementation.
6.    Project Results and Outcome
Overall, the project is perceived by the OFPPT and the AFPFC as having had a very
positive impact on the general improvement in quality and efficiency of the OFPPT's
vocational training activities. A significant part of the project objectives have been met, and
the basis for future improvement and accomplishment of these objectives has been
established.
A.    OFPPT
6.1   Project Qualitative Objectives. The project has contributed to the overall qualitative
improvement of the OFPPT's training organization. Specifically, results can be evaluated as
follows: (i) refurbishing of 31 CQPs contributed to adapt training classrooms to upgraded
pedagogic equipment and new sections; (ii) provision for equipment (as modified during
implementation) had a strong impact in supporting the development of new training sections
and the conversion or upgrading of existing sections. Since most training centers received
new equipment, the impact was generalized. Greater efficiency in the choice of equipment
was achieved in sections where contractual agreements for training existed with employers
associations. In other sectors, equipment was not always adapted to pedagogic use, and
sometimes at the limit of obsolescence at the time of procurement (e.g. computers without
hard disks for the electronic sections of the ITAs in 1988/89); (iii) selection of students has
been improved by the development and use of psychometric and proficiency tests, and
orientation procedures; (iv) skill training has progressively moved towards higher levels,
including recently to higher education levels with the Instituts Sup6rieurs de Technologie
Appliquee (ISTA). The upgrading of electronics in the 15 ITAs has served as a reference for
other sections; and, (v) instructors' industrial experience and overall pedagogic efficiency
remain one of the major weaknesses in OFPPT's qualitative development. The public
service status for salaries has not permitted the recruitment of personnel with real industrial
experience. In-plant training programs for instructors have only been effective in sectors
where contractual agreements existed with employers' associations, and the country's still
small industrial base does limit the number of enterprises (and sectors) where such training
could be organized. Many instructors were recruited at the time of capacity expansion, and
close to 80% are under 40 years of age. Most will need significant retraining. Technical
assistance under the project helped produce improved pedagogic approaches.
6.2   Training Adjustment to Demand.  The project direct impact on the responsiveness of
OFPPT's training to skill demand from the economy has been positive. Although the
programs under the OFPPT remain to a significant extent supply driven, new mechanisms to
establish links with enterprises are being vigorously pursued. The project did not include any
component for the development of mechanisms to facilitate the cooperation between the



- 9 -
OFPPT and the industrial community. However, fast growing needs for skilled personnel in
export oriented industries (textile, leather), common understanding of the need to develop
collaboration in training between these industries and the OFPPT, as well as strong Bank
support for such collaboration, resulted in the development of contractual agreements
between various professional associations and the OFPPT. In these sectors, training
programs have been adjusted to match employers' needs and have been structured
accordingly. As a result, the OFPPT has developed alternate training (enterprise/center), and
short preparatory courses (textile) which has demonstrated its ability to adapt training to
demand. The OFPPT has contracted with other employers' associations (graphic arts, mills),
and projects to enlarge this type of collaboration. Although these new forms of training still
represent a smaller fraction of all training activities, its importance is growing over time and
is laying the foundation for future closer links with enterprises. In other training sectors,
programs have remained structured along a two-year curriculum, with, most of the time,
limited industrial exposure. Moreover, training centers still lack the autonomy to adapt
programs and courses to local and regional needs. Thus, many programs remain uniformly
organized over the national territory, sometimes with little relevance to local, or even
national needs. One of the project components (3.2.4) encouraged the development of
specialized courses for employees. This component objective was achieved during the last
part of the project implementation through a growing emphasis on in-service training
programs with private and public enterprises by the Division des Entreprises at the OFPPT
and by the Regional units. Moreover, evening courses have been upgraded.
6.3   External Efficiency. Existing tracer studies and annual occupational surveys on the
insertion of graduates in the labor market could be improved in order to capture insertion in
informal sector activities. Nevertheless, these studies together with information from training
centers and enterprises, indicate some of the major trends on insertion. The projections in
the SAR on skilled labor demand and supply in industry did not materialize. Even in the
electromechanical sector where strong demand and needs had been identified, insertion rates
for some of the sections appear to average 30%. During the period covered by project
implementation, job creation has been mainly for non-wage activities, in which the informal
sector may have played a major role. In the formal sector, the process of insertion was most
successful in export-oriented activities where contractual agreements had been established.
However, closer analysis reveals that a significant part of the jobs were on temporary
contracts to adapt to production fluctuations. Insertion rates in the formal sector vary
according to industries and geographic areas, but the OFPPT gives an average estimate of
40% insertion rate for its graduates. In some industrial sectors, emt,loyers still indicate their
preference for recruiting outside the vocational training system and providing their own
training, and ITA graduates find themselves in competition with post-baccalaureat applicants
who are chosen for their "general education" and trained by the enterprise. Anecdotal
evidence points to increasing number of "bac plus" graduates undertaking vocational training
at the level of teclnicians. In general, the image of OFPPT's graduates has regularly
improved in the eyes of enterprises. Many graduates enter the informal sector as self-
employed or working for small informal structures. Little information is available on their
activity, but it seems that their training contributes to their ability to enter professional life



- 10 -
(e.g. maintenance jobs). Participation of women has increased mostly in textile and leather
training sections. Success rates for graduation is fairly equal to men, including at the ITA
level.
6.4  Internal Efficiency. The process of decentralization was one of the crucial elements
in the design of the project to foster the ability of the OFPPT to achieve the overall
objectives of quality and efficiency. The 10 regional units were built, staffed, and equipped
as planned. Two studies have been added to the project to define the basis for reorganization
of the OFPPT, and establish a workable system of managerial accounting. These studies
were programmed to support the implementation of this process which has been slowly
coming into place. In effect, the structural foundation upon which decentralization can be
achieved is being set up. However, operationally, decentralization will require a level of
autonomy in management which implies mechanisms for financial autonomy both, for the
training centers and the regional units. Decentralization is essential to orient training sectors
in terms of local and regional demand, establish contractual agreements with enterprises,
develop in-service training, etc. The OFPPT has designated "pilot centers" to initiate a
process of closer cooperation with local enterprises, and is slowly starting to put the action
into effect. Thus, the operational side of decentralization remains to be achieved.
B.    AFPFC
6.5   Sectoral Studies. The practical impact of sectoral studies appears to have been
limited. In general, studies provided extensive analyses on current and anticipated skills
demand from a relatively large sample of enterprises in each of the sectors covered by the
project. The content and recommendations from each study was presented to the
Administration/Employers pilot committee in charge of overseeing its realization. Little
impact could be identified between recommendations and actual courses adjustments in the
vocational training system, including the OFPPT. Moreover, updating of results and
recommendations has not been conducted by the AFPFC, which may imply obsolescence of
information.
6.6   Accreditation of Private Vocational Training Centers. The study on the development
of a system of accreditation for private vocational training centers has been completed.
Implementation of propositions has not yet been put into effect.
6.7   The role of the AFPFC. The AFPFC is responsible for the coordination of the
national (including the OFPPT and training at other ministries) and private vocational
training system. The project aimed at strengthening its planning and management capacity to
enhance this role, but it has proved to be a difficult objective to achieve. The AFPFC
belongs to the same Ministry as the OFPPT, and does not have the institutional and
budgetary means (i.e. management of the VIT) to have a key influence on the OFPPT. It
does not hold a strong position vis-a-vis other Ministries which have their own training
agencies, and its direct impact on the private sector development has been limited. Finally,
the AFPFC remains an institutional structure, which strives to develop creative strategic



- 11 -
options for the vocational training system, but which lacks the positioning towards the
training system, and a clear participation and support from the employers community.
7.    Maior Lessons Learned
7.1   Project design. A project aiming at qualitative improvements, in the context of a
rapidly expanding OFPPT, would have required the identification, at the moment of project
design, of operational mechanisms and incentives to support change, particularly as a guide
to develop links with enterprises or to move towards decentralization. Project
implementation would have benefited from early identification of such concrete mechanisms.
Such mechanisms should take into account the specific pace of change which can be
efficiently implemented and establish realistic and quantifiable goals. Of equal importance is
the development of outcome indicators for each major component of the project that would
allow a measurement of the extent to which the objectives have been achieved.
7.2  In order to improve the efficiency of training such a project needs to reach beyond the
OFPPT and address the national vocational system, including training programs under other
ministries and private training institutions. The support of competition between different
public and private training institutions could have improved the quality, demand
responsiveness and efficiency of the existing system. This is where the AFPFC could play a
central role, and as such, remains an objective still to be achieved.
7.3   Manpower projections of future labor demand should be avoided as the sole
justification for capacity expansion or change. Such projections should be part of a more
comprehensive analysis of labor market trends, that should include more thorough
quantitative and qualitative analysis. Moreover, building institutional linkages between
employers and training providers can help improve the analysis of actual skill needs.
7.4  Implementation. A certain degree of flexibility in implementation can be efficient as
shown by the adjustments made to the project. It requires, however, careful monitoring on
the part of the Bank, as was the case in the project. The more mature (i.e. capable of
developing relevant strategic options) the executing agency, the more flexibility can be
introduced. This also enhances the process of ownership by the Borrower.
7.5   Some of the studies conducted under the project did not lead to concrete
recommendations. It is important that the terms of reference of the studies ensure that the
results and recommendations of studies financed under a loan are translated into operational
guidelines and measures to facilitate project implementation.
7.6   Project impact. The problem of the financing of further improvements of the system
remains unresolved. The VTI' is earmarked to finance the OFPPT recurrent expenses.
Thus, the financing of dual training activities (enterprise/training center) and of in-service
training will need to be addressed, especially if such activities are open to all training
operators, public and private. The financial participation of enterprises as well as the



- 12 -
possibility of using part of the VT1  for these new activities has also to be considered.
7.7   Decentralization is one of the main ingredients for a system that is flexible and
responds to a rapidly changing demand for training. The OFPPT has started a process in
which regional offices have greater autonomy in managing recurrent expenses. However, the
investment budget for training remains tightly controlled at the central office of the OFPPT,
and thus, impedes a true decentralization. Further progress in this area will have to be
measured in terms of greater responsibility, at the level of regional offices, for investment
decisions.
7.8   The lack of instructors' industrial experience remains a major weakness and hinders
quality improvements in training. To a large extent, this is the result of trainers' civil
service status, as public sector wages do not seem to attract experienced private sector staff.
The OFPPT approach has been to develop in-plant training for instructors through contractual
agreements with employer's associations, but the number of beneficiaries is still low.
Flexibility in the setting of instructor's salaries would help attract instructors with work
experience.
7.9   There has been a clear effort on the part of the OFPPT to enhance the relevance of
training vis-a-vis the needs of enterprises. "Dual training", contractual training agreements
with employers' associations and night courses have become a permanent and growing
feature of public vocational training. The system is, however, still dominated by the need to
accommodate a large number of school dropouts from general education which explains the
current predominance of pre-employment training. The necessary shift from pre-employment
to in-service training can only be achieved through substantial improvements in the quality of
general education, and a clear definition of the respective roles of general education and
vocational training.
7.10  Tracer studies tend to show a low insertion rate (i.e. 50 percent) among vocational
training graduates, but some caution should be exercised in interpreting these results.
Vocational training graduates have built-in expectations of access to formal employment,
particularly in the public sector, in the context in which the share of formal sector
employment is declining throughout the Moroccan economy. Questionnaires are designed to
measure insertion in formal employment, and many graduates who are actively employed
may declare themselves unemployed if their current occupation does not correspond to their
built-in expectations of fonnal employment and wages. The impact vocational training has
had on the informal sector has yet to be measured and determined.



- 13 -
Part II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Office of Vocational Training and Employment Promotion
1.   Introduction
This report presents the description, realization and evaluation of the Second
Vocational Training Project in Morocco, for which Loan 2779-MOR, amounting to US$22.3
million was approved on March 13, 1987.
The project objectives are:
To improve OFPPT's programs of vocational training in order to satisfy the
needs in qualified manpower, and to increase employment possibilities for
qualified manpower, in particular for women and low income groups.
Increase the efficiency of the system of vocational training by decentralizing
the management of its activities to ensure a better adaptation of the system to
local markets and improve coordination of vocational training services.
Improve OFPPT cost-recovery for vocational training programs.
Summary
In accordance with the Loan Agreement, almost all tasks at OFPPT have been
completed:
construction, refurbishing and equipment works, as well as studies linked to
the training of "trainers", the improvement of training programs and training
systems have all been 100% completed.
two operations have been cancelled with World Bank approval: the acquisition
of ten mobile maintenance units and the equipment of ten production units.
Only studies relating to the reorganization of OFPPT services, analytical
accounting, realization of data applications are delayed compared to the closing
date of the project.
2.    Loan Withdrawals
Table 1 presents work categories, supplies and services financed by the Loan, as well
as loan amounts initially allocated to each category, and the percentage of expenses the
financing of which is authorized by category:



- 14 -
Table 1
Section               Category                   US$            % of Financed Expenses
Amount
a) Civil works (including architect  1,500,000                 50%
and studies services)
b) Equipment, furniture and vehicles    12,500,000   - 100% of foreign currency expenses
- 100% of local currency expenses
A                                                        (Ex-factory)
(OFPPT)                                                     - 80% local currency expenses for
other locally purchased supplies
c) Consulting services              1,000,000                 100%
d) Financial Aid                    1,000,000                  100%
a) Equipment, furniture and vehicles  200,000    - 100% of foreign currency expenses
- 100% of local currency expenses
B                                                        (Ex-Factory)
(AFPFC)                                                     - 80% of local currency expenses
for other locally purchased supplies
b) Consulting services               600,000                   100%
Non-allocated amount   5,500,000
Total  22,300,000
3.     Allocation of Loan Funds
Table 2 presents the situation of credits allocated by category of expenses, as well as
the new repartition of funds at OFPPT:



- 15 -
Table 2
(in US$)
Repartition of funds as    New repartition of
Initial    per letter of Ministry of   funds conunitmnents
Section        Category         Repartition    Finance of 7/30/93 to    established by
IBRD                  OF PPT
a) Civil works (including   1,500,000     2,100,00              2,120,000
architecture and studies)
A
b) Equipment, furniture   12,500,000     13,950,000             13,725,000
& vehicles)
c) Consulting services  1,000,000        5,000,000              4,875,000
d) Financial Aid       1,000,000
a) Equipment, furniture    200,000       256,309.94             256,309.94
B     & vehicles
b) Consulting Services  600,000          963,948.52             963,948.52
Unallocated amount   5,500,000       29,741.54              29,741.54
Unused Amount                                             330,000
Total  22,300,000        22,300,000             22,300,000
4.    Project Scope
The Moroccan Vocational Training System. In 1987, Morocco's vocational training
policy was historically reoriented using the insertion parameter as strategic objective, and by
clearly stating the desire to further mobilize the training apparatus to meet this objective.
Hence, everything should be done to have vocational training linked with identified jobs.
Since then, the development of the training apparatus was two-pronged:
-      the implementation of a program to contract training with professional partners
to meet their specific needs in qualified manpower, by involving them in the
training process.



- 16 -
the set-up of the decentralization process of vocational training establishments,
as a first step, and autonomy as a second step. This important measure's
purpose is to remove training from centralized planning and management to
better root it in its socio-economic environment. Thus, the establishment will
better meet local training needs and is better prepared to directly address these
needs.
Concurrently, the vocational training apparatus acquired new and diversified
instruments to better identify training needs at the local and national level. These instruments
allowed studies on identifying sector needs and to proceed with regional studies by
employment category to identify local needs, in collaboration with establishments concerned.
Furthennore, consultation groups at all levels led to the commitment of the majority
of concerned partners (local elected officials, local authorities, professionals, etc.) in local
training choices. Among these groups, are the Commission Nationale de la Formation
Professionnelle, Commissions Provinciales de la Formation Professionnelle, Conseils de
Perfectionnement placed with all vocational training establishments.
5.    Project Description
The project comprises the following:
Section A - OFPPT
(a)   Supply of equipment to 33 priority CQP providing training in industrial and
commercial specialties and refurbishing of these 33 CQPs.
(b)   Implementation of a vocational training program in electronics in 15 ITAs,
with supply of electronics equipment and training of "trainers" needed for this
program.
(c)   Elaboration and implementation of permanent training programs on job sites
for vocational trainers.
(d)   Elaboration and implementation of a program of periodic improvement of
vocational training courses ensured by OFPPT so that it may continue to offer
courses adapted to the needs of the national economy, and supply of computers
and printing equipment necessary to this end.



- 17 -
(e)   Elaboration and implementation of a program of courses including:
(i)   specialized courses conceived in order to improve qualifications of
employees of companies in the industrial and commercial sectors.
(ii)   courses conceived in order to develop necessary qualifications to
managers.
(iii)  training courses prior to employment.
(f)   Elaboration and execution of a pilot program to organize, staff and create in
10 CQPs services ensuring:
-     training in maintenance and repair operations for cars, electronics
equipment, household appliances and buildings, as well as woodwork
and printing activities.
-     related maintenance, repair and production operations
The pilot program includes the enlargement and equipment of workshops
required for such services.
(g)   Elaboration and execution of measures to improve efficiency of OFPPT's
activities on the overall territory, i.e.:
(i)   implementation of a program allowing the organization, staffing and
functioning of 10 regional coordination services in the country. This
program includes the construction of buildings for the 10 coordination
services, the supply of audiovisual material and computer equipment,
and the supply of vehicles, the elaboration and execution of a
management training program for staff responsible for these services,
as well as the supply of mobile maintenance units.
(ii)  implementation of a management training program for the managers of
50 CQPs and ITAs and supply of computer equipment, office supplies
and vehicles.
(h)   Execution of a program to improve the selection, evaluation and qualification
of trainers and trainees of the OFPPT.
(i)   Set-up of a program of financial aid in order to improve qualifications of
OFPPT staff and management.



- 18 -
Section B: AFPFC
(a)    Supply of computer equipment and other office equipment to permit AFPFC to
improve its activities of planning and management.
(b)   Elaboration and execution of training programs to improve qualifications of
AFPFC staff.
(c)    Execution of the following studies:
(i)   feasibility study of a research center in vocational training.
(ii)   study to elaborate an adequate system of socio-professional follow-up of
graduates of vocational training.
(iii)  study to establish appropriate professional profiles for the industrial and
artisanal sectors.
(iv)   study to identify, evaluate and recommend new programs for the
creation of new jobs.
(v)   study to elaborate relevant systems and principally a statistical system,
and adequate procedures for planning vocational training.
(vi)  study of manpower needs and training plans in agricultural and agro-
industrial sectors, construction, fisheries, textile and tourism sectors.
(d)   Elaboration and execution of an improved system of approved private
vocational schools.
6.    Tasks at OFPPT
(a)    Supply of equipment (renewal, additional equipment, section conversion) for
33 priority CQP.
(b)   Installation of the 33 CQPs.
(c)    Electronics programs: implementation of an electronics program in 15 ITAs
and training of trainers.
(d)    Construction and equipment of 10 regional coordination services.
(e)    Acquisition of 10 mobile maintenance units (canceled operation).



- 19 -
(f)    Enlargement and equipment of workshops in 10 CQPs for the production
(canceled operation).
(g)   Technical assistance and training of trainers and managers:
(i)   improvement program of OFPPT and company managers.
(ii)   reinforcemnent of training system for trainers and management staff.
(iii)  studies on elaboration and adaptation of training programs.
(iv)  improvement of staff selection procedures and orientation of candidates
towards vocational training.
(v)   assistance to the set-up of production units (canceled operation: linked
to task #6)
(vi)   Training plan for coordinators and management directors (operation
completed within the framework of French-Moroccan cooperation).
(vii)  Master technology scheme of OFPPT (equipment and technical
assistance).
In addition to tasks planned by the project, OFPPT completed this program
with the following actions:
(i)   assistance in start-up of ITAC Derb Ghallef in Casablanca.
(ii)   set-up of a career orientation system at OFPPT*.
(iii)  set-up of methodology for the elaboration of listings of profiles and
training programs at OFPPT*.
(iv)   Management of resources in audiovisual and training in educational
technology*.
(v)   Study on set-up of analytical accounting at OFPPT.
(vi)  Study on OFPPT's reorganization*



- 20 -
7.    Project Implementation
7.1   Improve vocational training programs in order to satisfy the market needs in qualified
manpower.
In order to improve the quality of training, the Office realized refurbishing works in
about 30 training establishments, and operations to re-equip about 20 subsidiaries reaching 70
establishments.
For technical assistance, works related to the training of trainers, improvement of
training programs, set-up of new orientation and selection systems, production of audiovisual
teaching materials.
Work completed within the framework of the first objective are as follows:
7.1.1  Refurbishment of sites. Installation of CQPs (para. A. 1 of the Loan Agreement): on
the 33 CQPs selected for refurbishment, two were not financed by the project because of non
respect of contract terms as far as the public and opening bid was concerned. These are the
Ifrane and Tiomliline CQPs, the refurbishment of which were completed with the Office's
budget.
The 31 CQPs refurbished within the project's framework for a total investment of DH
24,155,000 are detailed in Table 3. Details of refurbishment operations of these
establishments are included in annex 1.9.
a     These operations were transferred from the first to the second Project (cf. IBRD telex
of 12/18/90).



- 21 -
Table 3
Establishment       City        Establishment        City        Establishment       City
CQP Agadir      Agadir          CQP Khenifra     Khenifra        CQP Oujda        Oujda
CQP Al Hoceima   Al Hoceima     CQP Larache      Larache         CQP Rabat 1      Rabat
CQP Demnate     Demnate         CQP Maarif       Casablanca      CQP Safi         Safi
CQP El Jadida   El Jadida       CQP Marrakech I   Marrakech      CQP Saknia       Kenitra
CQP Essaouira   Essaouira       CQP Meknes I     Meklns          CQP Settat       Settat
CQP Fes 1       Fes             CQP Meknes 2     Meknes          CQP S. Bemoussi   Casablanca
CQP Guercif     Guercif         CQP Nador        Nador           CQP Tan          Tan Tan
CQP Hay Hassani  Casablanca     CQP Ouaouizerht   Ouaouizetht    CQP Tanger I     Tanger
CQP H Mohamma  Casablanca       CQP Ouarzazate    Ouarzazate     CQP Tanger 2     Tanger
CQP Kasba Tadia  Kasba Tadia    CQP Oujda I      Oujda           CQP Tetouan      Tetouan
CQP Youssoufia    Youssoufi -
7.1.2 Refurbishment of training establishments. The Loan Agreement stipulates the
refurbishment of 33 CQPs (para. Al), 15 lTAs (para. A.2), as well as about fifty other
establishments (para A.7b) and technical teaching material).
However, and for a better profitability of the training system, equipment renewal
operations have been grouped by category at the national level. Thus 21 categories and 113
sections were affected by the equipment renewal programs during the life of the loan.
The total number of establishments which were refurbished within the project's
framework amounts to 125 (69 CQPs and 56 ITAs), in addition to the ten regional
delegations and some central services.
Annual equipment programs are as follows:
1988/89        -      Equipment of 4 electronics lines in 15 ITAs for a total cost of DH
43,421,000 (see details in annex 1.10): 17 sections of the common part,
7 sections in industrial electronics, 7 sections in commercial electronics
and 3 sections in specialized electronics.
1989/90        -      Refurbishment of 51 sections for a total cost of DH 21,446,000 (Annex
1.1):
Equipment of 31 sections for renewal in customized cutting in
23 establishments: 18 CQPs, 2 CFPs and 3 ITAs



- 22 -
Equipment of 20 sections for reconversion in 9 lines:
tricot production, customized cutting, electricity of building,
refrigeration and cooling, maintenance mechanics, woodwork,
refrigeration repairs, sewing machines repairs. 18 establishments
have benefitted from these equipments: 15 CQPs, I CFP and 2
ITAs.
Equipment of establishments with audiovisual and technical
materials for a total cost of DH 7,687,000 DH (Annex 1.2):
Audiovisual material: 39 CQPs, 41 ITAs, 10 regional
delegations.
Typewriters: 18 CQPs, 29 ITAs, 5 regional delegations.
Duplicators: 19 CQPs, 23 ITAs, 8 regional delegations.
Photocopy machines: 9 CQPs, 12 ITAs, 4 regional delegations.
1990/91     -      Investment of DH 17,387,000 for the refurbishment of 27 sections
divided as follows (Annex 1.3):
Equipment of 22 sections for renewal in 10 lines:
Driver, tricot line, customized cutting, management of
companies, management technology, woodwork, repairs of
household appliances, repairs of sewing machines, secretariat.
Equipment of 5 sections for reconversion in 4 lines:
tricot line, customized cutting, repairs of household appliances.
4 CQPs benefitted from this program.
Additional equipment in office furniture and technical material for a
global investment of DH 1,185,000 (Annex 1.4):
Stabilizers for 15 ITAs.
Office furniture for 11 CQPs and 13 ITAs.
Workbenches for 5 CQPs and 1 ITA.
1991/92     -      Equipment of 6 sections of the course Cooking and Catering newly
created in 6 establishments, for a total amount of DH 4,762,000
(Annex 1.5)
1992/93     -      Purchase of dormitory material for 34 establishments (19 CQPs and 15
ITAs), with an investment of DH 1,419,000 (Annex 1.7)
1993/94     -      Reconversion of 8 sections in 5 CQPs and 1 ITA concerning the lines:
Customized cutting, Maintenance electricity, Electromechanics,
Woodworking and Sewing machines repairs. Total investment DH
8,676,000 (Annex 1.8)



- 23 -
7.1.3 Technical assistance (training of trainers). This operation reached a total of 82
trainers in the electronics lines, 58 of which trained in Canada and 24 in Italy:
-     Second session of improvement of trainers in electronics at Khouribga (Annex
2.7)
-     Third session of improvement of trainers in electronics at Khouribga (Annex
2.8)
-     Fourth session of improvement of trainers in electronics in Italy (Annex 2.9)
-     Study on strengthening of trainers training.
Improvement of training programs:
Three studies were completed in order to adapt training programs to the needs of the
market. Two of these studies concerned the elaboration and adaptation of training programs,
and the third is geared towards production and use of audiovisual teaching materials:
-     study on elaboration and adaptation of training programs: realized in part
within the project framework, and the remainder within the framework of
bilateral cooperation and on the Office's resources (Annex 2.11).
study of adaptation of elaboration methodology of profiles and vocational
training programs (Annexes 2.12 and 2.13).
technical assistance on production of audiovisual material (Annex 2.14).
Set-up of staff selection systems and orientation of candidates towards vocational
training:
Three studies were completed within this framework:
Study on improvement of staff selection system and implementation of an
adequate system for the orientation of candidates towards vocational training
(Annex 2.15).
Study on set-up of a system of career orientation in pilot areas (Annex 2.16).
Study on extension of set-up of career orientation system to other regions of
the country (Annex 2.17).
Assistance to start-up of ITA Confection de Derb Ghallef in Casablanca (Annex
2.22).
7.2   Increase efficiency of the vocational training system by decentralizing the management
of its activities for a better adaptation to local markets.



- 24 -
This objective mostly concerns OFPPT, and partly AFPFC. For the Office, the
following work has been completed:
7.2.1 Construction (para. A.7 of the Loan Agreement). Ten regional coordination services
were built and equipped between 1989 and 1992. The total building cost amounted to DH
13,937,000 (Annex 1.11). These services, created in Regional Delegations, are located in the
following cities:
City                    Area
Agadir                  Sud
Casablanca              Centre 1
Fes                     Centre Nord
Khouribga               Centre 3
Marrakech               Tensift
Meknes                  Centre Sud
Oujda                   Oriental
Rabat                   Nord Ouest 1
Settat                  Centre 2
Tanger                  Nord Ouest 2
7.2.2 Equipment. Purchase, installation and start-up of computer equipment on sites of 10
regional coordination services, 120 vocational training establishments (59 CQPs and 56
ITAs), and the Office's central services. The total investment for this operation was DH
18,218,000 (Annex 1.6).
7.2.3 Technical assistance. The following studies are being performed to allow the
implementation of a decentralized management in order to ensure autonomy of vocational
training establishments:
study on elaboration of computer applications within the framework of the
main technology scheme (cf. para. 6.2.2.). This study is pending and will be
completed on Office budget.
study on OFPPT's reorganization: the objective of the study is to install a new
structure defining respective responsibilities of establishments as direct
operators of vocational training, central services as technical advisers and
carriers of human resources, financial and material means, and regional
delegations as intermediaries between the two. This study is pending and will
be completed on Office budget.
study on implementation of analytical accounting: pending. It will be
completed on Office budget for 5 pilot establishments at the end of 1994 and
will be extended to 15 other pilot establishments in 1995.



- 25 -
7.3   Improve the recovery of OFPPT's vocational training costs
7.3.1 Initial financial clause. Vocational training tax (TFP) must cover OFPPT's operating
expenses up to 80% for FY88, 90% for FY89, and 100% for the following fiscal years, i.e.
all operating expenses for each fiscal year.
7.3.2 Amendment to the financial clause. By letter of February 14, 1992, the World Bank
approved the amendment to section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement as follows:
"In order to improve the recovery of costs borne by OFPPT for vocational
training services, the borrower continues, on a permanent basis, to withdraw
and makes sure that each private company pays, as soon as possible, a
vocational training tax, for OFPPT's account, of a level sufficient to ensure
that the total revenues generated by this tax, for each fiscal year, starting with
the fiscal year ending December 31, 1991. I.e. the equivalent of at least 70%
of the total operating expenses of OFPPT for each of these fiscal years". (e.
OFPPT leuer No. 53 of MarcJh 18, 1992).
7.3.3 Improvement of vocational training tax recover. OFPPT worked at different levels
and took the following steps to ensure improvement in tax recovery:
-     signing of agreements with state companies (Royal Air Maroc, R6gie des
Tabacs, and Subsidiaries of Office Cherifien des Phosphates) for the payment
of tax due by these organizations since the date of effectiveness of the tax.
-     periodic withdrawals of the monthly advance on collected tax.
-     increase in benefits of accounts and forced recoveries.
-     furthermore, and following World Bank recommendations for the extension of
the tax to industrial and commercial state companies, OFPPT initiated to
present in July 1992 a project of decree in this respect to the relevant
governmental authorities.
OFPPT has indeed no control over the tax's proceeds since the recovery of the tax is
performed by the Caisse Nationale de S6curit6 Sociale (CNSS). Even extemal auditors have
never been able, in their audit reports, to account for the tax proceeds.
For information, tables 4 and 5 present the evolution of tax proceeds and OFPPT
operating resources. Table 6 indicates OFPPT's expense coverage rate by the tax.



- 26 -
Table 4
Evolution of Tax Proceeds since 1984
DH'000
Rate            1%         |                                    1.6%
Year    1984        1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Gross    78,609     86,506    96,637    150,825    184,926   205,983   248,343    295,592   352,286   356,675
Net*    77,037     84,776    94,704    147,808   181,228   201,863   243,376    289,680   346,130   350,0V7
*       A 2% commission is withdrawn by CNSS for the tax recovery from companies, with the exception of stile enterprises (RAM, RT and OCP
subsidiaries) who pay directly the tax proceeds to OFPPT.
Table 5
Evolution of Operating Resources since 1988
DH'000
Resources             1988          1989          1990          1991          1992           1993
TFP                      184,926       205,983       248,343       295,592       352,286        356,675
Subsidies                  70,000       90,000         85,000        69,213        70,000         81,900
Grants                     15,065        15,167        31,471        23,689        43,845         32,878
Other proceeds              1,987         1,632         2,867         2,416         4,501          5,421
Total    271,978         312,782       367,681       390,910       470,632        476,874
Table 6
Evolution of Tax expense coverage rate
Year       1988          1989          1990           1991          1992         1993
. Tax/Operating Expenses     76            81             81            84            87           75



- 27 -
8.   Impact of Project on OFPPT's Training Apparatus
The project had a very positive impact on improvement of efficiency of the vocational
training system and its increase presence in its socio-economic environment through the set-
up of contractual training, managing and technical committees, the organization of
internships in companies for trainers and the set-up of a career orientation system.
8.1  Impact of Physical Accomplishments. The building of the ten regional delegations
allowed to decentralize a certain number of OFPPT's activities and to get closer to the local
socio-economic environment of training establishments. These delegations act as
intermediaries between central services and employers at the local level, study their needs in
qualified manpower, and offer training meeting these needs.
Refurbishment and equipment of training establishments allowed to consolidate sites
and modernize teaching material, resulting in a marked improvement in services offered to
trainees.
The renewal of equipments in electronic lines and training of trainers in this sector
offered training of technical quality and level meeting, best the needs of local industries. The
15 ITA equipped within this framework may accommodate 1020 trainees. The total number
of technical graduates from these establishments since 1988-89 is of 2,777, of which 595 are
female, i.e. 21 % of graduates. As for the total number of graduates of electronic lines at the
national level since the same year, it is of 4,407, of which 1,009 female, i.e. 23% of
graduates.
Concurrently, other steps were taken to improve electronics training. In this regard,
26 sections of the qualification level were removed as the profiles required from employers
require high technical knowledge, and the trainees of the qualification level did not receive
the basic necessary instruction to assimilate this type of training. Furthermore, the rotation
system which existed before 1988 was progressively phased out as it did not allow practical
internships in good conditions. Finally, training in this sector has been raised to the
specialized technician level as of 1993/94 to train highly qualified technicians in electronics,
and the project facilitated the set-up at that level.
The kitchen-restaurant line was created upon the pressing demand of employers and
was implemented in 6 establishments. The second project allowed to equip these sections in
technical and teaching materials. Two promotions are presently being trained with a total of
187 interns, 27 of which are female.
Renewal and conversion operations of other lines concerned all sectors. A total of 17
lines and 86 sections were included in these operations. The number of graduates is 6,569
during the life of the loan, of which 5,361 are female. The high number of female graduates
is due to the fact that of the 86 sections which were equipped within the project's
framework, 62 were related to the textile sector where female interns are a majority.



- 28 -
8.2   Impact of Technical Assistance - Strengthening of Trainers' Training Apparatus. The
studies completed in this respect allowed to raise the technical and teaching levels of
OFPPTI's trainers, which resulted in a marked improvement of the quality of training offered
in training centers.
Table 7 presents the number of trainers who received additional training during the
period 1988-1993:
Table 7
Year     1988         1989          1990         1991         1992          1993
Type of Train;g   :      %     :            %  _      C         %            S 
Training in Morocco  1340    50   962    36   1076    38   923    32  1007    36   1544     51
Training abroad    85     3   154      6    277    10   246       9   125      4    n/a    n/a
Internships       2S5    11   127      5    150      5   256      9   212      8    244      a
Total             1710    64  1243    47   1503    53  1425    50  1344    48   1788        59
#'     Number of trainers
%5     Percentage compared to total number of trainers at OFPPT
n/a    Not available
Improvement of Training Programs. The studies performed within this framework
allowed to adapt training programs to the real needs of the market. The set-up of a
methodology to elaborate professional profiles and training programs resulted in the
production of modular programs easily adaptable to the training needs. The sectors targeted
by studies are electric works, textile, leather, graphic arts, audiovisual and metallurgy.
Another study on the production and use of audiovisual teaching aids was added to
provide additional and more efficient teaching aids to the trainers.
Staff Selection and Orientation of Candidates. The studies completed in this
framework permitted to assist candidates and interns to select lines corresponding to their
profiles and motivations, also meeting the needs of the market. Considering the success of
this system, it is planned that it will be extended to all centers and at all levels starting in
1995, and discontinuation of all entry exams. The evolution of extension of the coverage rate
of the orientation system at the national level over the traditional exam is very rapid as
demonstrated in table 8:



- 29 -
Year   1989    1990       1991    1992      1993    1994*    1995*
Percentage of
candidates
admitted to     5.3       22       28       51       66       82       100
training through
orientation
* Estimates
Improvement of the Efficiency of the OFPPT Training Apparatus. The decentralized
management of OFPPT's activities for a better adaptation to the local markets will be
reinforced and largely facilitated by a series of studies outstanding.
The elaboration of data applications within the framework of the set-up of the master
technology scheme will allow an autonomous management of all center activities (teaching,
human means, equipment, financing), while integrating this management in a computerized
system including also regional delegations and central services.
The purpose of this study on OFPPT's reorganization is to set up new structures
ensuring the autonomy of the centers and clearly define their role as well as the respective
roles of the regional delegations and of the central services in the training apparatus.
The set-up of analytical accounting will allow to better master training costs and to
provide centers with the necessary financing to meet this objective and strengthen their
autonomy.
9.    Relations with the World Bank
The execution of the second project witnessed a spirit of good collaboration between
IBRD and OFPPT. World Bank experts who were leading the different supervision missions
are professional and competent in their respective fields.
OFPPT would like to receive the coordinates of all IBRD members associated with
the project in order to contact them in case they need to solve potential problems in order to
avoid any delays in the execution of the project.
Some statistical tables requested by the Bank were presented in such a way that it was
difficult, sometimes impossible to fill them out or work with them. These tables have been
modified in collaboration with World Bank experts.



- 30 -
Some modifications were made to the loan agreement with World Bank approval, as
follows:
The initial clause on the Training Tax which was to cover 100% of operating
expenses as of 1991 has been reduced to at least 70%.
The following tasks were canceled: purchase of 10 mobile maintenance units,
program of 10 units of production, program of intemships for trainers,
program of management training.
The following tasks were transferred from the first to the second project:
implementation of a career orientation system, adaptation of methodology to
elaborate profiles and training programs listings, management of audiovisual
resources, study of OFPPT's reorganization.
The following tasks were added: assistance to start-up of ITA Confection of
Derb Ghallef, set-up of analytical accounting and master technology scheme.
B.   Vocational Training Administration
10.   Technical Assistance
10.1  Impact of Studies on the Vocational Training System. Within the framework of the
second FP project, the Administration de la Formation Professionnelle et de la Formation des
Cadres completed vocational training planning studies in the following sectors:
-     Administration-management and trade
-     Building, civil works
-     Artisanal work
-     Tourism
-     Agriculture
-     Mechanics, Metal and Electricity industries
-     Agribusiness
-     Fisheries
The purpose of these studies is to:
Define vocational training needs through analysis of employment and diagnosis
of the sector's manpower.
-     Establish a training strategy to meet training needs.
These studies have been completed, their findings were made available to public and



- 31 -
private operators for implementation of recommendations.
The contents of these studies were helpful, they allowed to:
-     Create new lines
-     Adapt training by lines depending on identified needs.
-     Renovate the lines training programs.
-     Measure the level of inappropriateness of vocational training and propose
measures to fix it.
-     List qualified jobs with detailed description serving as reference to the training
system and first step for national classification of jobs Morocco wishes to
build.
-     Create a fertile consultation framework between training operators and
economic partners within committees of follow-up of studies.
However, the completion of these studies encountered three categories of difficulties,
I.e.:
Firstly, studies tried to cover all employment sectors, hence reaching a large
population economically organized. For this reason, and with justified reasons, the infornal
sector was explored in a rather incomplete and summarized way.
Secondly, evaluations of job creations were made on operational units, putting aside
all jobs created through new production units. Further, the self-employment phenomenon has
not been considered as well as the low prospect on new jobs.
Finally, the detennination of hiring needs is based on direct estimate from employers
whether private or public units. This process consists in obtaining from employers their own
short- and medium-tenn estimates of jobs available. This entails that all units in the
employment sector establish staffing projections, which is not always the case. In reality, the
task of establishing staffing plans is delicate, in some cases complicated (artisanal work and
agriculture for example).
10.2 Relations with the World Bank. The completion of studies was performed under good
conditions through close collaboration between the World Bank and AFPFC. Indeed, World
Bank experts undertook several missions to enquire on the progress and discussion of the
studies findings. Also, the active participation of the World Bank contributed largely to the
improvement of the quality of these studies.



- 32 -
The initial project was slightly modified, with approval from the World Bank, for the
study the purpose of which was to identify, evaluate and recommend new job creation
programs, which was not completed. This was done within the framework of sectoral studies.
Other studies were done within the framework of the general budget or other
financing (BAD, PNUD, French Cooperation), i.e.:
-     Feasibility study on a research center in vocational training
-     Study to elaborate a system to follow-up on vocational training graduates
-     Study to elaborate systems for vocational training planning
-     Study on textile sector
-     Study on tourism sector
-     Elaboration of an accreditation system for private vocational training centers
Finally, the World Bank may play an important role in the implementation of
recommendations by examining with the follow-up Commission the possibility of financing
tasks requiring substantial credits to be created.
11.   Computer Equipment
11.1  Impact of Comptuter Equipment. In 1986, the Administration de la Formation
Professionnelle et de la Formation des Cadres completed a study on a master technology
scheme which resulted in the purchase of IBM AS/400 financed through IBRD Loan No.
2779-MOR.
This equipment contributed efficiently and satisfactorily to the development of
structure information system for vocational training at the central level, and the availability
of decision-makers on map situation, insertion, graduates, final exam results, budget, etc.,
within a reasonable timeframe.
11.2 Relations with the World Bank. There were good cooperative relations with the
World Bank. Some difficulties initially encountered with disbursement were solved after a
procedural change in the payment of suppliers.



- 33 -
PART Im  STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Core Steps         Date Planned         Date Actual
Identification           07/28/85             08/31/85
Preparation              01/17/86             02/1-86*
Appraisal Mission        04/15186             04/14/86
Loan Negotiation         11/19/86             11/24/86
Board Approval           01/20/87             01/20/87
Loan Signature           03/13/87             03/13/87
Loan Effectiveness         N/A                08/12/87
Project Completion       06/30/92             12/31/93
Loan Closing             10/31/92             04/30/94
Last Disbursement          N/A                05/09/94
* Preparation mission date not available due to error in MIS data.
Table 2: ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million Equivalent)
CY     1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
Appraisal               2.50  8.30  10.30  0.80  0.40
Estinatae
Acttal                  0.75  5.95  3.43   5.31  2.96  2.05    1.03
Actual as % of         31%   72%   33%   664%  740%
Est.                                                          _



Table 3: TIKELfLIE 01 DISBURBMENT SCHEDULE
1i2              1
10 -
8 -
---Appraisal Estimate        4
6 - 
4-
2-
1988          1989          '1990           1991           1992          '1993          1994 



- 35 -
Table 4a: PROJECT COST BY CATEGORY
(US$ Thousand Equivalent)
Appraisal Estimate          Actual
Category                Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total
1/
Construction &
Professional Services     1,667   1,538   3,205          2,118
Furniture & Equipment     1,959  12,666  14,625         13,984
Technical Assistance       605   2,645   3,250           5,839
Total Base Cost           4,231  16,849  21,080   3,413  21,941  25,354
Physical Contingencies     423   1,685   2,108    341   2,194   2,535
Price Contingencies        960   3,824   4,784    683   4,388   5,071
TOTAL PROJECT COST    5,614  22,358  27,972   4,436  28,523  32,959
1/ Breakdown of actual local costs is not available; physical and price contingencies are
estimated at 10% and 20%, respectively.
Table 4b: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Source of Funds    Planned           %             Final             %
IBRD Loan           22.36            80%           21.94           80%
Co-financing
Institutions
Other External
Sources
Domestic             5.61           20%             5.61           20%
TOTAL               27.97           100%           27.97           100%



- 36 -
Table 5: PROJECT RESULTS
(in US$ Million)
INDICATORS AT APPRAISAL                           ACTUAL DEVELOPMENT
A. OFFICE OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND
EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION (Office) (OFPPT)
3.2.1. (a) Re-equipping and refurbishing of 33  (a) Refurbishing of 31 CQPs.
Vocational CQPs, and (b) developing an upgraded
raining program in electronics at 15 ITAs with the   (b) re-equipping of 70 CQPs and 56 ITAs.
rovision of electronics equipment and training of
instructors.
3.2.2. Technical assistance to establish in-plant  Implemented outside project framework. Partly met.
instructor training prograin.
3.2.3. Technical assistance for periodic upgrading of Partly implemented with bilateral cooperation. T.A.
ocational training courses.                     included 2 studies and expert services for the
production of audiovisual material.
3.2.4. Technical assistance to develop specialized  Completed.
rograms to upgrade the skills of employees, introduce
ntrepreneurship, and pre-einployment training courses
3.2.5. Establishment of 10 pilot training/repair service Cancelled.
in10 CQPs.
3.2.6. (a) Establishment and equipping of 10 Office  (a) 10 Office regional coordination units established
regional coordination units with (b) the provision of 1 and equipped.
mobile maintenance units.                        (b) Cancelled.
3.2.7. Technical assistance for implementation of a   T.A. implemented under bilateral agreements. Data
management training program for about 50 CQPs and  rocessing equipment provision to aU vocational
ITAs directors, and provision for data processing and training centers [60 CQPs and 15 ITAs as well as 10
|office equipment.                              regional units and 12 director's services at OFPP.
3.2.8. Technical assistance to upgrade the system of  Completed.
selection, testing and certification of instructors and
trainees.
3.2.9. Fellowships to enhance the skills of staff and   Implemented under bilateral agreements.
managers of OFPPT.
B. VOCATIONAL TRAINING ADMINISTRATION
(VAT) (AFPFC)
.2.10. Provision of data processing equipment and   Completed.
other office equipment to enhance the planning and
management capacity of the AFPFC.
3.2.11. Technical assistance to upgrade the skills to  Implemented outside project framework - bilateral
AFPFC staff                                      agreements.
3.2.12. Technical assistance for studies on planning,  Partially completed. Some T.A. implemented through
management and evaluation of the vocational training bilateral cooperation.
system, for tracing graduates, and studies on
manpower needs in several key economic sectors.
.2.13. Technical assistance to improve its system of Study completed. Implementation of recommendation
ccreditation and quality control of private training  ot yet put into effect.
programs.



- 37 -
Table 6: STUDIES
SUBJECT/TITLE                         PURPOSE AS DEFINED AT                 STATUS
APPRAISAL
Feasibility study of a vocational training  Feasibility study for a vocational training Completed outside the
development center. (1/92)            development center.                    roject. Financing from
BAD.
(a) Preparation of a tracer system for    A study to develop an appropriate system   oth implemented.
eocational training graduates. (9/89)  for tracing graduates of vocational trainin
(b) Development of an employment      programs.
munselling system for vocational training
raduates. (9/87)
a) Survey on industrial trade        Study to develop appropriate occupational (a) Done.
ifications. (1/88)                profiles for the industrial and handicraft
) Study on trade specifications in the   sectors of the Borrower's economy.  (b) Done.
dicraft sectors. (1/90)
tudy of job creation investment      Study to identify, evaluate and recommenc Done.
ssibilities. (9/88)                 new employment creation programs.
a) Review of national and regional   Study to develop appropriate systems   Done.
ystems and procedures for the planning  (including a statistical system) and
f the vocational training. (9/87)    procedures for the planning of vocational
) Development of a statistical system fo training programs.
ocational training. (9/87)
i) Study on manpower needs in the    Studies of the manpower requirements of 'i) Done
griculture and agro-industrial sectors.   the (i) agriculture and agro-industry; (ii) (ii) Done
9/88)                                construction; (iii) fisheries; (iv) textiles;  (iii) Done
ii) Study on manpower needs in the   and (v) tourism sectors of the Borrower's iv) & (v) Financed by
nstruction sector. (9/88)           economy.                                NDP.
iii) Study on manpower needs in the
fishery sector. (9/88)
(iv) Study on manpower needs in the
textile sector. (9/88)
(v) Study on the manpower needs in the
tourism sector. (9/89)



Run Date: 10/21/94
at 11.16.31
Nidte East & No Africa Regiaml
MNA: Coitry Deprwnut I
MN1PH - POP & UAAN REPCESR(s CPR DIV
PFLCR1 - Latest Status of Covesnt CapLiarce
M 13.05 - ANNEX D5
FaR 590 DATE: 01/10/94
Project ID:    WA-PA-54Z6 - OC.TRAINING II
LOW                                                       origirat  Revised  Description of Ca t                               Canets
Credit                                Covennt             FulfiLL  FuLfilL
APremft   u*ter Text Refererre                   Class(es)   Status Date       Date
SD5A1     L2rO  SDOULE 5 All)                    12          C       11/30/8B           OFF. SHALL NOT LATER THAN 11/30/8B EMLPUY  ONS.    DONE.
FOR PART 8(2) OF PROJECr IN ACMqANCE WITH                                                          t
PROVISIONS OF SECTION 11 OF SCHED. 4.                                                              r
D5AZ      LZTT9O  SOEDLE 5 A(2)                  12          C       04/30/89           OFF. CAY TAKE ALL  1ASLE NEC. TO ENSlRE THAT TRG DaNE.
PRQWAIs REFERRED IN PART B(2) SHALL BE DEV &
RIWISHED MO BAMK NOT LATER THAN 4/30/89, (B)
THEREAFTERt CANRaRW  SUCH TRG. P4/0 TAKING INTO
ACCOJNT BANt 06IS THEREaN.
SD5B2     L27790 SOEDULE 5 B(2)                  12          aP      03/31/92           THE VTA SHALL TAKE ALL WEA9S NECESSARY TM         EXCEPT FCR TWO STLDIES UHICH HAVE BEEN DCNE
EN9JM THAT SAID STJWIES SHALL BE MWfLETED NOTr    aTSIDE TIE PROJECT, CYAITION I&AS MET.            /
LATER THAN 03/31/92 & OOPIES THEREOF RRNISHED TO
THE BANW IN ACRANCE  WITH TIMETABLE AGREDI WITHI                                                     OD
THE BANK.
SDSB3     LM90 SCEDULE 5 B(3)                    9           CP                          BOaER & BANK EXCHANGE VIES ON FlNDINGs & DONC. DISCUSIONS AND REOREfDATION OF SEVERAL SUDIES  0
OF SRGIES & REa9"ETICNS MED  LPCN THEREON,   HAVE BEEN CARRIED aWY.
& BM. TO CARR WY REW4EIATICNS  LVLS OF
%(X.TRG. TMX IN GMEE  TO MEET SJOlf R~BIrPENTPS.
SD5C1     LZ779  SDHELIE 5 C(i)                 12          CP      O8/31/90           TM DEV. IlPROWD SYSTEM OF PRIV.vOC. SOKCL         A REPCRT HAS BEEN  411TTED M TIE BANK (ETtR a
ACOTERITATION REF. PART B(4) OF PROJECT, VIA SALAL  1992. NO DOISLLTANTS HAVE BEEN HIRED.
NOT LATER THAN 9/30/8B EIPLOY NEC. CONS. AND) ALL
MEASURES TO ENSUR SYSTEM HE DEVELCPED.
SDCUA    LZr9   SCiEDULE 5 C(1) A                12          CP                           GaER & BANK SHALL THEREAFTER ERCANGE VIEWS    THE PRCPOSED SYSTEM HAS BEEN REVIEWED AND IS
ON SAID SYST4, AND BORER SHL  PRSTLY             AWCPTMABLE TO THE BANK. IWDETED NOT STARTED.
IW'IBENT SAID SYSTEM Gd TIE BASIS OF SAID
DEROANGE OF VIEWS.
54-5B1    L27790 SCEDU.LE 4 SECTICI II & SaDu  12            C       09/30/87           THE OFFICE & VTA SHALL EWT DONMLLTANTS TO         DONE.
CARRY CUT THE STUDIES, NOT LATER THAN 09/30/87.
Status: C    - Caipl.ed with
CD   - Ca pl iax  after Delay
NC  - Not COIplied with
SOON - CaplieM ENcted in Ra         'y Short Tim
CP  - CtpyId uith Partially
PID  -NotYetBue



Ru Drte: 10121/94
at 11.16.31
Middle Eat & No Africa RegiauL
MNA; CcuOtry DO umt I
WIPH - P0P & NAM REK&RS CPR DIV
PFLCR1 - Latet StatL of Ctwt Ca*iem
OD 13.05 - ANEX D5
F 590 DATE: 01/101
Project ID:    MR-PA-54M  - %QC.TRAINIIG 11
LW  o    DOfis0eOcriptfan of Coewt                         Canmts
Credit                                 Cet Fulfl   Futfitt
A   MIt N  Ar     Tuct R0ef1                      CLa(es)   Statua  Date       Dote
4.MA      L210  4.M(A)                           2           CD                         mBLECTED .* EACH PRIVATE BIIENWISE A VCC.TRG.  TARGET RATIO AMEDED IN FEB. '92 TO 709 OF TOrAL
TAX AT LEVELS SUFICIENT TO EN S   THAT TOtAL       GrO.     EK'OIT1E. ACHIEV'W IN FM.
KYEMJES I) FYS EBJIV. NO LESS THA BZ5  11) FY89
EMJIV. 10 LESS THAII  OFF) EACH FT 1E1WDTER
EJIV. MD LES THAN 1OC OFF. TOT.COJR.E)PEND. YfEAR
4.m       L290  SIDU.  4.(2 3                    2           CD                          *EFC  6/'30 EAOI OF OFF.FY  OM. SHAL CN BASIS   SEE 4.02 A ADM.
OF Fa27A7 PSO L  Smo    BiRR. & OFF. & SATISF. TO
mA  REVIEW WENER RErJIIENTS IN  D. 1 SHL
BE MET IN RESPW OF SLIH YR & F(LIMNG FT ANC
RNISH RSJLT OF  MIEW  tICN  OPLETIOI.
4.azc     L27190 SCED    4.02 C                  2           CD                         IF REVIEI SNOM THAT RgUIREII INS  101.1 HOT MET SEE 4.02 A AIWE.
RR OFF. FYs 0D3  BY REVIEW  IBER SHAEL
TAE NE. WASJES (IIML. WOlf LINITATIaIS ADJ
OF STERLtl CR LEWELS OF =.TRG. TAX) IN Wm 
ID  ET SUOI 113JIRENTS.I
Cwt CL_
tAcaxntg/"dt
F Firciat psrfzorn  =         t reum  fro xbficluirfes
4 CcutlutfuUrldf
5         ME          of th ProJect or of Its  eLtif rg  Ymc
6    vIrw mmontal ~.w
8  IgItut     rery  ttt
9 l     revi                   Ir r vtIr
10  I      tIo  i
Setra   rcru-utrt bzAt0twY or othe rbowmv atLaecatfa,
~   caLor arou.u.ctr*lmuAdt*ry/Irutftitgiout action



- 40 -
TABLE 8: BANK MISSIONS
Through BOARD APPROVAL
MISSION             MONTH/YEAR               # OF PERSONS         # OF FIELD STAFF DAYS    SPECIALIZATION
REPRESENTED
Reconnaissance                N/A                       N/A                       N/A                       N/A
Identification           July/Aug. 1985                  1                         5                 Vocational Educator
Preparation              Jan./Feb. 1986                  2                         22              Technical Education &
Vocational Educator
Appraisal                April/May 1986                  3                         22               Technical Educator,
Vocational Educator,
Architect
SUPERVISION
MISSION  MONTH/YEAR             # PERSONS    # STAFF  SPECIALIZATION                       OVERALL   YPES OF
DAYS IN  REPRESENTED                        STATUS   PROBLEMS
FIELD
I     lOct/Nov 1987              I       |    6       kech./Voc. Specialist          j     I       n/a               J
2       arch/April 1988   |      1       |    3       kech./Voc. Specialist                 1      n/a
3     |October 1988              1             2       ech./Voc. Specialist          I      I     Payroll tax and
10 E                                     tz                                                       lnterpart funds
[    4     |October 1989               2       |     6     |ech./Voc. Spec. & Edc./Econ. |       I      n/a
[    5     jMarch 1990         j       1            16    lEconomist                                   k IZ Z I/
jSeptember 1990            2             11      Economist & Financial Analyst        2             in
l                                                                             p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rocurement of
I _________                                                                                            equ______________   ______________   _____________________________   ___________   ipm ent
7     Feb./March 1991            1             38     Financial Analyst              |     2       om  financial
I  I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~qilibrium
F    8    fSeptember 1991        1             10     Financial Analyst                    2       Delays in
conipletion of
[7 9 e February 1992                   1            12    |Financial Analyst             J      2      Jrrairing of trainers
10    Sept./Oct. 1992            2        |    18      Financial Analyst & H.R.      |      2      1Placement of
|________  |__ __ jEconom ist                            trainer     in
I   I       I   _       I                              I             |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~enterpri   I
11    JApril/May 1993            4              9        ining Policy Spec.; H.R.           I      Placement of
IEconomist; Industrial Dev. Spec.;          |trainers in
________  ._____________  ____________  I      |________   Financial  Analyst                enterpria s
12    1Nov./Dec. 1993            4        |           Training Policy Spec.; H.R.           I         cement of
I           |Economist; Industrial Dev. Spec.;              ners in
I       |            |~~~~~~Financial Analyst||ekpia



- 41 -
Table 9: STAFF INPUTS
(Staff-weeks)
Fiscal  Preappraisal    Appraisal   Negotiation    Supervision  Other  Total
Year
1983            6.5
1984           14.0
1985
1986            7.9          23.3
1987                         10.1           2.2           1.2
1988                                                     4.6
1989                                                     4.4
1990                                                     7.5
1991                                                      8.0
1992                                                     9.0
1993                                                     15.0
1994                                                     10.4
Totals          28.4          33.4          2.2          60.1         124.1






IBRD 19859
MOROCCO
SECOND VOCATIONAL
TRAINING PROJECT
Propoaad-
Vocational Training9 Centers'
C     lnetitt.ea of Applhrd Technology
T-ai roo. 
Secondary reads                                                                                          v           *         r       m          D         e       l>                        
4+    Airpoti,                                                                                       CASABL N                                                                                   ---              j
0 300 Millinrer ,.hr.t                                                                                                                        <
El-otions  hbore  1000 t3 molr
A, Na -ioral r-pit.1,PrOVID,- I capitols                                                     S.,,                     eqAc KKi
Olhrr roan, and nldloga,
-32                  -     *-int-an -.ioral boondanis/
-ormer Spanish Sahara (WaWstrn SahraC
Air ad'dir,eaiY Vecr,neAioS TreiaNp Conir orr r_ /ft$;<lw1!gt2--<pul a 
C trseadr in OakS,;a no r/ly rt ,O, \ A _1Orl -n or J r 
A Tr  A N TC  OC  At,'
4"    1       t                                            2100             
1 CANARY                                                             0L                                  <                                                                               0an I
ISLANDSS5' 0,S.n   0                                                                                                                                                                                                        LEi
(Spoir)                                                                                                                                                                   i         m, o                              ri- 
<ciii               /                                       T0fR irvs -_-    L..   o           1L   0MALP TAN A  N
ME 
SEPTEMBEPtR 1986









:' i       ,' :            .:    ::R,! I i, E
:i .    1 .;                :            7    i!-;-. ,
''  Z .      i         i',                                     .      . I                i. 1       ..i'.!r.!
...     I  | ,       '   j ';-4  !p II



