Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4424-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$22.3 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
December 15, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average
Calendar 1985             April, 1986
Currency Unit              Dirhams (DH)
1 Dirham (DH)        =     US$0.09938                0.110
1 US Dollar (US$)   =      DH 10.0625                9.15
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
IAT  -  Institute of Applied Technology
MEA  -  Ministry of Economic Affairs
MOE  -  Ministry of Education
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
MOL  -  Ministry of Labor
MOP  -  Ministry of Planning
MPW  -  Ministry of Public Works, Vocational Training and
Staff Training
TA   -  Technical Assistance
VTA  -  Vocational Training Administration
VTC  -  Vocational Training Center



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRADINIG PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         The Kingdom of Morocco.
Beneficiaries:    The Office of Vocational Training and Employment Promotion
(the Office) and the Vocational Training Administration
(VTA).
Amount:           US$22.3 million equivalent.
Terms:            Twenty years, including five years of grace at the current
variable interest rate.  US$21.3 million equivalent of the
Bank loan would be made available by the Borrower to the
Office, on a grant basis.   The  remaining US$1.0 million
would be provided in support of the VTA.  The Government
would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks on
the Bank loan.
Project
Description:      The objectives of the proposed project are to (i) improve
the  quality  of  vocational  training;  and  (ii)  reduce
vocational training costs. The project would address these
objectives by (i) improving instructor training; (ii)
upgrading training programs; (iii) implementing measures to
enhance   cost   recovery;   (iv)   improving   the   Office's
efficiency; and (v) technical assistance and studies.
Benefits and
risks:            The major benefits of this project are expected to be:  an
increase in the supply and quality of workers urgently
needed  in  the  Moroccan  economy  and  more  employment
opportunities for lower income groups and females due to
improvements in training programs and greater efficiency.
The single identifiable risk associated with the project is
that implementation could be slowed by budgetary shortages
in the context of the Government's current fiscal austerity
program.    The  Government  has,   however,   made  a  firm
commitment that the necessary funding will be provided, and
is planning cost recovery measures which will offset Office
recurrent expenditures by 1990.   Significantly,  Government
funding for the First Vocational Training Project has been
sufficient and timely.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- (ii) *
(US$ million)
Estimated Project Costs: 1                       Local     Foreign      Total
1. Vocational Training Administration (VTA)
-  Furniture and Equipment                 -           0.2         0.2
-  Technical assistance                    0.3         0.6         0.9
(incl. studies)
Sub-total          0.3         0.8        1.1
2. Office of Vocational Training
and Employment Promotion (Office)
-  Construction and Professional           1.7         1.5         3.2
Services (minor extensions at
existing VTCs and IATs)
-  Furniture and Equipment                 1.9        12.5        14.4
-  Technical Assistance                    0.3         2.0         2.3
(incl. local training & studies)
Sub-total          3.9        16.0       19.9
Total base cost                                4.2       16.8        21.0
Physical contingencies                        0.5         1.7         2.2
Price contingencies                            1.0        3.8         4.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           5.7        22.3        28.0
Financing Plan:
Bank                                           -         22.3        22.3
Government                                     5.7        -           5.7
TOTAL                                         5.7       22.3        28.0
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ million
Bank Fiscal Year       FY 87  FY 88  FY 89  FY 90  FY 91  FY 92  FY 93
Annual                  -       1.3    4.3   12.5    3.4    0.6    0.2
Cumulative              -       1.3    5.6   18.1   21.5   22.1   22.3
Staff Appraisal Report:          Report No. 6345-MOR, dated December 15, 1986.
Map!R:                           Kingdom of Morocco, IBRD 19859.
Economic Rate of Return:         Not applicable.
1/ Excluding taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$22.3 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco, for the equivalent of US$22.3 million to help
finance the Second Vocational Training Project.  The proposed loan would have
a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1'
2.       An economic report, entitled "Morocco: Priorities for Public Sector
Investment (1981-85)" (No. 4156-MOR), was issued on June 15, 1983.  Another
economic report entitled "Morocco: Industrial Incentives and Export Promotion"
(No. 4893-MOR) was distributed to the Board on January 11, 1984. An economic
mission on financial intermediation was in Morocco in September 1983 and its
report (No. 4957-MOR) was issued on December 12, 1984.  The following section
reflects the findings of an economic updating mission that went to Morocco in
July 1984 to prepare a paper, entitled "Morocco: Medium-term Adjustment
Policies and Prospects", for presentation to a meeting of the Consultative
Group for Morocco in Paris on January 9-11, 1985. Data and analysis have been
updated to reflect the recent mission reviewing progress on policy adjustment
loans, analyzing Public Resource Mobilization (report in preparation), and
analyzing medium-term prospects for a forthcoming CEM. Country data are given
in Annex I.
Introduction
3.       During  nearly  two  decades  after  Independence  in  1956,  Morocco
followed   relatively  conservative  economic  policies.    Cautious  external
borrowings supplemented a weak savings effort to permit only a slow rise in
investment, so that the economy grew only at about 4 percent per annum.
Primary products - principally phosphates - accounted for 90 percent of
merchandise  exports.   During  the  mid-1970s,  after  a  sudden  increase  in
phosphate prices, Morocco launched an ambitious public investment program
which boosted GDP growth to 7.5 percent annually during the period 1973-77.
1/ Part I is an updated version of that presented in in the Sixth Agricultural
Credit Project  (Report No.  P-4347-MOR of June 3,  1986).   A new CEM  is
expected to be circulated shortly, in preparation for the Consultative
Group on Morocco scheduled to be held in early February 1987.



The phosphate boom, however, began subsiding as early as mid-1975. Meanwhile,
the petroleum import bill, which had quadrupled in 1974, continued to place
considerable pressure on the balance of payments, and the current account
deficit reached 16.5 percent of GDP in 1977.  Domestically, the large public
investment program and increased defense expenditures in the Western Sahara
caused the treasury deficit to rise to 15.8 percent of GDP in 1977.  Morocco
resorted to considerable foreign borrowings to finance these deficits.
4.       To  redress  the  rapidly  deteriorating  financial  situation,  the
Moroccan Government introduced a three-year stabilization program in 1978
centered on reductions in public sector outlays and stricter import controls.
These reforms were only partially successful.  They did little to stimulate
exports.   The  exchange  rate was  kept  overvalued  and  trade  barriers  were
raised. They did not adequately tackle the ex,cessive budgetary exposure and
made inadequate attempts  to increase the efficiency of resource use.   The
agricultural sector failed to grow, while value-added in manufacturing
declined.   Meanwhile,  public  investment  was  not  restrained;  a number  of
costly, poorly-targeted social programs was expanded and investment in
infrastructure was undertaken often well ahead of need.  Efforts to stabilize
the economy were compromised by severe external shocks - most notably the 1979
oil  price   increase,   the  rise  in  international   interest  rates,  the
international  recession  which  reduced  phosphate  earnings  and  workers'
remittances,  and  the  prolonged  *drought.   Continued  internal  pressure  to
provide social services and affordable basic foodstuffs to a rapidly growing
population put considerable strains on a budget already stretched by the need
to finance expenditures in the Sahara. The 1981-85 Development Plan aimed at
an ambitious 6.5 percent per annum growth rate in GDP. Notwithstanding the
difficulties confronting the economy, Morocco did not appear willing to
introduce a comprehensive program of policy measures which could have
confronted  the  economic  crisis.   The  shortcomings   in  the  adjustment
performance caused the IMF to convert a three-year EFF into a one-year Stand
By Arrangement in 1982 and prevented the Bank Erom proceeding with a SAL at
that time.
Recent Economic Developments
5.       By 1983 it had become clear thai: the Government's room to maneuver
was becoming very restricted by,debt service payment requirements.   In 1982
external public long-term debt (excluding military debt) had risen to about
two-thirds of GDP and 235 percent of exports of goods and services while the
debt  service  ratio  reached  35 percent.   Morocco  was  confronted  with  the
prospect of a very large  external  payments  gap  for  1983.   With  exchange
reserves virtually depleted and debt service rising, the Government imposed
emergency import controls and budgetary cutbacks in early 1983.  In November
1983 the Government entered into an 18-month standby arrangement with the IMF
(SDR 300 million, or 98 percent of quota) supporting a stabilization program
which included fiscal and credit restraints and a flexible exchange rate
policy.  Shortly thereafter, official creditors agreed to reschedule external
debt interest and principal payments coming due between September 1, 1983 and
December 1984, as well as arrears as of August 31,  1983.   Commercial bank



-3-
creditors agreed in principle to provide comparable relief on amortization.
The total amount of debt relief obtained in 1983-84 under these agreements was
estimated at more than $2 billion (including $575 million of relief on
military debt).   In November 1983, a Donors' meeting sponsored by the IMF,
generated pledges of about $500 million of exceptional balance-of-payments
assistance for 1983-84.  To meet its fiscal targets the Government restricted
public  service  recruitment  and  salary  increases,  raised  the  prices  of
electricity, water, petroleum products and subsidized foodstuffs (by between
17 percent and 60 percent), and cut capital outlays by one third.  At the same
time, it began a significant adjustment effort supported by the Bank program,
along with the January 1984 ITPA I (No. P-3707-MOR), to improve its balance of
payments situation with a package of measures to restructure its trade
regime.   This  included  a  reduction  in  import  taxation,  an  easing  of
quantitative restrictions, and a reduction in export licensing. Following a
Financial Sector Study conducted by the Bank in 1984 (No. 4957-MOR), the
Government extended these reforms to the Financial Sector with the objective
of raising domestic  resources  and  improving  resource  allocation.   Greater
flexibility was introduced in setting interest rates, measures were designed
to increase competition among banks, and taxation reforms to benefit the
financial sector were implemented.
6.       As  a  result  of  the  policies  adopted  since  1983,  macroeconomic
balances improved. The economy's resource gap shrank from 13 percent of GDP
in 1982 to 7 percent in 1985 (at constant 1980 prices).  This was achieved
through a significant decline in the GDP share of consumption and investment
relative to their high levels earlier in the 1980s. Meanwhile, import growth
has been restrained by appropriate demand management and by the depreciation
of the exchange rate, while the share of exports and gross domestic savings
increased  substantially.   The  Government  budget  deficit  was  reduced  from
13 percent of GDP in 1982 to about 9 percent in 1985 (10 percent before taking
into account the impact of external debt rescheduling on interest payments).
Although the improvement stemmed chiefly from a sharp reduction in investment
outlays, there was also a significant slowing down in the rate of growth of
current expenditures. As was to be expected, the rate of GDP growth has been
low (a little over 2 percent p.a.), reflecting the impact of stabilization
policies on consumption and investment demand, along with the effect of
drought on agricultural sector incomes in both 1983 and 1984. A good harvest
has helped boost the growth rate to about 4.3 percent in 1985 and an estimated
5.7% in 1986.
7.       The current account of the balance of payments improved considerably,
reflecting both the better resource balance of the economy and the impact of
the debt relief obtained by Morocco from its official creditors on interest
and military debt service payments.   In 1983, the external current account
deficit was reduced by half, from $1.9 billion and 12.7 percent of GDP in 1982
to $873 million and 6.6 percent of GDP. The balance subsequently worsened in
1984, particularly in relation to GDP, but still remained under $1 billion.
In both 1983 and 1984, about half of the roughly $1 billion improvement in the
current account in relation to 1982 was attributable to debt relief. ''  The
net inflow of public medium and long-term capital (including grants) has



-4-
declined sharply from about $1.5 billion in 1982 to an average of only
$600 million  during  1983-1984.   In  1985,  the  net  inflow  fell  to  about
$400 million, despite an exceptional $300 million grant from Saudi Arabia.
These inflows had to be supplemented by continued debt relief along the lines
of  the  1983-84  debt  rescheduling,  and demand management policies  to keep
import growth under control.
8.       A stand-by arrangement with the IMF was approved on September 13,
1985.  A formal debt rescheduling through the Paris Club covering maturities
from September 1985 to February 1987 were agreed on September 17, 1985.
Ninety-five percent of the total debt due were rescheduled along lines similar
to those obtained under the 1983-84 debt relief arrangement.   The 1983-84
rescheduling agreement between Morocco and the commercial banks was signed,
after long delays, on October 21, 1985. As a result of slippages in meeting
performance criteria, however, the IMF stand-by arrangement was declared
inoperative.   The Government has since recognized that stronger  corrective
measures would be needed to keep the stabilization program on course
including, in particular, restraining current expenditures and reducing
subsidies on foodstuffs and public services.  A new standby for December 1986
to February 1988 has been negotiated and is now in effect. The implementation
of a new stabilization program attendant on gains from the Bank-supported
program of sectoral adjustment and favorable external developments should
enable Morocco to achieve a balance on its currenit account by 1987.
Medum Term Policies and Prospect
9.       Since 1983, the Government's objective of achieving viable external
and fiscal positions along with satisfactory growth has been translated into aL
coherent medium-term strategy to restrain domesl:ic absorption and increase the
efficiency  of  resource  allocation  throughout  the  economy.   The  principal
elements of Morocco's medium-term adjustment program involve a shift to
outward-looking trade and exchange rate policies; far-reaching reforms of
price, credit, tax and regulatory policies to remove institutional and other
obstacles to efficient mobilization and use of resources in key productive
sectors of the economy; considerable improvements in the efficiency of
government investment; more cost-effective methods and better targetting of
social programs; and a thorough overhaul of the public enterprise sector.
10.      The  shift  to  an  outward-oriented  development  strategy  is  the
cornerstone   of   Morocco's   medium-term   adjustment   program.    Continued
adjustments in trade and exchange rate policies will be made to complete the
reform of the overall incentive framework designed to accelerate export growth
and reduce and rationalize import protection.  Key instruments are to be a
flexible exchange rate, the reduction and gradual elimination of the special
import tax; a general reform of the tariff level and structure, with the
objective of reducing the overall level of protection to 25 percent through
1/ Over $200 million in interest payments wvere rescheduled in each of the two
years.   In addition, the current account balance benefitted from military
debt relief in the amount of $325 million in 1983 and $250 million in 1984.



-5-
decreasing maximum duty rates and evening out the spread in tariff rates
within and between sectors; and finally, a phasing out of quantitative
restrictions on imports. Domestic price controls, which were already removed
in 1983-84 on many manufactured products, are planned to be fully eliminated,
in  parallel  with  progress  in  import  liberalization.   Remaining  export
licensing requirements will be abolished, with exporters to be entitled to
import all inputs on a duty-free basis.
11.      At  the  same  time,  appropriate  sector  strategies  for  the  key
productive sectors, particularly agriculture and industry, will be promoted.
In industry, although the development of Morocco's potential for export of
phosphate fertilizers will continue to be an important objective, the
contribution of this highly capital-intensive sector to employment and to the
establishment of a broader industrial base through forward and backward
linkages will  remain  limited.   Moreover,  a high degree  of dependence  on
phosphate  and  phosphate  fertilizer  exports  has  made  Morocco  extremely
vulnerable to cyclical fluctuations in the volatile world phosphate market.
For this reason, the industrial strategy must be based on the diversification
of  manufactured  exports,  including  processed  foods  and  nontraditional
manufactures where Morocco may have a comparative advantage on world markets.
In agriculture, Morocco needs to continue developing an appropriate package of
policies designed to overcome existing constraints to rational iland use
patterns, to ensure that farmers have adequate incentives to improve farming
techniques and use modern inputs, and to provide the support servi;ces needed
to bring about these changes.  A first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(No. P-4032-MOR) supporting such policy direction was extended by the Bank in
June 1985.
12.      The low productivity of investment has been one of the major factors
in the poor performance of the Moroccan economy in the past ten years.  The
allocation of capital and the efficiency of investment need to be improved
considerably both in the public and in the private sector.  In the private
sector, the reform of the protection framework described above should go a
long way towards removing distortions  in investment patterns.  However, it
will also be necessary to review the bias in favor of capital-intensive
activities inherent in the current investment incentive system, including tax
exemptions and interest rate subsidies which artificially depress the cost of
capital.  In the public sector, increasing the efficiency of invqstment will
require a considerable improvement of existing planning and, budgeting
mechanisms, including better procedures for setting investment priorities,
strengthening of project preparation and monitoring capability, and placing
more emphasis on the economic evaluation of projects before they receive
Government sanction.   Policy actions to improve the public  investment  and
enterprise  framework as well  as  continuing  reform of trade policy and a
comprehensive approach to financial sector reform are supported by the Bank's
second Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment loan approved in July 1985.
After some delays, the Government completed the agreed reforms, and the second
tranche of this loan was released on October 29, 1986.
13.      An exceptionally  strong  savings effort will be essential for the
success of Morocco's adjustment process.   In the private  sector  financial



-6-
savings have been repressed in the past due to inadequate financial policies
and negative real interest rates.  Savings are now being encouraged through
increases in deposit rates and a program of financial sector reforms to
improve financial intermediation and develop the domestic money and capital
markets. But the most intense savings efforts in the next few years will have
to take place in the public sector, which continues to be a major source of
dissaving, particularly through the Government budget.  In the medium term,
sustained improvement in the mobilization and utilization of resources by the
public sector will require fundamental reforms in a number of key areas,
including social expenditure policies, taxation, and cost recovery and
efficiency in the public enterprise sector.   In the social sectors, where
coverage of the population is still inadequate, Government activities need to
be restructured so that basic services (particularly education and health) can
be  delivered  more  effectively  but  at  substantially  lower  cost.   More
cost-effective methods and better targeting will lbe prerequisites to a further
broadening  of  access  to  these  services  in the  future.   Food  and  other
subsidies also need to be targeted to the groups most in need rather than
directed to the general population.
14.      Macroeconomic projections based on the Government's reform programs
indicate that it may take the better part of the next ten years for Morocco to
complete its adjustment process.  The growith of the economy is likely to be
severely constrained in the early years of the adjustment process.  However,
as the restructuring measures designed to promote exports, improve resource
use and increase domestic savings begin to work their effects  through the
economy, the external imbalance should lessen, and restraints on domestic
demand could gradually be relaxed. Moreover, the growth of external demand
expected to result from the trade liberalization and export promotion
policies, and the switch in the composition of domestic demand from imported
to domestic goods, fostered by the adjustment of relative prices, should help
mitigate the temporary negative impact of slower public expenditure growth on
incomes and employment.
15.      The projections suggest that GDP growth is likely not to exceed 4.3%
p.a. until 1990, gradually rising accelerating thereafter. Domestic demand is
expected  to  grow  very  slowly  until  1990,  reflecting  the  impact  of
stabilization policies on both investment and consumption.   Investment, which
has been declining since 1978, should stabilize in real terms and in relation
to GDP until about 1991,  then recover strongly thereafter.   Assuming that
central government investment expenditures would remain constant in real terms
in the medium term, the adjustments would occur primarily in the public
enterpises and private sectors. Government consumption, which had grown very
rapidly until recently, is projected to decline narginally in real terms and
to drop by 3 percentage points in relation to GDP between 1985 and 1990. The
growth of private consumption, which already slowed significantly in the early
1980s, would remain just above that of GDP in 1985-90, and decline only
slightly  in  the  1990s.   Restructuring  policies  should  bring  about  an
acceleration in the growth of exports of goods and nonfactor services. The
acceleration of export growth would help sustain a modest recovery of imports,
the overall trend of which has been downward since 1978.  Imports, however,
should rise much more slowly than exports between 1985 and 1990, as a result
of the demand restraint and expenditure switching policies.



16.      As a result of the drop in the GDP share of both investment and
consumption, there should be a steady decline in the economy's resource gap.
Gross domestic savings are expected to rise much faster than GDP throughout
the period, initially as a result of improved savings mobilization by the
public sector, and later reflecting continued substantial improvements in
private savings as well. The marginal savings rate with respect to GNP will
need to be relatively high (about 33 percent) in 1985-90, as a necessary.,
concomitant to reducing the external deficit; it should slacken slightly
thereafter. High domestic savings should enable the economy to finance the
recovery of investment without recourse to external savings in the early
1990s. This will be essential, since., throughout the remainder of the 1980s,
the balance of payments will remain under considerable pressure because of
continuing high debt service payments. By the end of the decade, reforms of
the overall economic incentive framework and increased efficiency of public
investment should have raised the productivity of new investment considerably,
and the ICOR should drop substantially from the high levels prevailing in the
early 1980s.
17.      It  is  important  to  recognize  that  the  implementation  of  the
stabilization policies and measures for structural adjustment envisaged in
this scenario will entail some transitional social costs.   With population
growth at about 2.5 percent p.a., GNP and consumption per capita, which have
been essentially stagnant since 1980, are not likely to show much improvement
in real terms until the end of the present decade. Stabilization policies and
measures to increase efficiency will initially be reflected to some extent in
depressed domestic demand, increased unemployment, and some decline in real
incomes, particularly the real income of urban populations, Government
employees, and workers in less competitive industries. On the other hand, the
real income of farmers, who constitute by far the poorest segment of the
population, should rise as a result of increases in agricultural producer
prices and improvements in support services and marketing institutions and
infrastructure. This will be particularly true of farmers in rainfed areas.
The political and social, implications of these welfare shifts are likely to be
significant, and to keep them manageable will be a major concern of the
Government in the next few years.  While the cost of not undertaking the
required economic adjustments would in any case be greater in the long run, it
will be important to minimize the negative short-term impact of these
adjustments on the poprest groups.  After 1990, as a result of the reforms
undertaken in the 1980s, the economy could return gradually to a higher growth
path without endangering external equilibrium.  Per capita levels of income
and consumption could begin to rise again, and the restoration of economic
dynamism would greatly improve Morocco's ability to deal with its serious
unemployment problem.
18.      A steady improvement in Morocco's external payments position should
result from the acceleration of export growth relative to import growth
anticipated  in  1986-90.   The  economy's  negative  resource  balance,  which
averaged more than $2 billion in 1980-82, and dropped to $1.2-1.3 billion in
1983-84, is projected to decline steadily until 1990 and increase slowly
thereafter. Assuming that the growth of workers' remittances can be sustained
at a modest pace, the current account should improve roughly in parallel with



-8-
the overall resource balance and could reach equilibrium around 1987.
However, the overall balance of payments can bet expected to continue to show
large deficits because of the heavy principal repayments coming due on the
external  debt,  including  substantial  repayments  to  the  IMF.   Because  of
mounting debt service obligations, gross public long-term capital requirements
are projected to average close to US$2.3 billion annually during the period
1986-90.
19.      It is clear, under these circumstances, that Morocco will continue to
require  debt  relief  for several  more years.   The projections  include the
effects of the recently concluded 1985-87 debt rescheduling agreement through
the Paris Club, and assume debt relief from private creditors during 1985-87,
essentially along the lines of the debt reschedulings obtained in 1983-84.  In
addition, the model assumes additional rescheduling in 1988 but only on
civilian debt.-"  Normal public long-term capital  inflows  could be  barely
sufficient to cover the remaining financing requirements in 1986-88 (about
US$1.1 billion annually), assuming that new loaLn commitments from Morocco's
official lenders can be maintained at their current rate (about US$800 million
a year). Recourse to commercial bank financing, outside of these guaranteed
programs, is likely to remain constrained and gross private capital flows are
expected to average about US$100-150 million per annum, probably strongly
conditioned on, Jif not directly tied to, specific adjustment programs.  In
1987,  a  financing  gap  of  approximately  US$500 million  corresponding  to
short-term arrears (which is expected to be reduced to about $400 million at
the end of the year) will be met through rescheduling.
20.      In view of the continuing large capital inflows required in the next
few years, the long-term external debt outstanding and disbursed would
continue to rise until 1992, but would begin to stabilize  thereafter.   The
ratio of debt outstanding and disbursed to exports of goods and services,
which had risen to 268 percent in 1984, would start to decline, progressively
dropping to 173 percent by 1990 and 79 percent by 1995.  In the absence of
debt rescheduling, the long-term debt service ratio would have risen to 57 and
74 percent of exports of goods and services in 1985 and 1986, respectively.
With debt relief obtained for the period 1985-87, on the other hand, the debt
service ratio could be kept at about 40 percent.  Assuming no further debt
relief, it would rise sharply in 1989, with repayments on the 1983-84
rescheduled maturities (including military debt) falling due, but would then
start declining-gradually in the 1990s.
21.      Given  this difficult  debt  situation,  Morocco's  commitment  to  an
aggressive program of structural adjustment is eissential for the country to be
considered creditworthy for continued Bank lending. Bank exposure amounted to
11X of total debt outstanding in 1985, and approximately 12Z in 1986, and
would increase to about 20% in 1990.
1/ About US$206 million and US$174 million of military debt service payments
coming due in 1986 and 1987, respectively, are assumed to be rescheduled
along the same lines as other obligations.



PART H - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
22.      Bank Group  lending  to Morocco, in  support  of  70  projects,  has
totalled US$3013.4 million (net of cancellations) of which US$25 million were
from a third window loan.  US$2,534.3 million are currently outstanding,  of
which US$1,433.5 million are disbursed.  These figures include IDA credits,
totalling US$45.2 million, which were made available for five projects until
1975.5 million.   Total  IFC  investments  amount  to  US$94.5 million  in  12
operations (US$90.4 million after cancellations, terminations, repayments and
sales). Annex II contains a suimmary statement of Bank Group operations as of
September 30, 1986.
23.      In recent years, project implementation experience has been mixed.
While technical and management constraints within many project entities have
been overcome, shortages of budget funds since 1983, have hampered the
performance of those entities which rely on the Government budget for part of
their  project  financial  requirements.   Insufficient  budgetary  provisions
pertain both to investment and current Government expenditures. Combined with
rigidities   in  pricing  policy,   these  shortfalls  have  contributed   to
disappointing financial performance of project entities through a build-up of
arrears  to  private  contractors  and  to  public  enterprises.   Disbursement
results have largely reflected the above conditions, as well as the fact that
for much of the period 1984-86, appreciation of the Dollar vis-a-vis the
Dirham reduced project costs and therefore reimbursable expenditures in dollar
terms. To alleviate budgetary constraints and improve project implementation,
Special Action Program (SAP) provisions were applied to 15 Morocco loans
during  this  period.   This  contributed  to  improving  the  ratio  of  actual
disbursements to appraisal estimates from an average of about 43% in 1984, to
54.3X in March, 1986 -   close to EMENA Region averages.  In FY86, total Bank
disbursements to Morocco were US$375.0 million, while repayments were the
equivalent of US$103.0 million.
24.      The  Government's  constrained  resource  position  has  led  to  the
postponement of preparation of a new Development Plan.  Budget constraints
have limited investment expenditures esentially to the completion of ongoing
investments.   In these circumstances,  the Government's development strategy
has been modified to concentrate on policy reforms in major economic sectors
aimed at the transformation of the economy into a more efficient producer of
goods and services and with greater participation in international trade and
more reliance on the private sector.  Reforms have been introduced in the
Financial, Industrial and Trade regimes so as to improve resource use, change
incentives to realize the potential for export development and to promote
private and public  savings.   The Agricultural  sector  is being modernized
through a restructuring of the investment program and a re-orientation of
prices and incentives:  support and delivery systems are being strengthened
and  the  capacity  for  sector  planning,  policy  analysis  and  execution
reinforced. The Education system is being re-oriented to improve its balance,
quality and equity of access through the promotion of primary education and
vocational training; sectoral efficiency will be enhanced through measures to
reduce  unit  costs  and  curb  the  growth  of  budgetary  outlays.   In  the



- 10
recognition that the dependence of Public Enterprises on the Government budget
needs to decrease, the Government has decided to change the nature and scope
of its interventions in the public enterprise sector through the promotion of
financial, managerial and administrative autonomy of public enterprises as
well as a rationalization of the State's role in the economy.
25.      The overall objectives of the Government's medium-term strategy are
to restore sustainable growth rates and reduce the debt burden to manageable
levels.   The Bank's assistance strategy is to  support  Government  programs
which  contain  concrete  measures  to:   (i) mobilize  resources,  particularly
increase  public  savings;   (ii)   improve  mechanisms   for  the  efficient
allocation, monitoring and use. of public resources; (iii) promote exports and
efficient import substitution;  (iv)  enhance equity in the distribution of
economic  gains.   Such  support  implies  promnoting  flexible  institutional
structures and enhancing the decentralization of decision-making and creating
an environment which stimulates private sector investment and production. The
Bank's economic and sector work program has been designed  to provide  the
analytical basis for the structural reform programs in each of the major
sectors mentioned in paragraph 24 above, and for subsequent Bank lending in
each.   In addition to addressing key sectoral policy issues,  economic and
sector work contains periodic reviews of the public investment programs to
help the Government allocate its scarce resources to high priority projects.
The results of the Bank's general macro-economic work, to be shared with
members of the Consultative Group for Morocco early in 1987, will be
supplemented by special studies on resource mobilization, on the employment
situation and the impact of the overall structural adjustment program on
economic activity and on the poor. Together withl the IMF, the Bank intends to
evolve a medium-term framework for fiscal policies aimed at a broadening of
the  tax base  and a rationalization  of  public  expenditures.   A  recurrent
element of the macro-economic dialogue is the evolution of a program to
streamline and integrate investment planning and budgeting, with emphasis on
appropriate resource allocation and project selection.  Sectoral studies in
the Energy, Urban, Population, Health and Nutrition sectors are expected to
provide the basis for future operations in these areas.
26.      The  Bank's  lending  strategy for Morocco  is to support Government
programs which promote stabilization and structural adjustment in major
economic sectors, as outlined in paragraph 25 above.  Thus, sectoral policy
operations will form a large part of the Bank's .assistance program.  Given the
resource constraints imposed by fiscal stabilization, investment proposals
relying on the Government budget need to be carefully scrutinized.  There is,
however, scope for (i) formulating investments which redress imbalances in
income distribution and in the access of the population to public services,
and (ii) financing the resource needs of private sector enterprises and export
industries which are being restructured so to operate efficiently within the
new trade regime.  Viable operations financing essential maintenance required
to sustain essential service levels are also included in the strategy.
Project lending will thus continue, albeit at similar constrainted levels to
those characterizing the past three years of the program.   Specific sectoral
objectives of Bank operations can be summarized as follows:



- 11 -
27.      Agriculture   To  permit  the  agricultural  sector  to  realize  its
productive potential and contribute to Morocco's adjustment effort, the
Government's investment strategy and sectoral policies are being revised to
promote production patterns which reflects the sector's comparative advantage
and reduce ineffective  government  intervention.   Policy  reforms  are being
supported by the Bank through phased sector adjustment loans which re-orient
the prices and incentives framework, restructure the trade and marketing
regimes, and rationalize public expenditures in agriculture.  An optimal role
for  the  public  sector  is  being  defined  and  the  nature  of  Government
interventions altered to permit an increased emphasis on policy planning and
analysis. ;Project design aims to make maximum use of non-budgetary financing,
increase cost recovery, and enhance institutional capability to deliver basic
and  commercial  agricultural  services.   Thus,  parallel  to  policy  reforms,
investments in research and extension, agricultural credit, and complementary
operations aimed at rehabilitating the irrigation infrastructure are an
integral part of the sectoral assistance strategy.
28.      Industry, Trade and the Financial Sector.  The manufacturing sector
will play a pre-eminent role in the transformation of the Moroccan economy
from its orientation to domestic markets and reliance on import-substituting
industrial activity to an outward orientation more encouraging of exports.
Policy reforms in tariff protection and for export promotion have been
supported by two sectoral adjustment operations, which also instituted
financial  sector  reforms  aimed  at  restructuring  investment  incentives,
encouraging savings and improving financial intermediation.   Further policy
reforms will be directed at balanced reductions in quantitative restrictions
and tariffs, and liberalization of interest rates and bank commissions. Apart
from support for policy reform, Bank lending would be directed at enterprises
which respond to the country's objectives of export promotion and efficient
import-substitution  in  efficient  markets.   This  will  entail  support  to
financial intermediaries which provide technical and financial support to
enterprises adjusting to the new trade regime.
29.      Energy and Mining.    Per capita demand for electricity is low in
Morocco and will need to grow to support economic expansion. Bank assistance
is directed at support of at least-cost investment program to meet future
needs, improve subsector planning and execution capabilities, and establish an
electricity  code  to  govern  intra-sectoral  activities.   Co-ordination  of
generation and distribution activities will be improved following studies to
determine  specific  organizational  restructuring needs.   Reforms  to reduce
divergences  between  tariffs  and  marginal   cost  structures  are  being
implemented.  These policy and institutional changes will be introduced both
through individual operations and via the Public Enterprise Rationalization
Loan (PERL). For the mining sector, a diagnostic study is expected to lead to
the rehabilitation, liquidation or restructuring of the publicly-owned mining
holding company and its affiliates, based on a clearly defined role of the
state in the mining sector.
30.      The Bank's assistance strategy for infrastructure and utilities calls
for  combined  institution-building  of  agencies  responsible  for  handling
transport infarstructure, water supply and sewerage, housing finance and



1 12 --
community  infrastructure.   The  provision  of  essential  services  will  be
expanded through the implementation of selected projects. The overall policy
environment in which the public enterprises operate in each sector will be
rationalized through PERL reforms.  Key elements of the reform will include
progressive moves to promote financial autonomy through tariff measures,
revised enterprise borrowing strategies, and increased reliance on private and
non-budgetary sources of finance.
31.      Social  Services:   Education,  Health  and  Urban  Development.   The
Government's overall approach to the provision of social services is to
promote and expand atcess by low-income groups, especially in rural areas. In
times of fiscal restraint, this requires recognition that the budgetary and
unit costs of such services need to be reduced.  Hence, in the Education and
the Health and Nutrition sectors, emphasis would shift from capital-intensive
and essentially urban-based investments which benefit a relatively limited
clientele, to the development and dissemination to rural areas of more
cost-effective delivery systems for essential services. With respect to urban
development, the principal focus of the sectora]L strategy will be to raise the
share of institutional and private savings directed towards municipal and
housing finance.
PART 11 - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
30.      Until 1968, Morocco's Ministry of National Education's (MOE) colleges
of vocational training were the nation's major source of skilled worker
training.   Vocational  training was  then removed from the MOE and has been
located  in  a  variety  of  ministries  ever  since.   Currently  the  overall
management  of  Morocco's  national  vocational  training  program  is  the
responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works and Vocational Training (MPW).
However, the links between the overall goals and priorities of the education
sector and those of the vocational training sub-sector remain important to
Morocco's economic development. Currently, the education sector is undergoing
major reform to increase literacy significantly and better prepare students to
be  absorbed  into Morocco's  labor market.   Vocational  training  is key  to
providing marketable skills, to students with adequate basic education as well
as to those who have found that their more advanced schooling has left them
with limited employment opportunity.  As Morocco's industrial economy grows,
so will the importance of the population's access to both education and
vocational training.
Manpower Demand and SuPPly
31.      Morocco's total population in 1982 was 20.4 million.   According to
Morocco's last national census in 1982, the Moroccan labor force increased
between 1971-1982 at a 4Z annual rate to 6.0 million (including an estimated
0.6 million unemployed).  The rapid increase in the size of the labor force
over the past ten years is due to a population expansion at an annual rate of
2.5Z, the return of Moroccan migrant labor from Europe, and higher labor force



- 13 -
participation,  particularly  for  females.   The  country's  labor  force  is
expected to continue to grow rapidly over the next 5 years, and appropriately,
the  Government  has  identified  the  need  to  provide  relevant  training
opportunities  to ensure  that new entrants  to  the  labor  force  can  make
productive contributions to Morocco's development.
32.      The 1982 census and subsequent. surveys confirm a considerable and
continuing shift in the labor force structure towards activities requiring
higher   skill   levels,   such   as   industry,   construction   and   public
administration.   In 1971 industry and construction accounted  for  15.0% of
Morocco's employment; by 1985, 26.2%.
33.      Industrial  growth  expected  to  occur  in Morocco  during  the next
5 years would result from the Government instituting certain economic policy
reform measures, including those advocated in the Bank's two ITPA loans.
Industry currently accounts for about 30X of GDP and is projected to increase
its  share of GDP by 1990.  A consequence of this growth would be faster
increases in industrial employment. Although unemployment is high (about 10%
in 1982) and increasing, employers report shortages of qualified manpower in
such industrial specializations as machinery maintenance, electricity and
electronics.   Growth  in  construction  in  urban areas  in Morocco  is also
expected to grow by 5-6% in real terms over the next 5 years.  Construction
activities currently produce 4.2X of GDP and like industry, is projected to
increase as a percentage of GDP by 1990.
34.      To assist the Government  in obtaining more  precise  indicators  of
manpower needs, a comprehensive Bank-supported manpower study is underway with
the Ministry of Planning (MOP), under financing from the recently completed
Third Education Project (Ln. 1220-T-MOR) and the ongoing First Vocational
Training  Project  (Ln.  2479-MOR).   The MPW  which  is  responsible  for  the
planning, overseeing and regulating of vocational training programs nationwide
in both the private and public sectors, used the initial findings of this
study and information from the 1982 census to conduct an additional set of
studies on training and employment in Morocco. These studies, which will be
completed by early 1987, include:
a) a survey of the number, capacities, and types of training programs
throughout the public and private sectors;
b) a survey of employers' perceptions of the quality of vocational
training programs; and
c) a tracer study on the absorption of vocational training graduates
into the labor market.
35.      The findings from these studies include the existence of:  a) the
poor education and training of the skilled labor force and the inadequate
qualifications for those in middle and higher technician positions; b) quality
weaknesses in the provision of vocational training in the areas of instructor
training, program design, equipment supply and maintenance and in general
administration; and c) poorly developed systems of recruitment of vocational
training graduates, where employment offices could play a greater role in



- 14 -,
placement. Overall study conclusions are that remedial actions should focus
on improving the planning and management of vocational training programs and
activities, and their design and execution.  The findings of these studies are
separately supported by previous Bank preparation and appraisal missions for
the First Vocational Training project and the proposed project, and by
previous sector work.
36.      Expansion of vocational training capacity has been given top priority
in Government plans since 1984.   The MPW  target  to absorb  into  training
programs between 50% and 60% of the secondary school leavers at the
semi-skilled and skilled worker levels at grade 9 equivalent and some 90% at
the technician level at grade 12 equivalent is reasonable given considerations
regarding program capacity.   These targets are  expected  to be  reached  in
1987/88 when ongoing construction of new instiltutions will be completed. At
that time, demand for workers with the above training is expected to exceed
supply by at least a margin of 2:1.
37.      The Government plans to consider the expansion of overall throughput
and capacity to try to meet demand when the results of several ongoing
manpower/employment market studies are reviewed and the current national
expansion plan for vocational training is updated in 1988.  In the meantime,
the Government plans to concentrate on addressing the qualitative issues
described in para. 43 and address the problem of the disparity between supply
and demand by redirecting training resources into areas of special demand
(e.g. small and medium enterprises which lack their own training programs
require and will receive more advanced and specially tailored programs).
38.      To  adjust  vocational  training  programs  to  specific  industrial
requirements, the MPW, over the past 4 years, has been conducting a series of
studies in areas where skill requirements have been changing. These studies
investigated labor market structures and defined new job profiles at various
levels.  One study on the electronics industry has resulted in a plan for
thorough revision of the training curricula for that industry, to be
introduced in 1987/88.  Additional studies in specific geographic areas, are
being conducted to determine occupational patterns of the skilled labor force,
particularly  the self-employed.   A study of employment patterns in Meknes
suggests that considerable opportunities exist for self-employment for skilled
laborers.   The MPW plans to institutionalize r(egion-specific studies and is
taking steps to put its own planning and administration on a decentralized
basis which will facilitate regular conduct of the studies.
The Structure of Vocational Training
39.      The Office programs support both the public and private sectors, but
mainly the latter.  Vocational training provided by the private sector is
limited and provided mainly in commercial areas. At present, practically all
ministries have their own training programs, primarily at skilled worker and
technician levels.  Since July 1984, the MPW haLs had national responsibility
for  the  management  of  vocational  training.   Two  organizational  units
associated with the Ministry are responsible for the conduct of the vocational



- 15 -
training functions,   they are:  the Vocational Training Administration (VTA)
within the MPW and the Office of Vocational Training and Employment Promotion
(the Office), a public enterprise under the authority of the MPW.
40.      The VTA was created in 1984 as a department within the MPW with terms
of reference to coordinate the vocational training effort at the national
level, plan the expansion of vocational training capacity and monitor its
implementation,  and  carry  out  the  studies  necessary  to  keep  vocational
training effective and constantly adjusted to the developing economy's needs.
The VTA also has responsibility for quality control of vocational training
programs in the private sector.  The VTA is composed of three directorates:
Planning,  Vocational  Training  and  Staff  Training.   The  VTA  plans  to
institutionalize region-specific studies on skill training needs for regional
employment and is taking steps to put its own planning and administration on a
decentralized basis which will facilitate regular conduct of the studies.
Each individual ministry and training agency, including the Office, is
responsible for detailed planning and budgetting as well as implementing its
respective sectoral training programs within the national training policy
framework established by the VTA.
41.      The main role of the Office is to provide and manage a network of
training programs and activities to meet the needs of the public and private
sectors. The authority over the Office was transferred to the MPW in July of
1984 from the Ministry of Planning, in order to utilize MPW's extensive
construction capacity for the planned expansion of the Office's training
facilities.   The  training  facilities  are  of  three  types:   institutes  of
applied technology (IATs) for technician training, vocational training centers
(VTCs)  for  skilled  worker  training,  and  VTCs  for  semi-skilled  worker
training.  For each training institution (or for each city, if there is more
than one training institution in the same city) there is an "upgrading
council" (Conseil de Perfectionnement) chaired by a local employer with the
director of the training institution acting as a vice-chairman and secretary
of  the  council.   The  councils  address  specific  questions  concerning  the
training institution such as practical tests, labor market information,
program feed-back and placement of graduates. They will also play a role in
conducting region-specific  employment studies.   Office procedures exist for
updating and modifying training program content in response to this feedback.
Among the Office services to vocational training institutions is an "equipment
maintenance service" for preventive maintenance and repair of equipment at the
vocational training facilities.
42.      Most  vocational  training  in Morocco  is  provided  for  the  public
sector,  including public enterprises.  The ministries provide most of their
own vocational training.   In 1985-86, 20 ministries and Government agencies
trained 144,000 trainees, of whom 26,000 are at the skilled worker level and
21,500 at the technician level. The Office share of those trained is 602 at
the  skilled worker  level  and 59% at  the technician level.   In addition,
Morocco's 209 accredited private schools trained approximately 34,000 trainees
mainly in the commercial field (802), half at the skilled worker level and
half at the technician level.



- 16
Vocational Training lIsues
43.      The four main issues in vocational training of current concern are
the needs  to:   improve  training  quality,  increase  management  efficiency,
improve  financing  of  the  subsector  and increase the employment equity of
low-income  groups  through  better  vocational  training.   These  issues  are
recognized by the Government.  The proposed project, together with the First
Vocational Training Project,  is designed to achieve  improvements  in  these
areas.   With  support  from  the  First  Vocational  Training  Project,  the
Government has placed top priority on expanding vocational training capacity,
and has been following an expansion plan which covers 1984-1988. However, at
this point, the Government and the Bank share the view that additional
assistance is needed to improve the quality of vocational training graduates,
the cost-effectiveness of vocational training piograms, the efficiency of the
Government's vocational training network and the equity afforded lower-income
groups through the provision of vocational training programs of improved
quality.
44.      The  quality  of  vocational  training  suffers  from  deficiencies  in
instructor  training  and,  in  some  cases,  the  design  of  programs.   In
particular, some instructors lack industrial experience and the relevance of
training programs needs  improvement.   The quality of training can also be
improved  through upgrading  some  of  the training facilities.   Most of the
equipment in the older Office training centers is outdated and/or obsolete,
while in a number of recently established cenl:ers equipment is incomplete.
Because of this,  training cannot be appropriately delivered.   In addition,
employment opportunities for vocational training graduates can be improved
significantly through the introduction of enl:repreneurship training, and
through improving the links between training institutions and employers.
45.      The efficiency of program management among the various organizations
providing vocational training is an area recognized under the First Vocational
Training Project as needing improvement. Tle MPW launched a study under that
project to address the efficiency issue, and the recent findings show a clear
need for better coordination among training organizations to eliminate overlap
between courses and to assist employers select job candidates by the
reinforcement of trade testing and certificat:ion services.
46.      The need to raise additional  finances  for vocational training was
also  recognized  under  the  First  Vocational  Training  Project.   The  MPW
conducted a study to explore ways of increasing income and reducing costs for
vocational  training.   The Government  is to implement  the study results in
1987, with the purpose of maintaining a policy of full recovery of recurrent
costs for the Office.  The major option considered for increasing the income
of the Office is expanding and/or, raising the vocational training tax (a
payroll tax applied to private enterprises as a percentage of the gross
salaries of all employees, which is charged to these enterprises for the
account  of  the  Office).    Introducing  training   fees   is   also   under
consideration.  Cost reduction options include the! possibility of reducing the
length of certain training courses and encouraging employers to participate
more actively in training.



- 17 -
47.      The need to increase the eiity of vocational training programs for
those in low-income groups is also a priority.  The present poor quality of
vocational training programs means that these programs are of limited benefit
to their major recipients (low income groups) in improving job-related
skills.   Exposure  of  these  grouips  to  high  quality  vocational  training,
including training for women not only in traditionally female trades such as
textiles, but also in industrial specializations such as electronics, is
expected to significantly improve their income earning opportunities.
Government Policies and Priorities in Vocational Training
48.      Since  independence  in  1956, Government efforts  in  the education
sector have focussed on expansion of the school capacity at all levels, on
Moroccanization of the teaching staff and on developing new programs
consistent  with  the needs  of  the  economy.   The  Government  has  recently
undertaken, with Bank support (Education Sector Loan, Ln No. 2664-MOR), a
broad education reform program which concentrates on expanding basic
schooling, improving its quality and efficiency, and orienting school leavers
to vocational training, particularly at the skilled worker and technician
levels.   The  current  development  of vocational  training  capacity  focuses
appropriately on specializations in which shortages of skilled manpower are
constraining growth - particularly in the electromechanical industries and li
trades suitable for self-employment.   The Government expects to increase the
skill levels of workers who are currently self-employed in order to improve
their employment opportunities.  (A recent study in the Meknes area indicates
that only 6% of self-employed skilled and semi-skilled workers have graduated
from  vocational  training  institutions.)   At  this  time  the  Government
appreciates  the  need  to  take  measures  to  ensure  that  quality  control,
management and financial support are adequate, so as not to limit the future
success of vocational  training in Morocco.   This consideration will become
increasingly important in later years as the number of vocational training
graduates is expected to increase towards projected levels of market demand.
Bank Role in the Sector
49.      The Bank has been the most active external source of funding in the
education/training sector since 1963, supporting seven education/training
projects, four of which are ongoing. Most Bank lending in the sector has Iheen
in support of the formal education system and, consistent with Government
priorities, has evolved from an initial focus on reinforcement of general
education (primary and secondary) to its current emphasis on reinforcing
employment-oriented skill training, and introducing structural reforms to
improve the efficiency, financial viability, and employment orientation of
education at all levels.
50.      The   First  Education  Project   (Ln.   79-MOR)  provided  for  the
construction and equipping of secondary schools.   Except for three schools
which were deleted from the project as a result of the Government's decision
not to maintain vocational education in the MOE, the project was completed in
June 1975.  The Second Education Project (Ln. 266-MOR) provided support for
teacher training through the establishment of teacher training institutes and



- 18 -
a national pedagogical institute, and the qualitative improvement of science
and technical teaching through the provision of science laboratories for
general secondary schools, and equipment for technical secondary schools.
Construction and equipment were also provided for two vocational training
centers and for extensions to both a forestry and an agronomy training
institute.  Except for the two vocational trailaing centers and the extension
to the forestry training institute, which were subsequently deleted from the
project at the Government's request, the project was completed in 1979.  The
Third Education Project (Ln. 1220-T-MOR) supported basic education by
providing innovative rural primary schools, general secondary schools, a
secondary teacher training institute, and assistance in developing a more
practical curriculum for primary and secondary schools.   It also supported
manpower training in priority areas by financing hotel training centers under
the Ministry of Tourism, one rural development center under the Ministry of
Agriculture, and four paramedical training centers under the Ministry of
Health. The loan account closed in 1983. The Fourth Education Project (Ln.
1681-MOR) provides major support in strengthening secondary and post-secondary
technical education.  The project is financing the construction and equipping
of technical secondary schools and post-secondary technical institutions.
Loan closing is scheduled for December 31, 1986.  A one year extension has
been requested by the Government and is under consideration by the Bank. The
Fifth  Education  Project  (Ln. 2149-MOR)  is  supporting  the  expansion  and
qualitative improvement of. primary and secondary education by financing the
construction and equipping of primary schools and secondary teacher colleges.
In addition, it supports the provision of basic educational aids to 700
existing primary schools.  The loan's  closing date is March 31, 1988.
51.      The First Vocational Training Project  (Ln. 2479-MOR) extends Bank
involvement to mid-level skill training to meet private sector manpower needs,
particularly in the industrial sector.  It also supports the development of a
national  training  program  in  project  identification,   preparation  and
appraisal, an area in which current deficiencies have hampered investment
planning and implementation in all sectors.
52.      The  most  recent  loan  in  the  education/training  sector  is  the
Education  Sector  Loan  (Ln.  2664-MOR),  referenced in paragraph 48.  A key
element of this loan is the initiative! which is to be taken, particularly at
the secondary school level, to counsel school leavers regarding opportunities
for vocational training.
53.      The project completion reports and related PPARs for the completed
education projects with vocational training components reflect Bank experience
and indicate the desirability of:  (i) ensuring as adequate and complete a
preparation of project components as possible prior to Board Presentation;
(ii) concentrating  project  components  in  a  single  ministry  with  good
implementation capacity; and (iii) close and continuous monitoring of
technical assistance (TA) implementation.   The design of the proposed Second
Vocational Training Project is consistent with these lessons of past project
implementation and the reform program.   An  important  feature  is  the good



- 19 -
implementation record of the VTA and the Office which would execute the
project.   So far, procurement of construction and equipment is one year in
advance of the schedule estimated during appraisal of the First Vocational
Project.
PART Iv - THE PROJECT
Backgmund
54.      The project was appraised in April-May, 1986.  Negotiations were held
in Washington, D.C. in November, 1986. The Moroccan delegation was headed by
Mr.  Siraj  Sani,  of  the  Prime  Minister's  office,  and  included  Messrs.
Benmoussa, of the Office and Idaoubella of the Ministry of Finance. A summary
of the proposed project is provided at the beginning of this report.  Annex
III contains supplementary project data and Map no.  IBRD 19859  (attached)
presents  the  locations  of vocational  training programs of concern to the
Office.
55.      Under the First Vocational Training Project, the Bank supported an
active plan for the expansion of vocational training program capacity.  This
expansion  effort  will  be  completed next  year.   In  the meantime,  several
studies over the past few years, some receiving Bank support, have indicated
that the quality, not just the capacity, of vocational training needs to be
improved.   In keeping with Morocco's current fiscal constraints, the proposed
project would improve vocational training quality with no negative effect on
the country's recurrent budget. No expansion of vocational training capacity
(i.e. number of training places) will directly result from this project, in an
effort to limit program costs to what can be covered under the Government's
cost  recovery  plan.   Increased  managerial  and  programmatic  efficiencies
expected under the project will result in increases in the output (graduates)
of Office training programs.
Project Objectives and Description
56.      The objectives of this project are  to (i) improve the quality of
vocational training programs by improving instructor training, redesigning
programs for students and upgrading training facilities;   (ii) increase the
overall efficiency with which the Office plans, oversees and regulates
vocational training programs through the decentralization of these functions,
training of Office staff and support of studies; (iii) improve Office finances
through the implementation of cost recovery measures; and (iv) provide
improved vocational training opportunities to low-income groups through better
adaptation of training programs to evolving labor-market needs.  The project
will consist of the following components:
(1) The re-equipping and refurbishing of 33 VTCs selected according
to  economic  priority by  the Office.   The  development  of  an
upgraded vocational training program in electronics would be
supported through the provision of technical assistance (TA) and
equipment to 15 IATs.



- 20 -
(2) The provision of TA for the establishment of a permanent
in-service and in-plant instructor training program, periodic
upgrading of vocational training courses to ensure adaptation to
the needs of the economy, development of entrepreneurship skills
and pre-employment training c:ourses; and the carrying out by the
Office of a program to standardize and upgrade the system of
trainee testing and certifical:ion; and
(3) The establishment of 10 pilot training/repair service units in 10
Office  VTCs  in  fields  such as:   auto maintenance and repair,
buildings maintenance and repair and printing, and the extension
and  equipping  of  workshop  facilities  for  these  units.   The
selection of pilot VTCs was nade according to local market
demand.   The services of these units will be revenue producing,
thus reducing recurrent costs by financing material purchases and
equipment renewal.
(4) The establishment of 10 Office regional coordination units and 50
sub-regional    planning    managemeiLt    units,    including    the
construction of facilities, provision of equipment and vehicles
and local management training for coordinators and directors, and
provision of mobile maintenance units to the coordination units.
(5) The  provision  of   309  staff--months  of  fellowships  to upgrade
instructors in program design, instructor trainers for a new
instructor  training  center,  guidance  counsellors  for  training
planning   and   orientation,   program   designers   in   design
methodology, testing specialisl:s in their field of expertise, and
training managers of regional coordinating units in planning and
management.
(6) The carrying out by the VTA of studies to develop new programs,
reduce  vocational  training  costs  and  improve  the  overall
coordination of vocational training; the provision of computer
and other equipment for VTA's plalning and management, and the
development of training prograns for- VTA staff; the development
of an improved system of private vocational school accreditation.
Project Costs and Financjg
57.      The total cost of the project is estimated at about DH 256.0 million,
or US$28 million equivalent.  The foreign exchange costs are US$22.3 million;
the  local  costs,  US$5.7 million.   Almost  95%  of  base  project  costs  will
support improvements within the Office; the remaining 5% is allocated to the
VTA. Just over 60% is budgeted for equipping and refurbishing Office VTCs and
IATs.  By category of expenditure, furniture and equipment constitutes almost
70% of  base  project  costs.   Project  cost  estimates  are  for  the  period
February, 1987 through December, 1990.



- 21 -
58.      Project cost estimates  include allowances  for  physical  and price
contingencies. No taxes or duties are included. Physical contingency factors
are included at 10% of the project base cost. Base costs reflect prices as of
November, 1986.  Price escalation during the project is expected to average
about 6% per year for foreign costs and about 8% per year for local costs,
from 1987-1992.   Total contingency allowances amont to  about 33% of base
costs.
59.      The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange costs of the Project
($22.3 million), or about 80% of total project costs.  The foreign exchange
component is based on the assumption that all labor and construction
contracts, and most materials for civil works would be available locallyv
equipment and furniture would be imported; and foreign consultant services
would be  used.   The Government would finance the US$5.7 million estimated
local cost of the project. The loan would be made to the Kingdom of Morocco
for a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace at the current variable
interest rate.  The Government would make available US$21.3 million of the
loan to the Office on a grant basis.  The remaining US$1.0 million would be
provided to the VTA.   Agreement was  reached  during  negotiations  that  the
Government  would  charge  and collect from private enterprises a vocational
training tax at levels sufficient to cover 100% of the Office's recurrent
costs by 1990, primarily through the application of the vocational training
tax.
Project hnplementation
60.      The project implementation period is expected to last from early 1987
to June 30, 1992.  Implementation of the VTA components of the project would
be the responsibility of the Directorate of Vocational Training Planning of
the VTA.  The Office components would be implemented under the authority of
the Director General of the Office. Detailed equipment lists for the VTA and
for  the  Office  are  under  preparation  in both  organizations.   These  are
scheduled to be finalized for Bank review by June  1987.   Draft  terms  of
reference for all consultant services, fellowship programs, programs for local
training and planned seminars to be organized by both organizations, and
details of the studies to be conducted by the VTA have been reviewed.
Implementation schedules for consultants' services for the VTA and for the
Office were agreed at negotiations.  In addition, the Office agreed to furnish
to the Bank, by no later than one year after loan effectiveness, an action
plan for the fellowship training program which the Office would implement ci
the basis of an exchange of views with the Bank.  Staff of the VTA and the
Office are considered adequate to manage this project.  The VTA and the Office
will submit quarterly progress reports on the project to the Bank.
Procurement and Disbursements
61.      Proposed procurement procedures are summarized in the table below:



- 22 -
Proposed Procurement Procedures
(Total base costs of proposed project components
expressed in US$ Millions)
Procurement Procedure
Project component         ICB         LCB      Other      Total Cost
Construction and Professional
Services (minor extensions):
10 Coordination Offices        -           0.809      0.072        0.881
10 Production Units            -           0.340      0.029        0.369
33 VTCs                        -           2.759      0.244        3.003
sub-total Construction         -           3.908      0.345        4.253
(1.953)   (0.086)"'   (2.039)
Furniture and Equipment            17.466      -          1.940       19.406
(15.129)     -         (1.681)    (16.810)
Technical Assistance                -           -         4.313        4.313
(incl. local training,                                  (3.509)      (3.509)
and studies)
Total                          17.466      3.908      6.598       27.972
(15.129)    (1.953)   (5.276)    (22.358)
1/ Architects' fees.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the loan.
Most (62%) of the procurement under this proposed project would be by
international competitive bidding (ICB) and would be for furniture and
equipment  purchases  estimated  at  US$17.5 million.    Items  which  cannot
practically be grouped in ICB bid packages of more than US$100,000 equivalent
estimated value, would be procured on t'he basis of quotations from at least
three qualified suppliers.  These items are generally available in Morocco and
would be subject to an aggregate va]Lue limit of US$2.0 million equivalent
(corresponding to about 10% of the total estimated value of equipment and
furniture requirements, including contingency allowances).   All documentation
for  equipment  procured  under  ICB would be reviewed by the Bank prior to
contract award.   Consultant  services for the  project  will  be  provided  in
accordance with the current Bank "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants."
62.      Contracts for civil works to be financed under the loan are estimated
at approximately US$ 2.0 million, and would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with procedures acceptable to the



- 23 -
Bank.   This  procedure  is  justified  in view  of:   (a) the wide  geographic
distribution of institutions to be refurbished or extended; (b) the small
average contract value (less than US$100,000); and, subsequently, (c) the
anticipated lack of interest by foreign firms, as experienced in the ongoing
Fourth and Fifth Education Projects and in the First Vocational Training
Project.   The LCB procedures used by the Office and the VTA are generally
consistent with the need for economy and efficiency.   There are, however, a
few procedures which require modification in order to be acceptable to the
Bank.  During negotiations, an understanding was reached with the Government
and the Office that LCB procedures for procurement of works financed under the
proposed loan would be modified so as to be acceptable to the Bank.
63.      Disbursements  of  the  proposed loan would be made during calendar
years 1987-1992 as follows:
The Office
(a) Civil Works: 50% of total expenditures (US$2,000,000 equivalent);
(b)  Furniture  and  Equipment  (including  vehicles):   100%  of  foreign
expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80% of
local expenditures for other items procured locally (US$16,500,000
equivalent); and
(c) Technical Assistance:
Consultant services: 100% of total expenditures
(US$1,400,000 equivalent)
Fellowships:           100% of total expenditures
(US$1,400,000 equivalent).
The VTA
(a)  Equipment (including vehicles):   100% of foreign expenditures,  100%
of   local  expenditures   (ex-factory  cost),  and  80%  of  local
expenditures for other items procured locally (US$250,000 equivalent);
(b)  Technical  Assistance:   100%  of  total  expenditures  of  consultant
services (US$750,000 equivalent).
64.      A  special  account will  be  opened  and maintained  in  a  financial
institution acceptable to the Bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the  Bank  and will  be  operated  in accordance  with  Bank  guidelines.   The
authorized allocation of the special account would be US$400,000 equivalent.
Accounts and Audits
65.      Accounts and Audits.  The Government would maintain accounts for the
VTA component and the special account. The Office would maintain accounts to
reflect its operations.  These accounts and the Office financial statements



- 24 -
would be audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and the VTA and the Office
would each furnish to the Bank, within six months of the end of each fiscal
year, certified copies of the audit reports.  During negotiations, assurances
to this effect were obtained from the Government and the Office.
Benefits and Risks
66.      By supporting improvements in the quality of vocational training in
Morocco, the proposed project would make a significant contribution toward
ensuring the availability of well qualified workers urgently needed in the
country's labor market.   In particular, the project would alleviate critical
shortages of  electronic  technicians  in  industry.   The  project would  also
provide increasing employment opportunities for lower income groups who
traditionally enroll in vocational training programs and for females.  Female
participation in vocational training programs (currently about 71) is steadily
rising.
67.      The Government's overall management of vocational training would be
improved  through  this  loan by  strengthening  the  areas of cost recovery,
planning and administration for vocational training. Cost reduction measures
supported by the project would alleviate the Government's budgetary support of
vocational training programs.  The decentralization of the Office's planning
and administration of vocational training should enhance program relevance and
effectiveness significantly.
68.      Overall,  the  project  is  expected  to  have  no  effect  on  the
Government's recurrent budget.   The most  identifiable risk is that project
implementation could be slowed by budgetary shortages (including lack of
timely counterpart funds) in the context of the Government's current fiscal
austerity program. Ongoing Bank-financed education projects, except the first
vocational training project, have experienced delays from this source
averaging about 12 months.  However, officials in the Ministries of Economic
Affairs, Finance, and Planning have recently confirmed the priority commitment
of the Government to the proposed Second Vocational Training Project.  This
commitment has recently been confirmeid at the highest level of Government, and
therefore it is foreseen that the project will be funded adequately to ensure
timely implementation.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
69.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
this loan.
Barber Conable
President
December 15, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-25 -
Population    : 21.4 million (1985)                                                                                                         MNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  USS 610 (1985)                                                                                                         Page 1 of 3
i0cn - ECmN0n4IC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                                 Annual Growth Rates t(1
current prices)                           Actual                                        Proiected
Indicator                       1985 i  .11i1    311i    311    1284    31                     /   12           312      11 3i11        112Q
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/          11891                  -1.3     6.8      2.2     2.1     4.3            5.7     3.8     4.4      3.9     4.3
Agriculture                      218fr                -22.9    19.9   -3.7       -.3    12.1           15.0    10.0     8.0      3.5     3.5
Industry                         3776                  -0.1     2.2     2.9    -1.1      2.3           8.3      4.3     6.2     5.5      5.9
Services                         5929                   5.8     6.1     3.7      4.6     3.3            1.5     1.5     2.0     3.0      3.5
Consumption                        10497                   2.0     6.0      0.1     2.7     3.1            4.3     3.3     4.3      3.5     4.0
Gross investment                    2583                 -11.2     6.8   -13.0      1.4     2.8            5.7     8.0     4.6      3.6     4.4
Exports of GNFS                     3184                   0.2     4.9      8.2     2.8     4.8            7.4     6.9     5.7      5.7     5.8
Imports of GNFS                     4373                   1.9     3.1   -11.3      4.3    -0.3            2.1     4.1     5.3     4.0      5.0
Gross national sav7ngs              1330                 -35.1     4.0    24.7    -4.3    10.4            37.7     7.4     7.5      2.1    10.4
PRICES               1981 198                        i          3    1i       31 
GOP deflator (1980 = 100)       100.0   110.8   121.8   125.1   135.7   148.6   163.1
Exchange rate (USS per ON)       .254    .193    .166    .141    .114    .099    .106
Share of GOP at Market Prices (M)                               Averaae Annual Inc   co 51
tat current prices) c/                  tat constant 1969 prices)          (at constant 1980 prices)
3197 1975        11       119     199   5                  1970-75    1975-80         1980-85      1985 90     1990 25
Gross domestic product                                                                   4.9        5.5             3.0         4.3          4.8
Agriculture             19.9    17.9    18.1    15.7    18.5    18.5                 -1.4        4.4             1.0         7.7          4.8
Industry                27.0    35.2    32.3    29.9    32.3    34.1                  7.4        4.2             1.3         5.9          6.0
Services kI             53.1    46.9    49.6    54.4    49.2    47.3                  5.6        6.4             4.7         2.3          4.0
Consumption                85.5    85.5    88.5    88.3    86.2    83.2                  5.0        6.1             2.7          3.8         4.0
Gross investment           18.5    25.4    22.6    16.9    16.8    19.9                 13.0        -1.1           -3.1         4.2          8.4
Exports GNFS               17.6    22.5    18.4    19.6    21.5    22.1                  0.0        4.9             4.5         6.2          5.4
Imports GNFS               21.6    33.4    29.4    24.9    24.5    25.1                  8.3         1.7           -1.2         4.2          5.4
Gross national savings    14.8    19.3    14.6    11.3    16.4    20.7                  15.3       -4.4            -2.3         12.4         9.8
As X of GOP
3197  3197  312Q  1221                        3111       1985
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                16.1      23.3      21.6       22.7      22.3      22.4       22.4
Current expenditures                            14.5      20.2      22.0       22.9      23.2      22.4       23.1
Current Surplus (.) or deficit t-) gt            1.6       3.1      -0.4       -0.2      -0.9       0.0       -0.7
Capital expenditure                              5.7      12.2      11.2       13.1       8.0       6.4        4.2
Foreign financing                                1.3       3.7       4.8        7.2       4.7       4.8        2.9
1970-75  1s75-H    1980-3    1985-90   199o gs
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (S)                             6.0        4.9       2.8        4.3       5.1
GNP Per capita growth rate (8)                   3.1       1.8       0.3        1.8       2.6
Energy consumption growth rate (X)              6.7        5.6       3.3        4.7       4.8
ICOR                                            3.0        4.1       6.9        3.9       3.8
Marginal savings rate                            3.08     -0.1S      0.9        0.33      0.35
Import elasticity                                1.84      0.13     -0.39       0.98      1.12
a/  At market prices.
b   Import taxes included in services.
c/ ProJected years at constant 1980 prices.
4/ Cash basis.
_/ Preliminary.
October 11, 1986
E11ENA CPIIB
17 39398 p1



- 26 -
Population        21.4 million (1985)                                                                                        A4UEX I
GNP Per Capita:  USS 610 (1985)                                                                                          Page 2 of 3
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount
Indicator                 (million USS at                      Annual Growth Rates (11 (at constant 1980 pricesl
current prices)                      Actual                                Pro1ected
1985         ikI   Lg82   I2ml   192&    192Ai la 12k   i2AZ   12km  121    1222
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports (FOB)              2145           2.9    0.8   11.0    4:1  -0.7          5.4    5.8    5.4    5.4    S.S
Primary products                   1243           -3.7  -11.5    6.3    3.4   -0.6         3.9    3.0    3.9    4.0    4.0
Phosphate rock                    475          -5.6  -10.1    5.4    2.3    1.4          2.0    0.5    3.0    3.0    3.0
Others                            768          -2.3  -12.4    6.9    4.2   -0.1          5.3    4.6    4.5    4.6    4.6
Intermediate & manufactures         902          21.9   29.0   18.5    5.7    2.6          7.4    9.6    7.1    7.2    7.3
Merchandise imports (CIF)              3861           2.8    5.3   -8.0    7.9   -0.6          1.4    3.7    5.4    4.0    5.0
Food                                S10           22.7  -18.6   -4.9   27.1  -19.9    -7.3    0.7    1.4    0.8    0.8
Fuels                              1079           10.7   -1.9    1.1    5.2   13.9         1.7    2.0    4.8    3.1    3.8
Kachinery and equipment             652           -7.7   29.4  -26.2    9.0  -12.1         4.0    S.0    7.4    4.3    S.1
Others                             1620           -5.0   12.2   -5.1    1.6    4.4         6.4    5.4    6.4    5.4    7.0
PRICES (1980 = 100)
Export price index                      .           120.7  124.8  135.5  166.7  187.7   187.9  192.9  205.1  214.0  223.9
Import price index                      .           130.1  142.9  153.4  190.S  215.4   157.7  197.0  207.1  212.9  218.6
Terms of trade index                    .            92.8   87.3   88.4   87.5   87.1   100.1   97.9   99.1  100.5  102.4
Composition of merchandise Trade (X)  _                       Average Annual Increase
(at current prices)       _      EICnstani: 1969 orices)      (Constant 1980 prices)
Li7    1980   1125        990    122i       1270Z72 i    17s-80    1910flS a!     2sA9        1992295
Exports                                                                     -1.3         7.0         4.4         5.5          S.S
Primary products          86.9   74.4   58.0        52.6    49.5        -2.8         5.4         -1.1         3.7         4.3
Intermediates &
manufactures          13.1   25.6   42.0        47.4    SO.5         7.9        12.7         15.8         7.8         6.9
Imports                                                                     9.0          0.7         1.2         4.1          5.5
Food                      25.0   16.9   15.3        12.1      9.8       14.0         2.9         -0.8        -0.3          1.0
Petroleum                 10.8   23.6   29.0        29.9    26.5         9.6          S.2         4.4         3.2         4.3
Machinery & equipment   24.0   18.9   14.9          14.6    17.7        12.8         -7.3        -3.0         7.1         9.7
Others                    40.2   40.6   40.8        45.4    46.0         5.3          2.8         1.6         6.0         5.7
Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with                  Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (VS         Oevelopina Countrieaj (%        Ca_ital Surglus Oil Exporters (St
1260       llzfl      1280       196Q      12Z.f        1212       1960          1970            1222
OIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                72.3       73.7       76.5        27.7      25.4        21.6          ..           0.9             1.9
Imports                76.7       74.9       72.9       23.3       25.1         8.3          ..                         18.8
p1 Preliminary
October 11, 1986
EMENA CPIIB, 39398



Population    :  21.4 million (1985)                                     - 27 -                                                               ANNEXL
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 610 (1985)                                                                                                           Page 3 of 3
MOROCCO - EALANCE OF PAYEpTS. EXTFR4AL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million USS at current prices)
Indicator                                            Actual                                                  Protected
12i2 1983    198 4    n                                       198 7  198       121i2  19902
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services         4364    4131    3843    3920    3926       4168               5014    5513    5998    6475    7733
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.    2414    2283    2043    2086    2161         2145               2392    2718    3195    3690    4283
Imports of goods and services         5912    6095    5912    4888    5008       5140               5225    5603    6060    6659    7768
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b. 1/ 3776    3840    3815    3301    3569         3513               3652    3974    4404    4708    6132
Net current transfers                  128     102      169      94       84      114                170      186     216      233      96
Current account balance              -1420   -1861   -1899    -873    -997       -859                -41       97     103       -2    -150
Net Dtrect Foreign Investment          109      73      102      47       51       20                 68       75      82       91       -
Official Grants                         97     313      124     142       16      300                 16        -       -        -       -
MLT loans (net)                       1036    1118    1339      251      798      127                259       71     182    -186    -888
Official                            722    1041      724     322      333      222                381      243     288      258    -456
Private                             314      77      615    --71     465       -95               -122    -172    -106    -444    -432
Other capital (net) 2/                  22     321      410     276      145      468               -226      -99    -150      175    1083
Change in reserves                     156      36      -76     157      -13      -56                -76    -144    -217       -78    -136
International reserves                 814     510      540     376      266      345                421      565     782     860        -
Of which:  Gold                     415     280      322     269      217      230                230     230      230     230      230
Reserves as months imports I/          .81      .45     .44     .26      .12      .27                .97      .72    1.09    1.14    1.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                   1711    2053    2210    1022    1060        971
Official Grants                      97     313      124     142       16      300
Concessional loans                  761     889      522     203      188      178
DAC                              100     126      90       49      96       159
OPEC                            584      746     401      115      90         6
ICA                                I       1        1       1       2         1
Other                             76      16       30      37       0        13
Non-concessional loans              854     851    1564      677     856       493
Official export credits           13      55      118      35       4        11
IORD                             64       99     134      174     275       307
Other multilateral                13     123      70       23      33        52
Private                         764      575    1241      444     545       123
Suppliers credits              a       28      51        8      17        13
Financial credits & bonds   756       547    1190      436     528       110
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed   7110    7951    8962   10153   10556    11230
Official                       3510    4386    4958    6528    6569        7179
Private                        3600    3565    4004    3625    3986        4051
Undisbursed debt                   2115    3187    2552    3530    3206       3768
Debt service
Total service paywents J           1193    1256    1326    1170      761      1934
Interest                        614      633     579      540     S1S       490
Payents as S exports of G+S I/  27.3    30.4    34.1    29.8    19.4          24.8
Average interest rate on new loans (%)  8.2       8.4    10.1      7.2      7.6      8.5
Official                               3.8     3.7      6.9     5.4      6.6      7.1
Private                               13.4    13.7    11.8    10.5    10.9       10.8
Average maturity of new loans (years)  13.7       9.4    11.0    17.3    17.2       14.8
Official                              18.6   .11.5    19.7    22.6    20.6       19.8
Private                                7.9     7.1      6.3     7.6     6.5       6.8
As S of Debt Outstandina at End of Most Recent Year 1198S)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                  52.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                 74.5
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                  6.6
J/ Preliminary,
1/ Projected figures are CIF.
2/ Includes financing gap.
1/ Reserves menus gold/imports of goods and services.
J After rescheduling: excludes IMF service payments.                                                                                 October 11, 1986
J Services include workers' remittances.                                                                                                EMENA CP ir-S
ID 3939ep2



-2o- 28  -                              NEX I I
STATUS OF pAK OPUATIONS
A.  STATEMENT OF UNK LOANS MD IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30. 198641
Loan or                                                         Amount (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                    USS Million
Nuber   Yar          Borrower               Purnose           kfak                  Undiburs
Thirty six Loans fully disbursed                             1100.45
Five Credits fully disbursed                                              45.16
1416    1977    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              318.0                   3.25
1602    1978    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              50.0                   29.45
1681    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Education                818.0                  35.01
1695    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Power                    37.0                    4.43
1724    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply             49.0                    7.83
1757    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              44.0                    7.64
1848    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              24.0                   15.11
1943    1981    CIH                       Tourism             100.0                   21.36
1944    1981    Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development  2S.0                         17.40
2006    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply             87.0                   56.69
2037    1982    ONDE                      OFC                   70.0                  30.22
2038    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)                40.0                   35.22
2082    1982    Kingdomn of Morocco    Agriculture              24.0                  20.35
2109    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Mining                     9.5                   6.23
2110    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Forestry                  20.5                  16.27
2114    1982    ONAREP                    Oil Shale             81.2                    0.87
2149    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Education                 313.0                 21.07
2217    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture               30.0                  27.58
2245    1983    CIN                       Housing Oevt.         60.0                  55.45
2253    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture               42.0                  40.23
2254    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Highways                 76.6                   62.76
2271    1983    ONAREP                    Oil Exploration      75.2                   26.88
2272    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Village Infrastr.  16.0                          12.78
2367    1984    CNCA                      Agric. Credit        11 Si.4                 4.80
2479    1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Voc.Training              27.1                   19.07
2487    1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Elec.& Mec.Ind.    25.1                         21.71
2508    1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Jerada Coal Min.   27.0                         24.33
2572    1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Health*                   28.4                  28.40
2590    1986    Kingdom of Morocco    Agr.Sec.Adj.            100.0                   50.00
2604    1986    Kingdom of Morocco    2nd Ind.bTrade    200.0                         80.00
2656    1986    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture*             46.0
2657    1986    Port Authority            Port of Casa."        22.0
2664    1986    Kingdom of Morocco    Education               SO.0                   130.45
2731     1986    CNCA                     Agric. Credit'    120.0
Total                                                   3013.35     45.16
of which has been repaid                               521 4Q      2.82
Total now outstanding                                   2491.95    42.34
Amount Sold                          20.11
of which has been repaid          20.11                  0.0       0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                          2471.84    42.34
Total undisbursed                                                               912.84
B.  STATEMENT OF IfC INYESTMENTS
(As of September 30. 1986)
US$ Million
Fiscal Year                                                       Lam       Eauity   Total
1985             Frumat               Food & Food Processing   6.9                       6.9
1963/1978/1984  BNDE                  Development Bank            52.0       1.S        53.5
1976             Marrakech Cement   Cement Factory                  -        1.2         1.2
1977/1980        Temara Cement        Cement Factory               2.0       3.4         5.4
1980             SOMIFER              Copper Mining                5.2       2.3         7.5
1981/1983        Casablanca Cement  Cement Factory                1L2        Ll.
Total commitments now held by IFC                               80.0      10.4        90.4
Total Undisbursed                                                                      6.9
Not yet effective.
ID.04798 p2
11/12/86



- 29 -
ANNEX III
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           Ten months
(b)  Project preparation responsibility:    The MPW (the VTA) and the Office
(c)  Project first identified by the Bank:  April 1985
(d)  Bank appraisal mission:                  April-May 1986
(e)  Negotiations:                            November 1986
(f)  Board Presentation:                      January 1987
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:          March 1987
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions and Program Actions
(a) Covenant on cost recovery measures and level of cost recovery
(para. 59).
(b) Agreements regarding technical assistance implementation schedules
(para. 60).






m  0, R 0  C, C, 0                                                                          LI~~~~~~~~~~~1                   4          ,   -
SECOND VOCATIONAL
Vj'             '~~~TRAINING-PROJECT,                                                                                                                             AUZA
Proposedl, 
ET    Vocetionorl Trraining Centers',mn    i'   ee                                                                                                                 To,,1l,d 
LiQ  Iqsfitoete of Applied Tec~hnology'                                                                                                                                                                                               34
4  Airports~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~CSKA,A
Ports                                                                                                                                 1
300 Millimeter00sohte
Flenotion  aboe  1000  eter
3          -   - Interna~~~~~~~.tIonal d                                                                                                 --   -onarg  -
ot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                           -                   i,-
 liqteo ah' territory of the                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
formr  Spnsh Shara Wstene Sahara) 
I sAt ddlAo-o V-oooo,o, rroncrg cnc on A
J ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~dfron tl                                                         AYSt
_W'                                                               AD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<-~ 
$iBtt,TsC~~~~~~~~~~2
/                                                                                           rneec-cecrceoenoeeocooeeA  lrpcyl   , TAT4cco  rcmae c  nnY
CANA RY                                                                                                                                                                  .--ai occm n...coeo   
AIVADS                                  x4"227 ~                                                                                                                                                                   A LG ER  A
to-'                            coo ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'                                                           PH (ccc /ccncr'onsocce,e           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l-pY"z
j  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Io ecccMAUR TA NI A
IToroe F.
Ii                 it                                   A                                    0                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SEPTEMBER 1986



l
l,



