                    Document of
                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No: 36294

     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28750 PPFI-P9240 PPFI-P9241 IDA-28751 IDA-28752)

                       ON A

                      CREDIT

       IN THE AMOUNT OF 40.5 US$ MILLION

                      TO THE

               REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA

                      FOR AN

ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND INVESTMENT PROMOTION
         TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT




                    May 26, 2006

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective 24-May-2006)

                               Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha
                                               = US$

                                       US$ 1 = K3,275

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 - December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAC     Anglo American Corporation Ltd
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
ERIP    Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion
ERIPTA  Economic Recovery and Invesment Promotion Technical Assistance
ESAC    Economic and Social Adjustment Credit
ERB     Electricity Regulatory Board
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GMPT    Government Mining Privatization Team
GRZ     Government of the Republic of Zambia
IDA     International Development Association
KCM     Konkola Copper Mines
KDMP    Konkola Deep Mining Project
MMMD    Ministry of Mines and Minerals Department
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOLA    Ministry of Legal Affairs
OED     Operations Evaluations Department
PE      Public Enterprise
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSD     Private Sector Development
PPI     Public-Private Partnerships in Infrastructure
PIRC    Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
SOE     State-Owned Enterprise
TNDP    Transitional National Development Plan
ZCCM    Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd.
ZESCO   Zambia Electricity Supply Company
ZPA     Zambia Privatization Agency
ZAMTEL  Zambia Telecommunications Company



                             Vice President:      Gobind T. Nankani
                           Country Director       Michael Baxter
                            Sector Manager        Demba Ba
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           W. Marie Sheppard

                                           ZAMBIA
             ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND INVESTMENT PROMOTION
                                TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Additional Statistics                                                   31

Project ID: P040642                                                  Project Name: ZM-ERIPTA (FY96)
Team Leader: Lucy Fye                                                TL Unit: AFTPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 26, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: ZM-ERIPTA (FY96)                                         L/C/TF Number: IDA-28750; PPFI-P9240;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P9241; IDA-28751;
                                                                                                     IDA-28752
   Country/Department: ZAMBIA                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (68%); Mining and other extractive (30%); Law and
                            justice (2%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Regulation and competition policy
                            (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/15/1995                                     Effective:                           09/27/1996
     Appraisal: 06/04/1996                                         MTR: 11/30/1998                  02/16/1999
      Approval: 06/04/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 09/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Zambia/Ministry of Finance; Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA);
                                           Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development (MMMD); Ministry of Legal
                                           Affairs (MOLA).
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Michael Baxter                                 Phyllis R. Pomerantz
Sector Manager:                 Demba Ba                                       Thomas Allen
Team Leader at ICR:             W. Marie Sheppard                              Emile Sawaya
ICR Primary Author:             Linda Cotton


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) reviews the Zambia Economic Recovery and Investment
Promotion Technical Assistance Project (ERIPTA) (Cr. 2875-ZA) approved June 4, 1996 for which the
Bank provided a credit of US$23 million, a supplemental credit of US$ 7.5 million (Cr. 2875-1 ZA) in
2002 and a second supplemental credit of US$ 10 million (Cr. 2875-2 ZA) in 2003 for a total budget of
US$ 40.5 million. The Government was the Borrower for the credit and the funds for the sub-component
dealing with the pre-privatization Emergency Plan of Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM) were
on-lent to ZCCM.      The ERIPTA project supported the implementation of reforms included in the 1995
Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion (ERIP) credit (Cr. 2764-ZA) and the subsequent Economic
Adjustment Credit (ESACII), (Cr. 2910-ZA) of 1996. In particular, the technical assistance project was to
support the privatization of the mining parastatal and the strengthening of the mining sector. Another
component of ERIPTA, the privatization of non-mining parastatals, continued work financed under
previous operations, the 1992 Privatization and Industrialization Reform Credit PIRC I (Cr. 2405-ZA) and
the 1993 Second Privatization and Industrialization Reform Credit PIRC II (Cr. 2523-ZA).

ERIPTA's Memorandum of the President, dated May 13, 1996, states that the development objective was
to "support the implementation of the ERIP Reform Program and to continue implementation of reforms
that are the focus of previous adjustment operations, namely the privatization of parastatals and the reform
of the legal framework governing business activity. The project aims to provide technical assistance,
training and related assistance to the Government to implement policy, institutional and regulatory reforms
associated with the economic reform program, especially the privatization of Zambia Consolidated Copper
Mines (ZCCM) and other commercial parastatals, including some utilities, and the strengthening of the
Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development (MMMD) and the Ministry of Legal Affairs (MOLA)." The
project objectives were designed to facilitate an ongoing reform program. The focus of the project was to
revitalize the mining sector, which in 1994 accounted for about 70 percent of exports and is still the most
important sector of the economy. In addition, the project sought to divest the majority of non-mining
state-owned enterprises (SOEs), including utilities.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The development objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Component 1: Assistance for Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (Appraisal-US$19.6 million or 48.4%;
Actual-US$23.5 million or 61.0 %)
    A. Formulation and implementation of a plan for the privatization of ZCCM through the employment
    of investment banking and legal advisors and such other specialists as may be required.
    B. Strengthening the capacity of ZCCM to: (a) implement the ZCCM Emergency Plan through the
    provision of technical advisory services, and (b) monitor and evaluate the implementation of the
    Emergency Plan and oversee ZCCM's privatization activities.
Component 2: Strengthening of the Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA) (Appraisal-US$13.7 million or
33.8%;Actual-US$9.6 million or 25.0%)
    A. Strengthening and promoting the activities of the ZPA in its program of privatization of parastatal
    enterprises and provision of technical advisory services to enterprises selected for privatization through
    the employment of qualified and experienced managers, the carrying out of pre-privatization studies,
    the publicizing of proposals for privatization, the public relations campaign and the acquisition of
    office equipment.
    B. Provision of office space, equipment, supplies and operating costs for the Government Mining



                                                     - 2 -

    Privatization Team (GMPT).
Component 3: Mining Sector Reform Program (Appraisal-US$6.0 million or 14.8%; Actual-US$4.7
million or 12.2 %)
    A. Strengthening the capabilities of the Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development (MMMD) to
    administer and regulate the mining sector and to promote new private exploration and investment
    through the acquisition, evaluation and dissemination of geological data, the production of databases,
    maps and other reference materials, including an up-to-date handbook on the mineral resources of
    Zambia, and the carrying out of studies of, and the production of reports on, the structure and mineral
    resources of northeastern and northwestern Zambia.
    B. Preparing promotional materials and conducting activities to encourage private investment in the
    mining sector, including seminars and promotional presentations, the provision of an expanded
    self-help library and the establishment of an information center.
    C. Strengthening the regulatory and procedural capabilities of the MMMD.
    D. The establishment, operation and maintenance of regional mining bureaus.
    E. Monitoring of sulfur dioxide emissions at mineral processing plants by the Mines Safety Department
    of the MMMD through the provision of equipment and training.
Component 4: Commercial Law Reform (Appraisal-US$1.2 million or 3.0%; Actual-US$0.7 million or
1.8%)
    Strengthening the capacity of the Department of Legal Drafting in the Ministry of Legal Affairs
    (MOLA) in reviewing and drafting commercial laws, preparing legislative texts, subsidiary legislation
    and other legal drafts through the employment of experts and the provision of the long- and short-term
    training of staff in legislative drafting.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project content was not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Rating of Quality at Entry: Satisfactory. The development objective of the project was consistent with the
country strategy at the time, the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 1994, which aimed to reduce
poverty with a focus on the promotion of private sector development and public sector efficiency to
stimulate rapid and inclusive growth. The development objective is also consistent with the GRZ's current
Transitional National Development Plan (TNDP) and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) of May
2002, both of which prioritize the reduction of poverty through economic growth. Building on this, the
current CAS (2004-2007) has focuses on establishing "a diversified and export-oriented economy, which
creates an enabling environment for facilitating private investment and development." The appraisal was
thorough and addressed the main constraints to economic growth.

The institutional arrangements were designed to fit with country conditions. The responsibility for project
administration and management was given to the Project Coordinating Unit in the Ministry of Finance. The
Government Mining Privatization Team (GMPT), consisting of consultants selected under procedures
acceptable to the World Bank was responsible for the ZCCM privatization and implementation of the
Emergency Plan. The GMPT was to implement the ZCCM privatization; it was to do so under the
supervision of the Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA), established at the beginning of the privatization
program in Zambia in 1992. The ZPA was responsible for the non-mining privatization component; the
Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development (MMMD) was responsible for its institutional development
component; and the Ministry of Legal Affairs (MOLA) was responsible for the MOLA component. The
responsibility for project administration and management was with the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) in
the Ministry of Finance.




                                                     - 3 -

The project design drew on experiences from other privatization projects; such lessons included that (i)
project implementation should be the responsibility of full time staff in the relevant agencies, (ii) the use of
local consultants should be encouraged, (iii) the staff of the resident mission should be involved, (iv)
measurable indicators should be used to guide implementation, (v) capacity building should be emphasized
and (vi) supervision of the project by Bank staff should be intensive. While many lessons were
incorporated at the design phase, they were not all adhered to during implementation, as described later in
the sections on Bank and Borrower performance. The design of the ZPA's privatization program for
non-mining state-owned enterprises (SOEs) was considered a model for the region at the time and it was
among the first to adhere to a number of best practices. A public relations component was designed in
order to explain to the public the benefits of privatizing ZCCM and the other parastatals. As the project
progressed and was extended and privatization became the center of political debate, the communication
program proved insufficient; additional funds were allocated for communications in the first supplemental
credit. The design should have also included the development of an effective monitoring unit to enable the
GRZ to measure and control the level of subsidies, direct and indirect, channeled to SOEs over time. The
project design included the privatization of all state-owned enterprises, including mines and utilities as well
as smaller SOEs. At that time, this breadth of design was common, but with hindsight, it was
overambitious in its inclusion of divesting utilities. The Bank's approach to utilities now emphasizes the
need to improve cost effectiveness through broad-based sector reform, coupled with private participation in
the sector. There was insufficient appreciation of the importance of independent, capable regulatory
institutions, in particular for the electricity and telecommunications sectors.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of objectives and outputs under ERIPTA was Moderately Satisfactory. While the project
components were largely completed and indicators have shown progress, questions of transparency and
inefficiency in the most important component (privatization of ZCCM) combined with issues regarding the
coverage and quality of mining regulations justify the moderated rating.

Project indicators were included in the Memorandum of the President for the project in 1996. However, the
indicators did not track outcomes and outputs adequately. During the Mid Term Review in 1999, an
improved set of outcome and output indicators were agreed upon and were tracked more closely than the
first set (the mid term review indicators are in Annex 1). These indicators, complemented by others drawn
from international practice, are included in this report. The project and the government program that it
supported have made considerable contributions to growth, private investment, the emergence of a
private-sector led economy and the turnaround in the mining sector. The privatization of the mining
company, ZCCM, was the largest divestiture in terms of both impact and costs, (it accounted for 61.0
percent of the credit). The impact of divesting the mines can be measured during the four years after
ZCCM was privatized, (between 2000 and 2004), when copper production increased by an impressive 65
percent (Annex 8, Figure 1). The sale of the two largest ZCCM assets, (KCM and Mopani Mines) included
investment commitments of almost US$1 billion over the next several years, (Annex 8, Table 1). However,
there were shortcomings in the ZCCM privatization that reduced the program's impact and raised questions
regarding transparency (discussed further in section 4.2). Despite these problems, the current and projected
economic benefits of the privatization are substantial and are seen as outweighing the costs. In addition,
the entire public enterprise sector was downsized significantly, helping to diversify the economy and
increase private investment. The ZPA estimates that roughly US$990 million has been invested by
privatized non-mining companies since privatization, notwithstanding a difficult business environment and
the adjustments required in order to deal with the rapid liberalization that was simultaneously being
implemented. A ZPA study sampling 57 privatized companies showed an almost eight-fold increase in the



                                                        - 4 -

exports of non-mining companies from the time of their privatization to the present (Annex 8, Table 2).
The same study showed a 75-fold increase in investment in equipment and a 73-fold rise in investment in
land and buildings after privatization (Annex 8, Table 3). In addition, non-mining GDP grew an average
of 5 percent from 2000 to 2005.          Investment in mining, construction, tourism, agriculture, and
manufacturing is expected to help maintain GDP growth at 5 percent, with the fastest growth rates in
construction and tourism, (17.1 percent and 10.7 percent for 2000-2005, respectively). At the end of 2002,
only 19 of the 254 privatized companies had closed, with 12 of those being resuscitated by new private
sector interests. In fact, the ZPA impact study showed that turnover during the post-privatization period
grew, albeit marginally. An Operations Evaluation Department (OED) post-privatization study showed
similar trends.

The privatization program generated savings to the state by reducing transfers to public enterprises in the
form of subsidies and liabilities. In the 1980s, as much as 60 percent of the national budget went to
subsidies to the loss-making SOEs.     As late as 1997 and 1998, the operating losses incurred by ZCCM
alone had increased to roughly US$180 million a year, far exceeding the annual budget for education
(US$115 million) and more than twice that for health ($70 million). After the mid-1990s, when Zambia
moved to a cash budget, subsidies were eliminated as part of a fiscal adjustment. Such subsidies, if still
given to the firms that were not privatized, are no longer formally itemized, hindering analysis of amounts
over time.    Indirect subsidies were also large, widespread and difficult to trace.      For example, at
privatization completion in 2000, ZCCM owed US$100 million to ZESCO, the electricity company.
Although ZCCM no longer received direct subsidies, GRZ spending on past and current liabilities
associated with SOEs (mostly utilities) still exceeded US$100 million in 2002. On the other hand, a recent
ZPA study showed that in a sample of non-mining companies, their tax contributions increased by 27
percent after privatization.

As a whole, the project's achievements have had positive effects on the economy, especially considering the
large role of the mining sector.     Reforms supported by the project contributed to increased private
investment, which almost tripled as a percent of GDP from the early years of the ERIPTA project through
its closure in 2005, (Annex 1). Reflecting the growth of business activity, business registrations increased
by 18 percent per year during the 2000-2004 period. The expansion of investment and increased business
activity contributed to growth. The year 2004 was the fifth year of solid income per capita growth after
decades of decline. The reforms supported under ERIPTA also contributed to the growth of foreign direct
investment and exports, which increased after the privatization of ZCCM in 2000, (Annex 8, Table 4).

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Assistance for Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM)
Rating for Component 1: Moderately Satisfactory as the completion of the ZCCM privatization was a
significant achievement with important long-term benefits for the country. Seemingly avoidable losses of
efficiency and inadequate transparency justify the moderated rating.

Subcomponent A: ZCCM Privatization.             The delay caused by the GRZ's handling of the ZCCM
privatization led to years of continued transfers to ZCCM to keep the mining sector afloat, (see Section
10.1 for a detailed account). The delay also meant that when the company was finally privatized, market
conditions had deteriorated and the deal ultimately negotiated was substantially less beneficial to the
country then it would have been earlier. There are also questions surrounding the last-minute change in the
Government Mining Privatization Team (GMPT) staff before a winning bidder was chosen, opaque
transaction procedures and undocumented use of proceeds, and these raised concerns regarding governance
and transparency. These issues, combined with the unfortunate withdrawal of the main investor (Anglo
America) two years after privatization due to poor market conditions caused public opinion towards



                                                     - 5 -

privatization to spiral downwards.

This last point is quite important, as it continues to bolster GRZ's resistance to private participation in
infrastructure, which is sorely needed in order to improve the quality and coverage of infrastructure
services, one of the foremost constraints to growth. However, privatizing ZCCM was politically sensitive
and this, combined with the challenges posed by the exit of Anglo-American, renders the final sale of
ZCCM to Vedanta in 2004, a substantial achievement on the part of the GRZ and the Bank. In summary,
while there are questions related to the quality of the transaction - whether it generated a suboptimal return
and set unfortunate precedents for future mining investments - all of this must be weighed against the full
costs of the only other option at that time which was closing the mines.

Subcomponent B: Capacity Strengthening for the Emergency Plan.                An emergency plan was approved
by the ZCCM Board in March 1996 to help stem the losses of the company. As the project did not become
effective until September 1996, US$2 million in Project Preparatoin Facility (PPF) funds were used, mostly
for the Emergency Plan and for preparing for privatization. The Emergency Plan resulted in the
stabilization of ZCCM's operational performance and production levels. However, financial performance
remained poor, largely due to a decrease in copper prices which started in May 1996. ZCCM had great
difficulty securing short-term loans, and debts to suppliers increased to over US$100 million.

Component 2: Strengthening of the Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA)
Rating for Component 2: Moderately Satisfactory.           While ZPA performed high-quality work related to
the divestiture of non-mining public enterprises (PEs), its oversight function of the mining sector and ability
to divest utilities were not effective ­ largely for reasons outside of its control.

Subcomponent A. Strengthening and promoting the activities of ZPA.             The capacity and performance of
ZPA was strengthened throughout the project period. Qualified, experienced and independent professionals
were hired to manage and implement the program.            With regard to non-mining PEs, ZPA managed the
program in an efficient and transparent manner. Pre-privatization studies were conducted, proposals for
privatization were publicized and office equipment acquired. These measures enabled ZPA to privatize the
majority (92 percent) of non-mining parastatals in a largely transparent manner. While divestitures used a
variety of methods (Annex 8, Table 5) most PEs were sold by competitive tender or to the original owners
who had pre-emptive rights. Of the non-mining public enterprises, roughly 40 percent were sold to
Zambians, though these were mainly small trading, service and agricultural enterprises. Larger enterprises
in mining, energy, manufacturing and agro-based activities were sold to foreigners, mostly through joint
ventures with Zambians. Contrary to public opinion, few of the privatized firms closed after privatization.

The Zambian Privatization Agency was created in 1993 and its program was considered a model for the
region. They were among the first to fully adhere to the following best practices: adequate resources were
invested in program design and preparation, appropriate legislation was in place, the transaction processes
and use of proceeds from non-mining privatizations were clearly documented and made available to the
public and efforts were made to deepen capital markets and broaden ownership through listing shares, (see
Annex 8, Table 6 for a comparison of ZPA and GMPT privatizations). During ERIPTA, ZPA maintained
these transparent and efficient procedures.

Of the large utilities and financial institutions put up for privatization, Zambia Railways was concessioned
(partly through a separate World Bank project) and the INDENI petroleum refinery was privatized. By
2002, the Government's attitude towards privatization had shifted, and they opted to forego privatization in
favor of commercialization. The main reason given for the reluctance to privatize utilities was the negative
public opinion. Another reason could well be that the GRZ draws on the resources of the utilities, as


                                                       - 6 -

evidenced by the high level of inter-utility arrears. In the end, the Bank concurred with GRZ's preference
for commercialization. ZESCO (the electricity utility) was the first to be commercialized. The process
began in 2004, the enterprise began operating under a new business plan in 2005, and a review of the
performance to date is scheduled for May 2006 (for more details see Section 10.2                   ZESCO
Commercialization and Energy Sector Reform). The mobile telecommunications sector has been
liberalized, and three cellular operators have established themselves reducing the cost of services. The
sector's reform is to include the opening up of state-owned ZAMTEL's monopoly on international calls to
mobile competitors. ZAMTEL's commercialization roadmap is to be developed by the Ministry of
Communications in 2006.         ZAMPOST is also being commercialized.               The monitoring of the
commercialization programs is conducted by the respective line ministries.            However, it is worth
mentioning that the experience with commercialization in other African countries is not encouraging.

The ERIPTA project included a public relations subcomponent explaining the benefits of privatization, yet
this does not seem to have been effective as it could have been, (Annex 10.3 for more details). The
importance of communication was probably underestimated by the Government and the Bank. Ideally,
ZPA would have monitored the perceptions of the public and key stakeholders and designed a
communications program tailored to their concerns. For example, ZPA should have engaged and educated
the Executive branch of government on privatization processes, costs, benefits and risks that need to be
managed. Such a program could have built their capacity to provide a stronger governance function and
informed them of the role of public-private partnerships in infrastructure (PPI) service delivery.

With regard to capacity building, toward the end of the ERIPTA project, activities were conducted with the
Communications Authority of Zambia (CAZ) and the Electricity Regulations Board (ERB) which received
support in the form of equipment, training and various studies. The main obstacle to the effectiveness of
these regulatory bodies is that they are not independent from line ministries. At the same time, the
oversight and monitoring functions in the parent ministries are not developed due to lack of capacity.
Improved legislation has been passed to provide sector wide support for reforms (allowing competition in
mobile telecommunications, for instance, though this was not funded by ERIPTA). However, essential
regulations (such as regulations on interconnectivity between mobile operators or safety regulations for the
energy sector), have taken over a year to be processed at the MOLA, hampering enforcement capabilities.

Subcomponent B: Provisions for GMPT.           The Government Mining Privatization Team was originally
linked to ZPA which provided the team with office space, equipment, supplies and operating costs. The
discussion of GMPT activities is included in the previous section on Component 1: Assistance for ZCCM.

Component 3: Mining Sector Reform Program
Rating for Component 3: Moderately Satisfactory due to the satisfactory completion of the majority of
subcomponents which contributed to the revitalization of the sector but a piecemeal approach to regulatory
reform

Subcomponent A. Database Information ­ Satisfactory. Databases on minerals present in the country,
maps and other reference materials, including an up-to-date handbook on the mineral resources of Zambia
were produced. Studies of the structure and mineral resources of northeastern and northwestern Zambia
have also been completed.

Subcomponent B. Mining Investment Promotion - Satisfactory.            Zambian mining potential has been
promoted at 10 international conferences, the last one being the African Indaba in Cape Town, South
Africa in February 2000. Though it is difficult to measure how much these activities have influenced
investors, they have raised Zambia's visibility with investors.


                                                     - 7 -

Subcomponent C. Regulation - Moderately Unsatisfactory. Strengthening the regulatory and procedural
capabilities of the MMMD was part of the project. The Mining and Minerals Act of 1995 was passed
before the project became effective. The Act guarantees security of title, unrestricted access to foreign
exchange, company's right to market products, and freedom of commercial operation and provides for
international arbitration of disputes. However, the Act is not yet fully supported by subsidiary legislation.
Some progress was made under ERIPTA, in particular with the Mining and Minerals Environmental
Protection Regulations passed in 1997. Under these regulations, impact assessments will be required for
all new projects and mining areas will have to be rehabilitated after decommissioning.

Overall, the attempts to create the regulations to implement this act have been piecemeal. They did not
create a robust legislative foundation for attracting investment or a framework for balancing the interests of
investors against those of Government. Zambia has the lowest royalty rate in the world (0.6 percent when
the average is 2.5 to 3 percent for mining agreements). Because mining is an extractive industry and not
considered "pro poor" in terms of the type of growth generated, it is particularly important that
Government have the capacity and legislative framework to make informed tradeoffs. An amendment to
the Act in 2000 gave the Minister for MMMD the ability to overrule predating legislation and a broad
range of discretionary powers. The poor quality of the legislative foundation has also led to uncertainties
regarding whether old regulations or the new Act are in effect, and this can mean undue discretionary
power among mining inspectors.

Subcomponent D. Regional Mines Bureaus - Satisfactory.             Four regional mines bureaus have been
established and are operational. The objective of the bureaus is to bring services and information close to
small and medium-sized mining companies and gemstone miners, including the new databases and
information produced in Subcomponent A. The bureaus were to have technical personnel to answer
questions and help with using databases on the locations of deposits. The staff is limited due to insufficient
remuneration to attract qualified personnel.

Subcomponent E. Chemical Emissions - Satisfactory. Monitoring of sulfur dioxide emissions at mineral
processing plants by the Mines Safety Department of the MMMD was achieved through the provision of
equipment and training. Other major environmental issues regarding the mining sector are being addressed
through the Copperbelt Environmental Program of 2003 (Cr. 3741-ZA).

Component 4: Strengthening of the Ministry of Legal Affairs
Rating for Component 4: Satisfactory due to the significant amount of updated and more appropriate
commercial law completed and enacted during the project period which has stimulated economic growth.
The capacity of the Department of Legal Drafting in the Ministry of Legal Affairs (MOLA) to review and
draft commercial laws, prepare legislative texts, subsidiary legislation and other legal drafts was increased
through the employment of experts and the provision of long- and short-term training to staff. The MOLA
was able to replace old legislation with new acts and regulations more appropriate for a market-oriented
economy, notably The Mines and Minerals Act, The National Pension Scheme Authority Act, The Small
Enterprise Development Act, The Insurance Act, The Customs and Excise Act and the Value Added Tax.

Since this component of the project closed in 2001, it is not surprising that the personnel trained by the
ERIPTA project have since left their department. Maintaining enough qualified staff continues to be
problematic as is evident from complaints from other project beneficiaries of long waiting times for legal
drafting. Efficiency and effectiveness in the civil service was a cross-cutting issue in this project and has
been addressed to some extent in the Public Service Capacity Building Project, a 13-year Adaptable
Program Lending (APL) instrument. The PSCAP started in 2000 and the first phase ended in June, 2005.


                                                      - 8 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project was a technical assistance operation and did not include an economic evaluation. Benefits are
difficult to estimate, although, direct and indirect benefits of the project are substantial, as discussed in the
section on outcomes above. Production of copper has increased considerably from 250,000 metric tons in
2000 to 400,000 metric tons in 2004. The unit costs for copper in Zambia have been reduced to US$
0.75/lb or less, improving global competitiveness and increasing the industry's ability to withstand
decreases in copper prices. Investment in non-copper mining has gone up as have investment in activities
servicing the mining sector and in the privatized sectors.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is Modest. As a result of support provided under the
project, ZPA, MMMD and MOLA are now stronger institutions better able to carry out their functions.
The extensive training done with ZPA has produced qualified professionals some of whom are now
distributed throughout government and private sector. MMMD has a solid base of geological information
and is now present across the country. MOLA also completed significant training of lawyers in legal
drafting. Despite the fact that these employees left the department, the provision of the training is still an
important contribution to overall development given of the severe shortage of individuals with these
qualifications in the country.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
One of the major factors behind the extension of the project and increased expenses was the withdrawal of
Anglo American from KCM. This decision was taken by Anglo American Corporation's (AAC's) board
and was largely due to the decrease in global copper prices. Lower copper prices and the negative signal to
investors from the departure of AAC led to a long search for another strategic equity partner.

The increasing competition due to liberalization of the economy in the early 1990s and the simultaneous
drop in copper prices meant a number of enterprises had to shed staff regardless of privatization. These
forces affected the social dynamics, making it politically challenging at the time to actively pursue
privatization of the larger more visible companies. Public opposition to privatization and to the increasing
role of the private sector began in the late 1990s and grew significantly after Anglo American pulled its
investments out of the mining sector in 2002. Afrobarometer surveys indicate that many Zambians are
suspicious of market economies in general. In a May 2002 survey of 1,200 Zambians aged 18 years and
above, 41 percent stated that a government-run economy is preferable to free market economy, (as opposed
to 46 percent who said the opposite).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
In 1997, the Government changed the composition of the Government Mining Privatization Team (GMPT),
replacing them with former and current ZCCM managers, after which, ZPA was excluded from the
process. These changes had an adverse impact on the efficiency, effectiveness and transparency of the
program. Also, the GMPT did not always heed to the advice of specialist consultants it had hired, reducing
the technical caliber of the decisions. The process took considerably longer than anticipated, raising costs.
The transparency of the transaction suffered as procedures and outcomes were not documented or at least
not released.




                                                      - 9 -

The anti-privatization stance of the public came to the forefront and was probably fueled by the political
discourse before, during and after the 2001 election. The new government was averse to privatization, in
broad terms, and to privatizing utilities in particular. The positive impact of the privatization program was
ignored and the potential for using private participation in infrastructure, stalled. The opportunity to build
on a program that had generated substantial results seems to have been lost, which is unfortunate given the
level of investment and management required in the infrastructure sectors.

While, progress has been made in planning the public expenditure management and financial accountability
(PEMFA), a lean, efficient and cost-effective civil service has yet to be established.      The lack of "right
size/right pay" has particularly affected the outcome and sustainability of the MMMD and MOLA
components.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The sale of ZCCM took four years, from 1996 to 2000 when the most important package was sold to
Anglo American. It is likely that the process could have generated a more positive outcome had the original
bid from the Kafue Consortium been accepted in 1997. The PCU could have monitored activities and
tracked progress more effectively, which would have enabled it to better demonstrate the gains resulting
from the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original cost of the project was US$27.20 million (US$23 million of IDA financing) of which ZCCM
accounted for 50 percent and ZPA for 23 percent. The costs of the ZCCM component were higher than
initially estimated, in part because of the delays in the process. During the first two years of the project
US$2.1 million were reallocated from the ZPA component to the ZCCM component. A first supplemental
credit was approved on October 4, 2002 for US$7.5 million (US$8.0 million total cost) for ZPA to
complete remaining privatizations. After Anglo American left KCM in early 2002, additional financing
was required to provide technical assistance for 1) ZCCM restructuring in order to make it more attractive,
2) negotiation of the exit agreement with AA and 3) the search for a new strategic partner. A second
supplemental, for US$10 million was approved on July 9, 2003 for this purpose. The estimated total cost
of the project, including the activities associated with the two supplemental credits, was US$45.2 million,
($40.5 million in IDA funds) (Annex 2a and c). About 59.9 percent of costs were associated with the
ZCCM privatization activities, 26.7 percent with ZPA activities and 13.6 percent for the mining and legal
components. Disbursement was on track for the first two years of the project, (Annex 8, Figure 4). For the
subsequent five years - until 2003 - there was a minor disbursement lag. At that time, the supplemental
credits became available and actual disbursed amounts exceeded the original disbursement plan. The total
IDA disbursement was US$38.4 million, (Annex 2c). The undisbursed US$2 million remained largely due
to the government's decision not to privatize utility companies. The credit Closing Date was extended three
times. The original Closing Date of September 30, 2001 was extended to June 30, 2002 in order to allow
time to advance work on the non-mining privatizations and to assess the commitment to privatization of the
new government which took office in January 2002. Under the first supplemental credit of October 2002,
the Closing Date was set at September 30, 2004. Under the second supplemental credit, the Closing Date
was set at September 30, 2005.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Rating for Sustainability: Likely, due to the irrevocable nature of many project activities, especially
privatization transactions and capacity building. Privatizations and the strong market signal they send are,
by nature, unlikely to be reversed. Equally, the geological information gathered with support from the
project and the systems established in the MMMD during the project provide a key resource to potential


                                                     - 10 -

investors and is likely to continue to be developed. The legislation prepared under the project forms an
important body of law which will contribute to increased private sector activities. As in most countries with
an inadequately paid civil service, issues of staff retention in ministries is a problem, and in the case of
Zambia is most acute in the Ministry of Legal Affairs because of the high salaries required to attract and
maintain staff with legal qualifications. The 2004 Livingston Private Sector Development (PSD) Forum led
to improved dialogue between the private and public sectors around the need to improve the investment
climate. The Forum highlighted the need for Government to remove the numerous constraints to private
sector led growth.   Following the Forum, some studies supported by ERIPTA led to the formation of a
Private Sector Development Reform Steering Committee, which was charged with guiding the reform
process, and a Private Sector Development Coordinating Unit, which was housed in the Ministry of
Commerce.       The unit was created to help facilitate and monitor the implementation of private sector
reforms, and while ERIPTA financed some of the unit's start up costs, its continued operation is supported
by the PSD Basket, which several donors are funding. The Steering Committee continues to operate after
project closure, and both units work closely with the private sector in order to reduce the constraints to
private sector led growth.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project used existing institutions in the government. It is envisioned that with the completion of the
privatization work, the professionals in the ZPA will be absorbed by a new Zambian Development Agency
which will harmonize the functions of the Export Board of Zambia, Zambia Investment Centre, Small
Enterprise Development Board, Zambia Export Processing Zones Authority and the post-privatization
activities of the ZPA. The integration of these organizations is aimed at eliminating the current duplicative
nature of programs and activities thereby creating a stronger, more effective and responsive agency. ZPA
professionals will also be absorbed by the Investment Promotion Agency. The Project coordinating unit
was disbanded although some staff members are now working on other World Bank projects, such as the
Support for Economic Expansion and Diversification (SEED) project.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project identification, preparation and appraisal was Satisfactory. The
project was in line with the strategic objectives of the government of reducing poverty by private sector-led
growth through increased private participation and supported the Government's policy reform program. It
was also in line with the Bank's strategy for Zambia. During appraisal, an assessment was made of the
government's commitment to privatization and economic reform, which at the time was strong. The largest
number of privatizations took place in 1996, while the appraisal was being done, (Annex 8, Table 5).
Other risks were also identified, including the opposition of vested interests to privatization, and political
changes resulting from upcoming elections. The appraisal noted correctly that the risks associated with the
project were closely linked to the performance of the adjustment operation, and would be addressed by
measures to keep the adjustment program in place. The appraisal noted that because of the Government's
fiscal austerity, budgetary allocations could be insufficient to meet the recurrent costs of mining
institutions, and poor civil service conditions might undermine the effectiveness of MMMD and MOLA.
The latter issue was to have been addressed in the context of a Public Sector Reform Program. MMMD
and MOLA were indeed affected by poor civil service conditions as the Government was unable to
introduce sufficient changes to mitigate the risk. The project preparation and appraisal teams were strong,
including the requisite technical specialties. The progress indicators, though, needed to be improved at
Mid-Term in order to better track outcomes and outputs.             Project preparation entailed extensive
consultations with the Government and agencies/institutions concerned. The appraisal noted that because


                                                     - 11 -

of the nature of issues addressed, the recommended actions were the subject of discussions between the
Government and the business community and between these and representatives of workers, professional
associations and consumer groups. As there was a change in attitudes during project implementation which
resulted from experience in privatization, it is not likely that additional consultations at appraisal would
have had much of an impact on attitudes toward utility privatization that developed in the lead up to the
election of December 2001.

7.2 Supervision:
The quality of Bank supervision varied over the course of the project, and the summary rating is
Moderately Unsatisfactory. The negative rating is partly a function of the seeming acceptance of GRZ
decisions that had an adverse impact on the project. Specifically, the Bank did not downgrade the rating
when GRZ replaced GPMT staff with individuals having an interest in the outcome and allowed GMPT to
bypass the ZPA. These actions reduced transparency, increased costs and had a detrimental impact on the
divestiture. The lack of transparency in the use of mining privatization proceeds was flagged in the
supervision reports but did not result in a lowered implementation rating. The audit of mining proceeds was
asked for in the last year of the project, and a complete analysis could not be conducted. A better targeted
and sustained communications campaign could have helped to sway the anti-privatization tide, which has
raised hurdles to public-private partnerships in infrastructure (PPI). In addition, although improvements in
the regulatory bodies and legislative foundations were identified at appraisal, the full importance of these
activities was not realized until late in the project. These activities were not as comprehensive as they
could have been and enabled more discretion on the part of MMMD than is deemed useful.

On the other hand, the Bank showed flexibility and responsiveness, especially in 2002 when AAC withdrew
from Zambia. The Bank team and GRZ rapidly put together a competent Task Force and did the necessary
analysis to help the Government address the situation. ZCCM was sold in 2004 to Vedanta and the
company is performing well. In addition, the Bank was responsive to the Government's request for
additional financing providing two supplemental credits to help complete the work.

The teams involved in supervision were qualified, and included mining sector specialists until the sale of
ZCCM was completed. The same task manager that prepared and appraised the project supervised it for
the first three years of implementation. Between 2000 to 2002, the Task Manager was located in Lusaka,
which explains the drop in supervision missions during this period. However, during the last four years of
the project, the task manager changed four times, causing significant disruption in the Bank's ability to
focus on critical, cross cutting issues (such as PPI) and raise them at the appropriate levels. The Borrower
has indicated that the rotation of task managers negatively affected the continuity and implementation
momentum. An August 2004 Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review said "the ERIPTA project was rated
poorly for shifting and ineffective supervision, which left behind little documentation on the supervision
efforts." In addition, the country office was not closely involved with implementation and could have
contributed in terms of information and approaches to problems. Project indicators were revised and
improved during supervision. However, as mentioned below, reporting by the Borrower was less than
would have been desirable.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank Performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory because of difficulties during
supervision monitoring performance.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation was Satisfactory. The Government at the time, showed



                                                     - 12 -

strong resolve in its commitment to privatizing ZCCM during preparation in 1996, with the establishment
of the GMPT, the hiring of financial and legal advisors, and the commencement of negotiations. The
passing of the new mining legislation in 1995 also signaled a clear desire to improve performance of the
sector.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance during implementation was Moderately Unsatisfactory. The decision to replace
GMPT management with ZCCM managers and exclude ZPA's oversight, delayed the process, increased
costs and reduced transparency. There were frequent delays on Cabinet decisions regarding modalities of
privatization transactions, which hindered the work of ZPA and GRZ was not proactive about addressing
or resolving these issues. The Government did not improve the terms and conditions of employment of staff
in MOLA as agreed nor did they provide agreed staffing levels for the MMMD regional bureaus. The
Government has been timid in advancing reforms that would improve the efficiency of utilities.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Rating for Implementation Agency Performance: Moderately Unsatisfactory. The Project Coordination
Unit carried out its project management functions in a moderately unsatisfactory manner. Performance
with respect to accounting and auditing was generally satisfactory. Audit reports were carried out on a
timely basis and in accordance with international auditing standards. The Unit carried out its procurement
and disbursement functions with respect to the IDA credit in a satisfactory manner. However, with the
exception of ZPA, project reporting was done largely through participation in the preparation of mission
Aide-Memoires and the monitoring of project indicators was uneven.

The Zambia Privatization Agency performed in a highly satisfactory manner. ZPA used transparent
processes to complete a large number of privatization transactions. The agency produced, and published
on the Internet, two to four progress reports every year and produced an adequate impact assessment of
privatizations at project close. ZPA was not involved in the privatization of ZCCM after 1997, when
GMTP took over. GMTP completed the privatization of ZCCM, and there were serious delays and issues
of transparency with regard to procedures and use of proceeds. Despite these concerns, the sale of ZCCM
was an achievement that has contributed favorably to the economy.

MMMD and MOLA performed their functions in a satisfactory manner. The two ministries adequately
carried out the activities for which they were responsible which is impressive given their staffing difficulties
resulting from budgetary constraints.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower Performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory. The rating is influenced by the fact
that though the privatization of ZCCM was completed, it was done at considerable expense ­ cost and
reputational - and with a delayed timeline. A large number of companies were privatized early during
project implementation. However, the continued inefficiency of public utilities has a negative impact on the
investment climate.

8. Lessons Learned

- Create a Strong Monitoring and Evaluation Framework.           Baseline indicator data should be gathered
and target sets at the beginning of the project to assist in successful implementation. Indicator progress
should be reported on a regular basis.
- Transparency is Required to Maintain Public Support. The lack of transparency in this transaction was
an important reason for the public's loss of support and the reason that even now, privatization as an
integral part of the economic strategy has not taken root.


                                                    - 13 -

- Privatization Projects Should be Flexible in Approaches. The inclusion of the privatization of utilities in
the project goals was overambitious in its assessment of government committment as well as the amount of
time required to privatize utilities.
- Utility Divestiture Should be Part of a Broader Utility Sector Reform Program.          The complexity and
political sensitivity of such programs require a comprehensive program that builds capacity of the ministry,
regulatory agency as well as opening the sector to private sector participation.
- Understand Political Economy Surrounding Divestiture Program and Integrate This into Project
Design. Privatization is a sensitive reform; it can affect jobs, national pride and vested interests. These
issues need to be understood from the beginning and the program designed to address them. Government
commitment is critical and if questions arise, they should be addressed and the design changed as needed.
- Ensure There is an Effective Social Safety Net. Comprehensive employee information, counseling and
retraining programs should be integral to privatization projects to ease the burden on the retrenchees and
soften the negative effects on public opinion and government commitment to privatization.
- Build Robust Public Relations Program that Adjusts to Project Needs. Such a program should identify
the key stakeholders who can effect or will be effected by the program and then customize a communication
strategy to their needs and interests. This type of PR program would focus on Parliament, Cabinet and
civil society as well as the employees to be effected.     Zambia's experience created a negative platform
from which public-private participation in infrastructure is considered unattractive.
- Ensure Smooth Transition between Task Managers. There was a high turnover of project managers
during the second half of the project, a not uncommon situation made worse due to the lack of
documentation slowing down the transition between managers. The high turnover may also have been the
reason behind the limited involvement of the Country Office which could have contributed more
substantially in terms of information exchange and possible approaches to problems.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The GRZ prepared its own Implementation Completion Report. The executive summary is summarized
here and the report is on file for reference.

Acheviement of Objectives. Given the key performance indicators, it is fair to state that Zambia made
significant efforts towards meting its macro-economic targets with regard to the implementation of the
Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion Technical Assistance (ERIPTA) Project and that project
objectives were met and achieved.

Implementation of Privatisation of ZCCM. The provision of technical assistance credit facilitated the
privatisation of ZCCM core assets and assisted in the strengthening of ZCCM operations and
implementation which ultimately stabilised mining operations, increased its competitiveness and made it
attractive to prospective investors. The successful sale of most of ZCCM core assets contributed greatly to
economic stabilisation, job preservation and creation and increased copper output. The support to KCM
stabilisation after the withdrawal of Anglo-American Corporation averted economic crisis which could
have led to decline in GDP, job losses, devaluation of the exchange rate, loss in tax revenue, a rise in the
budget deficit and a sharp decline in foreign exchange revenues making it difficult for Zambia to service its
external debt. The project facilitated the successful search for equity partner which was concluded in 2003
with Sterlite Industries Limited (Sterlite) emerging the preferred bidder for the majority equity stake in
KCM. The successfully conclusion of KCM transactions resulted in increased output and secured
projected investment of over US$400 million for the Konkola Deep Mining Project/KDMP which would
have been at stake had KCM collapsed.




                                                     - 14 -

Implementation of the Privatisation and the Non-mine Asset. Good progress has been made in the
privatisation of non-mining state owned enterprises by ZPA. The technical assistance to the ZPA
facilitated not only the recruitment of highly qualified and experienced staff but greatly contributed to the
speedy privatisation of the remaining non-mining state owned companies. The latest status report indicated
that as at 31st May 2005, 259 companies/units have been privatised. The privatisation of the Zambia
National Commercial Bank (ZANACO) is expected to be concluded before the end of the 2005. The
commercialisation of ZESCO, ZAMTEL and ZAMPOST is ongoing which is already showing
self-financing enhancement. The support for advisory and consultancy services to ZPA has been highly
beneficial to the programme and assisted in the enhancement of the quality of the privatisation work. It is
evident that the programme resulted in the strengthening of the private sector and substantial reduction in
Government subvention in the operations of the state owned enterprises thereby reducing leakages of
Government resources so badly needed for the reparation of intrastructure and the social sector.

Mining Sector Reform Programme. The support to the Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development
greatly contributed to the capacity building of the Ministry. More information is now provided to the
public and prospective mining investors through walk in libraries and regional mining bureaux. The
provision of equipment and motor vehicles assisted the Ministry in the provision of better services resulting
in the development of new mines with the support from the project. The Geological Survey department is
now in a position to digitize mapping and provide useful information to prospective investors on traditional
minerals as well as gemstones. The reforms in mining policies created empowerment for small-scale
miners and other Zambians interested in mining.

Reform of Business Legislation. The project has greatly assisted the Government and the nation to
legislate within the required timeframe. The support to the Legislative Drafting Department facilitated in
giving the economic reform legitimacy and confirmed Government's commitment to the privatisation policy
through review, amendment, repeal and replacement of all existing business laws and the enactment of any
necessary new ones. As at 31st May 2005, more than 80 pieces of legislation and regulations had been
enacted and 7 legislative instruments had been contracted to private lawyers for drafting. The project
contributed in the financing of training of 6 lawyers in the Legislative Drafting Department in the Ministry
of Justice and the localisation of the drafting course at the Zambia Institute of Advanced Legal Education.
The Legislative Drafting Department's output and quality was enhanced by the cross pollination of input
from international expertise.

Lessons Learned. Lessons from the technical assistance, among other things, are:
(i)      need for systematic planning and timely funding to support the implementation process;
(ii)     need for transparency and professional consideration in the implementation process
(iii)    need for transitional arrangement provision in credit assistance to enable newly created structures
take strong foundation to achieve sustainability;
(iv)     involvement of beneficiaries' institutions in the project planning to ensure ownership of the project
and achievement of objectives and effective implementation;
(v)      staffing of project should be transparent and based on objective criteria to ensure success of project
implementation;
(vi)     need for strong monitoring and evaluation framework to assist in successful implementation; and
(vii)    sustainability ­ economic reform and privatisation have taken roots in Zambia, there is need to
sustain it and mainstream it in the Zambian economic structures to ensure macro-economic stabilisation
with deep rooting the private sector as the engine of economic activity and growth.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A



                                                     - 15 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

10.1. Detailed Account of ZCCM Privatization

As the project was being prepared in the mid 1990s, Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines, Ltd. (ZCCM)
was in dire financial straits and the Government was spending over US$15 million per month to keep it in
operation; losses totaled US$935 million in its last five years of operation. Unit costs were high because of
delays in investment and management improvements. Production of copper by ZCCM fell from 403,000
tons in 1993 to 307,000 tons in 1995.

In 1995, GRZ announced the decision to privatize ZCCM within two years. By May 1996, a privatization
plan had been prepared by the Government Mining Privatization Team, (GMPT) which consisted of
consultants selected under procedures acceptable to the World Bank and was funded by Project Preparation
Facility funds under ERIPTA, (see Annex 8, Figure 3.a and 3.b for timeline). The government's rationale
for creating a special team for the privatization of ZCCM was that the ZPA did not have the capacity and
specialized knowledge to undertake an activity of this scale and political sensitivity at that time.

However, after ERIPTA started in late 1996, the ZPA recruited a new chief executive officer and
experienced staff.    Under ERIPTA, the GMPT was responsible for planning and implementing mining
divestitures and reported to the CEO of ZPA. Advisors to the GMPT carried out the technical work related
to the preparation and sale of the public enterprise, which was divided into nine packages and sold on a
competitive basis. Interested investors were pre-qualified and bids were received by the deadline of
February 1997. At least one bid was received for each package and several packages had multiple bids.
There was one bid for the largest package ($180m), from the Kafue Consortium, which consisted of
Anglovaal Minerals (Avmin) of South Africa, Noranda of Canada, Phelps Dodge of US, each with 30
percent and CDC of the UK with 10 percent. Bid evaluation began the following month, March 1997.
It was during this same period (March 1997) the Government changed the composition of GMPT and its
reporting relationship to ZPA. The previous team was let go, the former Chief Executive Office (CEO) of
ZCCM became the new CEO of GMPT and the GMPT no longer reported to ZPA. The GMPT's new
CEO brought several ZCCM managers onto the GMPT team. The change in staff led to changes in the
goals, negotiating strategy and ultimate outcome of the transaction. More emphasis was put on the cash
up-front component, and GMPT rejected the Kafue Consortium bid in November 1997 because they still
hoped to find a more favorable deal.

The Government did not state why it allowed ZPA's supervision of the ZCCM privatization to be
circumvented by the GMPT or why changes were made in the staffing of GMPT. However, these changes
are seen to have reduced the quality of the outcome ­ from a qualitative and quantitative perspective.
Throughout this period, the Bank continued to support the process. A 2002 Operations Evaluations
Department (OED) Country Assistance Evaluation states that in 1997, "Despite expressing concern, the
Bank chose to stay the course." The following month the Bank released the second tranche of the ESAC II,
which called for "progress satisfactory to IDA in carrying out the action plan for the privatization of
ZCCM." However, when it became obvious in 1998 that the process had been derailed, the Bank shifted
its stance and withheld and redesigned the next adjustment operation ­ the Public Sector Reform and
Export Promotion (PSREP) Credit (No. 3167-ZA) of 1999 - to include conditions and incentives to
complete the privatization. In late 1998, negotiations began with the one potential buyer left, Anglo
American.



                                                     - 16 -

The 1997 changes to GMPT meant that ZPA no longer had a supervisory role, and it was not clear to
whom the GMPT reported. In addition, the legal and financial advisors' recommendations were seldom
heeded and transparency suffered. The public was given insufficient information about the bidding and
negotiation process, leading to speculation and uncertainty. There was little public information about the
use of the proceeds of the mining privatizations, leading to suspicions of misuse of funds.       In January
2004, the Bank recommended that an audit of the Mining Privatizations Proceeds Account be conducted.
A draft final report was submitted to the GRZ near the project closing date, but it was inconclusive and due
to time constraints, the data was quite limited.

In 2000, ZCCM was privatized. The most valuable package of mines was sold for US$30 million to a
consortium - Konkola Copper Mines, KCM - of which the majority shareholder was Anglo American
(AAC). The two-year delay was due to the prolonged search by AA for foreign partners. In the end, both
the IFC and CDC of UK agreed to each take a 7.5 percent participation. By this time, declining copper
prices and ZCCM's losses had weakened Government's negotiating position. The agreement with AAC
provided a lower cash payment and involved considerable concessions from Government, including a low
(2.2 cents/kwh) fixed power rate for 20 years, exemption from taxes for five years, (plus a 20 year carry
forward of losses ­ which was unusual for an asset sale), duty exemptions, assumption of ZCCM's
outstanding commercial debt, government's agreement to pay for retrenchment of redundant labor, low
royalty payments of about 0.6% (as opposed to an international average of 2.5% to 3%), rehabilitation of
environmental legacies, provision of municipal services and a management contract for a call option on the
Nkana smelter, along with a host of legislative changes and indemnities that the company required.

When compared with the Kafue bid, the sale to AAC seems very expensive to Government in terms of the
results of the transaction and the reputation of the program. That said, it is worth remembering that (i) the
Kafue bid had not been finalized during the negotiations (it is unknown whether additional concessions
might have been awarded); (ii) copper prices were much lower when AAC purchased KCCM; and (iii)
selling to AAC with generous concessions was deemed preferable to closing the mine. In summary, while
there are questions related to the quality of the transaction - whether it generated a suboptimal return and
set unfortunate precedents for future mining investments - all of this must be weighed against the full costs
of the only other option at that time which was closing the mines.

The sale to AAC was perceived by the public as disadvantageous for Zambia. While it is difficult to argue
that too many incentives were given (there was a need to attract investment when copper prices were so low
and the cost of keeping the mine afloat were high), the manner in which these were and continue to be
awarded is highly discretionary. It is important that the Minister of Mines' wide discretion in granting
incentives be eliminated and that the cost/benefit of incentives be carefully analyzed so that the "next
generation" of development agreements are more beneficial to the government, more uniform across
companies and more transparent. This is feasible, given the current level of investor interest, and was
recommended in an International Monetary Fund mission in November 2005.

The main goal of Anglo American's strategy in 2000 was to develop the Konkola Deep Mining Project
(KDMP), but AAC underestimated the costs of the venture. At the same time, copper prices continued to
fall. In January 2002, Anglo American announced that it was going to pull out of its investments in
Zambia due to heavy financial losses (KCM lost US$108 million in the first 21 months) and their inability
to secure financing for the KDMP.

The Bank responded to this crisis in an effective and constructive manner. At Government's request, the
Bank quickly fielded a team that supported a Task Force to restructure KCM as a commercially viable


                                                     - 17 -

company, assist the Government in negotiating the AAC exit agreement and assist with finding another
strategic equity partner. The search for a new strategic equity partner was lengthy due to low copper prices
and the negative signal sent to the market by AAC's departure. In November 2004, KCM was finally
bought by Sterlite, a subsidiary of Vedanta, a London-listed company.

Within the context of evaluating ERIPTA, it is worth noting that this project is often mistakenly associated
with the mining sector retrenchment program. However, at the design stage, this aspect was considered too
costly to be included in the project, given the IDA allocation. Retrenchment, which included compensation
and training components, was included in the Bank's Public Sector Reform and Export Promotion
(PSREP) credit (Cr. 3167-ZA) of 1999. This program began in January 2000 and in 6 months, 5,544
workers were retrenched at a cost of US$35.7 million. In 2002, the Bank Task Force mentioned above
undertook a rapid assessment of the retrenchee experience in the Copperbelt, a region accounting for the
largest share of Zambia's poor (12 percent). The ZCCM privatization was especially painful for the
communities affected because the company had been providing many social services, including free maize
meal, education and health care. These services were handed back to government, privatized or closed after
ZCCM was put in private hands. The study also indicated that most of the retrenchees had not received
adequate counseling and training (though half of those surveyed had in fact received some under the
PSREP credit). The study pointed out the need to develop a social safety net system for the poorest who
were worst affected by the privatizations. While the retrenchment program was not part of ERIPTA,
understanding these dynamics helps to explain the public's growing aversion to the privatization program.



10.2. ZESCO Commercialization and Energy Sector Reform

The Zambia Electricity Supply Company (ZESCO) is a vertically-integrated state-owned monopoly
electricity operator. The company generates, transmits and distributes and retails electricity. Hydroelectric
electricity meets most of the country's electricity needs. Mining accounts for 60 percent of electricity
consumption. The Copperbelt Energy Company (CEC), the only other electricity distributor, is a bulk
buyer of power in the Copperbelt mining area, providing 48 percent of ZESCO sales revenue. CEC bought
the power division of ZCCM in 1997. Other industrial users account for 20 percent of electricity
consumption and the bulk of energy needs of the household sector is met by wood fuel.

Commercialization
ZESCO was originally slated for privatization with the rest of the country's parastatals and the plan was to
concession part of the company's activities. However, in 2002 the GRZ decided, with the Bank's consent,
to commercialize ZESCO. This reversal took place within the context of Anglo American pulling its new
mining investments out of Zambia, and creating widespread disappointment with privatizations. A number
of deliverables were agreed upon as part of the initial "Entry Point" phase of commercialization. These
actions have more to do with governance than with performance, which would take considerably longer to
achieve. The results are due to be reviewed in mid-2006 and it will be decided by the GRZ and the Bank at
that point whether it is prudent to continue with the commercialization effort.

It is largely accepted amongst the stakeholders that the agreed limited objectives of commercialization have
basically being achieved, among them a private sector-oriented board has been appointed, the capacity of
the Electricity Regulation Board is being enhanced to improve the regulatory environment and arrears to
ZESCO are being repaid.

Growing Demand
The company acknowledges that it needs funding for generation and distribution in order to meet the


                                                     - 18 -

growing demand for electricity ­ especially in the mining sector. ZESCO expects to gain additional
generation capacity with the completion of two new dams at a cost of over $230m. This increase, plus the
impact of ongoing rehabilitation works, will not be sufficient to meet the expected increase in the load on
the system. Production costs, which are under-priced now at about 3 cents per kwh for the mining sector
(2.5 to 3 cents for households and 3 to 4 cents for non-mining industries) will increase as well. Because
ZESCO is vertically-integrated and dominates the sector, reform plans are driven by the parastatal and
limited by their development plans and resource constraints, determined by the Government.

Regulation & Policy
The Electricity Regulation Board was created under the electricity act of 1995; a board was later appointed
in 1997 and staffed in 1998. Legislation was amended in 2003 to give the body more autonomy and
remove it from Ministry of Energy and Water Development.

The ERB has qualified staff but needs assistance in building capacity. The ERB can set does not have tariff
benchmarks derived from sector operations to guide tariff reviews, other than regional tariffs, though this is
being corrected at present. There is little appreciation for regulatory independence and the agency's powers
have been repeatedly over-ridden. Independence is further compromised its lack of financial independence.
Though license fees do provide funding, a portion of the budget is funded by the Ministry of Energy. The
ERB operating framework does not provide for compliance enforcement. Its effectiveness in enforcing
regulatory compliance is therefore significantly hampered. Proposed enforcement regulations submitted by
ERB to address this have been awaiting review and endorsement by Government for a year now.

Reforming the Energy Sector
The commercialization policy is mainly targeted at the restructuring of ZESCO and not sector reforms;
hence some of the evident regulatory constraints are yet to be addressed. In light of the increasing demand
in the sector, considerable investments should be made in improving generation and distribution capacity
and production costs are set to increase. It is very unlikely that the commercialization policy and the
vertically-integrated structure of ZESCO will provide the reforms in the electricity sector needed to meet
increasing demand.

The sector's structure as a whole will need to be reviewed in order to address these concerns. Global
experience shows that financial and commercial performance of power utilities can be substantially
increased if appropriate incentives are given to all participants, including appropriate use of bonus and
penalty payments. Realistic tariff structures can drive the appetite for investment increases in the sector.
There is no single best practice for reform. Rather, each reform model must be country specific. However,
credible regulatory systems are a key part of reform programs and effective regulation is consistently
undermined in monopoly situations but significantly increased with competition in the sector.

10.3.    Public Communication on Privatization and Implications for Future Private Sector
Development

At project effectiveness in 1997, the public was generally supportive of privatization. There was a
widespread perception that the parastatals were wasting government resources while simultaneously not
delivering products and services. About two years into the project, however, public perceptions turned
against privatization.   Privatization led to job losses; in addition to the 8,000 mining sector job losses,
there were around 8,000 retrenchments in non-mining companies due to privatization. The ZPA data on
non-mining privatized firms includes employment figures for almost 70 percent of the firms and it shows
that workers were reduced by 12 percent overall. The ZCCM privatization was highly visible and, as
described above, also involved transferring or eliminating various social services previously provided by


                                                      - 19 -

the parastatal in the Copperbelt region. While the use of proceeds of non-mining privatizations was
documented, those of the mining sector were not clear, leading to suspicions on the part of the public. In
addition, for the first few years, these privatizations were taking place in the context of a faltering
economy. Annual GDP growth was -1.9 percent in 1998 and 2.2 percent the following year, making it
difficult for the public to differentiate between the effects of economic downturn and those of privatization

Despite the overall achievement of ERIPTA program goals, public opinion remains negative towards
privatiization, and Government has not made any efforts to correct this view. While there were clearly
social costs, the public seemed (and still seems) unaware of the benefits derived from some privatized
enterprises that generated significant increases in employment.          In 2002, former ZCCM companies
employed about 19,000 workers, slightly more than before privatization. Linkages connecting the
privatized firms to the rest of the economy have created jobs as well. For example, Clark Cotton and
Dunavant contract out to about 250,000 cotton growers, a five-fold increase over pre-privatization
numbers.

The privatization program was part of a broader reform effort targeted at increasing private investment and
growth.     Because the overall investment climate was challenging, the Bank helped to jumpstart
public-private dialogue on the investment climate and ERIPTA supported the Livingston Private Sector
Development Forum, held in June 2004. The forum used information from the recent Investment Climate
Analysis and International Finance Corporation (IFC)            Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS)
Administrative Barriers Report to highlight the cost of doing business and its constraints on growth. The
Forum was attended by the President, a dozen ministers and more than 100 private sector representatives.
The final product of the meeting was a list of 76 reforms that were needed to improve the competitiveness
of Zambian industries.

Between June 2004 and January 2005, not one of these reforms was implemented. Dialogue indicated that
the institutional arrangements were insufficient, and ERIPTA funded a study to identify how these could be
improved.      GRZ used these findings to establish the Private Sector Development Reform Steering
Committee, with private sector led working groups assigned to tackle each of the priority reforms. The list
of 76 reforms was narrowed down to three, based on the cost of the reform and the ease of implementation.
While the President has vocally endorsed this program and pronounced Directives to implement the three
reforms, none have been implemented.          The slow progress on reforms has led to questions regarding
Government's commitment to private sector led growth.




                                                      - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




                                              OUTCOME INDICATORS

                                                 Indicator                          Actual/Latest Estimate
  Private Sector Growth                New business registrations        Average increase of 18 percent a year. Total
                                                                         for 2000-2004 was 40,249 registrations.*
                                       Gross private investment          5.2% in 1996
                                       (% of GDP)                        14.11 % in 2004
  Reduction of Government Role                                           262 out of 281 companies were privatized
  in Economy                           # of companies privatized


  Revitalization of Mining Sector      # of licenses                     Increased from 22 in 1996 to 289 in 2004
                                       Amount of exploration
                                       expenditure **                    US$ 100 million 1997-1999

                                                                         - 1995 through 1999, $168 million.
                                       Amount of new investment          - By 2002, the 3 largest companies had invested
                                                                         $590 million.
  * Business Registrations for 1995 to 1999 are inaccurate as registration was computerized only in 2000.
  **This indicator was only tracked until the component closed in 2000.




                                                         - 21 -

                                 OUTPUT INDICATORS
    Component                            Indicator                           Actual/Latest Estimate

A. ZCCM                                                                Completed, March 2000
                  ZCCM Privatization plan prepared and implemented     Redone after 2002 AAC pull-out,
Privatization                                                          Completed November 2004
                  ZCCM's Emergency Plan implemented                    Completed

                  Negotiations for Konkola Deep project                Completed, 2000
                                                                       Redone, 2004
                  Amount of cash payments to ZCCM for purchase of
                  ZCCM shares or assets                                US$338.8 million

                                                                       GRZ assumed US$770 million in
                  The amount of ZCCM debt assigned to other parties    debts to suppliers, Paris Club, and
                                                                       multilateral agencies

                  Amount of contractual commitments for new            Two largest (KDMP and Mopani),

                  exploration and mining investment                    US$400 and million and $500
                                                                       million
B. Zambia                                                              262 offered for sale or lease (or
Privatization     Number of enterprises offered for sale or lease      liquidated) out 281 PEs
Agency
                                                                       262(out of 281 total) have been

                  Number of companies whose sale has been completed    privatized*


                  Number of companies on the 1993 agreed privatization
                  program (138 companies) whose sales has been         Completed
                  completed
                  Total amount of investment from privatized companies US$990 million (2002)
C. Ministry of
Mines & Minerals  Improved geological database                         Completed
Development
                  New maps and mining sector promotion documents
                  issued                                               Completed

                  Amount of license fees and royalties                 K 2,497 m. or US$1.67 m.
                                                                       (1995 ­ 1999)
                  Value of new prospecting, exploration

                  Number of small-scale mining and mining licenses     77 avg/yr
                                                                       1995 ­ 1999
D. Ministry of    Items of legislation drafted                         More than 80 items of legislation
Legal Affairs                                                          enacted
                  Number of people trained and the type of training    6 lawyers in Legislative Drafting

                  Number of bills and regulations contracted out for
                  drafting                                             7 legislative instruments




                                                   - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


 Project Component          Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                    Estimate         Appraisal
ZCCM Privatization                23.6                 26.0            110.2
Zambia Privatization Agency       14.2                 11.6             81.7
Strengthening MMMD                 6.2                  5.0             80.6
Strengthening MOLA                 1.2                  0.9             75.0
TOTAL                             45.2                 43.5             96.2



   Expenditure                            Procurement Method
   Categories                             Appraisal Estimate

                   ICB     LIB    NCB        NS     QCBS       CQ   Other    Total

  Works
  Goods            1.1     0.4     0.4       0.0                     0.4       2.3
  Services                                            5.8      0.8   33.2      39.8
  Misc.                                                              3.1       3.1
  Total            1.1     0.4     0.4       0.0      5.8      0.8   36.7      45.2




   Expenditure                            Procurement Method
   Categories                           Actual/Latest Estimate

                   ICB     LIB    NCB        NS     QCBS       CQ   Other    Total

  Works
  Goods            1.1             0.6       0.1                     0.1       1.9
  Services                                            14.7     3.4   20.4      38.5
  Misc.                                                              3.1       3.1
  Total            1.1     0.0     0.6       0.1      14.7     3.4   23.5      43.5




                                          - 23 -

                                              Actual/Latest     Percentage of
Component            Appraisal Estimate         Estimate          Appraisal
                      IDA       Govt         IDA       Govt   IDA        Govt
ZCCM Privatization    19.6        4.0        23.5       2.5   119.6      62.5
Zambia Privatization
Agency                13.7        0.5        9.6        2.0    69.8      400.0
Strengthening
MMMD                  6.0         0.2        4.7        0.3    77.5      150.0
Strengthening MOLA    1.2         0.0        0.7        0.2    61.7       na
TOTAL                 40.5        4.7        38.5       5.0    95.1      106.4




                                       - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/09/1995                8    PRIN. PSD SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ECON. (1);FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYIST (1); MINING
                                             SPECIALIST (4);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              02/01/1996                4    PRIN. PSD SPECIALIST (2);
                                             MINING SPECIALIST (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/04/1996                3    PRIN. PSD SPECIALIST
                                             (1); MINING SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SENIOR COUNSEL (1)

 Supervision
              07/13/1996                3    SR. FIN. SP. (1); PRIN. PSD       S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PRIN.
                                             MIN. ECON. (1)
              09/26/1996                4     PRIN. PSD SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             PRIN. MIN. SPECIALISTS (2);
                                             PRIN. ECON. (1)
              05/27/1997                3    TEAM LEADER (1); MINING           S               S
                                             SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
                                             MINERALS SPECIALIST (1)
              08/12/1997                1    PRINC. PSD SPECIALIST (1)         S               S
              03/03/1998                2    PRINC. PSD SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             MINING ADVISOR (1)
              03/03/1999                2    PSD SPECIALIST (1);               S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              07/29/1999                3    PSD SPECIALIST (2); MINING        S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              02/17/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1); MINING           S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              08/07/2000                2    TASK MANAGER (1); MINING          S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              02/30/2001                2    TASK MANAGER (1); MINING          S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              06/12/2001                2    TEAM LEADER (1); MINING           S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/29/2002                3    TEAM LEADER (1); NEW TTL          S               S
                                             (1); PSD SPECIALIST (1)
              04/11/2003                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S               S
                                             PSD SPECIALIST (1); FIN
                                             MANAGEMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST



                                              - 26 -

                                                           (1)
               01/31/2004                            6     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                        S                S
                                                           JUNIOR PROFESSIONAL (1);
                                                           LEAD PSD SPECIALIST (1);
                                                           FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                                           SR. PSD SPECIALIST (1);
                                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                           (1)

 ICR
               12/16/2005                           3      TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                                           CONSULTANT (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                               Actual/Latest Estimate
                                              No. Staff weeks                       US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                       115.97                           570,176.4
  ICR                                                      6                                20
  Total                                             121.97                           570,196.4
Note: SAP system was not operational untill 1998. There is no pre-1998 data available on US$. Staff weeks were not recorded
in SAP until 2000.




                                                           - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Afrobarometer, Michigan State University, the Institute for Democracy in South Africa and the Centre for
Democratic Development, Ghana, http://www.afrobarometer.org/

Aide Memoires, Project Status Reports and Back to Office Reports, 1995-2005.

Development Credit Agreement, Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion Technical Assistance
Project, (Cr. 2875-ZA) July 31, 1996. Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement, (Cr.
2875-1-ZA) October 4, 2002. Second Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement, (Cr.
2875-2-ZA) July 9, 2003.

Findings, "Privatization in Africa: The Zambian Example," Africa Region, Number 72, October 1996.

Implementation Completion Report for Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion Credit (Cr.
2764-ZA), June 24, 1998.

Implementation Completion Report for Public Sector Reform and Export Promotion Credit (Cr. 3167-ZA),
May 30, 2001.

Implementation Completion Report for the Second Economic and Social Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2910-ZA),
June 25, 2001.

Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association to the
Executive Directors on a Proposed Credit to the Republic of Zambia for an Economic and Investment
Promotion Technical Assistance Credit, and Technical Annex, May 13, 1996.

Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association to the
Executive Directors on Assistance to the Republic of Zambia under the Enhanced HIPC Initiative, March
23, 2005.

Privatization in Africa, Oliver Campbell White and Anita Bhatia, Directions in Development Series, 1998.

Zambia Country Assistance Evaluation, World Bank Operations Evaluation Department, November 7,
2002.

Zambia Country Lending Assessment, Panel Report, World Bank Quality Assurance Group, August 23,
2004.

Zambia: Looking Beyond Copper, Final Report of the World Bank Task Force on the Zambia Copper
Crisis, June 2002.

Zambia Privatization Agency, Status Report, Lusaka, September 30, 2005.

Zambia Privatization Agency, The Impact of Privatization, Lusaka, 2005.

Zambia Privatization Review: Facts, Assessments and Lessons, December 5, 2002. (Report prepared by
the World Bank at the request of the Minister of Finance and National Planning).

Zambia: The Fiscal Regime for Copper Mining, An Aide Memoire, International Monetary Fund, Fiscal
Affairs Department, Washington, DC, November 14, 2005.




                                                   - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Additional Statistics

Table 1: Major Investments from Mining Privatizations
                     Investor                      Mine                   Committed        Years
                                                                          Investment
                     Sterlite - Vedanta            Konkola Copper
                                                   Mine (KCM)                 $400 m         2005-2007

                     Consortium                    Mopani Mines
                     (Glencore/FQM/ZCCM)                                      $500 m         2002-2005

            Source: Economist Intelligence Unit, Aide Memoires




Table 2: Exports, sample non-mining firms, (Kbillion, 1992 to 2003, constant 1994 prices)

                                             Pre-privatization              Post              % change
                                                                       privatization
                   Exports                             na                   1,409                na
                   Exports (non-                     47.67                 380.33              797.84
                   mining)
           Source: Zambia Privatization Agency, Post Privatization Impact Assessment, 2005




Table 3: Investment, sample of non-mining firms, (Kbillion, 1992 to 2003, constant 1994 prices)
                                          Pre-privatization        Post privatization         % change
                 Capital
                 Expenditure                     3.30                   246.74                7,476.97
                 (Plant/Machinery
                 Capital
                 Expenditure                     0.42                     30.69               7,307.14
                 (Land/Buildings)
           Source: Zambia Privatization Agency, Post Privatization Impact Assessment, 2005




Table 4: Foreign Direct Investment and Exports

                                1996     1997      1998      1999      2000     2001      2002    2003  2004
 FDI net                         117      207       198        163      122       72       197     172   270
 (BoP, current US$ m.)
 Exports of goods and
 services                        6.7      19.2       4.9       4.9     -14.4     29.0      6.76   10.07 12.56
 (annual % growth)
 Exports of goods and
 services                       718.5    856.4     898.8      943.2    807.3    1041.7    1112.2 1224.2 1377.9
 (constant Kbillion )
Source: World Development Indicators




                                                           - 31 -

Table 5: ZPA Non-Mining Privatizations by Date and Type, Employment

                 Date        Percent      Type                        Percent
                 1992          3.1        Sale by
                 1993          3.1        competitive tender            49.0
                 1994          2.7        Lease                         17.8
                 1995         17.8        Other                         15.8
                 1996         42.1        MBO                            7.3
                 1997         10.8        Handed back*                   6.2
                 1998          5.4        Liquidated                     3.5
                 1999          4.6        Concession                     0.4
                 2000          4.6
                 2001          3.5        Employees**                 Number
                 2002          0.8        Pre-Privatization            63,109
                 2003          1.2        Redundancies                  7,438
                 2005          0.4        Post-Privatization           55,671
                              100%
                 *Handed back to original owner by Court or GRZ decision.
                 **Data for employment available for 177 firms out of 282




                                               - 32 -

Table 6: Comparison of Non-mining and Mining Privatizations
                                       ZPA                        GMPT (Government Mining Privatization
                         (Zambia Privatization Agency)                                Team)
Design and       Took into account lessons learned from          A TOR was designed for the GMPT by the
preparation      previous privatizations projects and was        GRZ with the rationale that the ZPA at the time
                 considered a model for the region.              did not have the capacity or expertise to take on
                                                                 the privatization of ZCCM, which was much
                                                                 larger, more sensitive and more complicated
                                                                 than any other parastatal.
Appropriate      Privatisation Act 1992 (Act No. 21 of 1992)     By Government decision in 1995.
legislation
Bid evaluation   International Standard set out in above act. A  Independent legal and investment banking
process          list of Companies to be privatized was          advisors were hired however; throughout the
                 published in the Government Gazette, and        project the GMPT was reluctant to heed their
                 advertisements calling for bids for individual  advice. GMPT changed the negotiation strategy
                 Companies.                                      from negotiating with a preferred bidder to
                 Once bids were received a rigorous appraisal    negotiating with practically all the pre-qualified
                 process by teams of Agency staff and            bidders. GMPT also put more emphasis on the
                 Consultants was done.                           cash up front component of the evaluation.
                 Valuation of State owned enterprises was        GMPT did not have an independent valuation
                 undertaken by independent professional          calculated by technical experts at the time of
                 accountants/merchant banks.                     negotiations and rejected the Kafue Consortium
                 Negotiations were done by an independent        offer because it was below their valuation.
                 negotiating team appointed by the Agency

Documentation of Status reports every month and bi-annual        Very little information released.
transaction      reports tabled before parliament including
processes        mode of sale, bidders and bid prices,
                 purchaser, sale price, payment terms, reason
                 for selecting winning bidder, background of
                 purchaser.
Use of proceeds  The proceeds of sales went into an account      See below.
                 held and controlled by the Ministry of Finance
                 which decided what to do with the money
                 within the alternatives provided for in the
                 Privatization Act. The majority of the funds
                 were used to fund ZPA operations.
Auditing         ZPA had an Internal Audit department which      An Audit of the Mining Privatizations Proceeds
                 reports to the Board. Periodic audits were also Account was conducted and submitted to the
                 carried out by independent auditors.            GRZ near the project closing date but the audit
                 The Privatization Revenue Account was           was scaled down and the data was quite limited
                 audited by the Auditor General's office and
                 independent audits were carried out by public
                 accounting
Governance       ZPA is private sector led, with only 3 of 12    Headed by the former CEO of ZCCM who
                 board directors from the government and the     appointed several ZCCM managers.
                 others selected by private sector groups. The
                 ZPA's chief executive is appointed by this
                 board.




                                                       - 33 -

Figure 1: Zambian Copper Production, 1995-2004


                               450


                               400

    Tons                       350


        Metric                 300

              '000
                               250


                               200

                                      1995    1996           1997      1998     1999      2000          2001      2002       2003       2004

Source: United States Geological Survey



Figure 2: Copper Prices, 1995-2005 (Copper, grade A cathode, LME spot price, CIF European ports)

                                4000.00
                                3500.00
                                3000.00
                  ton
                                2500.00
                                2000.00
                                1500.00

                     $US/metric 1000.00
                                 500.00
                                  0.00

                                                  1995   1996     1997     1998     1999      2000  2001      2002      2003     2004       2005

Source: IMF Commodity Prices. Calculated with monthly averages. 2005 is estimated.



Figure 3.a: ZCCM Privatization Timeline with Copper Prices, 1995-2000

                                                                                                   § ERIPTA
                                                                                                   starts
                                                                                                   §Bids received
                                                                                                   on ZCCM
                                                      GRZ                                          §Changes
                                             announces                                             made in GMPT
                                           privatization of                                        §Kafueoffer                       Negotiations              ZCCM sold to
                                                      ZCCM                 GMPT formed             rejected                          begin with AA                AA


                                                      1995                      1996                         1997                               1998    1999     2000




                                                                                                                      - 34 -

                             4000.00

                             3500.00


   ton                       3000.00

                             2500.00


      $US/metric             2000.00

                             1500.00

                             1000.00
                                        1995         1996         1997         1998           1999        2000




Figure 3.b: ZCCM Privatization Timeline with Copper Prices, 2001-2005

                                      Election in                              KCM bought
                                      Dec.          AA exits KCM                by Vedanta


                                           2001         2002         2003          2004           2005



                              4000.00

                              3500.00

                              3000.00
                ton

                              2500.00


                   $US/metric 2000.00

                              1500.00

                              1000.00
                                           2001            2002          2003             2004          2005




                                                                       - 35 -

Figure 4: Disbursement




                          - 36 -

- 37 -

