Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6897-ZA
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND INVESTMENT PROMOTION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
May 13, 1996



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 3 1, 1996)
Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha
US$1 = K1235
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31 (Government)
April I - March 31 (ZCCM)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I ton = 2205 lbs
I ton = 1000 kg
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AAC          Anglo American Corporation Ltd.
BGS          British Geological Service
CCT          Component Co-ordination Team
DLD          Department of Legal Drafting
ERIP         Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion
ERIPTA       Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion Technical Assistance
Credit
ESAC         Economic and Social Adjustment Credit
FILMUP       Financial and Legal Management Upgrading Project
GSD          Geological Survey Department
GMPT         Govemment Mining Privatization Team
IDA          International Development Association
IBRD         Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IS          International Shopping
MDD          Mines Development Department
MMD          Movement for Multiparty Democracy
MMMD         Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MOLA         Ministry of Legal Affairs
MSD          Mines Safety Department
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NCCM         Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd.
NS           National Shopping
PE           Public Enterprises
PCU          Project Co-ordination Unit
PIRC         Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit
PIRTA        Privatization and Industrial Reform Technical Assistance
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
RCM          Roan Consolidated Mines Ltd.
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
TOR          Terms of Reference
ENDP         United Nations Development Program
ZCCM         Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd.
ZCI          Zambia Copper Investments Ltd.
ZIMCO        Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation Ltd.
ZPA          Zambia Privatization Agency



ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND INVESTMENT PROMOTION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Page
A.    BACKGROUND ..............................................1
Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd . ..................................  1
Zambia Privatization Agency .............................................. 3
Reforming Mining Sector Policy and Promoting Mining
Investment ..............................................5
Reforming Business Legislation ............................................... 6
B.     DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION ..............................            7
ZCCM  Privatization ...............     ............................... 7
Advisory Services to the Zambia Privatization Agency   ............   9
Strengthening the Ministry of Mines and Minerals
Development .................    .............................    10
Reforming Business Legislation .............................................  13
C.  PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION 16
Attachments
Attachment 1: Implementation Schedule
Attachment 2: Training Plan
Attachment 3: Ministry of Legal Affairs:
Department of Legislative Drafting






ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND INVESTMENT PROMOTION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (ERIPTA) PROJECT
Technical Annex
A.   Background
1.    Four years ago, Zambia embarked on a far reaching economic reform and
structural adjustment program that the donor community, including the Bank Group, have
assisted. Zambia has so far benefited from several IDA adjustment and technical
assistance operations which have addressed a number of issues relating to economic
reform, notable components of which are privatization, private sector development and
business legislation reform. The most recent of IDA's adjustment operations, the
Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion (ERIP) Credit approved in July 1995,
focuses on mining sector policy reforn and the privatization of Zambia Consolidated
Copper Mines Ltd. (ZCCM), the majority Government owned copper producing
parastatal. The proposed ERIPTA Credit aims to support the implementation of the ERIP
Reform Program and to continue the implementation of reforms that were the focus of
previous adjustment operations, namely the privatization of parastatals and the reform of
the legal framework governing business activity. The Government requested IDA
financing of technical assistance in four areas: (i) privatizing ZCCM; (ii) additional
financing for the activities of the Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA); (iii) strengthening
the Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development (MMMD); and (iv) reforming
business-related laws.
2.    In order not to interrupt the implementation of the reforms while the proposed
ERIPTA is being processed, a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Advance was approved
to cover the costs of assistance from the Government Mining Privatization Team
(GMPT), investment-bank and legal advisors for preparatory work for ZCCM's
privatization. Also, a PHRD Japanese Grant was obtained to finance the work of various
specialist consultants to assist in preparing different aspects of ERIPTA.
Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM) Ltd.
3.    Prior to nationalization in 1972, the Zambian copper industry consisted of two
separate companies, namely Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd. (NCCM) which
was majority owned and operated by Anglo American Corporation of South Africa
(AAC) and Roan Consolidated Mining (RCM) Ltd. which was majority owned and
operated by Amax Ltd. NCCM had operations at Nchanga, Nkana and Konkola; and



2
RCM had operations at Chibuluma, Luanshya, Mufulira and Ndola. When the two
companies were nationalized in 1972, the Government took majority ownership but
management contracts were signed so that operational management remained with the
private companies. Subsequently, the management contracts ended and the management
was progressively Zambianized.
4.    In 1981 all the operations were merged into one company, which was called
Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd. (ZCCM) with 60.3 percent of the shares (the
"A" shares) owned by the Government and held by a Government holding company
(ZIMCO) and the remaining 39.7 percent (the "B" shares) held by Zambia Copper
Investments Ltd. (ZCI), which was majority owned by AAC. ZCCM was listed on the
London and New York stock exchanges. Amax had a minority ownership of ZCI but
sold its holdings to other investors in the late 1980s. The Managing Director of ZIMCO
was appointed the ex-officio Chairman of ZCCM. Agreements were signed which gave
certain rights and protections to AAC including pre-emptive rights and rights of first
refusal in the event that the Government should decide in the future to sell part or all of
its shares in ZCCM. At the time of the merger, both companies were beginning to
experience shortages of essential spares due to inadequate foreign exchange allocations
which was beginning to impact on productive capacities. The merger was seen as a
means to rationalize the mining industry and restore its productive capacity.
5.    But ZCCM  suffered from many of the difficulties faced by the parastatal
companies in general in Zambia. There was a lack of shared objectives between the two
main shareholders (Government and AAC) with the result that the Board was largely
ineffective in setting the policy direction for the company and overseeing management.
Instead, management responded to Government influence, with the consequence that
employment and investment decisions reflected a mix of commercial, social and political
objectives. ZCCM became a main source of Government revenues and foreign exchange
for the rest of the economy. During the early to mid 1980s, ZCCM was subject to
increased levels of indirect taxes (import duties and sales taxes) and a Mineral Export
Tax was introduced in 1983 which rose to 13 percent by 1987. Thus, cash utilization and
foreign exchange retention decisions were made on the basis of the needs of the economy
rather than the needs of the company and ZCCM was unable to retain the resources it
needed for re-investment.
6.    ZCCM's difficulties were compounded by a severe downturn in the world copper
market in the early to mid 1980s. World copper prices declined from US$0.77 per lb. in
1981/82 to US$0.60 per lb. in 1986/87 and ZCCM's sales revenues fell from about
US$1.0 billion to US$681 million. During this same period ZCCM's tax payments
increased from US$5 million per year to around US$150 million per year; capital
expenditures declined from US$306 million per year to US$108 million per year and
copper production fell from 591,853 tons to 463,454 tons. ZCCM's competitive position
was further eroded by the decision in 1986/87 for reasons of political expediency to
source spare parts and operating supplies away from traditional sources in South Africa,
by the abandonment of the FEMAC system (and the subsequent pegging of the kwacha at



3
an artificially low rate of US$1=K8 with local costs continuing to reflect FEMAC rates
around US$1=K20-22), and by the expansion of a modest diversification program into a
large-scale program (including tourism, agriculture, public transportation and maize
processing) which diverted both managerial and financial resources away from the core
business of mining.
7.    By 1990, ZCCM faced deep-rooted problems including undermaintained plant
and equipment, aging technology and most importantly, despite a very large mineral
resource base, declining ore reserves and significantly reduced flexibility in operations.
In 1991/92, the present Government came into power and appointed new management at
ZCCM. At the request of the Government, a Mining Technical Assistance Credit was
made with the objective of helping to restore ZCCM's competitiveness and long-term
viability and to start preparing ZCCM for privatization. The project included assistance to
strengthen ZCCM's planning capabilities, including the preparation of a corporate plan,
joint-venturing and divestiture of assets, copper pre-feasibility studies, special studies of
procurement, copper marketing and financial structure, and manpower and training
programs. In 1995, the Government announced the decision to privatize ZCCM in order
to mobilize the capital, technology and management needed to develop new ore bodies
and restore the sector's financial and production performance. Thus, with assistance from
IDA, the Government appointed the Government Mining Privatization Team (GMPT)
and hired an international Investment Bank and Legal Advisors to prepare and implement
a Privatization Plan for ZCCM. The Government has requested US$6.0 million under the
ERIPTA to finance the preparation and implementation of the ZCCM Privatization Plan.
8.    While the preparation for privatization was taking place, ZCCM's production
continued to decline and costs to rise. In September 1995 monthly production fell to an
unprecedented lows of less than 20,000 tons of copper, which caused Government to ask
for the Bank's help in evaluating the seriousness of the situation facing ZCCM. A World
Bank Technical Review Mission visited Zambia in November 1995 to look at ZCCM's
problems and in January 1996 it agreed with ZCCM's management on the main outlines
of a ZCCM Emergency Plan. This was subsequently presented to and approved by the
ZCCM Board in March 1996. ZCCM has requested US$3.6 million under the ERIPTA
to strengthen ZCCM's technical capacity to implement and monitor the Emergency Plan.
Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA)
9.    The privatization of Zambia's substantial parastatal sector was an important
objective of the economic reform program over the last four years. It was the focus of
two IDA adjustment credits, the two Privatization and Industrial Reform Credits (PIRCs -
Nos. 2405-ZA and 2523-ZA) of 1992 and 1993, respectively. With the support of these
Credits, the Government began implementing the provisions of the Privatization Act
enacted in 1992, which specified the policies and procedures that should be followed in
privatizing parastatals, and set up the Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA) to manage the
privatization process. After overcoming some institutional establishment and teething
problems and a major reorganization and restaffing program in late 1994, the ZPA began,



4
and is now carrying out, a determined and credible effort to privatize the 138 parastatals,
predominantly ZIMCO subsidiaries, that were listed in the program agreed with IDA
under PIRC II in 1993 and the 32 non-ZIMCO companies that were identified as
privatization candidates in 1994. These are predominantly the special-case parastatals or
Government assets or agencies that are not corporate entities, but are commercial in
nature and can be privatized. To give ZPA the means to recruit qualified staff with
private sector experience and to acquire the services of advisors and consultants to
prepare parastatals for privatization, a component to finance these costs was included
under the Privatization and Industrial Reform Technical Assistance (PIRTA) Credit No.
2406-ZA, which was approved by the IDA Board in July 1993. Specifically, the PIRTA
is financing: (1) the salaries of the Chief Executive Officer and the Technical Director,
both of whom were recruited internationally, and the salaries of six other experienced
professionals, one of whom is the ZPA Planning Manager and the other five are leaders
of teams in ZPA that oversee the privatization of parastatals, and (2) the cost of advisory
services to prepare, either in part or as a whole, parastatals for privatization.
10.   ZPA is now an effective agency that has a clear strategy and appropriate policies
and procedures to carry out its mandate. To monitor and evaluate Zambia's performance
on privatization, a condition of Third Tranche release was set under PIRC II that required
the Government/ZPA to have offered for sale a total of 60 out of the 138 companies listed
in the 1993 IDA-agreed ZPA Privatization Program; brought to the point of sale a total of
40 companies; and completed the sale, or liquidation, of at least 15 companies. The
status as of 31 March 1996 is as follows: of the companies listed on ZPA's 1993
Privatization Program, 92 companies have been offered for sale, 59 companies brought to
the point of sale; and. 31 companies sold or liquidated. In addition, of the 32 companies
that were not listed on the ZPA 1993 Privatization Program, 16 companies have been
offered for sale, 11 companies brought to the point of sale; and 9 companies sold or
liquidated. There is another 30 companies (both on and off the 1993 Program) for which
negotiations have been successfully completed, but the settlement of the transaction has
not taken place as yet pending the completion of formalities. Also sold are numerous
assets of companies (both on and off the 1993 Program), some of which are significant in
value (e.g., the Lusaka Division of Zambia Breweries). The total value of sales so far is
estimated at about K33 billion, (about US$43 million when valued at the exchange rate of
the date of sale) and consist of K28.7 billion sold by ZPA (including K2.1 billion on
deferred payment terms), and about K4 billion for the shares sold by the Zambia
Privatization Trust Fund in two parastatals. Thus of the 160 companies identified so far
for privatization, 40 companies (25 percent of the total) have been privatized and another
79 (49 percent of the total) are at various stages of the privatization process. The former
number measures what has been fully accomplished so far and the latter is a good
indicator of what is likely to be accomplished in the near term.
11.   The latest addition to ZPA's program is ZCCM, which was not included in the
1993 agreed program, although it was a ZIMCO subsidiary, partly because of its large
size, significant impact on the Zambian economy, the complexity of its privatization and
the political sensitivity of a decision to privatize it, and partly because ZPA did not have



5
at that time the capacity to manage this privatization. ZCCM could not be handled in a
routine manner under ZPA's procedures. That is why the GMPT was set up. Now that
ZPA has improved management and capacity, it has taken over the overall responsibility
for supervising the work of the GMPT and the investment bank and legal advisors on the
ZCCM Privatization Plan. Much remains to be done by ZPA to complete the task of
privatizing parastatals in Zambia, and ZPA is up to the task if it has adequate resources.
During preparation, ZPA requested assistance amounting to US$6.2 million to finance the
continued support for the salaries of selected ZPA managers and staff and advisory and
specialist services for valuation and other studies of parastatals.
Reforming Mining Sector Policy and Promoting Mining Investment
12.   Zambia has considerable mineral potential and large tracts of unexplored land.
Yet copper production had declined from a peak of nearly 700,000 tons in the 1970s to a
low of about 306,000 tons in 1995/96 (i.e., for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1996).
The decline in production reflects not only the difficulties at ZCCM, but also a lack of
private sector interest in exploration and minerals development as a result of an
unattractive investment environment. The Government recognizes that the financial,
technical and managerial resources required to revive the mining sector are only available
in the private sector. Accordingly, it has adopted a three-pronged strategy to attract new
private sector investment to the mining sector, consisting of: (a) the adoption of a new
mining sector policy supported by new mining legislation and a new mining fiscal
regime; (b) the reform of mining sector institutions, in particular MMMD; and (c) the
privatization of ZCCM.
13.  In February 1995, the Cabinet formally adopted a new Mining Sector Policy,
which calls for the development of the mining sector by private investors in an
environmentally sustainable manner. Following extensive consultation with different
stakeholders, a new Mining and Minerals Act was enacted and became effective in
November 1995. Zambia now has modern mining legislation and licensing of producers
that are transparent, stable, and non-discretionary. A new fiscal regime has also been
prepared and is being introduced. It is internationally competitive and concentrates the
incidence of taxation on profits, is generally applicable and non-discretionary. New
environmental regulations have been prepared for the mining sector and have been
circulated to different stakeholders for comment, following which they will be finalized
and issued as a Statutory Instrument.
14.   As the new legal, fiscal and environmental frameworks are implemented, the
ability of MMMD to administer and regulate the sector will become critical. Under the
Mining Sector TA Project (Credit ZA-2269), a review of the functions and organization
of MMMD was undertaken with the result that the structure, organization and staffing of
MMMD were adjusted so that the Ministry could be better able to support private
investment. Work under this Credit also identified a number of areas where MMMD
required specific assistance to strengthen its capabilities to administer the sector. These
include the acquisition and organization of  regional geological data and their



6
dissemination to potential private investors through reports and maps along the lines
provided by Geological Surveys in countries such as Australia, Canada and the USA; and
strengthening mineral sector administration and regulatory capabilities, including mining
title registration and administration, mines inspection, environmental monitoring and the
licensing and supervision of small-scale mining activities.  The Government has
requested US$6.0 million under the ERIPTA to finance these activities to strengthen
MMMD's capability to administer and regulate the sector.
Reforming Business Legislation
15.   The government decided four years ago to help revitalize the economy by creating
an environment conducive for the private sector to play a more prominent role in
production and distribution of goods and services, while limiting the role of government
to the provision of basic infrastructure and social services. Key to this decision has been
the government's adoption of open markets and of market determined prices, the
privatization of state owned enterprises, the encouragement of foreign investment, and
the promotion of non-traditional exports.  To implement this wide-ranging policy
framework, the government has had to carry out an extensive review of the existing laws
and regulations which have been in place since independence and which were more
conducive to a centrally planned economy. This legal review started in 1991 with the
preparation and enactment of the Privatization Act in 1992. The enactment of the
Privatization Act sent a clear signal that the government was determined to pursue private
sector oriented economic policies. Other important pieces of legislation were enacted in
quick succession; for example, the Investment Act, the Securities Act, the Trades
Licensing (Amendment) Act, the Zambia Revenue Authority Act and the Bank of Zambia
(Amendment) Act were all enacted in 1993. This was clearly a heavy legislative agenda.'
16.   The Department of Legal Drafting (DLD) of the Ministry of Legal Affairs
(MOLA) has the responsibility of reviewing and drafting these and other laws necessary
to implement government economic policy. As will be explained below, the DLD,
however, has had to stretch its resources to the limit to meet such a heavy legislation
agenda. Legislative drafting requires specialized training and there is a worldwide
shortage of qualified draftsmen in common-law countries, Zambia included. As a result,
the World Bank and other donors (UNDP) have been providing assistance to DLD in the
form of technical assistance and training to enable it to discharge its duties efficiently and
within the time frame required.
17.   Despite this achievement, a lot of work still needs to be done. The DLD will
continue to be asked to come up with more and better pieces of legislation to implement
Other important pieces of legislation enacted in 1994 and 1995 include the competition and Fair Trading
Act, (Act No. 18 of 1994), the Banking and Financial Services Act, (Act No. 28 of 1995), the Companies
Act (Act No. 6 of 1995), the Value Added Tax Act (Act No. 4 of 1995) , and the Preferential Claims in
Bankruptcy Act (Act No. 9 of 1995), the Mines and Minerals Act, 1995, and the Lands Act.
2 The pieces of legislation being prepared or to be prepared by the DLD are specified in Attachment 3.



7
Government policy. Ongoing and future Bank-supported investment and adjustment
operations require the Government to continuously review, amend and enact new
legislation to give legislative effect to those policies. The problem is, as presently
constituted, the DLD does not have the qualified staff in sufficient numbers to meet this
challenge. The Government has recognized this shortcoming and has requested US$1.2
million under the ERIPTA for training and technical assistance.
B.    Detailed Project Description
18.   The proposed ERIPTA project provides assistance in the form of services from
technical advisors and other specialists, training and/or equipment as follows: (1) to the
Government so that it can privatize ZCCM, and to ZCCM to strengthen its operations and
to monitor (by the ZCCM Board) ZCCM's operational activities and implementation of
the Emergency Plan; (2) to the ZPA so that it can continue to implement the
Government's privatization program; (3) to the departments under MMMD responsible
for implementing or monitoring the performance under the new Mining Act; and (4) to
the Department of Legal Drafting under MOLA to enable it to redraft the remaining
business laws. A more detailed description of these four components follows.
ZCCM Privatization
19.   Objectives. The objective of the ZCCM Privatization component is to: (a) provide
assistance to the Government to design and implement the privatization of ZCCM by
financing the costs of the Government Mining Privatization Team (GMPT) and the
international investment bank and legal advisors in preparing and implementing the
ZCCM privatization during the next 12-18 months, and (b) to provide assistance to
ZCCM (i) to obtain interim technical and management support to strengthen ZCCM's
performance by hiring additional managers and technical specialists for 1-2 years and (ii)
to hire staff and advisers to assist the ZCCM Board to monitor ZCCM's operations and
activities, including the implementation of the ZCCM Emergency Plan.
20.   Institutional Framework.   The ZCCM  privatization componenit is being
implemented by the GMPT who have been appointed by the Government to prepare a
ZCCM Privatization Plan (defining the structure and process of privatization) which will
be submitted to IDA as part of the ERIP Second Tranche release conditionality. The
GMPT reports to the Chief Executive of the Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA). The
GMPT is being assisted by an Investment Bank and a Legal Firm (the Advisers) who
were selected and appointed under terms of reference and procurement procedures
acceptable to IDA and are being funded by a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance.
In the case of the ZCCM privatization, to reinforce the usual ZPA procedures, the
Government established a Committee of Ministers to oversee key decisions and
recommendations regarding the ZCCM Privatization before being presented to the
Cabinet and a Committee of Officials to ensure that relevant Government Ministries are
kept apprised of the progress of the work and to ensure ready access to such Ministries
for the GMPT and the Advisors. With regard to assistance to ZCCM, support will be



8
provided to ZCCM for interim management and technical support and to the ZCCM
Chairman and Board of Directors for staff and advisers for a Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit reporting to the Board.
21.   Description. The component will finance the following:
(a)   Advisory Services for ZCCM  Privatization. This will include: (i) the
Government Mining Privatization Team (GMPT). The GMPT was given
the responsibility to carry out the Government's decision to privatize
ZCCM, which was taken in accordance with agreements with IDA under
the ERIP Credit. The GMPT includes a team leader; a legal advisor; an
investment banker and a copper mining specialist. The members of the
GMPT are consultants, who have been selected for their relevant
experience and good reputations in the Zambian business community,
under procedures acceptable to IDA, with contracts whose terms and
conditions are satisfactory to IDA. The GMPT mandate is to prepare, with
the help of internationally qualified advisors, the ZCCM Privatization
Plan, and following the necessary approvals and decisions, and subject to
satisfactory performance, to implement this Plan; and (ii) The Investment
Bank and Legal Advisors. Under the supervision of the GMPT, the
Advisors' work is planned in two phases: to prepare the ZCCM
Privatization Plan in the first phase, and subject to satisfactory
performance, to assist the Government/GMPT and/or ZCCM as
appropriate in the implementation of the Plan in the second phase. The
privatization of ZCCM requires specialized assistance, both because of
ZCCM's size and economic importance and because Anglo American
Corporation Ltd. (AAC), the largest minority shareholder, has certain pre-
emptive rights that affect the refusal in the privatization process. The
terms of reference for Phase 1 call for the investment advisor to (a) review
the financial outlook for ZCCM; (b) review the proposed arrangements for
the Konkola Deep Project; (c) examine privatization options and prepare a
privatization strategy; and (d) prepare a privatization implementation
proposal . The exact requirements for Phase 2 can only be defined when
Phase 1 is completed, but will likely include (a) promotion of the sale; (b)
documentation and information; and (c) managing the sale process,
resulting in a completed transaction. The terms of reference for Phase 1 for
the legal firm include (a) assistance to the investment bank; (b) review the
legal framework for privatization and business; (c) identify constraints and
make recommendations; (d) review privatization options, strategy and
method of sale. For Phase 2 the legal firm's terms of reference include (a)
documentation and information; and (b) the sale process resulting in a
completed transaction.
(b)   ZCCM Interim Management Assistance. ZCCM has experienced sharp
declines in production and a deteriorating financial position since mid



9
1995. Following a review by a World Bank Technical Mission, ZCCM
has developed an Emergency Plan and, as part of the implementation of
the Plan, has hired fifty two new managers and technical experts for a 1-2
year period to strengthen the Operating Divisions (in particular Nchanga
and Nkana) and the central functions (in particular planning and
implementation capabilities).
(c)   Assistance to ZCCM  Board.  Given the importance of the ZCCM
Emergency Plan being successfully implemented, the ZCCM Chairman,
on behalf of the ZCCM Board of Directors, is establishing a Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit to (I) review the implementation of the Emergency
Plan and recommend, if necessary, changes to the Plan for consideration
by the ZCCM Board of Directors; and (II) to undertake specific tasks for
the ZCCM Board to monitor any and all aspects of ZCCM's operation as
the Board may require.
22.   Cost, Financing and Timing. Except for a success fee, which is to be paid to the
Investment Bank, which will be financed from the privatization transaction(s), this
component of ERIPTA covers the costs of (a) the GMPT and the Advisers and other
specialists as needed, (b) the interim management assistance to ZCCM and (c) the
assistance to the ZCCM Board. The component is estimated to have a total cost of
US$13.6 million, of which US$7.0 million cost would be to Government to cover about
US$1.2 million to cover fees, travel expenses and costs of GMPT and other specialists;
about US$3.8 million in investment bank fees and travel and associated expenses; and
about US$2.0 million in legal firm fees and associated travel and other expenses. IDA
would finance about US$6 million of these costs. The balance of the cost of this
component, US$6.6 million, consists of US$6.0 million of interim management support,
and US$0.6 million of advisory services and staff assistance to the ZCCM Chairman and
Board. IDA would finance about US$3.6 million of these costs. Implementation of the
overall ZCCM Privatization Plan will require in the range of 12-18 months depending on
the type and number of transactions involved and should be substantially completed by
the end of 1997. A more specific timetable should be available once the Privatization
Plan is finalized in June 1996. The ZCCM interim management support would take 1-2
years.
23.   Status of Implementation. The GMPT was appointed in April 1995 and the
advisors in September 1996.  The ZCCM  Privatization Plan was submitted to
Government in April 1996. The Plan is being considered by Government who, after
taking a position, will submit an appropriate resolution to the ZCCM Board of Directors
for approval.
Advisory Services to the Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA)
24.   Objective. The objective of the ZPA component of the ERIPTA Credit is to help
continue IDA's assistance to Zambia in the implementation of its privatization policy,



10
which started under the First and Second Privatization and Industrial Reform Credits
(PIRCs), by providing the funds necessary: (1) to maintain the staffing of ZPA in terms
of qualifications, experience and numbers at an adequate level to oversee the privatization
of the significant number of parastatals that remain to be privatized; and (2) to obtain the
necessary consultant, advisory and specialist services to prepare the parastatals for
privatization.
25.   IDA's financing under PIRTA of full time managers and professional staff was a
main reason for the turnaround at ZPA and the current high level of effectiveness at the
agency. It enabled the ZPA to recruit from the private sector the necessary talent. Also,
IDA's financing under PIRTA of advisory services to prepare parastatals for privatization
allowed ZPA access to a large number of sources of expertise and was the main reason
for the acceleration in the pace of the privatization program in late 1994 and 1995. The
ERIPTA aims to continue this support to enable ZPA to retain its qualified staff and to
maintain its effectiveness and the rapid pace of privatization.
26.   Description. This component of the project provides support to finance the cost
of full-time managers and staff for ZPA, as well as advisory services to prepare PEs for
pnvatization.
27.   Costs and Financing. The proposed assistance includes salaries for three years
for top managers and high-level professional staff; advertising, pre-privatization studies,
asset and company valuations for about 30 parastatals; and other technical assistance.
The total cost is estimated at US$6.2 million, which will be financed by IDA.
28.   Status of Implementation. This is an ongoing activity that was started under
PIRTA that is being advanced further under the proposed ERIPTA. The procedures to be
followed and the documentation to be used in the recruitment of consultants and advisors
to prepare companies for privatization will be the same as those for PIRTA, which have
been standardized to the extent possible and are satisfactory to IDA. The disbursement
procedures that will be used will also be the same as those for PIRTA and conform to
IDA Guidelines.
Strengthening the Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development (MMMD)
29.   Objective. The broad objective of this component is provide assistance to help
strengthen the capabilities of the Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development (MMMD)
to administer the mining sector and facilitate new private sector exploration and
investment in the Zambian mining sector. More specifically, this component will support
the acquisition and dissemination of geological data by MMMD, the preparation of
investment promotion materials and associated activities by MMMD, and institutional
strengthening for MMMD in terms of preparing new mining sector regulations,
establishing four regional mines bureaux, updating database technology and equipment
and improving emissions monitoring capabilities.



I1
30.  Implementation Arrangements.  The component will be implemented by a
Component Coordinating Team (CCT) in MMMD working in conjunction with the
Geological Survey Department (GSD); the Mines Development Department (MDD) and
the Mines Safety Department (MSD) of MMMD. The component will build on earlier
technical assistance (Mining Sector Technical Assistance Project - Credit No. 2269)
under which many of the activities being assisted have been started and on the new
MMMD organizational structure which was established.
31.   Description This component will finance technical assistance, studies, field and
office equipment, vehicles, minor works, specialist hardware and software, printing of
maps and brochures, training and related incremental operating costs for the following:
(a)   Acquisition of Geological Data. This component is composed of three
sub-components as follows:
(i)   The Structure and Mineral Resources of NE Zambia sub-
component will produce a consolidated structural interpretation of
the northeastern geological belt which is prospective for mineral
development.
(ii)   The Geology, Structure and Mineral Resources of NW Zambia
sub-component will consolidate all available structural data in NW
Zambia in order to identify structures controlling mineralization of
known occurrences in the area as a guide for future prospecting and
exploration activities. All information will be compiled and the
final product will be geological, structural and mineral maps,
prepared in Zambia, covering the project area The work will be
headed by international consultants assisted by staff of the GSD.
(iii)  The Economic and Geological Assessment of the Mineral
Resources of Zambia sub-component will update the handbook
"The Geology and Mineral Resources of Northern Rhodesia
(1963)" which is now out of date and print. A review of the
available data in the archives will be followed by fieldwork to
verify and supplement this data. A new handbook on the mineral
resources of Zambia will be prepared, published, and marketed.
(b)   Data Dissemination And Investment Promotion. This component has the
following five sub-components:
(i)   The Preparation of Investment Promotion Materials sub-
component will support the preparation of promotional materials
and work regarding demonstrating the strong mineral potential of
Zambia and the competitiveness of the new legal and fiscal
regime.



12
(ii)   The Educational Seminars and Roadshows sub-component
provide assistance, information and advice to small scale mines on
the procedures and requirements for obtaining a mining license, the
geology and exploration of a concession, more efficient, cost-
effective and safer working practices, better appreciation of
processing and mineral quality issues, and sources and availability
of additional information
(iii)  The Self-Help Library sub-component will upgrade the text-book
and periodical holdings of the MMMD and make available through
the Regional Bureaus leaflets on the occurrence, geology,
prospecting, mining, and processing of mineral deposits in Zambia.
(iv)   The Establishment of the Information Center sub-component
will enable interested parties to obtain at nominal cost, in an
appropriate format and at a convenient location all basic data on
the sector.
(v)   The International Presentations sub-component will assist
MMMD to attend international conferences to promote the
Zambian mining industry and attract foreign investment into the
sector.
(c)   Institutional Strengthening.  This component comprises four sub-
components as follows:
(i)   The Regulations and Procedures sub-component will establish
new regulations and procedures, which reflect the revised legal and
fiscal regime, for the effective administration of the sector.
(ii)   The Establishment of Regional Mines Bureaux sub-component
will support the opening of four regional bureaux which will
provide cost effective and timely administration, inspection and
technical support at mine sites.
(iii)  Thle Database Technology And Equipment Upgrade sub-
component will establish functioning databases in MMMD by
upgrading the computer system by increasing both the speed and
memory.
(iv)   The Sulfur Dioxide Emissions sub-component will assist the
MSD to monitor concentrations of sulfur dioxide at the mineral
processing plants with a view to improving the air quality at the
work-site and minimizing the effect on the surrounding areas.



13
(d)   Component Coordination Team (CCT). The CCT will act as a link
between the different departments of MMMD and provide the overall
coordination of the mining component of the ERIPTA project. The
project will fund the CCT's start-up and operating costs including basic
equipment needed.
32.   Cost, Financing and Timing. The component is estimated to cost US$6.2
million, of which US$6.0 million would be financed by IDA and US$0.2 million by
Government. The component is expected to be implemented over 4 years.
33.   Status of Implementation. The MMMD sub-component was presented in detail
to the Bank in a letter dated September 7, 1995 which is available in the Project File.
Terms of reference have been agreed for the components, as well as for the Component
Co-ordination Team. An implementation timetable has also been developed. The new
organization chart for MMMD has been approved by the appropriate authorities so ihat
the sub-components are ready to be implemented once funds are available.
34.   Agreed Actions. MMMD requested that the Geological Data Acquisition sub-
component of the ERIPTA assistsnce be contracted to BGS under a twinning arrangment
on a sole source basis. Given (a) that BGS has a unique competency and experience in
that it has performed similar work recently for MMMD on a fully satisfactory basis under
Credit 2269 and (b) that BGS were selected for the work under Credit 2269 using ICB, it
was agreed that sole source procurement with BGS in a twinning arrangement could be
used for the Geological Data Acquisition sub task. MMMD has also requested IDA
financing for incremental operating costs for four regional Mining Bureaux. In order to
ensure sustainability of the Bureaux after the project is completed, it was agreed that IDA
would provide a decling percentage of the incremental operating costs for the Bureaux of
75% in 1997, 50% in 1998, 25% in 1999 and zero thereafter and, Government would
provide the corresponding balance.
Reforming Business Legislation
35.   Objectives. The main objective of this component of ERIPTA is to support the
Department of Legal Drafting (DLD) in the Ministry of Legal Affairs (MOLA) in
carrying out its functions expeditiously and professionally.  The Department is
responsible for: (a) drafting bills and subsidiary legislation, (b) preparing draft cabinet
memoranda on legislation, (c) rendering legal opinions on interpretation of statutes and
constitutional issues, (d) participating in and rendering legal advice to the various
committees established under various Acts of Parliament, (e) assisting in the drafting of
international agreements and attending international conferences, and (f) the attendant
functions involved in bill transcribing, typing and compilation of statutes. The Project
will provide the Department with the necessary resources to undertake these tasks.
36.   Strategy. Based on the inventory of business laws carried out in conjunction with
the preparation of this project, the laws that need to be reformed and other related



14
legislation which needs to be redrafted by the Department in the next few years have been
identified. The Government has proposed a crash program of training and recruitment of
consultants. Under this proposal, the Project will finance one full-time internationally
recruited consultant and three local consultants. One of the local consultants will be the
current Head of the Department, who is serving under a contract financed under PIRTA.
This person is the most qualified and experienced Zambian draftsman and has been
extremely instrumental in the significant progress that has been accomplished so far. The
project will also finance, on a retainer basis, an experienced jurist, preferably a retired
judge, to periodically review draft bills and give advice as and when necessary.
37.   For the long term, the Department is proposing a two-pronged strategy. The first
prong is to try to improve the salaries and other terms of service of draftsmen so as to
reduce the rate of attrition. The second prong is to continue training Zambians, some of
whom may decide to stay in government service. In any case, the Government has a
policy of "bonding" Zambians who have been trained at government expense. This
"bonding" requires the trainees to serve in government service for a period equivalent to
the training period. It is therefore necessary to continue training Zambians as both a way
of building capacity and so as to continuously get graduates to take over from draftsmen
who may opt to join the private sector.
38.   Description. This component will provide for:
(a)   Consultants: To meet the immediate short-term needs, the Project will
finance one international expert for a period of two years to assist in
clearing the backlog of legislation to be drafted and to train young
Zambian draftsmen. The international consultant will bring in "best
international practices" in the various commercial and financial areas.
This consultant will also be required to provide on-the-job training to
young Zambian draftsmen. In addition, the Project will finance three local
consultants who will assist in carrying out the routine drafting work while
the new MOLA employees are undergoing training abroad. One of these
local consultants will be the current Head of the Drafting Department who
is currently under contract under PIRTA that expires in December, 1996.
In addition, the Project will finance the cost of one local Legislation
Review and Monitoring Consultant who will have the responsibility to
review work done by contractors [see para. (b) below]. Such a consultant
will preferably be a retired judge with extensive experience in legislation.
(b)   Contracting Out. At certain times the Department is required to draft a
large number of pieces of legislation to meet Parliamentary requirements.
During such periods, the Department has not been able to cope, given the
shortage of staff.  The Government has therefore approved a strategy
under which the Department will contract out pieces of legislation to
draftsmen in private practice. The Project will support this strategy. The
Department has identified pieces of legislation which are likely to be



15
contracted out (Attachment 3). The Project will finance consultants who
will be hired on the basis of this contracting out strategy. The Department
has prepared a roster of qualified draftsmen from which short lists would
be prepared so that invitation to submit proposals for specific tasks can be
solicited.  The review and selection of consultants will follow World
Bank Procurement Procedures. This strategy of contracting out will
provide the Department with the flexibility it needs to meet its mandated
requirements. The Department will try as much as possible to draft
legislation in-house, but in times of high demand, contracting out, as
explained above, may be a viable option.
(c)    Training. Concurrently with the recruitment of consultants, the Project
will finance the long-and short-term training of Zambian lawyers to enable
them to acquire skills in legislative drafting. There are few institutions in
the world that offer this type of highly specialized training. Training
parliamentary draftsmen is a long and costly process.  The process
normally involves 18-24 months of post-graduate training. After that, the
draftsmen will require two to three years of on-the-job training before they
can be considered professional draftsmen. The Project will finance the
long term training for two parliamentary draftsmen and the short term
training for three draftsmen. This is in addition to the five who will be
trained under FILMUP.
39.   Cost. The estimated total cost of the support to the DLD is US$1,200,000, which
will be financed by IDA.
40.   Agreed Actions.  In order to retain the trained draftsmen in public service, the
government has greed, as an interim measure, to implement new policy measures to
improve terms and conditions of service for draftsmen employed in MOLA until the
Public Sector Management Reform program is carried out. It is expected that improved
terms of service will be attractive enough for draftsmen to stay in public service for a
longer period than is the case at the present. Concurrently with this, the government has
agreed to review its "bonding" program under which employees who are trained by the
government are "bonded" to serve in government service. The bonding period will be
increased to two years of service for every year of training. Incorporating both improved
terms of service and increased period of bonding in the contracts of new recruits to DLD
would be a pre-requisite for approving IDA financing of their training.
41.   Status of Implementation. Despite all these problems, the Department has made
tremendous progress in drafting a number of pieces of legislation required under IDA-
financed programs. Attachment 3 shows the legislation that has been reformed and the
legislation that is pending review and redrafting.



16
C.   Project Administration and Implementation
42.   Administration. Overall administration, management and coordination of all the
activities under the proposed ERIPTA would be the responsibility of the Ministry of
Finance. The MOF has appointed the Project Coordinator, who is already responsible for
administering the PIRTA, the PIRCs and ERIPTA PPF as the Coordinator for ERIPTA.
The implementation arrangements for the components are as follows: the GMPT is
responsible for preparing the ZCCM Privatization Plan, assisted by international
investment-bank and legal advisors. The ZPA would be responsible for implementing the
privatization component. MMMD will be responsible for its institutional development
component and will appoint a Coordinator for that purpose, and the head of the Drafting
Department at MOLA would oversee the implementation of the MOLA component.
43.   Procurement. The selection and recruitment of consultants, specialists and other
advisors (amounting to about US$19.16 million or about 83 percent of the Credit) will be
undertaken in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981).  Contracts were
signed in June 1995 and September 1995 (with an expected value over the life of the
project of US$5.9 million) for the GMPT and the Advisors for the privatization of
ZCCM. This work has been financed to date by a PPF. Other consultant services include
assistance to ZCCM and to the ZCCM Board respectively for management strengthening
and advisory services (expected value US$3.6 million); assistance to MMMD for
mapping and geological work and institutional strengthening (expected value US$2.42
million), assistance to ZPA for preparatory privatization work (expected value US$6.2
million) and assistance to MOLA for legal drafting work (expected value US$1.04
million). The assistance to MMMD includes a contract for geological mapping and
associated work, which MMMD propose to contract on a sole source basis with the
British Geological Service (BGS) on the basis that BGS has a unique capability and
experience to do the work since they have recently done similar geological work in
Zambia for MMMD in a fully satisfactory manner under a contact obtained through
international competitive bidding. Terms of reference for the consultants for MMMD
have been prepared and were agreed at appraisal. Bank sample letters of invitation will
be used and draft contracts for consultants will follow the IBRD Standard Forms of
Contract for major contracts with individuals being retained under contracts acceptable to
IDA. Training costs are estimated at about US$0.39 million equivalent to about 2% of
the credit.  The procurement of goods, equipment, including vehicles, computer
equipment and software, scientific instruments, field and office equipment, furniture, and
related services (amounting to about US$1.9 million or about 8 percent of the Credit)
would be undertaken in accordance with World Bank" Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in January 1996) using contracts
awarded on the basis of: (i) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for packages that
exceed US$100,000 (for an estimated cost of US$1.09 million); (ii) Limited International
Bidding (LIB) for specialist goods and services (scientific and geological
instrumentation, specialized data and software purchase, map printing etc.) for packages
that cost less than US$50,000 (for an estimated cost of US$0.39 million); (iii) National



17
Competitive Biding for packages that exceed US$30,000, but are equal to or less than
US$100,000 (for an estimated cost of USO.38 million); and (iv) on the basis of National
Shopping (NS) for packages of goods expected to be below US$30,000 (for an estimated
cost of US$0.04 million). Incremental operating costs are estimated at US$1.55 million,
equivalent to about 7 percent of the Credit. All ICB and LIB will be carried out using the
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents.
44.   Bank Review of Procurement Decisions The terms of reference, short lists,
consultant contracts for sole source contracts with consulting firms, for major contracts
costing IJS$100,000 or more, and for individual contracts costing US$50,000 or more
(as well as amendments to contracts which would increase them above these thresholds)
would be subject to prior review and approval by IDA in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines. All others would be subject to post-award review in accordance with
Appendix 1, para. 4 of the World bank Procurement Guidelines. Final approved contract
documentation for all contracts would be sent to IDA prior to disbursement, as set out in
the Guidelines. Procurement documentation and decisions under ICB, LIB and CB for
contracts for goods expected to cost US$100,000 or more will be subject to prior review
by the bank following Bank Guidelines. It is estimated that about 90 percent of the
procurement by value would be subject to prior review.
45.   Disbursements. Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the
World Bank Disbursement Handbook (1992 edition). All disbursements are subject to
the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and the procedures defined in the
Disbursement Letter. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit Account will
be fully documented, except for (a) expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of
US$100,000 or less for goods and consulting firms, and (b) US$50,000 or less for
individual consultants, and (c) all incremental operating costs, which may be claimed on
the basis of certified statements of expenditure (SOE).  Documentation supporting
expenditures claimed against SOE's would be retained by the Project Coordinator, except
for documentation for incremental operating costs for the Regional Mining Bureaux
which would be retained by the CCT in MMMD and documentation for the ZCCM
component which would be retained by ZCCM. All such documentation will be
available for review as requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors. To
facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for goods and services, two Special
Accounts (SA's) would be established in a commercial bank to cover part of IDA's share
of eligible expenditures to be managed and administered by the Project Coordinator and
ZCCM. The authorized allocations of Special Account A (MOF) and B (ZCCM) would
be US$500,000 respectively, covering an estimated four months of eligible expenditures
financed by IDA.  Upon effectiveness, the authorized allocation amounting to
US$300,000 each would be deposited to the respective Special Accounts. The remaining
balances will be made available as needed. The Project Coordinator (MOF) and ZCCM
would be responsible for submitting monthly replenishment applications with appropriate
supporting documents for expenditures. To the extent possible, all of IDA's share of
eligible expenditures should be paid through the Special Accounts.  To facilitate
disbursements of eligible expenditures for incremental operating costs for the regional



18
Mining Bureaux sub-component of the MMMD component of the Project, the
Government would open a Project Account (PA) in a commercial bank to cover part of
Government's share of eligible expenditures to be managed and administered by the CCT
in MMMD. The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Schedule B. The
project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001. The closing date is set for
December 31, 2001.
46. Advance Contracting, ZCCM Retroactive financing and PPF Refinancing. The
initial costs for the preparation of the ZCCM Privatization Plan have been funded out of a
PPF; these costs will be reimbursed out of the proceeds of the proposed Credit.
Retroactive financing of up to US$1 million for the ZCCM Privatization is anticipated
under this Credit.
47.   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting. Auditing would be required on a yearly
basis for expenditures related to the Project with particular attention to expenditures
reimbursed against statements of expenditures. Audits would be performed by qualified
auditors acceptable to IDA and would be sent to IDA within six months of the end of
each financial year. Furthermore, the Ministry of Finance will submit quarterly reports
on project implementation progress, a report on the results of the mid-term review and a
final evaluation report on implementation experience and project results within six
months of the Credit closing. These arrangements were confirmed at negotiations.



Technical Annex
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 4
Implementation Schedule
Objectives         Sub Components               Expected Results                 Timing
A. Prepare and      1. (a) Privatization Plan to be   Sale of ZCCM shares and /or  Two major transactions to be
Implement ZCCM    submitted to June Meeting of    assets/businesses and joint-   completed by April 1997;
Privatization Plan   ZCCM Board for approval    venturing of Konkola Deep resulting  privatization of all core mining
in (a) new mining investment    operations to be completed by
(b) Memorandum of         commitments of US$1 - 2 billion  December 1997; and Konkola Deep
Understanding for development  and (b) assignment of bulk of  final agreement signed, project
of Konkola Deep Project to be   ZCCM's debt to third parties  financed and construction underway
signed by June 30, 1996                                      by December 1997
2. ZCCM Internal Management Under ZCCM Emergency Plan, 52   Improved management of ZCCM's
Assistance                   new managers/ technical experts  mining operations whereby ZCCM
been hired and are on-site as of end   meets and exceeds production,
April 1996; ZCCM to provide     productivity, cost and financial
contracts and procurement       performance targets for 1996/97
information to IDA by end June
1996
3. Advisory Services and     ZCCM Board approves              ZCCM Board able to monitor ZCCM
Assistance to ZCCM Board     establishment of Monitoring and  operational performance and thereby
Evaluation Unit by June 30, 1996    keep Emergency Plan on-track
and appoints staff by August 31,
1996



Technical Annex
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 4
B. Zambia            1. Management and Staff      Ensure that ZPA has qualified and    Continue/extend PIRTA support for
Privatization Agency  Support                     experienced staff to carry out the    two years, starting in 1998 with
(ZPA)                                             Privatization Program            option for a third year
2. Advisory and other services Continued rapid pace of        On-going
to prepare parastatals for  privatization of parastatals
pnvatization
3. Specialized Tasks and other Carry out special tasks to promote   Periodic assessments of impact
Services                    privatization activities and assess
impact of privatization program
C. Ministry of Mines  1. Acquisition of Geological   MMMD to prepare and submit    The outputs consist of (a) a
and Minerals         Data                         short-lists for various components   structural interpretation of the
Development                                       so that all are agreed by September   northeastern geological belt to be
1996; and work started on all    completed by December 1997 and
components by December 1996      published by June 1998; (b)
geological structural and mineral
maps for northwest Zambia to be
completed by December 1998 and
published by June 1999; and (c) a
new Mineral Resources Handbook
for Zambia to be completed and
published by December 1998
2. Data Dissemination and   MMMD to prepare and submit        The outputs will be (a) investment
Investment Promotion        short-lists for various components   promotion materials to be printed by
so that all are agreed by September   September 1997; (b) four



Technical Annex
Attachment I
Page 3 of 4
1996; and work started on all  educational seminars to be provided
components by December 1996     to small-scale miners each year 1997
- 1999; (c) establishment of a Self-
Help library (June 1997); (d)
establishment of an Information
Center for prospective investors
(December 1999); and (e)
presentations regarding Zambia's
mineral potential at international
conferences ( 2-3 per year 1997 -
1 999)
3. Institutional Strengthening  MMMD to (a) prepare and submit   The outputs consist of (a) new
short-lists for various components   regulations and administrative
so that all are agreed by September  procedures to be finalized by June
1996; and work started on all  1999 and fully implemented by
components by December 1996; and December 1999; (b) the Regional
(b) to procure agreed equipment and  Mines Bureaux successfully
vehicles and refurbish offices so that established by January 1997 and
Regional Bureaux can be        fully funded and operating in fully
operational by January 1, 1997  satisfactory manner at completion of
project; (c) fully function and inter-
linked databases in MMMD by
December 1999; and (d) fully
function sulfur dioxide monitoring
capabilities for MMMD by
December 1999.
4. Establishment of MMMD    Appointment to be made following   Fully satisfactory implementation of



Technical Annex
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 4
Component Co-ordination    complete procedures by August 31,  MMMD component leading to (a)
Team                        1996.                           increased exploration by mining
companies and identification of new
ore deposits and subsequent
development of new mines, and (b)
improved regulation of and
increased fee and rental payments
by small-scale miners
D. Ministry of Legal  1. Local and international  Strengthen the Department of Legal  On-going
Affairs              consultant services to      Drafting
update/redraft business
legislation
2. Contracting out to qualified  More rapid pace of reform of  On-going
draftsmen the drafting,     business legislation
updating or amendment of
specific pieces of legislation
3. Training of newly recruited  Strengthened capacity in DLD and   Two-year program starting in 1997
DLD staff in Zambia and     faster pace of business legislation
overseas                    reform



Technical Annex
Attachment 2
Page I of 2
Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion Technical Assistance Credit
Training Plan
Ministry of Legal Affairs Component
There are very few institutions in the world which offer training in legislative
drafting. Normally draftsmen are trained in selected universities in the United Kingdom,
Barbados, Canada or the United States. Initially, the student will undertake a basic course
on techniques of drafting for approximately six months. Thereafter, the student will
attend a Diploma/Certificate course in legislative drafting combined with international
law. After further studies, the student qualifies for a Master of Laws Degree in
Legislative Drafting. This process normally takes 18-24 months after the student has
obtained the first law degree (JD or LLB)
Under the Project, the Minister for Legal Affairs will select promising candidates,
who must have worked in the Department of Legislative Drafting for one or two years, to
pursue the post-graduate studies abroad. Upon successful completion of training, the new
graduates will return to Zambia and will be appointed as Parliamentary Draftsmen in the
Ministry of Legal Affairs.
For the long term, the government intends to carry out most of legislative training
within the country through the Institute of Legislative Drafting, which will be established
as part of Zambia Practicing Law Institute.
Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development
The broad objective of the MMMD Training is to improve MMMD's capabilities
to oversee a mining sector that consists of private mining companies rather than one large
state enterprise. Specifically, the training aims to improve MMMD's capabilities to: (a)
provide better geological data and information to prospective investors, and (b) regulate
and administer the mining sector in terms of both large- and small-scale mining
operations. Part of the training is accomplished through specific training components
within six of the MMMD sub-components, namely,
-     Study of Geological Structure of Northeast Zambia
-     Study of Geological Structure of Northwest Zambia
-     Establishment of Information Center
-     Preparation of New Mining Regulatory Framework
-     Establishment of Regional mining Bureaux
-     Sulfur Dioxide Monitoring Task



Technical Annex
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
The training includes the preparation of training materials and the delivery of
specific training modules for each of the above tasks. In addition, a large amount of on-
the-job training will take place through MMMD staff working with the consultants. This
applies especially to field work/training of Geological Survey Department staff. Overall,
about 6 man-years of training will take place.



Technical Annex
Attachment 3
Page 1 of 3
MINISTRY OF LEGAL AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF LEGISLATIVE DRAFTING
Status of Legislation
1.    Completed Legislation (1992 to Date)
Privatization Act, Act No. 21 of 1992
Investment Act, Act No. 39 of 1993
Securities Act, Act No. 38 of 1993
Bank of Zambia (Amendment) Act, Act No. 36 of 1993
Trade Licensing (Amendment) Act, Act No. 32 of 1993
Zambia Revenue Authority Act, Act No. 28 of 1993
Competition and Fairs Trading Act, Act No. 18 of 1994
Banking and Financial Services Act, Act No. 28 of 1995
The Companies Act, Act No. 6 of 1995
The Value Added Tax Act, Act No. 4 of 1995
The Lands Act, Act No. 29 of 1995
The Lands & Deeds Registry Act
The Mines and Mineral Act, Act No. 31 of 1995
The Food Revenue Act, Act No. 12 of 1995
The Agriculture Credit Act, Act No. 23 of 1995
The Agriculture Seed, Act, Act No. 21 of 1995
The Electricity Act, Act No. 15 of 1995
The Energy Regulations Act, Act No. 16 of 1995
The National Health Services Act, Act No. 22 of 1995



Technical Annex
Affachment 3
Page 2 of 3
The Environmental Protection and Pollution Control (Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 1995.
2.    Legislation to be Prepared/Drafted
Savings Institutions
Pension Scheme Regulatory Bill
National Social Security Pension Schemes Bill
Public Service Pensions Bill
Insurance
Insurance Act
Bank of Zambia
Bank of Zambia (Amendment) Act
Education
African Education Act
Education Act
National Council for Scientific Research
Technical Education and Vocational Training Act
University Act
Health
National Health Services Act
Pharmacy and Poisons Act
Public Health Act
Industrial Relations
Industrial and Labor Relations Act
Pneumoconiosis Act
Workers Compensation Act
Minimum Wages and Conditions of Employment Act
Factories



Technical Annex
Attachment 3
Page 3 of 3
Tourism
Tourism Act
Casino Act
National Parks and Wildlife Act
Natural Resources
Natural Resources Conservation Act
Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act
Infrastructure
Postal Services Act
The Water Act
Roads and Road Traffic Act
Small Scale Industries
Small Industries Development Act
Self-Management Enterprises Act
Agriculture Sector
Food Reserve Act
Agriculture Credit Act
Agriculture Seeds (Amendment) Act
The Lands Act
Cooperative Societies Act
Agricultural Lands Act
Farmers' Debt Consolidation Act
Various Regulations under the Lands Act
Mining
Scrap Metal Dealers Act
Gold Trade Act



Technical Annex
Attachment 3
Page 3 of 3
Natural Resources
Natural Resources Conservation Act
Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act
Infrastructure
Postal Services Act
The Water Act
Roads and Road Traffic Act
Small Scale Industries
Small Industries Development Act
Self-Management Enterprises Act
Agriculture Sector
Food Reserve Act
Agriculture Credit Act
Agriculture Seeds (Amendment) Act
The Lands Act
Cooperative Societies Act
Agricultural Lands Act
Farmers' Debt Consolidation Act
Various Regulations under the Lands Act
Mining
Scrap Metal Dealers Act
Gold Trade Act












MI CROGRAPHICCS
Rep':rt NoD       b897 ZA
Type: MOP



