Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                              CREDIT NUMBER 2875 ZA
                          Project Agreement
                 (Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion
                       Technical Assistance Project)
                               between
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                 and
              ZAMBIA CONSOLIDATED COPPER MINES LIMITED
                         Dated July 31, 1996
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2875 ZA
                          PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ZAMBIA CONSOLIDATED COPPER MINES
LIMITED (ZCCM).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Zambia (the Borrower) and the Associa-
tion, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 16,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ZCCM
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and ZCCM, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to ZCCM
on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
      WHEREAS ZCCM, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to under-
take the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. ZCCM declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
and, to this end, shall carry out Part A.2 of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administra-
tive, financial, engineering, environmental and mining practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of consultants' services required for Part A.2 of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. (a) ZCCM shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A.2 of the
Project.
      (b)   For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions
and without limitation thereto, ZCCM shall:
            (i)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
                  Association and furnish to the Association not later
                  than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
                  later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
                  the Association and ZCCM, a plan for the future
                  operation of Part A.2 of the Project; and
           (ii)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
                  exchange views with ZCCM on said plan.
      Section 2.04. ZCCM shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, ZCCM shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) ZCCM shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part
A.2 of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   ZCCM shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A.2
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by ZCCM of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.06. ZCCM shall participate in the midterm review referred
to in Section 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement and shall there-
after implement the relevant parts of the recommendations referred to in
Section 3.04 (e) of the Development Credit Agreement relating to Part A.2
of the Project and implement Part A.2 of the Project taking into account
the results of said review.
                                ARTICLE III
                     Management and Operations of ZCCM
Page  3
      Section 3.01. ZCCM shall carry out its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental
and mining practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. ZCCM shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all
in accordance with sound engineering, financial and mining practices.
      Section 3.03. ZCCM shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
      Section 3.04 ZCCM shall continue to maintain, until completion of
the Project, the ZCCM Monitoring and Audit Committee with staff whose
qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be satisfactory
to the Association.
                               ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) ZCCM shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations
and financial condition.
      (b)   ZCCM shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                  (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
                  statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
                                  ARTICLE V
                          Effective Date; Termination;
                          Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of ZCCM thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
                  shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
           (ii)   the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii)
of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify ZCCM of this
event.
Page  4
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                   Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      For ZCCM:
            Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Limited
            5309 Dedon Kimathi Road
            P.O. Box 30048
            Lusaka, Zambia
            Cable address:                   Telex:
                  NCHANGA                    44540
                  Lusaka, Zambia
                                             Telefax:
                                             221057
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of ZCCM, or by ZCCM on behalf of the Borrower under the Development
Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Chairman or Chief
Executive of ZCCM or such other person or persons as ZCCM shall designate
in writing, and ZCCM shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  5
                  By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                            Regional Vice President
                                                             Africa
                  ZAMBIA CONSOLIDATED COPPER MINES LIMITED
                  By /s/ Dunstan Kamana
                                          Authorized Representative
