Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
I-I   34 - /A/C)
Report No. 7542-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
THIRD HEALTH PROJECT
MARCH 27, 1989
Country Department V
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the.performance of



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of February 1989)
Currency Unit   =   Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1700   =   US$1.00
Rp 1 million   =   US$588
FISCAL YFAR
April 1 - March 31
PRiNCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AIDAB      -   Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
ASKES      -    Health Insurance Scheme for Government Employees
BAPPEDA    -    Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS   -    National Development Planning Agency
BKKBN      -    National Family Planning Coordinating Board
BOP        -    Bureau of Planning
DG         -    Director General, Budget
DIK        -    Recurrent Budget
DIP        -    Development Budget
GOI        -    Government of Indonesia
IHPB       -    Integrated Health Plan and Budget
INPRES     -    Sectoral Development Grant to Regional Governments
KALTIM     -    Kalimantan Timur
MOF        -   Ministry of Finance
MOH        -   Ministry of Health
MOHA       -   Ministry of Home Affairs
NTB        -    Nusa Tengarra Barat
PHO        -    Provincial Health Officer
PIMPRO     -    Project Implementation Officer
PKK        -    Family Welfare Women's Movement
REPELIT.  -    Five-Year Development Program
RWS&S      -    Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SBBO-RSUD  -    Nonsalary Expenditure Grant for Regional Hospitals
SDO        -    Salary Expenditure Grant to Regional Governments
USAID      -    United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCJAL USE ONLY
Definitions
Child Mortality Rate:          Annual deaths of children 1-5 years per 1.000
children in the same age group.
Crude Birth Rate:               Number of births per year per 1,000 people.
Crude Death Rate:               Number of deaths per year per 1,000 people.
Infant Mortality Rate:         Annual deaths of infants under one year per
1,000 live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth:       Number of years a new-born child would live if
subject to the mortality risks prevailing for
the cross-section of population at time of
birth.
Maternal Mortality Rate:        Number of maternal deaths per 1,000 births in a
given year attributable to pregnancy,
childbirth or puerperal complications.
Bupati:                        Pead of District Government
Dinas Kesehatan Dati I:         Provincial Health Office
Dinas Kesehatan Dati II:        District Health Office
Dokabu:                         District Health Officer
Dukun:                          Traditional healer
Kanwil:                        MOH Provincial Office
Kakanwil:                       Head of MOH Provincial Office
Kandep:                        MOH District Office
Posyandu:                       Integrated Health Post
Puskesmass                     Health Center
Puskesmas Pembantu:             Subhealth Center
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA
THIRD HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY       ..     ..................................    iii
I. THE HEALTH SECTOR, ISSUES AND STRATEGY ........................    1
A. Health Status                   ............1
B. Health Organization and Service System          .     .        2
C.  Issues ....................................................    6
D. Government Policy and Strategy              ..                11
E.  Bank Role and Assistance Strategy           ..               12
II. THE PROJECT ................................................... i 4
A. Origin ....................................................   14
B. Project Area                 ............ .    15
C. Project Objectives              ....... ......   15
D. Project Description                   . . .    16
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCITGJ PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT   ..    29
A. Cost Estimates ............................................   29
B. Financing Plan                     .        .        .   . 31
C.  Procurement         ....................... .    33
D. Disbursements ........................ #    ....................   35
E. Accountsandits A.and.Reports                         ..... 37
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION        ......................   37
A.  Implementation ............................................   37
B. Monitoring and Evaluation .................................   39
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS           .....................   40
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .........................   42
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Indonesia in August/September 1988 comprising Ms. R. Deen (economist, mission
leader), Ms. C. Ball (assistant), J.J. Frere (public health specialist.
consultant), J. Lawrence (training specialist, consultant), and H. Brooks
(nutritionist, consultant).



- ii -
TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
Table 1a   Summary of Project Costs by Component
Table 2:   Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
Table 3:   Financing Plan
Table 4:   Proje^t Expenditure by Procurement Category
Table 5:   Disbursement Forecast
ANNEXES
1.    Health Policy Statement and Action Plan
2.    Project Provinces - Detaile  Description
3.    Domestic and Overseas Staff Development by Component and Year
4.    Decentralized Integrated Health Planning and Budgeting
5.    Health Financing in Project Provinces
6.    Summary List of Studies and Evaluations
7.    Technical Assistance Program by Component and Year
8.    Estimated Project Cost
Table 1:  Project Cost Summary
Table 2:  Project Components by Year
Table 3:  Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Table 4:  Summary Account by Project Component
Table 5:  Summary Accounts by Year
9.    Estimated Financing Plan
Table 1: Estimated Financing Plan for Kalimantan Timur
Table 2: Estimated Financing Plan for Nusa Tenggara Barat
10.    Integrated Health Plan and Budget for FY89/90
Kalimantan Timur
Nusa Tenggara Barat
-i.    Detailed Procurement Schedule
12.    Implementation Schedule
Kalimantan Timur
Nusa Tenggara Barat
13.    Responsibilities for Project Implem--ntation Activities
14.    Key Performance Indicators
15.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
Chart 1:    Ministry of Health Organizational Structure
Chart 2:    Provincial Health Organizational Structure
Chart 3:    Provincial Government Health Office Organizational Structure
(Dinas Kesehatan Dati 1)
Chart 4:    Ministry of Health Provincial Office Organizational Structure
(Kanwil)
Chart 5:    District Government Health Office Organizational Structure
(Dinas Y.esehatan Dati 11)
Chart 6:    Budgetary Flows for Health
Chart 7:    Program Management Organizational Structure
MAP:   IBRD Map Nos. 21275 and 21306



- iii -
INDONESIA
THIRD HEALTH PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrowert            Republic of Indonesia
Amounts              US$43.5 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Proiect
Description:       The project objectives are to improve the delivery of
health services to raise the health status of the
population in the provinces of Kalimantan Timur (Kaltim)
and Nusa Tenggara Barat (NTB) and strengthen sector
management. This would be achieved through improving
service coverage and quality in the provinces, increasing
efficiency in the use of available resources, encouraging
greater resource mobilization at the provincial level and
strengthening institutional capabilities at the
provincial and central levels. Improved health services
would also facilitate the delivery of family planning
programs.  Specifically, the project would supports
(a) the Repclita V health sector expenditure programs
(1989/90-1993/94) in Kaltim and NTB giving priority to
programs expected to reduce infant, child and maternal
morbidity and mortality, as well as fertility and improve
nutritional status; (b) policy adjustments, as stated in
the Health Policy Statement and Action Plan. The
adjustments would be implemented on a pilot basis and
would: (i) provide for an integrated budgeting framework
and decentralize responsibility for planning, budgeting
and management of sectoral resources from the central to
the provincial and district levels; and (ii) improve
resource mobilization through adjustments in subsidies
and tariffs and provide for the retention of fees in
health facilities; and (c) improve the capability for
sector management at the local government as well as the
central level.  The latter would largely be assistance to
the Bureau of Planning (BOP) to improve staff planning
capabilities, as well as to coordinate donor assistance
to the sector. The proposed project would finance
equipment, furniture, vehicles, civil works, training,
technical assistance and incremental operational support.



- iv -
Benefits and
Risks:              The major benefit of the project would be improvements in
the health status indicators of the population in two
Outer Island provinces. Additional benefits would be the
opportunity to replicate the decentralization and
resource mobilization policy changes nationally once the
adjustments have been tested, ard the strengthening of
BOP capabilities. The principal risk is that goals of
decentralization and accompanying gains may not be fully
realized, given limited management capacity, and the
difficulties inherent in attempting to implement policy
and procedural innovations. There is also the risk that
unless there are concomitant improvements in quality of
service, cost-recovery measures could lead to a decrease
rather than an increase in health service utilization.
Significant assistance to strengthen the capabilities of
the provincial and central staff to implement these
reforms, a gradual phasing of the policy measures and
selective targetting of cost recovery measures, would
minimize these risks. Additionally, the annual review of
work plans and budgets with the Bank would also allow for
corrections to ensure project success.



Estimated Costs:                                   Local      ForeiRn     Total
------ (US$ million) ------
1. Sector Expenditure Program SuRport
Health Service Delivery                    46.1        11.6       57.7
Communicable Disease Control                2.6         0.3        2.9
Supporting Programs                         7.0         5.4       12.4
Subtotal                                 55.7        17.3       73.0
2.  PolicY Support
Decentralized and Integrated Plan
and Budget                                1.1         2.2        3.3
Resource Mobilization                       0.5         0.7        1.2
Subtotal                                  1.6         2.9        4.5
3.  Sector Manaaement Improvement                 5.9          1.8       7.7
Base Costs                               63.2        22.0       85.2
Physical Contingencies                      1.4         1.2        2.6
Price Contingencies                        13.1         2.6       15.7
Total Costs                              77.7        25.8      103.5 la
Financi g Plan:
GOI                                              51.7          -        51.7
IBRD                                             23.9         19.6      43.5
Japan Grant Facility                              1.2          2.8       4.0
AIDAB Lb                                          0.9          3.4       4.3
Total                                    77.7        25.8      103.5
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY             1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Annual                         2.0      4.4      7.6   10.0    10.0      9.5
Cumulative                     2.0      6.4     14.0   24.0    34.0    43.5
Rate of Return: Not applicable
MLaps            TBRD Map Nos. 21275 and 21306
/a Includes identifiable taxes estimated at $3.2 million equivalent.
/b Australian International Development Assistance Bureau.



INDONESIA
THIRD HEAL.TH PROJECT
I. THE HEALTH SECTOR, ISSUES AND STRATEGY
A. Health Status
1.1      Mortality and Morbidity.  Indonesia has achieved considerable prog-
ress in the health sector during the last two decades. In 1985, life
expectancy was 56 years, up from 42 years two decades earlier; the crude death
rate was 12 per thousand, about 372 lower than in 1965; and the infant mortal-
ity and child death rates were about 70 per thousand live births and 12 per
thousand children aged 1-4 years in 1985, compared to 138 and 20 in 1965.
These improvements were associated with substantial expansion in Government of
Indonesia (GOI) financed community and preventive health programs which took
place during the oil boom period. However, significant disparities exist in
both mortality and morbidity among Indonesia's widely distpersed provinces,
within districts in provinces, and between the rural and urban areas--with the
average urban resident in Java enjoying much better health status and access
to health services than the average rura. dweller in the Outer Islands. For
example, life expectancy at birth in Yogyakarta is 61 versus only 52 and 47
years in Sulawesi and Nusa Tenggara Barat (NTB) respectively, while the infant
mortality rate ranges from a low of 29 in Yogyakarta to a high of 146 in NTB
(1985). However, it should also be noted that despite the significant infant
mortality decline which has been achieved, Indonesia's performance still lags
behind levels achieved in neighboring countries (e.g., in Malaysia,
Philippines and Thailand, infant mortality rates were 36, 54 and 49 respec-
tively, while it averaged 45 in the East and South Asia region as a whole.)
1.2      Although Indonesia's epidemiological profile has not changed markedly
during the last decade or so, some differences in disease patterns between the
economically more advanced urban centers and the less developed rural areas
are starting to eiaerge. Currently, the most prevalent causes of overall mor-
tality and morbidity continue to include acute respiratory and gastro-intesti-
nal diseases, intestinal parasites, skin and eye infections, and vector-borne
diseases, principally malaria.  Up to one-half of total mortality (about
992,000 deaths per annum) occurs among children below 5 years of age; and the
leading causes of death among infants (0-12 months) are diarrhea, neonatal
tetanus and lower respiratory infections, exacerbated by malnutrition. It is
estimated that about 80Z of the infant deaths per annum could be avoided
through simple, low-cost therapy and prevention. Maternal mortality, due
principally to post partum hemorrhage, infection and toxemia is also high
(estimated at 4.5 per 1,000 live births) and well above that of other ASEAN
count-ies (Malaysia 0.69, Thailand 1.0, Philippines 1.6). About 64Z of preg-
nant women receive basic prenatal care, and less than 40Z of all deliveries
are attended by trained personnel of any kind.



-2-
1.3      Over the coming decade it will be necessary for the health sector to
adapt to changing disease patterns associated with economic growth and
improved social conditijns. While childhood diseases of the infectious type
will continue to prevail, there is clearly a tendency for diseases of aging,
trauma and other noncommunicable diseases to increase.  Mew health problems
associated with urban living are beginning to appear; the emergence of cardio-
vascular and cerebro-vascular diseases has recently been noted. Its impor-
tance should not be underestimated, since the costs of treating chronic
diseases and acute trauma are high and usually require ho3pital care.
1.4      Demographic Profile. Indonesia's current populatior is estimated at
about 175.6 million (Central Bureau of Statistics). Sixty percent of the
population currently lives in Java-Bali (on less than 7Z of the country's land
area) and about 221 of all Indonesians live in urban cer.tert   The population
increased at an average annual rate of 2.1Z between 1980-85 an.. it was
estimated at 1.95? in mid 1988, the rate .aaving declined from about 2.5X in
1975. The decline is primarily attributable to lower fertility, caused, in
turn, by rising average age at marriage and widespread contraceptive use,
especially in Java and Bali. Over the past two decades, the crude birth rate
fell from about 43 per thousand population to its present level of 32 per
thousand (1985). The total fertility rate (TFR) has declined by 2 children
and is estimated at 3.4 in 1988 and, at present, the proportion of eligible
couples using contraception is aDout 4.5X. Much of this achievement is
attributed to the success of the family planning program. At the end of
Repelita V (1994), the Bureau of Statistics projections show a population of
196.3 million and a reduced annual growth rate of 1.7Z. In order to reach
this target, the TFR would need to decline to 2.88 with a corresponding birth
rate of 24.9 per 1,000 popr,lation and a contraceptive prevalence rate of
54.4?. Thus, continuing support needs to be provided for fertility control.
1.5      Nutrition.  Based on the adjusted minimum daily requirement for
Indonesia (2,100 calories and 45.9 grams of protein), in general, available
calories are sufficient and protein is adequate, yet protein-energy malnutri-
tion (PEM) remains a serious problem and is a major contributor to the still-
high rates of infant and chi'l mortality. 1985 data show that about 30? of
all preschoolers suffer from. moderate to severe PEM. Other nutritional prob-
lems include Vitamin A deficiency, iodine deficienc: and iron deficiency
resulting in anemia. Comparing the change in nutritional status of the
Indonesian population over time reveals that for children under 5, the PEM has
been reduced from 29.12 (1979) to 12.6Z (1986). Significant reductions have
been achieved in urban areas, but there has been no progress in rural areas.
The data also vary considerably across provinces with the incidence of malnu-
trition reaching 20X of children in Nusa Tenggara, while affecting only 3.2Z
in Bali.
B. Health Organization and Service System
1.6      Organization.  At the central level, t'q Ministry of Health (MOH) is
responsible for the formulation and implementation of national health policy
and for the overall administration, coordination and management of the coun-
try's health system. It is headed by the Minister, responsible to the Presi-
dent, and consists of the Secretariat-General, the Inspectorate-General, and



- 3 -
four Directorates-Generalst for Community Health, Medical Care, Communicable
Disease Control (CDC), and Food and Drugs Control. A National Institute of
Health Research and Development is responsible for health research and its
Director reports to the Minister. Finally, there are five established centers
responsible respectively for health data collection and analysis, laboratory
services, health edu:ation, pre-service training and in-service training. An
MOH organogram, reflecting its March 1984 reorganization (Decree No. 15/1984)
is attached &,a Chart 1.
1.7      At the provincial level, the MOH shares responsibility with the pro-
vincial government, answerable to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA), for
administering government health services (Chart 2). The dual management sys-
tem comprises an MOH Provincial Health Office (Kanwil Depkes), technically and
administratively responsible to MOH, and a Provincial Health Service (Dinas
Kesehatan Dati I), technically responsible to the provincial administration
and administratively responsible to the Provincial Governor. To facilitate
appropriate coordination, one official is both MOH Provincial Officer
(Kakanwil) and Provincial Health Officer (Kepala Dinas). Specific programs or
projects are the responsibility of project officers (PIMPROs). The Dinas
Kesehatan is responsible for the implementation of government health services
in the province handed over by MOH to the local government (para. 1.9). The
Dinas is also sipposed to take a "horizontal" view of all provincial health
services to complement the more "vertical" or technical perspective of the
Kanwil.
1.8      At the district level there is the District Health Office (Kandep) a
vertical unit of MOH and the District Health Service (Dinas Kesehatan, Dati
II). which is a technical unit of the district administration and administra-
tively responsible to the Bupati/Walikota or head of the district or municipal
administration. In general, there is only one administration, the Dinas
Kesehatan Dati II, which is responsible for the implementation of all health
services at the district (Kabupaten), subdistrict (Kecamatan) and village
levels handed over to the local government. The head of this administration,
the District Health t,fficer (Dokabu), is again the focal point of dual lines
of control. The district health administration plays an important role in
primary health care as it supervises the district health network, organizes
the distribution of drugs and is responsible for the execution of CDC pro-
grams. The provincial and district organizational structures are shown in
Charts 3-6.
1.9      In line with GOI's strategy of decentralization, part of the health
responsibilities were transferred from the central to the regional govern-
ments. The delegation of authority and legal basis for the transfer is formu-
lated in Public Law No. 7 of 1987 (PP7/87). By this law, the central govern-
ment transferred all services, and/or facilities "currently administered by a
regional government to the regional government.01/ The head of the regional
government therefore assumed responsibility for the delivery of basic and
1/ The Public Law defined a region as a province and/or regency cited in
Public Law No.5, 1974 establishing guidelines on regional
administrations.



- 4 -
comprehensive health services. Other responsibilities transferred included
the ability to enact rates on health services, undertake training programs and
the transfer of routine appropriations. MOH respecnsibility is for technical
guidance in the delivery of health services transferred to the regional admin-
istration and for the prevention and eradication of certaln contagious
diseases. This was followed by another ordinance Public Law No. 6 of 1988
(PP6/1988) which unambiguously placed the responsibility for coordit.ation of
program execution (development and implementation) and monitoring under the
Regional Head.
1.10     Health Service System.  Since the mid-1970s, Indonesia has made sub-
stantial investments in developing the basic infrastructure and human
resou:ces for a comprehensive primary health care delivery system, which is
the principal source of modern preventive and curative services used by the
rural poor.  It also provides the infrzstructure base needed to support out-
reach delivery of cost-effective preventive health interventions. At present,
each of the country's 3,400 subdistricts has at least one health center
(Puskesmas) and in 1988, there were about 6,709 health renters including those
with beds. Maternal and child health (MCH) services including ante-natal and
post-natal care, infant care with emphasis on immunization and growth
monitoring, nutrition and family planning services are provided at health
centers as well as CDC program activities, hygiene and sanitation, community
health education, and school health and dental treatment. In some cases,
principally in very densely populated or remote areas, health centers are
equipped with up to 10 beds and provide simple in-patient care. According to
current MOH standards, each health center is to be headed by a doctor with a
staff of between 8 and 15 nurses and nonnurse paramedics, varying by region.
1.11     Below and linked to health centers, are the health subcenters
(Puskesmas pembantu) which provide basic care, including vaccination and
health education. There were 14,562 subcenters in 1988. These are generally
headed by a nurse or midwife and the total staff generally numbers less than
three. Planninig targets specify a ratio of 3 or 4 health subcenters per
health center depending on the region. Basic MCH care is also provided
through mobile health centers, consisting of vehicle with a doctor, nurse,
auxiliary, sanitp-Aan and driver, and based either at a local district hospi-
tal or a la:ge health center. In 1988 there were about 3,251 such mobile
centers serving villages surrounding district or subdiatrict capitals.
1.12     In addition to expanding the infrastructure for its formal primary
level health system, GOI (with assistance from UNICEF and the Bank, under the
Second Nutrition and Community Health Project (Loan 2636-IND)), has also ini-
tiated an ambitious community outreach program, aimed at reducing infant,
child and maternal mortality and fertility. The program has as its focus the
delivery of fi'e key interventions--MCH, immunization, diarrheal control,
iamily planning and nutrition (mainly child weighing and supplemental feed-
ing)--at village health posts, posyandu. These are established by the commu-
nity organizatio;s such as the Family Welfare Women's Movement (PKK) assisted
by health center staff. Posyandu activities are conducted by trained village
volunteers (kader), with the technical assistance and support of trained



family planning, health and nutrition staff from the National Family Planning
Coordinating Board (BKKBN's) subdistrict offices and the MOH's health centers
and subcenters. The program is expected to improve knowledge and utilization
of modern health, nutrition and family planning services, promote early diag-
nosis of health problems and encourage better family/community health beha-
vior. The community outreach program covers all 27 of Indonesia's provinces
and it is estimated that there were about 200,000 posyandu in 1986/87 and 1.3
million health volunteers had been trained.
1.13     Besides the primary-level network of health centers and subcenters,
MOH hospital services includes some 313 hospitals throughout Indonesia.2/ Of
these, 74 are specialty hospitals for specific diseases/problems such as lep-
rosy, mental illness or tuberculosis. The remainder are general hospitals,
classified into categories - Class A (approximately 1,450 beds), Class B
(400-1,000 beds), Class C (100-400 beds) and Class D (25-100 beds) according
to the services and facilities provided. Class C and D hospitals, usually
located in district capitals, are intended to serve as the main referral point
for lower-level (primary care) facilities. As such, these district hospitals
are expected to help establish the credibility of health centers and
subcenters, through providing continuing care to patients that health centers
are not equipped to treat, including care for complicated deliveries,
accidents, pediatric emergencies and general surgery.  In practice, there is
very little distinction in terms of services provided between health centers
and Class D district hospitals, and, in consequence, virtually no referral
from the former to the latter. The overall availability of hospital beds,
around 0.5 per 1,000 population, is low as it amounts to about one-quarter the
ASEAN average.
1.14     It should be noted that all the above levels of the health service
system are intimately involved in deliverin3 about 702 of Indonesia's family
planning services. Hospitals, health centers and sub-cer.ters are responsible
for about 801 of these services while the remainder are provided through the
posyandus. Previously, under the aegis of BKKBN, Village Contraceptive Dis-
tribution Centers (VCDC) were established independently in each community but
now these centers have been incorporated as an integral part of the Posyandu's
five point program (para. 1.12). Coordination between BKKBN and MOH is sus-
tained closely throughout all levels of Government, and BKKBN provides policy
and program guidance to MOH, supports family planning workers as part of the
posyandu team and maintains the flow of contraceptive supplies to the health
services. Puskesmas and hospitals provide facilities for contraceptive ser-
vices requiring a clinical or surgical setting and provide a point of referral
for fertility problems and more complicated cases.
1.15     Health manpower in Indonesia is classified as follows:  (a) medical
staff, i.e., physicians, dentists and pharmacists; (b) paramedical staff,
including nurses, assistant pharmacists, X-ray, laboratory and other technical
2/  It is estimated that there are 683 hospitals in Indonesia (excluding
nongovernmental specialty hospitals). Besides the 313 controlled by
MOH, 115 belong to other Ministries, 80 are operated by quasi-public or
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO's) and 175 are private hospitals.



- 6 -
personnel; and (c) auxiliary personnel, e.g., orderlies, cooks, drivers, jani-
tors, etc. Estimates suggest that the 200,000 - 210,000 workers in the MOH
system represent about 80Z of the total stock of health manpower in Indonesia.
Among MOH workers, about half are nonmedical staff while medics and paramedics
number about 14,700 and 84,400 respectively. The geographic and functional
distribution of MOH employees remains an important con,ern from the stand-
points of inter- and intra-provincial equity. Although, based on official
staff placement information, staff to population ratios are relatively equi-
table across provinces, access to a doctor or nurse is generally poorer in the
Outer Island provinces where population densities are low and communications
difficult.
C. Issues
1.16     Recent sector work on Health Planning and Budgeting (Green Cover
Report No. 7291-IND of August 26, 1988), and experience with the implementa-
tion of ongoing projects has identified some of the key issues facing the
health sector. These include sector expenditure constraints, low )evels and
also inequity in the utilization of health services, allocation  .oblems
between preventive and curative services, internal efficiency issues, defi-
ciencies in planning and budgeting, inadequate resource mobilization and limi-
ted sector management capabilities.
1.17     Sectoral Expenditures.  MOH health expenditure in 1985/86 was an
estimated Rp 621 billion, comprising about Rp 348 billion of routine account
expenditure and Rp 272 billion of development expenditure. This was
equivalent to about Rp 3,781 (US$3.4) per capita. It constitutes 0.62 of GDP.
Although per capita expenditure has virtually doubled in real terms since
1972/73, Indonesia still spends significantly less on health than many other
countries at similar income levels. Expenditure on health is about 2.32 of
central government spending in Indonesia, compared to an average 5.62 in other
ASEAN countries.
1.18     The central government is the dominant source of finance for budgsL-
ary expenditures. Although the bulk of sectoral expenditure (892) is incurred
in the regions, central government sources provided 862 of financing for over-
all expenditures in 1985/86. Provincial and district governments financed
less than one-fifth of total expenditure (10% and 42 respectively). The heavy
fiscal dependence on a low budgetary share has serious implications for the
health sector's ability to sustain already inadequate levels of spending.  It
is evident that unanticipated resource constraints associated with the oil
price decline have inhibited government efforts to strengthen the health sys-
tem in recent years.  While the fourth five-year plan (Repelita IV--
1983/84-1988/89) document calls for a public investment program for the health
sector estimated to cost Rp 2,052 billion, central government development
expenditure during the first three years of Repelita IV totalled only about
242 of the estimated resources required to meet plan targets for the period.
Although there is a lack of comprehensive budgetary statistics for recent
developments, available estimates indicate that by 1987/88, real spending
levels had declined by 452 (Rp 195.1 billion) compared to peak levels achieved
in 1982/83. Indications are that the regional government spen.ding has not



- 7 -
compensated for this dramatic decline in the level of central government
outlays. Thus, the impact of fiscal adjustment on the health sector is a
virtual halt on capacity expansion and a substantial deterioration in the
quality of services.
1.19     The problems of resource scarcity have been exacerbated by the frag-
mentation of funding between different budget channels (para. 1.24) and wide
provincial variations in levels of government spending. For example, govern-
ment spending per capita in 1985 ranged from Rp 2,012 in Lampung and Rp 3,084
in NTB to Rp 6,2x,9 in Jakarta. These inequities are largely determined by the
regressive allocation of central government finance. Central allocations
favor the better off provinces, with higher levels of central spending closely
associated with higher per capita incomes and substantial local tax bases.
For example, Jakarta has five times the per capita local revenues of NTB but
receives twice as much in central subsidies for health.
1.20     Utilization of Services.  Despite Indonesia's considerable accom-
plishments in expanding the basic infrastructure for primary health care,
health conditions of the majority of the population remain poor. In addition
to socio-economic and environmental factors, this is also attributable to the
low impact of existing formal health care services. Estimates based on a
recent MOH household survey carried out in 7 provinces in 1985/86 show that
outpatient utilizat4'n averaged only 0.5 contacts per person per year while
inpatient utilization averaged 8.3 admissions per 1,000 per year.3/ A result
of the latter is that bed occupancy rates at hospitals are generally very low.
In 1986, occupancy rates for MOH facilities averaged only 58Z of total avail-
able bed days, or only 50? of potential bed capacity despite the relative
limited availability of hospital beds in Indonesia. These low utilization
rates are also associated with considerable inequities in the use of health
services between income classes. SUSENAS data for 1978 show that households
in the lower 402 of the per capita expenditure distribution made only 21? of
health center and 162 of hospital visits. By contrast, civil servants who are
members of the government-sponsored insurance scheme, ASKES, constitute a
disproportionately high percentage (up to 602) of health system clients. In
1985, outpatient visits per ASKES member averaged around 2.7 per year and
inpatient visits were about 38 per 1,000 per year. To some extent these dif-
ferentials may reflect the rupiah coverage provided by the insurance scheme,
but also the greater proximity of the better-off insured persons to available
facilities. Surveys have shown that, on average, the majority of users origi-
nate from within a narrow radius of a facility. The data demonstrate that the
poverty alleviation impact of available health services in Indonesia is rela-
tively modest as access to modern facilities is low compared to other Asian
countries and utilization is much lower among the poor. Further, the unit
cost of delivering health services is high.
3/ The low level of utilization is seen relative to statistics for other
developing countries. For example, in Sri Lanka, statistics for 1982
show that outpatient utilization averaged 2.1 visits per person and
inpatient utilization averaged 161 admissions per 1,000 per year.



-8-
1.21     Funding Allocation.  There has been a significant reallocation of
spending priorities away from Communicable Disease Control (CDC) activities.
which are largely provided through the health center delivery system, in favor
of curative services. In 1987/88, total allocation for CDC programs was only
Ry, 9 billion, having collapsed from a level of Rp 26.4 billion in 1985/86.
This reflects a major deterioration in the already low CDC share of centr-l
spending, from around 8? to only 3Z. In the face of such budget reduct4sons,
in FY87/88, it was decided to concentrate only on three of the laraest pro-
grams--immunization, malaria, and diarrheal disease control--which are linked
to the over-riding goal of reducing infant mortality. Funding was withdrawn
from all other disease specific activities implying the effective cessation of
all other CDC programs. The water supply and sanitation program which is
under CDC has also been drastically reduced as a result of budgetary cuts and
recent surveys indicate that the actual water supply and sanitation coverage
in rural areas is only about 16Z-10Z. The above reflects a serious allocation
problem in setting expenditure priorities because the case for public sector
financing is particularly strong on externality grounds for these programs
which yield benefits to the community as a whole rather than individuals.
1.22     Internal Efficiency.  The quality of health services has been affec-
ted by declining levels of recurrent expenditure manifest in shortages of
essential drugs, medical supplies, and equipment, and by inadequate budget
allocations for the travel, per diem and materials costs needed for training,
supervision, health education and outreach efforts. The decline in the non-
personnel expenditures has also led to a rapidly growing imbalance between
personnel and nonpersonnel expenditures with resultant effects on health staff
productivity. Recent estimates indicate that incremental operation and main-
tenance (O&M) requirement are about Rp 460 billion or about double the exist-
ing level of recurrent expenditures on the health sector. Poor planning,
including lack of realistic norms for O&M requirements has been partly contri-
butory to the problem. For example, to date, the government has tended to use
simple, sometimes arbitrary, formulae (e.g., per capita calculations or
nationally determined average unit costs) in making routine allocations, with
the result that these frequently bear little relationship to local or regional
needs. One instance is drug allocations to facilities, which are determined
by the size of the population in the catchment areas with little regard for
client profiles, region-specific epidemiological problems or the special pro-
grams to be supported by the facility. Similarly, allocations for travel,
based on "verage unit costs, are often inadequate in rural areas and Outer
Island provinces where communications are difficult and transport costs cor-
respondingly high. Funds for maintenance are also grossly inadequate leading
to a rapid deterioration in the physical condition of hospitals and health
centers.
1.23     Health Manpower.  Low productivity of health workers is a pervasive
problem throughout the government health system. Apart from the absence of
appropriate salary incentives, several other factors also contribute to low
output. For example, low productivity is at least partially a function of the
existing manpower allocation process which ties staffing standards solely to
facility-type, without regard to the workload being handled by the facility.



- 9 -
To address this problem, the MOH is currently in the process of revising its
staffing standards to incorporate utilization information into allocation
decisions. Low productivity may also stem from structural barriers to utili-
zation, e.g., lack of specialized equipment, staff or drugs. There is little
doubt that inadequate or inappropriate pre-ard in-service training is a major
constraint to improved worker productivity. For example, although medical
schools provide virtually no training in public health, health services admin-
istration and management or preventive/promotive activities, recently-gradua-
ted physicians posted to health services are nonetheless expected to coordi-
nate and supervise a large number of activities ranging from basic curative
care to specialized communicable disease programs. Nor. itn the absence of a
systematic in-service training program, are these deficiencies adequately
corrected on the job. There is also maldistribution of existing health man-
power with a shortage of health personnel (both doctors and paramedics) par-
ticularly at primary level facilities in remote/rural areas and in the Outer
Island provinces. Provision of doctors to rural areas and remote health cen-
ters is accomplished by rotating recent medical school graduates on two year
mandatory duty. As a result of the short length of stay, it is extremely
difficult to augment the doctor/population ratio or maintain health center
staffing in rural areas. The resulting acute shortages of personnel at pri-
mary care facilities have serious consequences for the quality and continuity
of the ser-ice they provide.
1.24     Planning and Budgeting.  Despite GOI's commitment to decentralization
(PP7/87 and the more recent PP6/88) (para. 1.9) there is little provincial
autonomy in planning and budgeting resulting in poor management and ineffi-
cient use of available resources in the health sector. There is also no con-
solidated budget of financial flows to health services. Public health insti-
tutions and services are financed from a multiplicity of national, provincial
and district budgetary sources, as well as several non-budgetary sources,
including foreign aid and ASKES and each budgetary source contributes to mul-
tiple functions. Ten different budgetary sources of funds 41 for the public
health system are shown in Chart 6 and briefly summarized below:
Central Government 5/
APBN-DIP               Central Ministry of Health development budget
APBN-DIK               Central Ministry of Hsalth routine budget
INPRES Kesehatan       Sectoral development grant to regional governments
BLN                    Project aid (grants and loans)
SDO                    Salary expenditure grant to regional governments
SBBO-RSUD              Nonsalary expenditure grant for regional hospitals
4/  The actual financing picture ;s more complex as the list only includes
services delivered by MOH. Related health expenditures funded by other
Departments and state enterprises are excluded.
5/ Daftar Isian Proyek (DIP); Daftar Isian Kegiatan (DIK); Instruksi
Presiden (Inpres); Bantuan Luar Negeri (BLN); Subsidi Daerah Otonomi
(SDO); Subsidi Bantuan Biaya Operational - Rumah Sakit Umum Daerah
(SBBO-RSUD).



- 10 -
Regional Governments
APBDI-DIP             Provincial health department development budget
APBDI-DIK             Provincial health department routine budget
APBDII-DIP            District health department development budget
APBDII-DIK            District health department routine budget
1.25     The fiscal fragmentation described above has important implications
for planning and management of the health system. First, since information on
financing is not assembled at any one point, it is almost impossible to have
an overview of the government health care system as a whole and to plan com-
prehensively. At each managerial level--national, provincial or district--
staff have only partial information concerning the resources to be employed in
operating the health services under their purview. Secondly, since different
functions, and even different inputs to the same function, are 'inanced on
different budgets, it is very difficult to reallocate between objectives.
modes of service delivery or input combinations. Third, most budgets derive
from and are programmed by the different divisions of the central MOH and not
at the local government level. This leads to inefficient use of available
manpower and other resources and encourages waste through lack of accountabil-
ity. Fourth, the classification of budgetary disbursements is misleading,
3.g., a large amount of recurrent spending is funded through the development
budget.
1.26     At the same time, there is little doubt that planning and budgeting
capacity remains extremely weak in the provinces. Moreover, in the absence of
an effective health information system including service data collection and
feedback, local gover.-ment officials lack basic information required to make
sound dc:isions. Thus, decision making and control remains highly centralized
in Jakarta. Improvements in financial accounting and reporting systems are
also needed to monitor costs and revenues and evaluate adequacy of expendi-
tures.
1.27     Resource Mobilization.  With the provision of adequate health ser-
vices now threatened by the scarcity of fiscal resources, the options for
increasing cost recovery directly from the beneficiaries of publicly provided
services needs to be reviewed. Although Indonesia has adopted a policy of
charging fees for services, the revenue yield is low with only 10 of total
recurrent expenditure recovered through user charges. While cost recovery
ratios are higher for hospitals, averaging about 20Z, even these are low com-
pared to the performance of some developing countries. In Thailand, cost
recovery in hospitals averages 402; in China, it averages about 802. These
figures suggest there may be substantial scope for mobilizing additional
resources by raising user charges. However, the design of the fee adjustments
should be selective and targetted at the better-off in order to ensure that
equity and efficiency objectives are adequately reflected in the fee structure
e.g., by targetting price increases to achieve full cost recovery for higher
quality classes of hospital inpatient accommodation. Apart from the revision
of fees, further efforts to reduce dependence on pubiic funds could be through
retention of fees at facilities to capture revenue leakages, providing an
incentive to generate more revenues by enforcing fee payments and increase
accountability.



- 11 -
1.28     In an attempt to mobilize additional resources for health programs,
the MOH and MOHA issued a joint directive to the provinces that all hospitals
revenues generated by user fees and deposited in the local treasury should be
returned to the hospitals. However, compliance with the directive is uneven
among provinces. Recent measures (1987) for resource mobilization include
revisions in the hospital fee structure and an increase in the health center
fee for outpatients to Rp 300 from Rp 15C (established since 1977).
1.29     Sector Management.  The institutional capacity of central MOH, par-
ticularly the Bureau of Planning (BOP), and the local governments needs to be
strengthened for the effective management of health programs. At the center,
BOP needs to be strengthened to assist in the monitoring and evaluation of all
on-going externally assisted projects and programs, and to prepare future
projects and programs. Additionally, the capacity to coordinate and evaluate
all donor assistance to the sector needs improvement. At the local government
level, despite PP7/87 the division of responsibilities between the Kanwil and
Dinas at the provincial and district levels has still not been clearly formu-
lated leading to problems in coordination and management of activities
(paras. 2.35-2.36).
D. Government Policy and Strategy
1.30     The Government assigned relatively low priority to the health sector
throughout the 1960s and early '70s. However, during the period of rapid
economic growth corresponding to Repelitas II (1974-79) and III (1979-83),
there was a large scale expansion of physical and human resources in the
health sector, and the Government established the low health center fee of
Rp 150 to increase health service utilization. In 1982, MOH in a document
entitled National Health System, articulated for the first time the long-term
objectives of Indonesia's health system with specific national public health
goals to be achieved by the year 2000. These included an increase in average
life expectancy to 60 years; a reduction in infant mortality to 45 per thou-
sand live births; a 502 reduction in the incidence of major communicable
diseases; and a reduction in malnutrition in children under five years from
30X to 10Z. This was complementary to Government's demographic or fertility
reduction goal which was to reduce the crude birth rate to 22 per thousand by
the year 2000. Although there was no question of the appropriateness of the
objectives, the realism of these goals was difficult to determLne owing, inter
alia, to the lack of accurate base-line data for these indicators and no
assessment of the feasibility of the targets in terms of the financial
resources required end available. Against this background, Repelita IV
(1983-1988) identified strengthening of health service delivery, particularly
efforts to integrate basic health services for mothers and children through
community participation (posyandu), manpower development, and programs to
strengthen health management as priorities. However, both the development
expenditure program (DIP and INPRES) and associated recurrent expenditures
proposed under Repelita IV were severely underfunded due to fiscal constraints
resulting from the oil price decline, and led to the emergence of the sector
issues outlined earlier (paras. 1.17 to 1.29).
1.31     Government strategy to improve health services and conditions under
Repelita V (1989-94) has been formulated. A Health Policy Statement, which
reflects the key elements of the Repelita V policies, and an Action Plan with
specific measures on these policies to be implemented during the project



- 12 -
period are attached as Annex 1. The statement indicates th.at the project
provinces of Kalimantan Timur (Kaltim) and Nusa Tenggara Barat (NTB) have been
selected as "pilot regions" for an accelerated implementation of these poli-
cies.
1.32     The major policies, which take into account the sector issues, are
briefly summarized below:
(a) Higher priority will be given to preventive and promotive health
activities and improving the nutrition status in regions where the
problems are greatest. This would be achieved by expanding health
delivery services close to people especially in remote areas, accel-
erating health education activities, increasing appropriate nutrition
interventions, expanding immunization, diarrhea control and other CDC
activities, and expanding the coverage of low cost rural water sup-
plies and sanitation;
(b)  Improving the quality of health services through better management of
resources, emphasis on O&M and strengthening hospital services as
part of the referral system. This would be achieved through the
development of health manpower training and health technologies,
adequate provision of personnel and strengthening the management
structure;
(c) Optimizing the use of financial resources through decentralized inte-
grated planning and budgeting with more responsibility given to local
governments with technical guidance and assistance from the center.
This would largely be achieved through the formulation of integrated
expenditure programs and financing plans; and
(d) Stimulating greater local resource mobilization. This would be
achieved achieved through a more balanced financing plan in terms of
budgetary allocations from the various sources, adjusting the fee
structures selectively, providing central subsidies based on local
revenue capacity and encouraging fee retention at the health facili-
ties for O&M requirements.
The last two policies represer.t a major shift in GOI strategy since it is the
first time explicit recognition has been given in a policy statement to finan-
cing issues, particularly the more efficient use of public resources and
increased resource mobilization for the health sector. USAID is also assist-
ing GOI to study health sector financing issues for Repelita V. In order to
ensure effective cooperation and avoid duplication of resources, the output of
two USAID studies (hospital management and operational efficiency and the
pharmaceutical sector) will be used for the proposed project (paras. 2.30 and
2.46). In addition, the acceleration of the decentralization policy in PP7187
and PP6/88, and a poverty alleviation focus with particular attention being
given to less developed regions are also key objectives of Repelita V.
E. Bank Role and Assistance Strategy
1.33     The Bank's involvement in the sector began in FY78 when the first
loan for nutrition for US$13 million (Ln. 1373-IND) vJas approved. The next
operation in FY82 was the Provincial Health Project (Ln. 2235-IND), whose main



- 13 -
objective is to expand infrastructure for and increase the effectiveness of
government health services delivery in three provinces of Sulawesi. Since
then, two additional projects, a Second Health (Manpower Development) project
(Ln. 2542-IND) and a Second Nutrition and Community Health project
(Ln. 2636-IND) totalling US$72.4 million, were approved in FY85 and FY86
respectively. Bank Group assistance has also been provided for the population
program in Indonesia. Assistance began in 1972, with a US$13.2 million credit
for a first population project (Ln. 300-IND). Since then, three additional
loans totalling US$106.5 million have been made for second, third and fourth
population projects (Lns. 1472-, 1869- and 2529-IND). The principal objective
of all four population projects has been to develop the institutional capacity
needed for planning, coordinating an` implementing Indonesia's population and
family planning program and to extend its coverage throughout the country.
This broad-based portfolio of financial and technical assistance activities
reflects the priorities and evolution of government policies, programs and
institutions in population, health and nutrition over the past decade.
1.34     Audit and project completion reports on the first three population
projects and the Nutrition project indicate that they had substantial program
development impact, besides achieving the project specific targets set out at
appraisal. In addition, a trend towards more timely implementation is observ-
able, with the Third Population Project closing on schedule in March 1985.
Problems encountered have related to: (a) GOI's cumbersome budgetary and
administrative procedures and (b) inadequate local participation in the plan-
ning of projects.
1.35     The more recent projects, parcicularly those in the health sector,
have had a number of implementation problems. One of the major issues has
been lack of institutional capacity. This includes: (a) fragmentation of
administrative responsibilities, lack of coordination, and consequent ineffi-
-ciencies since Bank projects are administered by a number of different depart-
ments within MOH; (b) inadequate management, since most project coordinators
are not full time and have other responsibilities; and (c) inadequate planning
and administrative capabilities within the Bureau of Planning of MOH to moni-
tor and evaluate on-going projects and undertake project preparation. Thus,
one of the lessons learnt is the need to strengthen sector management in OH
to specifically assist the respective Departments in improving the implementa-
tion of ongoing projects, as well as for future project preparation. Another
lesson, based on the experience of the Provincial Health Project, suggests
that although physical targets will be achieved, the prnject is unlikely to
significantly strengthen provincial planning and management as long as the
center remains heavily involved in day-to-day project/program implementation,
leaving little scope for provincial staff to exercise authority. Thus, given
GOI's policy emphasis on decentralization, greater attention needs to be paid
to improving local government's planning, budgeting and management capabili-
ties.
1.36     The Provincial Health Project has also highlighted the problem of
inadequ te planning for O&M expenditures. Although construction of hospitals
will be completed under the project, adequate commitments had not been secured
from the district governments for budgets for recurrent expenditures. Agree-
ments have now been obtained both on the provision of recurrent funds and that



- 14 -
all hospital revenues would be returned to the hospitals from the local Trea-
sury. However, the problem of inadequate planning and provision of O&M
requirements is a problem compounded by all donor agencies who have provided
loans for hospitals in Indonesia (Netherlands, France, Belgium, West Germany
and Japan). A common problem has been the provision of funding for the con-
struction of hospitals, and lack of attention paid to their O&M requirements
which have to be provided by the certral or local government budgets. All the
above considerations have been taken into account in designing the project
proposed in this report.
1.37     The Bank's future assisrance would support GOI's objectives and
strategy outlined in the Health Policy Statement. The Bank's emphasis
in the medium term, would be to support an increased level of health
expenditures. Bank assistance would be directed towards: (a) initiating the
restructuring of GOI expenditures towards community and preventive health
programs which have the greatest impact on decreasing infant and maternal
morbidity and mortality, and fertility and which are of greatest benefit to
the poor; (b) promoting more effective use of resources and supporting decen-
tralization efforts; (c) assisting Governmant to mobilize additional resources
for the sector; and (d) strengthening the institutional capabilities to plan,
manage and implement projects and programs. Whereas in the past the Bank
financed only investment projects with limited subsector or geographical scope
in the health sector, the proposed major focus -n financial adjustment and
institutional development will require a shift towards more policy based lend-
ing and strengthening of the sector dialogue. The recently completed sector
report on health planning and budgeting provides a good basis for this dia-
logue. However, as policy adjustments are necessarily difficult to achieve,
the Bank's assistance would be selective and phased over a long period. In
addition, since the management capacity is the major constraint in the sector,
each future health operation will include specific actions to strengthen sec-
tor management and to improve project management and implementation arrange-
ments.
1.38     The proposed project is the first phase of the above strategy, since
it helps sustain required expenditures for priority health programs in two
Outer Island Provinces, provides institutional support and would operational-
ize and test, at the provincial level, some of the principal adjustments rela-
ted to decentralization of planning, budgeting and management and resource
mobilization before these are proposed for wider national application.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Ori%in
2.1      In December 1985, the Government of Indonesia requested the Bank to
provide further assistance to develop provincial health programs. The initial
MOH project proposals emphasized specific investments in infrastructure in
Kalimantan Timur (Kaltim) and Nusa Tenggara Barat (NTB), without adequate
attention to either the shortages of recurrent costs and manpower which inhi-
bited efficient use of existing resources. However, experience with the Pro-
vincial Health Project being implemented and' initial findings of the health



- 15 -
sector study, indicated the difficulties inherent in attempting to strengthen
provincial health services without regard to issues of provincial responsibil-
ity for planning, budgeting and management and the need to ensure the sustain-
ability of recurrent costs. Therefore, upon further discussions with the
Government, BAPPENAS, the MOH and MOHA, it was agreed that the objective of
the proposed project would be to provide budgetary support to priority health
activities in the two project provinces, while policy and institutional
adjustments are being implemented.
B. Proiect Area
2.2      The project will provide assistance to the provinces of Kaltim and
NTB. The two provinces were chosen because of their different socio-economic
conditions, health status indicators and resource bases with Kaltim being the
better-off province in all respects. The provinces were also chosen because
of the interest of the local governments in initiating the policy reforms.
The provinces would, thus, provide differing models for policy adjustments
that may have wider replication in the future. Annex 2 provides a detailed
description of the two project provinces.
C. Project Obiectives
2.3      The project objectives are to improve the delivery of health services
to raise the health status of the population in Kaltim and NTB and strengthen
sector management through:
(a)  improving service coverage and quality in the provinces by supporting
the proposed health sector expenditure programs for Repelita V
(1989/90-1993/94) with increased emphasis on preventive and promotive
activities;
(b)  increasing efficiency in the use of available resources and encourag-
ing greater resource mobilization at the provincial level by imple-
menting, on a pilot basis: (i) policy measures for decentralized
and integrated planning, budgeting and management in line with the
two recent Public Laws (PP7/87 and PP6/88); and (ii) adjustments in
pricing and subsidy policies; and
(c)  strengthening institutional capabilities at the provincial and cen-
tral levels.
2.4      The Health Policy Statement provides the Repelita V policy framework
for the project, while the Action Plan specifically proposes the accelerated
implementation of the policy measures to be tested in these two provinces as
outlined in the project description below. The Health Policy Statement and
Action Plan were reviewed and agreed at negotiations. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Action Plan will be carried out according to
the schedule for its implementation and will be reviewed and updated with the
Bank on October 30 of each year commencing on October 30, 1989.



- 16 -
D. Proiect Description
2.5      The project would provide necessary funds to carry out health sector
activities in the provinces of Kaltim and NTB and also provide institutional
support to central MOH. The three main components of the project are:
(1' Sector Expenditure Program Support;
(2) Policy Support for Decentralization and Resource Mobilization; and
(3)  Sector Management Improvements.
Sector Expenditure Program Support
2.6      The project supports the Repelita V health sector expenditure pro-
grams which have been reviewed and are acceptatte to the Bank.  The support
would be to strengthen and improve on-going pro&rams particularly aiming to
reduce infant, child and maternal morbidity, mortality and fertility. The
draft Action Plan (Annex 1) reflects specific measures to be undertaken to
strengthen preventive and promotive health activities and improve the quality
of health services. Key measures include the review and assessrment of an
appropriate composition and resource requirements for a core program of promo-
tive and preventive activities, and the establishment of norms for staffing
and other O&M requirements in health facilities.
2.7      The programs have been structured considering the sector constraints.
The programs, thus, reflect substantial increases in expenditure levels for
Repolita V (with due regard to implementation capability and absorptive capa-
city) from the low levels in the past. This includes improved resource allo-
cations for promotive and preventive programs including CDC programs, an
emphasis on O&M expenditures reflecting, to the extent: feasible, regional
needs and substantial support to strengthen the productivity of health man-
power. As a result of the substantial expenditure increases above, per capita
allocations for health would increase from the estimated current level
(1987/88) of Rp 5,200 to Rp 9,550 in Kaltim (+832) and from Rp 2,400 to
Rp 5,464 (+128Z) in NTB, by the end of the project period.
2.8      The Sector Expenditure Program has three main functional components:
(i) health service delivery; (ii) CDC programs; and (iii) supporting programs
for training, health education, drug management and control and rural water
supply and sanitation (RWS&S).
2.9      Health Serzice Delivery (US$57.7 million net of contingencie').  This
component will assist in expanding the coverage and improving the quality of
services, with the objective of increasing the utilization of health services
from the current low levels. Support would be provided for the full system of
health service delivery facilities, but stressing the most peripheral activi-
ties and the inter-linkages between different service levels.
2.10     Community Participation.  Development of posyandus to deliver Govern-
ment's priority community and preventive health programc is a cornerstone of



- 17 -
the strategy to move more towards maintenance of health and to reduce the
burden of sickness and death that falls on mothers and children, particularly
among the poor. The posyandu is a form of community participation that pro-
vides the outreach to improve the delivery of cost-effective preventive health
ir.terventions within the community. Already over half of DPT and polio immu-
nizations and nearly two-thirds of child weighing activities are provided
through the posyandus and this performance may be expected to improve with the
extension of the posyandu strategy (MOH Assessment of the Integrated Family
Health Package (1987)). Health personnel play a critical role in supporting
community efforts to promote and sustain posyandu activities, providing guid-
ance, technical advice and supplies. In poorer communities, the role of the
health center staff has become a critical factor in supporting community
organizations such as the PKK to be established and to assist in creating new
posyandus. Frequent visits by health staff to each village are essential in
the early phases of poeyandu development to sustain activity, and provide
encouragement as well as technical support.
2.11     The project would assist in strengthening the GOI's community based
posyandu strate-y by supporting community organizations and PKK increase the
numbers of posyandus and improve their capability to deliver GOI's priority
programs for mothers and -hildren. The Expanded Program of Immunization
(EPI), diarrheal disease control, nutrition services, family planning services
and natal care are key programs expected to lead to declines in child and
maternal morbidity and mortality, reductions of fertility as well as to
improve nutritional status, and these programs would be effectively promoted
and carried out under the project. With regard to nutrition programs, the
project would provide support to strengthen community participation in reduc-
ing malnourished patients, particularly schotA children, improve community
behavior in preventing diseases caused by malnourishment and to strengthen
nutrition surveillance. The project would assist community leaders to mobi-
lize and organize posyandus, and would provide managerial and technical sup-
port fronr the health centers. In NTB, it is expected that by the end of
Repelita V about 3,340 posyandus will be functioning (currently there are
about 2,599) which implies a modest expansion of the program. In Kaltim the
increase in the number of posyandu will be about 1,200 and a major focus would
also be on strengthening existing posyandus (about 1,630) through training of
kaders (voluntary health workers at the posyandu) and improving logistical and
managerial support for community activities. The project would finance opera-
tional support, training and necessary supplies and materials, including some
drugs and vaccines. Technical training would be provided to kaders and to
traditional birth attendants (Dukun) who will be provided with delivery kits.
Orientation and training in aspects of community development work would be
provided to community leaders, particularly members of the PKK.
2.12     To gain a better understanding of community attitudes in relation to
health and health related programs and also the critical interface between
commrnity based organizations and the formal health care delivery system,
studies will be undertaken during the initial phases of the project focussing
on these issues. Employing qualitative research methods, such as group focus
and participant observer, the studies would be followed by later assessments
to permit evaluation of changes in behavioral attitudes and adaptation. The



- 18 -
studies would be expected to contribute to an enhanced ability to sustain
community commitment to health programs and a strengthened partnership between
the community and the Government's health services.
2.13     Health Center Development Program.  The health center development
program would improve the availability and quality of services and conse-
quently their utilization through creating and strengthening health center and
subcenter facilities and functions. In both provinces, the health centers and
subcenters provide the critical support to initiate and sustain the community
based posyandu program, and the majority of the coumunicable disease control
activities are executed by the field workers on the staff of the health cen-
ters and subhealth centers under the direction of the health center doctor.
Reflecting the national problem, there have been significant reductions in
inveetmert and recurrent expenditures for transport, operational expenses and
maintenance which have made it difficult for MOH to fulfill its mandate to the
community. The project will provide for the rehabilitation of all health
centers, subcenters and staff housing which have seriously deteriorated due to
low maintenance budgets. The project will also upgrade heavily used subcen-
ters to health centers and in remote health centers provide limited inpatient
accommodation. Only 6 new health centers and about 43 new subcenters will be
built where there is particular need, mostly in more remote rural areas.
Provision for staff housing will be made at existing facilities where there is
none at present, as well as at new facilities, to ensure that lack of accommo-
dation does not remain an impediment to full staffing of health posts.   The
O&M costs for health centers and subcenters in the two provinces have been
increased based both on standard norms, for example, staffing, and norms that
have been calculated specifically for the provinces, for example, transport
costs and drug consumption. Additional technical and managerial training for
health and subhealth center personnel will be supported under the project.
Medical equipment, solar powered units to sustain the cold chain for the immu-
nization program in areas with no electricity and other necessary operational
support to improve the quality of services will be provided.
2.14     Logistical and managerial support for the posyandu is h.ndicapped by
the limited mobility of health center and subcenter staff.  Adequate transport
and vehicle maintenance are essential to provide support and supervision for
peripheral health care services and sustain outreach programs. Kaltim has a
very limited road system and in many areas river transport and, in some cases,
air services provide the only links between communities. Remoteness
contributes significantly to costs of providi-g supplies and ensuring there is
regular contact with district and provincial staff. To assist overcoming
constraints in staff mobility, the project will provide necessary vehicles and
long shaft outboard motors for river boats and provide for vehicle mainte-
nance. NTB's need for additional transport is less acute and confined to
vehicles. Communications between more remote facilities and district and
provincial authorities in Kaltim will be improved under the project through
the installation of radio communication equipment.
2.15     Hospital Development Program.  Hospitals, at the apex of the health
care delivery system, provide a range of services unavailr.ble at more periph-
eral facilities and act as a point of referral. Most of the hospitals in both



- 19 -
provinces are Class D (see para. 1.13). The standards and quality of services
provided through these important district level facilities vary enormously,
but, overall, tend to be poor. Inadequate facilities and equipment largely as
a result of budget constraints, limited staff skills particularly in the field
of surgery, poor supporting facilities and lack of appropriate supplies limits
the ability of these district hospitals to fulfill their role in the commu-
nity. One result is that bed occupanny rates (BOR) are low. For example, in
Kaltirm the BOR of Class D hospitals is about 35Z. The situation with the
Class B or C provincial hospitals is generally much better since they have
sufficient resources to carry out their functions at a reasonably adequate
level.
2.16     In Kaltim, a replacement hospital will be developed at a new site to
replace existIlg facilities.  The present Balikpapan hospital is 40 years old
and parts of the building have either subsided or collapsed, necessitating the
erection of some temporary structures to house patients. Although well situa-
ted in the center of the city, it is impractical and uneconomic to redevelop
the hospital at its current site and a new site had to be selected. However,
the existing site will be retained to develop a polyclinic providing outpa-
tient and emergency services. At Samarinda provincial hospital, some modest
upgrading of facilities will be undertaken including improvements in the waste
water and sewage disposal system and provision of eight private rooms to gen-
erate additional income for O&M expenses.
2.17     Additional equipment, supplies and adequate O&M budgets will be pro-
vided through the project to improve hospital performance and enable these
facilities to provide appropriate support to the more peripheral facilities.
Training to improve the technical and managerial capabiliti's of the staff at
the type D hospitals as well as the two larger hospitals at Samarinda and
Balikpapan will be conducted under the project. Part of the technical train-
ing will include a schedule of regular visits by specialist itaff to the dis-
trict hospitals which will also improve the level and qualityr of services at
Class D hospitals. To improve communications between facilities radio equip-
ment will be provided to link hospitals to district and provincial authorities
as well as the health post network. Technical assistance will be provided to
advise on appropriate systems, ensure system compatibility and give guidance
on maximizing the systems' usefulness as a training and managemexit tool.
Additionally, to improve financial management at hospitals, technical assis-
tance will be provided to develop appropriate accounting practices, standard
service and unit costs (see para. 2.46), and improve record and information
systems and maintenance standards and performance.
2.18     Is NTB, the bed capacity of the provincial hospital at Mataram will
be increased to meet growing demands for its scGrvices. Fortunately, the core
facilities at Mataram are modern and capable of servicing any increase in the
nuwber of beds in the foreseeable future. The difficulties faced by the five
district hospitals in NTB are similar to those faced in Kaltim and are partic-
alarly acute for the three hospitals on the island of Sumbawa (Dompu, Bima,
Sumbawa). However, the physical condition of all five district hospitals in
NTB is poor. In order to improve the ability of the district hospitals to



- 20 -
deliver better services and reduce the need to refer cases to Mataram (diffi-
cult and costly from Sumbawa), the facilities at all five hospitals will be
reorganized and renovated. Expansion of facilities will be limited, and con-
sist largely of the construction of sewage disposal facilities at all five
hospitals and staff housing. Support would be provided for necessary equip-
ment, O&M costs, training and technical assistance on a similar basis to
Kaltim.
2.19     Communicable Disease Control Programs - (US$2.9 million net of con-
tingencies).6/ This component, together with tie activities being undertaken
through the health centers, will ensure a minimum core prograrm of essential
CDC activities and lead to a reduction in the prevalence rates of major commu-
nicable disease.  While the program may be expected to have a broad effect on
the community its greatest beneficiaries will be children and young adults.
2.20     Malaria.  In both provinces malaria is highly endemic, dangerous and
a resurgent problem. The increase in malaria prevalence particularly affects
children before they have had an opportunity to develop a degree of immunity
and it is a significant cause of child mortality. Adults are debilitated by
frequent attacks of malaria and the disease contributes to a loss of produc-
tivity among adults. Causes for the increased prevalence of malaria are not
hard to find. The early success of control programs led to a decline in
interest and funding for sprayin0 and other control activities as malaria
incidence decreased. Increased drug and insecticide resistance have also
played a significant role in the re-emergence of malaria as an important pub-
lic health problem.
2.21     During the early stages of project implementation, the status of the
malaria problem will be placed on a precise scientific footing through studies
of malaria prevalence, drug and insecticide resistance and of the vectors.
Control activities will be greatly increased and support for spraying and
biological control programs and other supplies such as vehicles to facilitate
operations and equipment for surveillance activities as well as administrative
needs, would be provided for under the project. Insecticides will be used
solely to spray domestic structures following standards and guidelines set by
the World Health Organization. Monitoring of the safe and efficient applica-
tion of insecticides will be undertaken by CDC staff and the effectiveness of
the supervisory and monitoring achieves reviewed. Two small warehouses to
provide additional storage capacity for insecticides at strategic locations in
Kaltim and a similar warehouse in NTB would be built, and the provincial pub-
lic health laboratory at Samarinda, Kaltim, would be rehabilitated, furnished
and equipped. Support will be provided for training of CDC and other relevant
health staff.
6/ This allocation does not fully reflect the total funding for CDC
programs since the bulk of the budgetary allocations for drugs,
vaccines, travel costs and wages for daily paid staff are in the health
center budgets. Additionally, the total CDC program includes the
funding allocations for EPI, diarrhea control and water supply and
sanitation (about US$7.0 million) which are discussed elsewhere in the
report.



_ 21 -
2.22     Tuberculosis and Other Communicable Diseases.  Tuberculosis is a
major problem, particularly in Kaltim, and contributes significantly to the
morbidity and, to a lesser extent, the mortality pattern. There is no accu-
rate data on the prevalence of the disease in both provinces and an early
activity under the project would be to conduct prevalence surveys in both
provinces. Case detection and control are largely conducted through the regu-
lar health services but special programs, to monitor the disease and assist
staff to understand and deal with cases are needed. The project will provide
staff training about the epidemiological, identification and treatment of the
disease. To improve diagnostic capabilities, additional equipment and vehi-
cles will be provided and specialist technical staff will be provided with
operational support necessary for monitoring and surveillance activities. The
project will provide equipment, vehicles and training to enable the CDC pro-
grams effectively tackle other major communicable disease problems in the two
provinces, including arbovirus diseases, filariasis, leprosy, anthrax (partic-
ularly in Sumbawa) and sexually transmitted diseases.
2.23     Surveillance Epidemiology.  To develop a monitoring system for out-
breaks of communicable diseases such as dengue fever and enable the MOH to
promptly identify and respond to outbreaks, epidemiological surveillance capa-
bilities will be strengthened. Improved surveillance will require better
trained manpower, extension of the monitoring system to cover active epidemio-
logical data collection, better data analysis and presentation and improved
dissemination of information. Improved institutional capability to conduct
these activities will be supported through project assistance for training,
collection of epidemiological data, data processing and operational support
particularly for supervision. A small AIDS surveillance program will be
started in both Balikpapan and Mataram in support of MOH's medium term strat-
egy dealing with the threat of AIDS in Indonesia.
2.24     Supporting Programs - (US$12.4 million net of contingencies).  There
are four major programs: (a) training; (b) health education; (c) drug manage-
ment and control; and (d) rural water supply and sanitation.
2.25     Training.  Training activities are aimed at improving the available
manpower resources to help alleviate the current manpower shortages ilt both
provinces and to increase the skills, efficiency and productivity of manpower
through the provision of better pre-service and in-service training, as well
as necessary training facilities. The training programs were based on a man-
power assessment of both existing and projected manpower requirements over the
project period. Understandings were reached during negotiations that all
additional personnel positions (formasi) required for the project will be
provided annually by GOI and that the manpower will be allocated to the areas
with the greatest :.eed (see also para. 2.40 (d)).
2.26     Nurses are the mainstay of the paramedical staff responsible for
delivering services through the health centers, subcenters and conducting
community based programs. Nurse training is mostly hospital based but there
is increasing emphasis on the nurses role at smaller centers and in developing
posyandu programs which has resulted in an increasing share of their training
being undertaken outside of the hospital setting. A r,ew nurse school (SPK),



- 22 -
to replace outdated facilities, was started adjacent to Samarinda hospital but
remains unfinished and unoccupied due to a shortage of development funds. The
project will physically finish, furnish and equip this school to enable it to
train nurses. In NTB, the SPK at Mataram would be renovated and a new one
constructed adjacent to the hospital at Bima to replace the existing school
which is functioning in dilapidated borrowed military facilities.
2.27     There is a shortage of laboratory technicians and assistant nutri-
tionists in NTB. The current laboratory technician school (SMAK) and an
assistant nutritionist school (SPAG) at Mataram are regional in scope, serving
six eastern island provinces. The schools share facilities with the SPK and
conditions are cramped and inadequate. Under the project, a combined SMAK/
SPAG school will be constructed in Mataram as a regional training center, and
provided with equipment, supplies and vehicles. A program of staff strength-
ening will be undertaken and a multistream approach adopted for the curricu-
lum. These two schools would also be combined with the new in-service train-
ing center BLKM (see para. below) as a training complex resulting in further
economies in space utilization and creating a core training community.
2.28     A comprehensive program of in-service training activities covering
the full range of skills necessary for staff to function optimally will be
conducted for all staff levels throughout the project in both provinces.
Training is currently conducted at a number of sites in Kaltim and NTB and is
far from satisfactory. To institutionalize in-service training, training
centers (BLKM) will be constructed, furnished and equipped at Samarinda and
Mataram.   The project will support the development and training of BKLM staff
through domestic and overseas fellowships, the development of materials and
curricula for in-service training and undertake a program of training work-
shops and seminars for the health staff of each province. A summary of the
proposed domestic and overseas fellowship program is found in Annex 3. Staff
at all pre-service and in-service paramedical teaching institutions will be
incrementally increased to strengthen institutional capabilities. Understand-
ings were reached during negotiations on commitments to institutionalize the
new training schools to be built under the project which would ensure the
necessary recurrent budgets for their operation.
2.29     Health Education.  The main aim of health education is to promote
behavioral and attitudinal changes which lead to better health. Health educa-
tion, conducted at the time of patient visits to health personnel tends to be
limited in scope to issues of immediate concern and has to be backed up by a
broad and consistent program of health information directed at the community.
The project would provide assistance to both create greater awareness of the
existence of health services and posyandu and of promotive and preventive
health measures. In both provinces, provision will be made for equipment,
materials and supplies, and some operational costs to carry out Information,
Education and Communication (IEC) activities. These activities would include
the preparation of materials, staff training to improve the abilities of
health educators, and technical assistance for program development. Linkages
would be sought between the provincial programs and the Center for Health
Education in Jakarta, developed under a previous Bank loan (Ln 2636-IND). The



- 23 -
ability of the province's health education program to reach out to communities
and to community organizations will also be aided by the provision of mobile
health education units. The information and messages will focus particularly
on issues relating to MCH and will be directed particularly at women's and
youth organizations and through the posyandus. To provide the necessary
flexibility required by programs which attempt to change attitudes and
behavior, program activities will be prepared on an annual basis.
2.30     Drug Management and Control.  A consistent supply of essential drugs
of proven quality is a key element in developing and maintaining credible
health services. As an additional supply of essential drugs for the periph-
eral health services would be provided, drug management, inspection and qual-
ity control also need improvement. With respect to improving the effective-
ness and efficiency in the management of drugs, technical assistance is cur-
rently being provided by USAID to review the pharmaceutical sector, including
the review of the planning and procurement processes for drug needs, drug
distribution, total drug demands and utilization patterns, and to formulate
rational prescribing patterns using standard treatment and generic drugs. The
project would use the results and recommendations of the study (expected to be
available by June 1989) as appropriate, for these provinces. Assistance will
also be provided to develop a program of training needs for staff responsible
for drug procurement and supply, special inspections and laboratory staff.
The project would also provide for the operational costs for inspections
including provision of samples. To ensure adequate public safeguards about
drug quality, existing facilities to test and monitor the potency of drugs
will be strengthened, and a fully equipped drug warehouse built in Balikpapan.
2.31     Rural 'ater Supply and Sanitation.  Through the provision of ready
access to water supplies of good quality and adequate quantities, GOI seeks to
provide some basic amenities for the rural population, as well as diminish the
prevalence of water-related diseases. Currently, the rural water supply and
sanitation (RWS&S) coverage in the two provinces is low. In Kaltim, it is
estimated that clean water supply coverage is 19Z and sanitation 172, and in
NTB 352 and 10-122 respectively. The project will provide improved water
supply and sanitation facilities to rural communities using technologies and
systems appropriate to the local conditions. The component follows a model
currently being implemented by AIDAB in the island of Lombok, NTB. It is
based on community involvement in the planning, design, construction and
financing of the water and sanitary waste facilities developed. The
communities will also assume responsibility for the ongoing operation,
management and maintenance of the facilities. The model would involve
participation by an Indones3an community development organization (Lembaga
Pengembangan Swadaya Masyarakat) to facilitate interaction with the community.
2.32     In Kaltim, the component would initially be restricted to two dis-
tricts (Pasir and Kutai) as the province has no experience with the RWS&S
model. It would gradually be expanded to other districts depending on the
success of the program. In NTB, the component would be extended to the island



- 24 -
of Sumbawa. The type and size of facilities would depend on the quality of
water available and AIDAB has completed a water resource evaluation and
appropriate technology assessment study for both provinces. This study is
under review (para. 3.5) between AIDAB and GOI. The project is expected to
finance the investment costs of the facilities, materials, significant amounts
of training, vehicles and operational support to carry out the program and for
monitoring and evaluation. Support will be provided to assist the
organization, planning and implementation of sector activities.
2.33     Annual Health Plans and Budgets.  All the above health sector activi-
ties in the two provinces would be implemented through detailed annual health
plans and budgets, outlining work programs, implementation schedules and inte-
grated budgetary allocations (paras. 2.37 - 2.38). These would be reviewed
and agreed annually between the Bank, and the key central and local government
officials. The timing of the review would be coordinated with GOI's budget
cycle (Annex 4). The final composition of the five year expenditure programs
and financing plans for the project provinces were agreed during negotiations.
Assurances were obtained that each province would submit a detailed annual
health plan and budget to the Bank for review and comment no later than
October 30 of the preceding fiscal year, and that Bank comments would be
ir.corporated in the establishment of the annual budgetary ceilings in January
(Satuan 3 ceilings). From 1990, the plan would include a retrospective review
of the implementation of the previous year's plan and budget (including
achievement in meeting project performance indicators) and a forward plan and
budget for the coming fiscal year.
Policy Support for Decentralization and Resource Mobilization (US$4.5 million
net of contingencies)
2.34     The Action Plan outlines the measures and a timetable for:  (a) the
implementation of decentralized and integrated planning and budgeting; and
(b) resource mobilization which are the two main areas of policy adjustment
which GOI hopes to implement on a pilot basis in the project provinces. The
specific measures are outlined in the following paragraphs.
2.35     Decentralization and Integrated Health Plan and Budget (IHPB).  In
accordance with PP7187, the central government transferred part of the respon-
sibility for health sector development and health care delivery to the local
government with the technical guidance of the central government (para. 1.9).
PP6/88 provided further support for decentralization policies by defining
relationships and coordination mechanisms between the central vertical insti-
tutions and local governments. However, while both decrees define broad areas
of respor.sibility, implementation guidelines defining specific authority for
functional, administrative and financial responsibility of provincial and
district governments, as well as providing greater authority to local govern-
ments to plan, budget and manage health sector resources, still need to be
formulated. The project would support Government's decentralization efforts
through: (a) supporting the definition and development of organizational and
management structures for decentralization in the health sector in these two
provinces; and (b) improving local planning, budgeting and management through
the development of an integrated health plan and budget (IHPB).



- 25 -
2.36     In order to improve the organizational and management structure
within and between the provincial and district administrative levels, as a
first step, a preliminary task analysis and specification of functional
responsibilities of the Kanwil and Dinas Dati I and II has been developed.
This would be followed by a study, with technical assistance, to develop
detailed job d3scriptions for all Kanwil and Dinas staff which would specify
their responsibilities, accountability, including steps for review and assess-
ment of their performance and propose revisions in the system for decentral-
ized management. The revised functional and job descriptions would be used
for training at the provincial and district levels in the first and following
years of the project. The revised organization and management structure would
be reviewed and adjustments made after the first year of implementation and,
as appropriate, durtng the following project period. An assessment of health
management problems at the district level and improvements necessary for
decentralization has been completed through focus group discussions, and the
results would be incorporated in this study.
2.37     A key element in achieving the goal of local government responsibil-
ity for planning, budgeting and management of resources for the health sector
would be the development of a comprehensive IHPB by the project provinces.
This would reflect national policies as well as regional priorities in health
programs and identify, on an annual basis, all budgetary sources for these
programs. The principles and procedures for the preparation of the IHPB and
changes to be introduced in line with decentralization policies a-e outlined
in Annex 4 and briefly summarized here.
2.38     The IHPB would be prepared annually by the local government (district
and provincial), discussed and agreed with the center, and would be the basis
for project implementation each year. The IHPB would thus reflect local needs
and priorities and operational costs would reflect local geographical factors,
rather than the planning being determined by national considerations as at
present. The IHPB would identify all budgetary sc. rces for health programs,
including funding from the local government budgets and consolidate investment
and routine budgets. It would, thus, provide an integrated framework of all
budgetary plans for health programs against the current uncoordinated and
fragmented system. The budget documents such as the DIPs, and their Opera-
tional Guidelines (PO's), previously prepared only in the center would now be
prepared with full participation of the provinces, with the authority for the
formulation of the budget documents being gradually delegated to the local
government in line with further reviews and recommendations on the IHPB. All
budget documentation would be consistent with the IHPB. The IHPB will ini-
tially be used to coordinate the allocation of resources across all existing
budgetary channels, but the ultimate objective would be to simplify and con-
solidate the channels into the local government budgets. The transition from
a coordinated framework into a more simplified system would be phased in dur-
ing the project period in line with reforms being undertaken in other sectors.
The principles and procedures for the preparation of the IHPB have been com-
pleted, and additional details on mechanisms, and technical guidance from
central MOH are under preparation. The methodology for the preparation and
implementation of the IHPB would be reviewed annually and further refined,
where appropriate.



- 26 -
2.39     In order to strengthen the technical, administrative and management
capabilities of the project provinces to undertake the additional responsibil-
ities implied by the decentralization of the planning and budgeting process,
the proposed project will provide training including workshops, and 24 man
years of technical assistance of which about 732 would be local.
2.40     The technical assistance would be used for the preparation of a num-
ber of studies and evaluations to support the development of the IHPB as fol-
lows:
(a)  review and further develop me:hodologies for planning, project
appraisal, monitoring, evaluating and control procedures for the IHPB
including the development of manuals for each level of the planning
process;
(b)  review and adapt the existing Health Information System (HIS) to
local needs with particular emphasis in assisting provincial and
district staff to improve data collection, analysis and presentation,
to support the preparation of the IHPB, and the development of a
manual outlining the methodologies to be used;
tc)  a standard accounting system study to develop an integrated sector
expenditure accounting system for all sources and uses of funds at
provincial and district levels;
(d)  a manpower planning and management study which would refine the man-
power assessments completed during project preparation, establish a
better manpower data base as well as systems for manpower projections
and adapt to local needs existing manpower planning systems to match
staff with workload. Simple indicators of staff performance to
enable managers evaluate the performance of health personnel and
incentive packages, adapted to local needs, to attract and retain
manpower in the remote rural areas would also be developed; and
(e) supervision manuals to develop an effective and consistent supervi-
sion system and to monitor implementation performance.
2.41     Particular attention will be given to training in the following
areas: planning and project evaluation, budget preparation and management,
cost accounting analysis, health statistics, computer programming, manpower
planning and financial reporting. Computer and related hardware and other
logistical support will also be provided under the project.
2.42     Specific measures required for the IHPB, outlined in the Action Plan,
and already completed are the establishment of its policies and procedures,
and the preparation of the IHPB for Year 1 of the project (1989/90).
Additionally, the Action Plan required a Letter of Instruction from the
Director General (DG) of Budget, MOF to enable the project provinces to
prepare and implement the IHPB's in line with the procedures agreed. The
letter reflects the intersectoral commitments (MOH, MOHA, BAPPENAS and MOF).
A Governor's Letter of Instruction, based on the DG Budget's letter, is also



- 27 -
necessary for the implementation of these procedures in the provinces. All
Letters of Instruction have now been issued. Other measur3s outlined in the
Action Plan and to be implemented during the project, include the adoption of
the recommendations of the studies on sector expenditure accounting systems
and manpower.
2.43     Resource Mobilization.  The decline of central government expendi-
tures nationally is also reflected in the health expenditure budgets of Kaltim
and NTB. Local government spending has not compensated for this dramatic
decline and provincial and district expenditures have fallen as well, contri-
buting even further to the decline. Revenue yield from user charges are also
low, and in 1986/87 cost recovery measures contributed only 7X and 10? of
recurrent expenditures in Kaltim and NTB respectively.
2.44     Given this scarcity of resources, a Health vinancing Study 7/  was
undertaken in the two provinces to both aralyze past expenditure and revenue
trends. A summary of the study is in Annex 5. Based on the recommendations
of the study, a number of measures would be implemented to increase resource
mobilization in the two provinces.
2.45     The specific measures to be implemented and outlined in the Action
Plan are as follows: (a) all health sector revenues would be returned to the
sector commencing in Year 1 of the project. This is of critical importance in
NTB where health center revenues at the district level are greater than
expenditures, and the revenues are used to subsidize other sectors;
(b) selective upward tariff adjustments aimed at those who can afford to pay
would be implemented in both health centers and hospitals. Local governments
would enact appropriate legislation to institute these tariff adjustments,
which would be based on studies and recommendations (para. 2.46), reviewed
annually with the Bank and phasid gradually over the life of the project. An
evaluation would be made annually on the revenues obtained and impact on
utilization and adjustments in fee structures made, as appropriate; (c) the
retention of fees would be introduced on a trial basis in a selected and well
managed hospital in each province commencing in Year 1. If successful, it
would be extended to other hospitals and stubsequently to health centers. MOF
would propose an exemption to the current regulation against such retention,
if necessary, for the implementation of Lhis measure; and (d) continuing
subsidies would be provided by the central, provincial and district
governments to implement the expenditure programs. The level of the subsidy
would be determined annually during the review of the IHPB. In line with the
objective of redressing regional inequalities and orienting expenditures to
the less advantaged provinces, the central government subsidy to NTB would be
increased substantially in real terms over the life of the project based on
implementation performance, while in Kaltim the increase would be much less,
the balance being provided by the local government.
7/ Health Financing Study in East Kalimantan and West Nusa Tenggara,
Bureau of Planning, MOH and Faculty of Public Health, Uaiversity of
Indonesia.



- 28 -
2.46     The project would provide training, workshops and 18 man years of
technical assistance (foreign and local (76Z)) for the gradual implementation,
and monitoring and evaluation of the resource mobilization measures. As for
the IHPB, the technical assistance would be used for studies and evaluations
as follows: (a) the establishment of tariffs, retention of fees and financial
and accounting systems for the hospitals. This would be based on the method-
ology and recommendations, as appropriate, of the diagnostic study of hospital
operations being conducted in three provinces under the USAID Health Sector
Financing Study. The diagnostic study is expected to cover, inter alia, the
hospital's organizational structure, cost accounting analysis and potential to
recover costs. The results are expected by July 1989; (b) a study on tariffs,
revenue retention, and financial and accounting systems for the health
centers; and (c) an evaluation of the allocation criteria and mechanism for
central government subsidies based on local revenue capacity in these two
provinces.
2.47     The DG Bt'dget's Letter of Instruction reflects the agreements on
resource mobilization. The Governor's Letter of Instruction specifies the
provincial responsibilities for the implementation of the resource mobiliza-
tion measures (para. 2.42).
2.48     A list of the studies and evaluations for the decentralization and
resource mobilization measures, outline terms of reference (TOR) and a time-
table are found in Annex 6.   At negotiations, understandings were reached on
summary terms of reference for the studies and evaluations. All technical
assistance to be provided is shown in Annex 7.
Sector Management Improvements (US$7.7 million net of contingencies)
2.49     The overall organization and management of the health sector in the
project provinces would conform to the current structure of the MOH, as well
as reflecting the policy of decentralization at the provincial and district
government levels in line with PP7/87 and PP6/88.
2.50     The main responsibility for the project would be with the Minister of
Health. At the provincial level, the overall responsibility would be with the
Governor, and at the district level with the Bupati. The head of the Provin-
cial Health Administration or Dinas Kesehatan Dati 1 in both provinces will,
in line with decentralization policies reflected in PP7/87, be responsible for
the daily management of the health programs under the project. At the dis-
trict level, the head of the District Health Office (Dinas Kesehatan Dati 11),
will be responsible for the management of the programs at that level. The
project would provide training, vehicles, and incremental operational support
for supervision and other activities to strengthen sector management at the
local government level. The project would also provide support for the con-
struction and expansion of district health offices (4). In addition, the
adoption of the IHPB, the implementation of the recommendations from the orga-
nization and management planning studies, and the development of the HIS and
supervision manuals are all expected to strengthen the capabilities of local
government staff to significantly improve management of health activities.
2.51     The project would also provide for full time Project Secretariats,
including long-term (2 years) advisors, to assist the Dinas Kesehatan Dati 1
in both provinces implement the health programs. A similar Secretariat would



- 29 -
be established at the central level to assist the provinces. Assistance pro-
vided for the Secretariats would be for the technical assistance, honoraria
and allowances, furniture, equipment, vehicles and other necessary support.
Details on the project implementation arrangements and the Secretariats are
found in paras. 4.3-4.6.
2.52     In line with the objective of improving overall sector management
(para.1.29) institutional support would be provided to the central MOH.
largely to the Bureau of Planning (BOP) under this project. The assistance
would be to strengthen the capabilities of the BOP to plan and prepare future
projects to be undertaken in the health sector and for their monitoring and
evaluation. Assistance will also be provided to help BOP coordinate and moni-
tor all donor assisted projects, and evaluate and prioritize the assistance as
currently there is no unit to oversee external assistance to the health sec-
tor. The assistance would be complementary to the assistance provided by
USAID to establish a Health Financing and Policy Analysis Unit in BOP. Sup-
port would be for training and technical assistance to strengthen BOP staff
capabilities in planning, health economics, biostatistics, public health,
demography, management and computing. Necessary administrative and logistical
support would also be provided.
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Cost Estimate
3.1      The total cost of the project is estimated to be about Rp 176.1 bil-
lion (US$103.5 million equivalent) including identifiable taxes and duties
estimated at US$3.2 million equivalent. The foreign exchange cost is US$25.8
million or 252 of the total costs. The estimated cost by project component is
summarized in Table 1 (details provided in Annex 8) and by category of expen-
diture in Table 2.
3.2      Base Costs and Contingencies.  Base costs are expressed in February
1989 prices. Civil works costs were based on approved Master Programs and
plans for the construction of the Balikpapan and expansion of Mataram hospi-
tals and for the rehabilitation of the five district hospitals in NTB (Bima,
Dompu, Sumbawa, Selong and Praya). Standard designs are also being used for
the construction of the SPK's, drug warehouses, and district health offices;
the costs have been reviewed by the Bank and found reasonable. Construction
costs for the training complexes in Mataram (BLKM/SPAG/SMAK) and Samarinda
(BLKM/SPK) are based on prevailing unit costs. The complexes are more cost
effective than building individual institutions as they provide for economies
in space utilization, for example, common sharing of the auditorium and
laboratory facilities. Furniture costs were based on lists of standard
locally available items and, where lists were not available, on 1OZ of related
civil works. Medical equipment costs were based on lists priceds for similar
imported or locally available items. Overseas fellowship costs are estimated
at US$18-20,000 per year for degree programs and US$6,000-13,500 for short-
term (3-6 month courses). Unit costs for local fellowships range from
US$2,700 to US$3,000 per year, based on the costs of living allowances,
materials/books, research and operations. Operstion and maintenance costs
(O&M) are based on standard allowances for materials and administrative costs,
and estimated travel and transport costs for the provinces. Drug costs are



- 30 -
based on Inpres price schedules. Physical contingencies (US$2.6) represent 32
of base costs: 102 of base costs has been allowed for civil works and 52 for
equipment, furniture and vehicles. Price contingencies (US$15.7 million),
about 18Z of base costs plus physical contingencies were calculated in
accordance with the implemantation schedule and expected annual ptice
increases as follows: foreign - 5.32 for 1989-90, 4.12 for 1991-95; and local
- 92 for 1989-90 and 5.2Z for 1991-95.
Table 1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Foreign
as a
Local  Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total       I ot
---- (Rp billion) ----   ---- (US2 million) ---    total
1. Sector Expenditure Proaram
Support
Health service delivery    78.4    19.8   98.2   46.1   11.6   67.7          20
Communicable disease control  4.6   0.6    6.0    2.6    0.8    2.9           9
Supportitag programs       11.9     9.2   21.1    7.0    6.4   12.4          44
Subtotai                 94.8    29.5  124.8   56.7   17.3   73.0          23
2. Policy Support
Decentralized and int4grated
plan and budget             1.9     3.7    6.6    1.1    2.2    a.8          66
Resource mobilization       0.8     1.2    2.0    0.6    0.7    1.2          61
Subtotal                  2.7      4.9    7.6    1.8    2.9    4.5         64
8. Sector Manaement
Improvement              10.0      8.1   18.1    5.9    1.8    7.7         24
Total Base Costs     107.5    87.6  145.0   63.2   22.0   86.2         26
Physical contingencles          2.4     2.1    4.5    1.4    1.2    2.6          46
Price contingencies            22.2     4.4   26.6   13.1    2.6   16.7         17
Total Costs /a       182.1    44.0  178.1   n7.    2S 8  103.5         25
/a Including ldentifiable taxes estimated at USU3.2 million.
3.3       Foreign Exchange Costs.  Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
are estimated at about Rp 44.0 billion (US$25.8 million equivalent)
including contingencies. Based on detailed analysis of expenditures of
similar projects in Indonesia, the foreign component for the major categories
was estimated as follows:  (a) civil works 302; (b) equipment and vehicles



- 31 -
902; (c) furniture 302; (d) overseas training 95%; (e) foreign experts 90?;
(f) local experts 202; (g) domestic training and studies 15?; and (g) opera-
tional support 10Z.
3.4       Taxes and Duties.  Identifiable taxes and duties were estimated at
about Rp 5.4 billion (US$3.2 million equivalent).   These taxes were calculated
on the current practice of about 10? value added tax on all contracts for
civil works and goods.
Table 2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Forelgn
as a
Local  Foreign Total   Local  Foreign Total    X of
---- (Rp billion) ----   ---- (US3 million) ---   total
Land acquisition          1.8     -       1.8     0.6      -      0.8        -
Civil works              22.6     9.7   82.3   li.a       6.7   19.0       29
Furniture/Equipment/
Vehicles                  1.6    12.7   14.6       1.1     7.4    8.6       87
Technical assistanco
Foreign specialists     0.8      7.6    7.8     0.4      4.1    4.5       go
Local specialists       1.9      6.o    2.4      1.1     0.8    1.4       20
Studies                   1.2     0.2    1.4      0.8      O.1    0.9       15
Training
Overseas fellowships    0.2     8.7    8.9      0.1      2.2    2.8       95
Domestic training       4.8      0.7    6.0      2.5     0.4    2.9       15
Incremental staff
salaries               11.9      -     11.9      7.6     -      7.0        -
Other O&M costs          61.5     8.o   64.6    S8.1       1.8   87.9        6
Total Base Costs    107.5    87.5  146.0   683.2    22.0   65.2         26
Physical contingencies    2.4     2.1    4.6       1.4     1.2    2.8       so
P-ice contingencies      22.2     4.4   28.6    18.1       2.6   15.7       21
Total Costs /a      132.1    44.0  178.1    77.7    26.8  103.6         26
/a Including Identifiable taxes estimated at about US$8.2 million equivalent.
B. Financing Plan
3.5       The project financing plan is shown in Table 3 below (details in
Annex 9). The Bank loan of US$43.5 million would finance about 43? of the
project costs net of taxes aad duties. The central and local governments will
finance 50% of the total project cost, including all salary costs, through
budgetary appropriations and returning all health sector revenues to the sec-
tor. The increased financing expected from cost recovery measures as a result



- 32 -
of the adjustments in health facility fees should result in a gradual increase
in real terms in allocations for O&M, although, as previously indicated, con-
tinuing subsidies would have to be provided by the central and local govern-
ments. The Japan Grant Facility will contribute about 42 or US$4.0 million
equivalent for part of the costs of the technical assistance component.
Agreement has been reached between GOI and AIDAB for the financing of planned
expenditures for rural water supply and sanitation for the Repelita V period
in the island of Lombok in NTB. This would be grant assistance of about $4.3
million or 42 of net project costs. The scope of assistance for Sumbawa and
Kaltim (paras. 2.31-2.32) is under review between AIDAB and GOI. In the
interim, allocations have been made in the financing plan for GOI funding for
the component. Possible future assistance from all external donors during the
Repelita V period would be reflected in the annual IHPBs.
Table 3: FINANCING PLAN
(USS Million)
Category of                                            Japan       /a     IBRD
expenditure               Government   IBRD   AIDAB   grant   Total   share MZ;
Land acquisition              0.8        -       -     -          0.8      -
Civil works                   4.0       19.4     1.0   -         24.4     80
Furniture/Equipment/
Vehicles                     0.9        9.0     0.4   -         10.3     87
Technical assistance
Foreign specialists         -          0.8     2.2   2.0        5.0     16
Local specialists           -          0.2     0.3   1.1        1.6     13
Studies                       -          1.0     -     -          1.0    100
Training
Overseas fellowships        -         1.8      -     0.8        2.6     69
Domestic training           -          3.3     0.1   0.1        3.5     94
Incremental staff
salaries                    8.8       -        -     -          8.8      -
Other O&M costs lb           37.2        8.0     0.3   -         45.5     18
Total Cost               51.7 /b   43.5      4.3   4.0 /c  103.5      42
/a Including identifiable taxes estimated at about US$3.2 million equivalent.
lb Total O&M costs. Bank financing is only for the incremental portion of
these O&M costs and the project secretariats.
c Includes $180,000 directly n.dministered by the Bank under the Japan Grant
Agreement.
3.6      As indicated in the financing plan, Bank funds would largely be used
for investment costs with onl) 18? or US$8.0 million being used for incremen-
tal recurrent costs. GOI would finance the bulk of the recurrent costs in
line with the Repelita V objective of increased local funding for O&M. GOI
funding for O&M would also ensure the sustainability of these programs beyond



- 33 -
the Repelita V period. Expenditure allocations will be reviewed annually by
the Bank, MOH, MOHA and the local governments and will be adjusted as neces-
sary to ensure that agreed annual work plans are implemented without delay.
The financing plan and IHPB for year 1 of the project is found in Annex 10.
C. Procurement
3.7      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Table 4: PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CAT%GORY
(US$ million)
Procurement procedure            Total
Category of expenditure               ICB       LCB       Other        NA    costs /a
Land acquisition                      -         -           -          0.8      0.8
(0.0)   (0.0)
Civil works                          8.1       15.3         -          1.0/b  24.4
(7.4)    (12.0)                  (0.0)  (19.4)
Furniture/Equipment/                 5.1        4.5         0.3/c      0.4/b  10.3
Vehicles                           (5.1)     (3.7)       (0.2)      (0.0)   (9.0)
Technical assistance /d
Foreign Specialists                -          -          5.0         -       5.0
(0.8)               (0.8)
Local Specialists                  -          -          1.6         -       1.6
(0.2)              (0.2)
Studies                              -          -          1.0         -       1.0
(1.0)              (1.0)
Training 1d
Overseas Fellowships               -          -          2.6         -       2.6
(1.8)               (1.8)
Domestic Training                  -          -          3.5         -       3.5
(3.3)               (3.3)
Incremental salaries                 -          -          -           8.8     8.8
(0.0)   (0.0)
Other O&M costs /e                   -          -          -          45.5    45.5
(8.0)   (8.0)
Total                             13.2       19.8       14.0        56.5   103.5
(12.5)    (15.7)       (7.3)      (8.0)  (43.5)
ia   Totals represent total estimated costs per category including price and physi-
cal contingencies.
lb   Financed by AIDAB.
Jc   International or Local Shopping.
/d   Technical assistance and training not financed by IBRD is financed by the
Japan Grant Facility and AIDAB.
le   Total O&M costs.  Bank funding is only for incremental O&M costs and the proj-
ect secretariats.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respejctive amounts financed by IBRD.



- 34 -
3.8      The procurement responsibilities for the project will be centralized
within the provinces and each province and the central MOH will be
responsible for their own procurement (although the provinces would get assis-
tance from central MOH for International Competitive Bidding (ICB)).  Although
the goods and works to be procured by the three different units are grouped
together in Table 4, they are shown se,arately in Annex 11 as packaged.
3.9      The procurement arrangements are as follows:
(a) Civil works total about US$24.4 million. The contract for
constructing the Balikpapan hospital (about US$8.1 million) will be
awarded on the basis of ICB. Each of the remaining works (about
US$15.3 million in total), are too small (each below US$2.5 million),
scattered over a wide area and scheduled too far apart to be of
interest to foreign firms. These would be procured under Local Com-
petitive Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(b)  Furniture, equipment and vehicles total about US$10.3 million.  The
equipment and furniture required for the project consists of numerous
inexpensive items that would be needed to equip cr stock the hospi-
tals and health centers. These include items such as vaccine carri-
ers, microscopes, syringes and dental materials. There is also a
considerable amount of inexpensive office equipment that would be
needed for expansion or upgrading purposes. However, the vehicles
and the equipment that could be of interest to foreign firms have
been grouped into five packages, three for NTB and two for Kaltim,
and they would be procured through ICB (about US$5.1 million) or
about 57% of the total goods to be procured under Bank financing. A
margin of preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of imported
goods or the actual custom duties and import taxes, whichever is
less, will be allowed the domestic manufacturers. About US$4.5
million of the remaining goods, in smaller packages, would be
procured through LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. The remain-
ing US$0.3 million, which cannot be packaged, would be procured
through international or local shopping procedures on the basis of at
least three competitive price quotations.
(c)  Technical Assistance, Studies and Training total about US$13.7 mil-
lion. This consists of the following: (i) overseas fellowships
estimated at US$2.6 million and local fellowships, training and work-
shops estimated at US$3.5 million. Placement of candidates in for-
eign institutions would be made on the basis of relevance and quality
of programs and costs. In-country graduate training would receive
support on a student year basis; and (ii) foreign consultant services
estimated at US$5.0 million and local consultant services estimated
at US$1.6 million. In order to ensure cost effectiveness in the use
of consultant services, the recruitment of the consultant for studies
that would be applicable to both provinces would be done by central
MOH; all other consultants would be recruited by the local authori-
ties. The consultants would be selected and employed in accordance
with the "Guidelines for the use of consultants by World Bank
Borrowers;" and (iii) studies estimated at about $1.0 million would
be based on agreed criteria for relevance of topic.



- 35 -
3.10     All procurement packages for goods and works in excess of US$200,000
would be subject to the Bank's prior review. As such, prior review will cover
20 contracts, 8 civil works and 12 goods, over the five-year life of the proj-
ect. They will constitute about 802 of the civil works and goods procurement.
Standard bidding documents for ICB procurement of goods and works have been
developed for the project and were reviewed at negotiations. In addition, all
terms of reference for consulting services and consultants' contract are sub-
ject to prior review. Other contracts would be subject to selective post-
award review.
D. Disbursements
3.11     The proposed loan of US$43.5 million will be disbursed over a period
of about six years. It includes up to US$750,000 for retroactive financing
for expenditures on project activities conducted between October 1, 1988 and
loan effectiveness. Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30,
1995 and will be made against the following categories of expenditures: (a)
civil works - 91Z of total expenditures; (b) furniture, equipment and vehicles
(i) 1002 of foreign expenditures of directly imported goods; (ii) 952 of local
(ex-factory) expenditures of locally procured goods; and (iii) 652 of expendi-
tures of other items procured locally; (c) consultants' services - 1002 of
total expenditures; (d) studies - 1002 of total expenditure; (e) overseas and
domestic trainin2 - 100Z of total expenditures; (f) incremental O&M costs
(including moterials, travel, drugs/pesticides and maintenance) - 1002 oz
declining absolute amounts for GOI FYs 1989/90-93/94 as follows: $1.6, $1.5,
$1.5, $1.1 and $0.7 million respectively; and (g) project secretariats - 1002
of total expenditures.8/ The estimated schedule of disbursements (Table 5)
has been based, with some adjustments (for example, to reflect the
establishment of the Special Account), on the disbursement profile of PHN
projects in Indonesia.
3.12     Documentation of Expenditures.  Withdrawal applications for goods and
services with a contract value of $200,000 or more will be supported by full
documentation. Other disbursements against programs not undertaken by con-
tract (domestic training, incremental O&H and project secretariat operational
costs) and contracts less than $200,000 will be made on the basis of Statement
of Expenditure (SOE). The Project Secretariats will be responsible for aggre-
gating the eligible expenditures and for preparing withdrawal applications for
submission to the Bank. To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications
will be aggregated in amounts of US$200,000 or more, prior to submission to
the Bank. Documentation supporting the SOE's would be retained by the respec-
tive Project Secretariats and made available for review by visiting Bank mis-
sions.
8/ The project secretariats would only be established and fully funded
during the project period.



- 36 -
Table 5: DISBURSEMENT FORECAST
IBRD fiscal year                      Disbursements
and semester                 Semester       Cumulative      I
--------- US$ million ----------
1990
1st (Jul 1989-Dec 1989)      0.0             0.0        02
2nd (Jan 1990-June 1990)      2.0             2.0        52
1991
1st (Jul 1990-Dec 1990)      2.2             4.2       10X
2nd (Jan 1991-Jun 1991)      2.2             6.4       152
1992
1st (Jul 1991-Dec 1991)      3.8            10.2       232
2nd (Jan 1992-Jun 1992)      3.8            14.0       322
1993
lst (Jul 1992-Dec 1992)      5.0            19.0       442
2nd (Jan 1993-Jun 1993)      5.0            24.0       55Z
1994
lst (Jul 1993-Dec 1993)      5.0            29.0       67Z
2nd (Jan 1994-Jun 1994)      5.0            34.0       782
1995
1st (Jul 1994-Dec 1994)      5.0            39.0       902
2nd (Jan 1995-Jun 1995) /a  4.5             43.5      1002
la The loan is expected to close on June 30, 1995.
3.13     To facilitate disbursement administration, the project would estab-
lish a Snecial Account in Bank Indonesia to be maintained by the DG of Budget,
MOP, following established procedures. The Special Account would be used
against all disbursement categories for local currency payments. Upon confir-
mation of the establishment of the Special Account, the Bank would make an
initial deposit of US$2 million, representing a four-monthly requirement for
local currency payments, upon receipt of an application from the DG Budget.
Subsequently, applications for replenishment would be made on the basis of
monthly statements submitted to the Bank by the DG Budget, or when the Special
Account is reduced to one-half of the initial deposit.  Assurances were pro-
vided at negotiations that GOI would make satisfactory arrangements for the
establishment of the Special Account and would set up the necessary organiza-
tional structure for its operation including accounting and auditing proce-
dures.



- 37 -
E. Accounts. Audits and Reports
3.14     Project accounts would be kept in accordance with sound accounting
practices. During negotiations, GOI provided assurances that: (a) accounts,
and statements of expenditure for each fiscal year for the provinces and cen-
tral MOH will be prepared and audited by indapendent auditors acceptable to
the Bank; and (b) certified copies of the audited accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year, together with the auditor's report will be
furnished to the Bank as soon as available, but not later than nine months
after the end of each fiscal year. The Central Project Secretariat
will submit a Project Completion Report to the Bank six months after the loan
Closing Date covering all project components.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation
4.1      Status of Project Preparation.  A Bank appraisal mission in August/
September 1988, reviewed the sector expenditure programs for Repelita V, and
the Policy Statement and Action Plan to be supported under the project. The
proposed IHPB for Year 1 of the project (FY89/90) was also reviewed and con-
firmed at negotiations. The project is ready for implementation as the activ-
ities to be undertaken in Year 1, and subsequent years, are largely on-going
health programs which are an integral part of the day to day activities of
provincial and district health staff.  The main difference under the project
is that in formulating the IHPB, the planning and budgeting have been done in
an integrated manner reflecting local priorities and needs. Additionally, the
strengthening of management, and provision of training and additional
resources would enable the better implementation of the project and improved
sectoral performance.
4.2      Schedules and plans for the civil works to be financed under the
project have been agreed and Master Programs and Plans for the construction of
Balikpapan, and expansion and rehabilitation of the Mataram and five district
hospitals in NTB have been completed. The geological survey for the
Balikpapan hospital has also been completed but progress on land acquisition
is still pending for both hospitals. Thus, land acquisition, payment of
adequate compensation and rehabilitation for the nine families residing on
and/or cultivating the site would be a condition of disbursement for the
construction of the Balikpapan hospital. The land acquisition and payment of
compensation to the owner for the expansion of the Mataram hospital at a site
acceptable to the Bank would also be a condition of disbursement. Equipment
and vehicle lists have been prepared, and draft bidding documents for the
first year's procurement were reviewed at negotiations. Training and
fellowship programs for Year 1 were discussed in detail and confirmed at
negotiations. Key technical assistance staff for the central MOH has been
identified and a long-term advisor was contracted in early January 1989,
financed under the Japan Grant Facility. For the policy support to be
provided under the project, initial studies and evaluations have been
undertaken to support organizational changes for decentralization, and the
policies and procedures completed for the IHPB. A financing study has also
been completed which provides the basis for the resource mobilization measures
to be supported under the project.



- 38 -
Proiect ManaRement
4.3      The main responsibility for this project would be with the Minister
of Health.  The Secretary General of MOH would be the Project Director and the
Chief of the BOP, MOH, would be the Project Officer at the central level. A
two-tier Interagency Coordination Committee has been established at the center
to facilitate and ensure intra- and intersectoral consultation and coordina-
tion during project implementation. The Committee includes representatives
from the MOH, MORA, MOF, BAPPENAS and the Local Governments and consists of an
Advisory Board and Steering Committee. The Advisory Board, ohaired by
BAPPENAS, consists of Echelon I representatives from these agencies, and the
Governors of the two provinces. The Steering Committee consists of Echelon II
representatives from these agencies and would be chaired by MOF. The Advisory
Board will set policy guidelines for the project, periodically review the
progress and quality of project implementation, review policy implication of
findings from the different project components and make policy recommendations
to the Project Director based upon the results of the project. The Steering
Committee would assist in the implementation of the policy measures, review
and assess the implications of the policy adjustments on a systematic basis,
initiate the necessary policy studies and taise issues and recommend solutions
to the Advisory Board.
4.4      At the provincial level the overall responsibility for the project
would be with the Governor, and at the district level with the Bupati. The
head of the Provincial Health Administration or Dinas Kesehatan Dati I in both
provinces will, in line with decentralization policies outlined in PP7/87, be
fully responsible for the daily management and implementation of the health
program. He will also be responsible for the policy measures supported under
the project and be accoun&able for Bank financing in addition to GOI and other
donor expenditures. He would be assisted by a Steering Committee to ensure
intra- and intersectoral coordination at the provincial level. The Steering
Committee will be chaired by the Governor and consist of the provincial
representatives from MOH, MOHA, MOF, BAPPENAS and the Bupatis. Specific
responsibilities for the implementation of the health activities would remain
with the PIMPROS currently responsible for their implementation. At the
district level, the head of the District Health Office (Dinas Kesehatan
Dati II) will be responsible for project implementation at that level. TheB
central MOH would provide technical guidance in the implementation of all
health programs. The project management structure is shown in Chart 7.
4.5      The heads of the Dinas Kesehatan Dati I in both provinces would be
assisted by full-time Project Secretariats. Each Secretariat would be headed
by an Executive Secretary, supported by a financial officer, a computer opera-
tor and supporting staff. The project would also provide long-term (2 years)
advisors as part of each Secretariat, to assist particularly in the formula-
tion and planning of the public health programs, the preparation of the IHPB
and for monitoring the implementation of the decentralization and resource
mobilization measures. The specific responsibilities of the Secretariat are
to: (a) monitor and coordinate overall progress and disbursements under the
Bank loan and the Special Account; (b) report quarterly to the head of the
Dinas and the Bank on the status and progress of the project; (c) raise issues
needing attention and suggest potential solutions; (d) rrrange for timely



- 39 -
audit of project accounts and disbursements; (e) assist in drafting TORs, and
the recruitment of necessary local consultants and contract preparation; (f)
assist in organizing training activities; and (g) prepare the project comple-
tion report for the province.
4.6      Assistance would also be provided to establish a Project Secretariat,
including a long-term technical advisor, similar to that in the provinces, to
assist and expedite implementation of the project from the center (para. 4.3).
The secretariat would assist in handling items such as ICB, recruitment and
coordination of international consultants necessary for both provinces,
coordination of overseas fellowships and provide the link between the Bank and
the provinces. TOR for the Project Secretariats, Executive Secretaries and
long term advisers have been agreed. The Executive Secretaries for the
central and local levels, whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory
to the Bank, have been formally appointed, and the Project Secretariats are
being established.
4.7      Implementation Schedule.  The proposed project would be implemented
over a period of about six years. A detailed project implementat! a schedule
is shown in Annex 12 and responsibilities for project implementation are spe-
cified in Annex 13. This implementation schedule and the cost schedules for
the various project components will serve as a basis for project implementa-
tion planning and will be updated annually. More than normal supervision
coefficients would be required during Droject implementation, given that proj-
ect financing is for a sector expenditure program with numerous sub-components
and the policy measures would require careful monitoring and evaluation. The
proposed project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994, and the
Closing Date will be June 30, 1995.
B. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.8      Monitoring and evaluation of implementation performance would be a
critical project activity to assure the effective implementation of the
project and particularly to provide a tool for the management of the health
activities in the provinces. Three aspects would be monitored regularly based
on semi-annual progress reports: (a) the action plan; (b) review of
expenditures to date by source of funding APBN (DIP and DIK), INPRES, SBBO,
SDO, APBD I, and II, IBRD and other financiers; and (c) progress on key
project performance indicators as specified in the annual work plans.
Additionally surveys and research financed under the project would also assist
monitoring and evaluation of project performance.
4.9      The Action Plan.  The Action Plan will be monitored according to the
dates agreed for each of the actions and also reviewed annually. Reasons for
any deviations would be identified, modified plans agreed and actions taken to
overcome bottlenecks and facilitate achievement of the plan.
4.10     Annual review of expenditures.  To ensure smooth implementation and
a forum for both ex post and ex ante Bank comments, the proposed project will
include an annual Bank/GOI review of annual expenditure programs (para. 2.33).
The timing would be coordinated with GOI's annual budget preparation cycle.



- 40 -
4.11     Performance Indicators.  An evaluation of the direct impact of the
project on mortality and morbidity is not possible due to the variety of
external factors influencing health status. However, the development and
implementation of a set of indicators to measure the efficiency and effec-
tiveness of improvements in the provision of health services would be a
key component of the project. Over the project period, the following key
performance indicators (Annex 14) would be used and refined, while others
would be developed.
1. Sector Expenditure Program
Expanded Program of Immunization  -   2 coverage of completed immuniza-
tions
Nutrition                          -   2 6-36 months old children with PEM
Malaria                            -   Prevalence rate
-  Number of houses sprayed per year
Tuberculosis                       -   Prevalence rate
Community Participation            -  Number of Posyandu
Health Centers                     -   Contact rate
Hospital Development               -   Bed occupancy rate - provincial
-   Bed occupancy rate - district
Training                           -   Numbers trained
Family Planning/Maternal Care      -   Contraceptive prevalence rate
-   2 of pregnant women receiving ante-
natal care
2. Policy Support
Resource Mobilization              -   Tariff adjustments at hospitals and
health centers
The performance indicators would also provide the basis for setting goals for
short-term and long-term improvements in efficiency.
4.12     Progress Reports.  Understandings were reached at negotiations that
semi-annual progress reports will be prepared by the provincial Project Secre-
tariats, and coordinated and forwarded to the Bank by the central Secretariat.
These will focus on the implementation of project activities and the perform-
ance indicators.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits and Risks
5.1      The major benefit of the project would be improvements in the health
it 'f th  nnmil tin" in tvete nlit r Tel tird nrnv41I-Pe thrni, rh i itrover1



- 41 -
coverage and quality of health service programs. Additional benefits would be
greater provincial autonomy in planning, budgeting and management and
increased resources for the health sector through the policy measures being
implemented for decentralization and resource mobilization, and also the
possibility of replicating the changes nationally once the adjustments have
been tested. Greater efficiency in sector management would also be a benefit
of the project.
5.2      It is expected that the expansion in the coverage and improvements
in the quality of health care provided at the health facilities through their
upgrading, provision of necessary O&M expenditures, staff training, better
manpower allocations and other outreach efforts will lead to an increase in
utilization of health services. In addition, the expected increase in the
effectiveness of the health center system would lead to the further develop-
ment of the outreach program.  While it is difficult to quantify the impact of
the project on health status, both the increased utilization and improved
quality of care are expected to lead to a substantial reduction in morbidity
and mortality.
5.3      The project beneficiaries will be mainly mothers and children who
constitute abott 802 of those presently seeking primary care in health
centers and subcenters and as out-patients in district hospitals. The
improvements will also directly benefit the rural poor. Since deaths of chil-
dren below 5 years of age accounts for about 40X of all deaths, the project
impact on infant and child mortality is expected to be substantial. Such
reduction in mortality may be expected to increase motivation to accept family
planning.
5.4      In terms of fiscal impact, the project would contribute towards
providing a consolidated framework for the current fragmentation of budgetary
flows to health programs in the two provinces, increased revenues for O&M
through cost-recovery measures and also redress provincial Inequalities in
central government budget allocations.
5.5      The institution-building effect of the project will be as important
as the direct service benefits. The clarification and assignment of
responsibility for planning budgeting, management and implementing the project
to the local government authorities will support GOI efforts to decentralize
health administration. The approach will also facilitate execution of health
programs adopted to local needs. Furthermore, the project will also directly
strengthen health administration at both the central and provincial levels
with the emphasis on improvements in managerial capabilities and the
development of health information and monitoring and evaluation systems.
5.6      The principal risk is that goals of decentralization and accompanying
gains in utilization, service quality and efficiency will not be fully rea-
lized, given limited management capacity, and difficulties inherent in
attempting to implement policy and procedural innovations and attitudinal
changes. There is also Lhe risk that unless there are concomitant improve-
ments in quality of service, cost-recovery measures could lead to a decrease
ratLar than an increase in health service utilization.' Significant assistance
to strengthen the capabilities of the provincial staff to implement these
reforms, and a gradual phasing of the policy measures and selective targetting



- 42 -
of cost recovery at the better off would minimize this risk. Additionally,
the annual review of work plans with the Bank woald also allow for corrections
to ensure project success.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached
6.1      During negotiations, the Gove_.nment provided assurances on the fol-
lowing:
(a) the Health Policy Statement and Action Plan were agreed and that the
Action Plan would be carried out according to the schedule for its
implementation and would be reviewed and updated with the Bank on
October 30 of each year commencing on October 30, 1989 (para. 2.4);
(b)  the composition of the five year expenditure programs and financing
plans for the project provinces was agreed, and that each province
would submit a detailed annual health plan and budget to the Bank for
review and comment no later than October 30 of the preceding fiscal
year, and Bank comments would be incorporated in the establishment of
the annual budgetary ceilings in January (Satuan 3 ceilings). From
1990, the plan would include a retrospective review of the implemen-
tation of the previous year's plan and budget (inc.uding achievements
in meeting project performance indicators) and a forward plan and
budget for the coming fiscal year (para. 2.33);
(c) satisfactory arrangements for the establishment of the Special
Accounts would be made and that the necessary organizational struc-
ture for its operation including accounting and auditing procedures
would be set up (para. 3.13); and
(d) project accounts would be maintained, audited and submitted for the
Bank's annual review (para. 3.14).
6.2      At negotiations, understandings were reached that:
(a) all additional personnel positions required for the project would be
provided annually and allocated to areas with the greatest need
(para. 2.25);
(b) commitments to institutionalize the new training schools to be built
under the project, which would ensure the provision of the necessary
recurrent budgets for their operation (para 2.28);
(c) terms of reference for key studies and evaluations (para. 2.48); and
(d) semi-annual progress reports would be prepared by the provincial
Project Secretariats and coordinated and forwarded to the Bank by the
central Secretariat (para. 4.12).



_ 43 -
6.3      Conditions of disbursement for the following were agreedt
(a)  land acquisition, adequate payment of cowlpensation and rehabilitation
for the nine families residing on and/or cultivating the site for the
construction of the Balikpapan hospital (para. 4.2), and
(b) land "cquisition and adequate payment of compensation to the owner
for the expansion of the Mataram hospital at a site acceptable to the
Dank (para. 4.2).
Recommendation
6.4      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$43.5 million equivalent to
the Republic of Indonesia for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of
five years, at the standard variable interest rate.



- 44 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 1
Government of Indonesia
Statement of Policies for Health Development
A. Background
1.       The Basic Guidelines of State Policy (GBHN), 1988, states that among
the many development activities which will be continued, expanded and enhanced
in the Fifth Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita V), the improvement of the
health and nutritional status of the people will be accorded a high priority.
Improved health and nutrition are an integral part of human resource develop-
ment in the framework of enhancing the quality of Indonesian people and
society which will be the nain objective of the Second Phase of Long-Term
(25-Year) Development.
2.       Since Repelita I, there have been substantial achievements in improv-
ing health and nutritional status, primarily through the expansion of primary
health services. Morbidity and mortality rates have decreased markedly during
the last 10-15 years and, consequently, life expectancy at birth has
increased. For instance, infant mortality rate (IMR) has decreased from 140
in 1971 to 108 in 1980, 73 in 1985 to 58 in 1988 (the fourth year of Repelita
IV). Life expectancy at birth has increased from 42 years in 1971 to 52 years
in 1980 and 56 years in 1985, and further to about 63 years in 1988.
3.       The declining in IMR is primarily attributable tc the lower of inci-
dence, prevalence and case fatality of the major causes of child death, namely
diarrhea, tetanus neonatorum, measles, polio and low birth weight.
4.       Meanwhile, the nutrition status of children under five years has
also been improving. The prevalence of protein-energy malnutrition (PEM) has
been reduced from 29.1Z in 1979 to 10.8Z in 1987.
5.       The improvements in health and nutritional status are largely due to
the expansion of primary health care services, improved food availability and
more effective eemand fostered by higher incomes and nutrition education. In
this context, the establishment of health facilities, such as health centers,
subcenters and mobile units, along with the expansion of nutrition program do
cover all subdistricts (kecamantan) and have made health services closer to
people in rural and urban areas.
6.       The number of health centers (including subcenters and mobile units)
have increased from 12,287 units in 1968 (a ratio of 108 facilities for one
million population) to 24,522 facilities in 1988 (a ratio of 140 facilities
for one million population). Furthermore, by 1988 at least 852 of the 5,725
main health centers had medical doctors, compared to only 282 of the 4,353
health centers in 1)78.
7.       In line with the expansion of health facilities, the number of
various health personnel have also increased. Medical doctors have increased
fourfold since 1968, i.e., from some 5,000 in 1968 to 10,500 in 1978 and to
28,730 in 1988, meaning incre-3ingly favorable ratios of respectively 45, 75



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
and 162 medical doctors per one million population in these years. The ratios
per one million population served by semi-academically trained, subprofes-
sional health technicians have also improved. i.e., 11, 23 and 47 for the
years 1968, 1978 and 1988, as well as the ratios for paramedical health
personnel (nurses and midwives), i.e., 68, 220 and 358 per one million popula-
tion for the years mentioned.
8.       Starting in 1985/86, primary health services (immunization, MCH and
diarrhea control) were integrated with nutrition and family planning programs,
which had active community participation to improve efficiency and effective-
ness. The integrated services posts at the village level are called
'POSYANDUO and are organized by the community, primarily by the Family Welfare
Women's Movement called PKK, being assisted by health center personnel for
professional services. In 1986/87 there were about 200,000 POSYANDUs in about
65,000 villages in Indonesia, or an average of three POSYANDUs per village.
9.       The expansion of health facilities and the increase in health person-
nel, along with adequate supplies of drugs and vaccines, have made it possible
to immunize 652 of infants, directly causing substantial decreases in infant
mortality rates over the past decade.
10.      Despite these achievements in improving health in Indonesia during
the last decades, Indonesia still faces managerial problems at various
administrative levels. Although average morbidity and mortality rates are
declining and nutrition status of children is improving, they are still behind
other countries in the region. Of particular importance is the high maternal
mortality rates (MMR) (i.e) 4.5 per 1,000 live births. This is due to the
fact that over 602 of deliveries are assisted by unskilled persons especially
traditional birth attendants.   Furthermore, there are still some regions
(provinces as well as rural and urban areas), where health conditions are
still rather low.
11.      In general, problems in health services reflect the relatively low
efficiency and effectiveness in the allocation and management of resources,
both financial and technical, as indicated by: (4) lack of coordinated and
integrated planning, budgeting and programming between the various central ana
regional/local levels of government; (ii) inconsistent prioritizing of activi-
ties; (iii) low management capacity; (iv) insufficient mobilization of commu-
nity resources for cost-recovery; and (v) insufficient rechannelling of
revenues from user charges to operation and maintenance of the health
facilities.
12.      In crder to alleviate weaknesses in the existing health system, major
adjustments in health policies should be brought about in Repelita V, for
which the Basic Guidelines of State Policies (GBHN) 1988 is the foremost frame
of reference.
B. Basic Guidelines
13.      The Basic Guidelines of the State Policies (GBHN) of 1988 for the
Fifth Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita V) in the Health Sector emphasizes
the following basic policies:



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
(a) Development of the health sector is aimed at enhancing the health
and nutrition conditions of the people to increase the quality and
standard of life and the intelligence and welfare of the people in
general. Priority will be given to promote community and family
health, and to prevent diseases, besides for curative and
rehabilitative health services.  In this connection, an integrated
national health system will be developed which encourages community
participation including the private sector.
(b) Development efforts in the health sector are primarily directed for
the benefit of the lower income groups both in the rural and urban
areas. Special attention shall be given to isolated areas and
communities, new settlements including transmigration areas, and
border areas. In this connection, high quality and affordable
health services will be expanded and made more accessible to the
community.
(v) Efforts to improve health include, among others, the control of
ccmmunicable diseases, improvement of nutritional status, provision
of clean water sanitation and environmental health, ar.d health
services for mothers and children along wirth family planning.
Special attention will be given to control drugs and food and to
protect the community against the dangers of narcotics and abuse of
drugs. Furthermore, health education will be expanded to promote
health consciousness and health behavior beginning early in life and
in all levels of society. These efforts will be carried out through
primary health care centers (PUSKESMAS), integrated services posts
(POSYANDU) and other community activities.
(d) The quality of health services from hospitals, rehabilitation
centers and primary health care centers and other institutions will
be improved further. In addition there will be increased efforts
to provide more medical, paramedical (with particular emphasis on
midwives) and other health personnel, and to ensure a more equitable
and affordablo' supply of drugs. During Repelita V, 18,900 midwives
will be posted in the remote villages as a special effort to lower
MMR.  The use of generic drugs will be promoted as one of the means
to reduce the cost of drugs. Meanwhile, the provision and increased
utilization of health services and facilities will be continued.
(e) The delivery of health services by the government as well as the
private sector should always be based on humanitarian
considerations. Meanwhile, ways to self-finance health services
should be developed basedi on insurance principles.
(f) In the framework of fr.rther expansion and equity of health services,
preserving and developing national traditions, efforts will be
continued to identify, test and develop traditional drugs and
treatments. In addition, efforts will be further extended to
promote the development and cultivation of traditional medicinal
plants which are medically useful.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
14.      Also relevant in the GBHN is the basic directive in the context of
the Role of Women in Development, as follows:
(a)  Especially for the child and youth, efforts should be furthered to
promote the development of the various aspects of their life, such
as nutrition, health and education (including religious education),
for their survival, sustained life, physical growth, spiritual
development, intelligence, personality, and social harmony.
(b) In the framework of encouraging the participation of women in
development, family welfare among other aspects, should be enhanced
through the Family Welfare Women's Movement (PKK) as a community
development generated by women at the grass roots.
15.      Furthermore, the basic directives of the GBHN in Regional Development
which are relevant for the Health Sector:
(a) Regional development will be carried out in an integrated manner and
with the goal that development in each region is truly in accordance
with the priorities and potentials of the region.
(b) Initiative and participation of the community including those of
self-support (non-governmental) institutions as well as local
governments in regional development should be continuously
encouraged and enhanced. For this purpose, the management capacity
of the entire governmental apparatus in the regions should be
strengthened, in the framework of realizing mo:e real and
responsible regional (local) autonomy. In conjunction with this,
the capacity of the region for development should be strengthened
among others by mobilizing funds in a reasonable and orderly way
including the generation of new financial resources which are not
contrary to national interests.
(c)  In the framework of promoting a more equitable distribution of
development efforts throughout the entire country, special attentian
should be given to regions which are relatively less developed,
particularly in, isolated areas and islands and border areas. In
addition, attention s1iould also be given among others to poor areas
and those with high population deasities to reduce population
migration to the large cities.
C. Policies and Obiectives
16.      The national health system known as Sistim Kesehatan Nasional (SKN),
referred to in the GBHN, was initiated in Repelita III. As a system it
reflects the collective endeavor of Indonesian people to increase their
ability to obtain optimal health status to achieve the welfare of the people.
It is based on a five-pronged long-term objective, i.e. (a) to enable people
to take care of their own health; (b) to promote an appropriate environment
which is conducive to the health of the people; (c) to promote the nutritional
status of the people; (d) to decrease morbidity and mortality rates; and
(e) to develop a healthy and prosperous family through the acceptance of a
small family as the norm.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
17.      To achieve thece objective, five major programs  the Panca Karya
Husada, were developed, i.e., (a) strengthening the health efforts; (b) health
manpower development; (c) improving the supply, distribution and quality
control of drugs; (d) improving nutritional status and environmental health;
and (e) strengthening law and management in health sector.
18.      Thus, as stated in the 1988 GBHN all objectives and activities of the
national health system should be further integrated and should also encourage
the participation of all segments of society, including the private sector.
19.      To facilitate the operational decentralization of health services, a
firm commitment was made to delegate part of the central government's autho-
rity for health services to local government, i.e., through the Peraturan
Pemerintah (Government Regulation) PP No. 7/1987, and PP 6/88 further clari-
fies decentralization responsibilities between the central and local govern-
ments. In Repelita V, their implementation will be furthered and/or
accelerated.
20.      In line with the GBHN and to operationalize its objectives which is
focusing on the increasing quality of life, the following are the five maijor
policies to be pursued in Repelita V for enhancing the health and nutritional
status of the population.
21.      First higher priority will be given to preventive and promotive
health activities aimed at alleviating health and nutrition problems which
have the greatest impact on the health status of the population, especially in
regions where the problems are greatest. The objective of this policy is
primarily to improve the quality of life of people by means of: (a) reducing
morbidity and mortality especially among mothers, infants and children under
five years, as well as fertility rates; and (b) improving the nutritional
status of people, primarily infants, children, and pregnant and lactating
mothers.
22.      To achieve these objectives the following actions will be carried
outt (a) expand health delivery services to be closer to people, especia'lly
in remote areas; (b) accelerate health education activities to enhance
consciousness, attitudes and behavior conducive to healthy habits, and to
encourage active community participation; (c) accelerate appropriate nutrition
interventions and nutrition surveillance activities; (d) expand the quality
and coverage of immunization, diarrhea control and other communicable disease
control activities; and (e) expand the coverage of low-cost rural water
supplies and environmental sanitation supported by active community participa-
tion.
23.      Second, in order to improve the quality of health services, the
management tf all health services will be improved, with the emphasis on
operation and maintenance, based on the principles of accessibility and affor-
dability. In this connection, hospital services particularly type C and D
hospitals will 'Le strengthened as a part of the referral system to support the
entire health delivery system. New type A and B hospitals will be built only
where there is a clearly established need and with foreign or private sector
assistance. The private sector will also be encouraged to participate in



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
providing health services and to take initiative and/or participate, among
other activities in self-supporting health insurance schemes.
24.      The obiectives to be achieved there include:  (a) a more effective
and efficient management of resources, in terms of human and financial as well
as technical and material resources of health facilities; (b) improved manage-
rial capacity through training of relevant health personnel at various levels;
and (c) provision of adequate numbers of qualified health personnel, including
an effective and sustained career development scheme.
25.      To achieve these objectives, the following actions will be carried
out; (a) enhance the development of health manpower training; (b) establish
criteria and standards to develop health technologies; and (c) strengthen
health care management structures in line with the principle of decentralized
planning, budgeting and delivery of health services, supported by an effective
information and monitoring system.
26.      Third, optimum use of financial resources available, through inte-
grated and decentralized planning and budgeting at the district and provincial
levels. In this case more role and responsibility will be given to local
government with technical guidance and assistance from the central government.
27.      The main policy objective is a more efficient and effective  expendi-
ture program consistent with national guidelines as well as regional priori-
ties and potentials.
28.      To achieve this obWective, the strategy will be:  (a) create an
effective working mechanism at the regional/local level to formulate drafts of
comprehensive and integrated medium term and annual expenditure programs as
well as financing plans; (b) review the document jointly, between the central
and regional/local governments through annual and occasional consultations in
order to arrive at mutually agreed upon expenditure program and financing
plan; and (c) design a simplified financial system, particularly the disburse-
ment procedure and the release of the various central government resource
allocations.
29.      Fourth improve local resource mobilization in order to provide suffi-
cient funds to ensure the sustainability of the expenditure programs.
30.      The objective to be achieved is a more balanced financing plan, in
terms of budgetary allocations from the various sources, central and local
government as well as foreign assistance and user charges, to meet operation
and maintenance costs.
31.      The strategies to be taken are:  (a) adjust the fee structure
primarily for curative services in accordance with the capacity of the various
target populations; (b) define the reg!onal target based on the local revenue
capacity and use the central subsidies to compensate for the differences;
(c) cause commitments to ensure that both central and local resources will be
released and used in accordance with the agreed financing plan; and (d) cause
commitments to ensure that local health revenues at least be retained,
directly or indirectly, by the respective health facilities for the purpose of
operation and maintenance.



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7
32.      Fifth, in order to facilitate the implementation of the four
policies, more frequent and effective communication and consultation among
agencies, primarily BAPPENAS, MOH, MOHA, MOF and local governments, will be
encouraged for better coordinated policy decisions.
33.      The actions to be taken are establishing inter-agency coordinating
committees at central, provincial, and district levels to monitor, and assist
in problem solving and decision making for policy actions.
D. Action Plan
34.      The policies with its objectives and strategy actions indicated above
will be gradually implemented throughout all regions.  Meanwhile, two regions,
i.e., the Provinces of Nusa Tenggara Barat (NTB) and Kalimantan Timur (Kaltim)
have been selected as 'pilot regions" for their accelerated implementation.
They will provide fruitful comparisons between (a) relatively low (NTB) and
high (Kaltim) potentials for local resource mobilization; (b) relatively small
area with high population density (NTB: 1X of the total area of Indonesia,
1.6Z of total population and density of 476 per square km), and large area
with very low population density (Kaltim 10.52 total area, 0.9Z of total popu-
lation with density of 7 per square km), and (c) last but not least,
strikingly different Physical Quality of Life Index (PQLI): NTB 33 and Kaltim
63, while the national average was 59 in 1980.
35.      An Action Plan and a sustainable five-year expenditure program and
financing plan for the two provinces are attached to this Policy Statement.



- 51 -
Page I
Htsltk Pol le  Action PlIn
Policy Drawn anG   jectivee                       Action proposd                                    Timetable                  Indicators
wi-.l.ono  emphasli on pr*t ent.n_   end    Establi    key indicators and target. for pre-       0r/v       9    l         ndicators  established
promotive health 8W.Wivit, end               ventive health (e.g., immnization coverege and        rev I.aed annual ly
Improving nutrition etetus aimed at         nutrition statum)
reducing eothep-' Infant and child
eortallty end warbld.ty, .. coll se
ferttiity rat.s
Deaign and Implement p re     monitoring
eyctC_ (Including epidesiologicl survey)                    II/s9            Monitorine eyetem established.
Survey. "oigned.
Ravis *nd _see.. th. appropriate c_letilon                  09/90            RecoAnddtione  aued
end resource requl remente of a care progrme at       r.viee.d onnually
pr"et,.e activitise (including imuniation.
nutrition and RIMS)
PoIi c 2
eImprov cupl it1 of arvlca. in health,        Esatblish key indicsaor. end target. for uti-               02/89             Indicators  esatbl ished
tacilit e- end the referral systee with      lization of health aerice  (e.g.. outpatient          rovwiead annually
the euphesal.n operatione and min-          visit. end inpati*nt          ne r   oeer per New? by
tmeance (1U)"                               Income cloe.)
Des ign and lnpih sent per4*orepnce monitoring 0-/90                         Voiotori gyatem establis hied.
ey.tea (including household eurveye by Income                                Surveye desiguned
ieview end et nord for eteffing and other                   10/90            Recoendations lled
operatios and maintenance, expenditure  e   rlr-      r*nd serd forw I ly
set. in cor nity, health facilities sA  the
referral system
I;Zntral laed end Integreted expend-         Eateblisbement of polc"  - and procedure. for               09/6             Camvo*etd
iture planning end budgeting                 pi rup wstatlon at decentrol ixed and inteated       reviewd ennual ly
pleans end budget.
Provincial end local government. prepare ennuel             02/89            Ceuplete  end earead for Year I
plans ed sependiture progrm box" on central            prepared end          (189l/90)
guidelinsn in the foe of en Integrated work           reiwed anually
Plan end budget
Issuance of th  Letter of Instruction  toe the              12/*81           DIrective inetud
Director Geeri Budget with intersectoral    -
*swa1n*e of the GOv,rnor's Letters of r00/9                                  Directives issued
Instruction in the provinces LIL
EstebIlieheant of organleatlon and management               06(90            Iamplemented
atructure to refloct dcentre lirgtion policies
c anposer Plennino and ftnegesndt Study and                 02/91            SystemlapI ement- d
recommendetions                                           onward*
Develp end im* leent ntegrated ssctorel                     06/91            Sy.tes eatabllhed; consolidated
expenditure accounting .yeten for sources and                                account. prepared annualIly
uees of funds at provnclel end district levrle
Wi*I.A9then local resource rebi lization       Health financing study end reoedtlons                       10/68             Coup Iete'd
and financial eanegement
AllI health eector renue. to be returned to the        4/89 oneerd           I Reflected in financing plans to bo
sestr                                                                        agreed annuellyn
Uindertake annual review of coet recovery              4/89 onearrd,         Annual review conducted withsen-
perforsonce and tariff etructures with adjust-                               I tuor  program
sent. to be pheeed gamdual Is
Ispleonmt pilot adcption at revenue retentIon               10/69            Working group seal god: recommend-
cyste a t tao oelected hospitals with glradual                               atiosaI iaeued
extension after perforesno review
Develop Integrated coat center accounting system           8(91              Syetes eetabl ished
for health fociIltite. for mnitoring unit soete
and revenues
Zur feallcation criteris and  dchnleam forP            4/91             Recommendations issued
central governeent subsidies based on local
revenue capacity end other factor.
Zeplemet Pilot adoption of revenue retent'lon              6/91              System implemented
systes at selected health center, alt. gfedual
exetnsion after perforances review,
Sitrengthen interagency coordination end      Continue and increass frequency of effective.               2(69             Interagency coordination comoittee
cwoeu Itation In the. health sector to      cionlcatlon and consultation with eg 4cme                                     establisihed
facilitate Implementation of above four     conr,(vrnod (Including 8AFPP4AS  MM, PUS  lF
policiea                                    and macel gaverament.).
LI  Applicable alen for agreements reached con reswourc  scbiligation measure..



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD HEALTH PROJECT
Project Provinces - Detailed Description
Kalimantan Timur
1.       Kalimantan Timur (Kaltim) has the second largest land area of all
Indonesia's provinces (after Irian Jaya), with an area of 202,440 sq/km. The
province is divided into 6 districts and 72 sub-districts containing 1080
villages. 80% of the province consists of dense forest, swamp, lakes and
rivers, making communications quite difficult and there are only 1370 Km of
roads in good condition.. The population in 1987 was estimated at 1.6
million, with the population density varying from 1.4 to 346.5 per sq. km.
The population growth rate is high, about 5.75% per annum, in part, because of
incoming transmigrants from Java and Bali who add to the population, both in
numbers and cultural diversity. An unusual feature of the population
distribution is that 60% of the total lives in the cities of Balikpapan and
Samarinda while the remainder is largely distributed along the rivers and
coast. Demographically, the population is characteristically young, 30% being
under age 10 and more than 50% under 20 years of age.
2.       About half the population is engaged in agriculture, with the
remainder employed in commerce, services, industry, transportation and mining.
Provincial per capita income is relatively high: in 1986 it was Rp 3.3 million
(US$ 1,980 equivalent) but this includes oil income most of which does not
accrue to the province; or Rp 0.9 million (US$ 540 equivalent) excluding oil.
These per capita income figures, which are higher than the national average
(Rp.0.5 million) do not accurately reflect the general level of welfare in the
province as income tends to be concentrated with a small urban elite, mainly
in the commercial city of Balikpapan. The average per capita monthly
household expenditure for Kaltim in 1986 was Rp.29,575 compared with a
national average of Rp.21,494. Illiteracy is relatively high, averaging about
23% province-wide, although varying from about 33% in rural areas to 11% in
urban areas. In 1984, about 37% of all households had a clean water supply
and 17% had a latrine.
3.       Health Status.  Health indicators for Kaltim range about the national
averages: in 1984 life expectancy was 56 years, the crude death rate was about
10 per thousand and the infant mortality rate was 87 per thousand live bizths
(see Table 1 for key health indicators). However, given large intra-
provincial differences in environmental and economic conditions between the
urban and rural areas, there is little doubt that the health status of rural
inhabitants (and poorer segments of the urban population) is considerably
lower than the aggregated figures indicate. The main health problems of
Kaltim mirror those of Indonesia -- e.g., high infant mortality in which
tetanus, diarrheal diseases, respiratory infections and malnutrition play a
large role; secondly, high morbidity and mortality rates for the under five
age group in which malnutrition, diarrhea, pneumonia, tetanus and malaria are
important causal agents; and thirdly, higl' maternal and foetal morbidity due
to inadequate pre-natal care, unhygienic delivery practices and poor general
hygiene and nutritional problems such as iron-deficiency anemia.



- 53 -
ASNNEX 2
Page 2
Table 1:   KEY HEALTH INDICATORS
Nusa
Kalimantan     Tenggara
Indicators                            Indonesia          Timur         Barat
Inifant mortality rate (1984)            89.0            87.0          146.0
Crude death rate (1984)                  11.5             9.9            10.0
Crude birth rate (1985)                  32.0            35.5
Life expectancy at birth (1984)          53.3            56.4           47.7
Nutritional status
(a) Calorie protein deficiency
under 3s (% 1987)                  10.8             7.5           20.2
4.       Overall, disease experience is dominated by the communicable
diseases.  Respiratory diseases account for about one-third of the patients
presented at health centers and other common disorders include skin and eye
infections, diarrheal diseases including dysenteries, enteric fevers, and the
viral enteritides. The principal endemic diseases are malaria and
tuberculosis, which are only under partial control and remain common and
disabling diseases. Other common diseases, some of which assume epidemic
proportions are influenza, dengue hemorrhagic fever, hepatitis, measles and
diarrheas. Intestinal parasites and filariasis are endemic and widespread
(see Table 2 for causes of morbidity).
Table 2:   LEADING CAUSES OF MORBIDITY
% of visists to health centers
Disease category                                  Kaltim              NTB
Respiratory tract disease                           39.6             32.4
Skin disease (80% infections)                        7.7             20.1
Gastro-intestinal including diarrhea                 9.3             11.0
Malaria                                              7.9              7.9
Vitamin deficiency                                   4.0              8.7
Eye diseases                                         -                4.0
Oral cavity disease                                  3.3              2.6
Tuberculosis                                         5.1              1.5
Ear disease                                          -                1.1
Other causes                                        24.4             14.6
Source: Ministry of Health, 1985.
5.       Health Services.  As is the case nationally, good progress has been
made in establishing primary health care infrastructure in Kaltim. There are
now 116 health centers (at least one in each sub-district), 12 of which in the
more remote areas are equipped with some in-patient beds. In addition, there
are 327 subcenters, roughly 3 to each health center. The development of



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
posvandu has also proceeded rapidly. About 1,630 had been established by 1987,
although over 75% are in or around Balikpapan and Samarinda and several do not
provide all of the five key interventions (immunization, nutrition, infant
weighing, diarrhea and family planning). To fully extend coverage of programs
through the posyandus a further 1,200 posyandus will need to be developed.
There are also about 50 mobile health centers intended to reach smaller
isolated communities, containing about 100,000 people, located along the river
systems. Mobile health services are staffed by a doctor and nurses drawn from
health centers who visit the areas for periods up to a week to provide
curative services and basic MCH care. The most inaccessible locations, inland
and along the border with Malaysia where 100,000 people live, are served by
air. See Table 3 for comparative health service indicators.
Table 3:   HEALTH SERVICE INDICATORS
Indicators                                         Kaltim              NTB
Doctor/population                                   1:8,000          1:15,000
Nurse/population                                    1:1,500           1:4,000
Health center/population                           1:13,800          1:35,000
Health subcenter/population                         1:4,900           1:4,900
Hospital bed/population                               1:960           1:3,500
% planned posyandus established (1987)                   64                76
Patient contact rate                                  0.94               0.5
% Households with clean water (1984)                  37.0              35.0
% Households with latrines (1984)                    17.0               12.0
Source: Ministry of Health, 1988.
6.       The peripheral health care delivery system is supported by 24
hospitals with a total bed capacity of 1660 beds, 80% of which are public.
However, some of the government run hospitals serve either specialist
functions such as psychiatry or leprosy or serve special populations such as
the army or employees of Pertamina. There are three government hospitals
located at Balikpapan, Samarinda and Tarakan providing specialist services and
four smaller (type D) hospitals providing a more limited range of services.
The hospitals in Balikpapan and Tarakan are older, while Samarinda hospital is
modern although it has serious problems with water and waste disposal. Located
in the center of the town, Balikpapan hospital was built in 1947 and as a
result of age and land subsidence it is in need of replacement. For a
combination of technical reasons the replacement will have to be constructed
on a new site, but the old facilities should be modestly redeveloped as a
polyclinic to continue out-patient services and provide emergency services in
the congested center of the town. The bed to population ratio is about
1:1,000. Bed occupancy rates range from about 75% at the three larger
hospitals to about 30% at the smaller facilities.
7.       There are about 200 doctors in Kaltim but they are unevenly
distributed, with a doctor-population ratio in Samarinda of 1:5,000 compared
with a ratio in Kutai district of 1:14,000. The overall doctor-population



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
ratio is about 1:8,000. The key paramedical service provider at health
centers and sub-centers is the nurse of which there are about a thousand. The
distribution of nurses closely follows that of the doctors with the highest
concentration in Samarinda and there is an overall nurse-population ratio of
1:1,500. The proportion of nurses to doctors is reasonably good ranging
between 5:1 to 10:1. The distribution of nurses by workplace favors the
health centers (48%) compared witn hospitals (42%) with 10% occupying
administrative positions. The supply of nurses in Kaltim is sustained through
training at 3 nurses schools each graduating about 40 nurses per year.
8.       It is estimated that on average each health center serves about
12,500 people, a higher ratio than the national average but necessary because
of the nature of the terrain and scattered population (40% of villages are
distant from the health centers). The factors that combine to limit the
quality, accessibility and utilization of services provided through Kaltim's
network of primary and secondary health facilities reflects the national
issues and despite the concentration of people and facilities around the main
urban centers of Balikpapan and Samarinda, the contact rate with health
facilities remains low at 0.9 visits per year.
Nusa Tengarra Barat
9.       Nusa Tengarra Barat (NTB) consists of two large islands, Lombok and
Sumbawa of roughly similar size, surrounded by numerous small islands. The
islands are volcanic in origin and consequently quite rugged with relatively
small areas suitable for agriculture. The total land mass is about 20,000
sq/km. There is a well defined rainy season lasting from November to April,
but there is considerably variation in rainfall in different parts of the
islands resulting in a ras.ge of microclimates. The province is divided into
six districts and 59 sub-districts containing 565 villages. The three
districts on each island are served by a reasonably well developed road system
while the two main islands are linked by regular ferry and air services. The
population in 1987 was estimated at 3.2 million people but is unevenly
distributed between the two major islands. Lombok, where the provincial
capital, Nataram, is located has about 70% of the population with the
remainder living on Sumbawa and smaller islands. As a result, the population
density on Lombok is about 440 people per sq/km in contrast to only about 50
people per sq/km on Sumbawa. About 65% of the people live in rural areas.
The population growth rate in the period 1980-1985 was estimated at 2.25% per
annum, but there is considerable variation between districts, in part, as a
result of the government's resettlement policies. The demographic profile of
the population in NTB is identical to that of Kaltim (see para.l).
10.      About 65% of the population is engaged in agriculture, with the
remainder employed in services, commerce, construction and transportation.
Tourism is growing modestly in Lonbok, partly as a result of the island's
proximity to Bali. NTB is one of the poorer and less developed provinces in
Indonesia with a 1986 per capita income of Rp.0.24 million (US$ 145
equivalent), substantially below the national average of Rp.0.49 million (US$
295 equivalent). The 1986 average per capita monthly household expenditure in
NTB was Rp.15,615 less than half than that in Kaltim but there is a more
equitable distribution of income in NTB.   The proportion of children over 10
years not attending school is slowly decreasing (from 44% in 1980 to 38% in
1984) but overall illiteracy remains high at 44% with a higher rate among the
rural people. The percentage of households with a clean water supply in 1984



- 56 -
AFNEX 2
Page 5
was 35%, but only 12% of households had any form of latrine. Assistance to
improve the water supply and waste disposal is currently being provided
through AIDAB and UNICEF for Lombok.
11.      Health Status.  Th.e main health indicators for NTB are substantially
worse than the national averages (see Table 1 for comparisons). In 1984, life
expectancy at birth was 47.7 years, the IMR was 146 and the crude death rate
was 10. The high IMR is a result of a combination of factors including poor
maternal health and natal care and the prevalence of tetanus, diarrheal and
respiratory disease and malnutrition. Despite improvements in agricultural
output the Protein Energy Malnutrition level in the under three year old's was
20% in 1987.
12.      The main health problems are dominated by a spectrum of communicable
diseases. Respiratory disease, diarrhea, skin diseases of infectious origin,
malaria and tuberculosis are the leading reasons why people attend health
services. 32% of all visits to health centers in 1985 were for infections of
the respiratory tract, 20% for skin diseases, 11% for gastro-intestinal
infections, 9% for malaria and 2% for tuberculosis. Malaria and tuberculosis
continue to be major health problems and there has been some resurgence in
malaria since spraying with residual insecticides was reduced as a result of
budget reductions for CDC activities. The prevalence of malaria, which is a
significant cause of child morbidity and mortality, varies between districts,
the highest prevalence occurring in Dompu district while the lowest rate is in
the adjacent district of Sumbawa. In addition, NTB has some particular
disease problems including a high prevalence of Hepatitis B (currently subject
of a trial GOI immunization program in Central Lombok district) and anthrax
which is especially prevalent in Dompu district. Underlying this pattern of
morbidity, and which contribute to susceptibility to illness, is the
widespread presence of intestinal parasitism, micronutrient deficiencies
including iron, vitamin A and iodine and generally poor nutritional and
environmental conditions. While the overall mortality rate is generally known
there is insufficient specific data to provide a clear picture of age specific
causes of death.
13.      Health Services.  There has been an expansion of health facilities in
NTB and at the end of 1986 there were 91 health centers, 322 sub-health
centers and 71 mobile health centers which extend services to the more
inaccessible villages and small offshore islands. Some of the health centers
lack a doctor and the health centers and sub-centers are seriously short of
paramedical personnel. On average each health center serves about 35,000
people which is sligltly more than the national norm (1 health center per
30,000 people) but intra-provincial disparities exist in this ratio. At the
end of 1987, 2,599 posyandus had been developed to take basic preventive and
family planning programs into the villages and the intention is to expand this
activity to all 3,390 sub-villages in NTB.
14.      There are 13 hospitals in NTB with 910 beds giving a bed to
population ratio of 1;3,500, a very low figure. Of the 13 hospitals, six are
general government hospitals, 3 are specialist hospitals including those for
psychiatry and leprosy, 1 is an army hospital and three are private. Mataram
hospital located in Lombok Barat district is the largest hospital (recently
reclassified as type B) and offers the fullest range of general and specialist
services available in the province.  Five smaller type D hospitals serve the



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Pago 6
remaining districts but the quality of services provided through these
facilities is extremely variable.  The BOR in Mataram Hospital is high at 82%
(1987) with an average length of stay of 7.8 days and there is a need for
increased bed capacity. BOR's at the district hospitals are much lower
ranging down to 40% at Sumbawa (1985). The physical condition of the five
district hospitals is poor and they lack key facilities which would contribute
to improved performance if they were present. The three hospitals on Sumbawa
island are further handicapped by their relative isolation and would benefit
from a program of staff strengthening and training, consistent support from
Mataram hospital and better communications.
15.      There are about 210 doctors, including specialists in NTB giving a
doctor-population ratio of about 1:15,000. In addition there are about 800
nurses giving a nurse-population ratio of 1:4,000 and a doctor-nurse ratio
similar to Kaltim. These figures indicate a shortage of medical and
paramedical manpower and the quality of the manpower is also poor. There are
two nursing schools in NTB graduating about 90 nurses each year and in
addition there is a laboratory technician and assistant nutritionist school
located in Mataram, which will be improved to alleviate these problems. The
health problems in NTB also reflect the national problems, and the contact
rate with health centers is very low at 0.5 visits per person per year.



- 58 -                                                           i
ne
floeati ad Oanvaa Stanf Devlcaaent ha Comnenb *nd Year
Damtic Pal l..jhi.a                                 Daaaaa  i-al  bleai-
Caog MP nt                              19189/90  l1091  1191/92  19"2/96  1998/94 Totel 1989/90  19090/91  1991/92  19C2/9  193/94  Ttal
Santo. EA,0nditura POrM
Hospital DevelIopant
ibnegeaet, ea. proram                          -        -        -        -        -        -     14        14       14       14       14       70
arting                                        24       46       72       48       24      216      -         -        -        -        -        -
Medical Analyst                               24       48       72       48       24      216       -        -        -                 -        -
Dental - short and long term                  60       80       60       48        -      2         -        -        -        -        -        -
Training
rming echoeol t_acharsm  Hat.r Progra          -        -        -        -        -        -      6       84       24         -        -      114
rming  Ichl thr   Diploe  Programr -          i       252      276      16         n 72   900               12      24        12        -       48
Cepwut.r prograsing                            -        6        -        -        -        6
Humn recrca  development                       -        -        -        -        -        -     12        12        -        -        -       24
bit dtff d lopent                              -        -        -        -        -        -     12       18        a         -        -       86
Agaletant  utritionit                          -        -        -        -        -        -      -        12      24        12        -       48
Teactor Training                               8        8                                                    -        -        -        -        -
Medical Analyst                               24       86       So       12        -      16      -         -        -        -        -        -
Lob Assistant                                 12       12        -        -        -       24      -        -        -         -        -        -
Public HealtIh  nd ""aoem-nt                  60      120      120                a sf     42      -        -        -         -        -        -
Drug HAnegemt  nd Contrl                      12       12       12       12        -       48      -        -         -        -        -        -
Enuliab intteive coure                         8        6        6        a        8       8o      -        -        -         -        -        -
Public Howitn end   lgement                      -       4S 8              72       24      240    as        66       108      10       48      868
Health *conowice                                 -        -        -        -        -        -      -       12       24       24        12       72
Manpower planning                                -        -        -        -        -        -     12       72       8S       24        12      1iS
Comuter proraming                                -        -        -        -        -        -      -        -        7        14        7       29
Health Atiatica                                  -        -        -        -        -        -      -        12      19        14        7       52
Financitn  and Accounting                        -       4AS               72       24      240      -        -        -         -        -        -
English inttenei   coure-                        6        6       18       12        -       42           -        -        -        -             -
Sector llan9aont *Cantrnl l
H  l th emrcongai                                9       12        0        0        0       21      -       86       SS         -       -       72
Health planning                                  9       12        -        -                21      -       48       48        -         -      98
bioaetiatica                                          -        -        -        -            -      -       12       12        -         -      24
Deograor                                         -        -        -        -        -        -      -       12       12         -        -      24
Public Administration                            -        -        -        -                 -      -       12       12        -        -       24
Public Health end Inag e.nt                      -        4        4        -                 a      -        -        -        -        -        -
Coputer progroaing                               a        4        -        -                 7      -        -        -        -         -
1lii                                        gL       ZIZ      MO       MA       IL     2.9      hE            m                             L



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD HEALTH PROJECI
!ecentralized and Integrated Health Planning and Budgeting
1.       The objective of decentralized and integrated health planning and
budgeting is: (a) to improve the planning of health expenditure programs so
that they reflect provincial and district priorities as well as national
policies; and (b) ensure the program incorporate integrated budgets
reflecting the different funding sources -- APBN DIP and DIK, Inpres, SBBO,
and SDO from the central government; APBD I from the provincial government;
APBD II from the district government; and foreign assistance.  The basic
principles for the planning process are outlined in the Ministry of Home
Affairs Regulation No. 9 of 1982. Directives and intersectoral commitments
(MOH, NOHA, Bappenas, and MOF) are also required for the integrated budgets
and for the implementation of these measures in the provinces. These have
been provided by the Director General of Budget, MOF, and the respective
Governors of the provinces of Kalimantan Timur (Kaltim) and Nusa Tenggara
Barat (NTB) through the issuance of Letters of Instruction.
2.       Process and Timing.  The specific steps and timing for the
preparation of the Integrated Health Plan and Budget (IHPB) are as follows:
(a) Village or Desa level: The LKHD, chaired by the Head of the Desa,
identifies and develops programs and proposals to be submitted to the sub-
district level. The planning process at the village level is done in
March/April.
(b) Sub-district or Kecamatan level: At meetings chaired by the head
of the sub-district (camat), all program/project proposals sumitted by the
villages are reviewed and integrated. Financing plans, including community
self financing, APBD I and II Inpres and APBN, are then incorporated.
Proposals are also developed for the sub-district itself and, with the
exception of programs to be financed by the community, all other proposals
are discussed at the "coordination development" meetings (Rakorbang_Level
II) at the sub-district in MgyIJung. The objective of this meeting is to
clarify the local needs of the sector and, initially, identify which
programs/projects will be finan:ed by APBD I and II, APBN, Inpres, foreign
assistance and others. The proposals are then submitted to the District
level.
(c)  District or KabuDaten level:  The district develops its own program
and proposals which are supplementary to the proposals from the sub-
district. Under the supervision of the Governor, and coordinated by the
head of the planning agency (Bappeda), the proposals are reviewed at the
"coordination development" meeting (Rakorbang Level I) which is held in
July/August. The objective of this meetings is to integrate and
synchronize the appropriate programs/projects which reflect district
priorities, discuss the provision of local government financing for the
proposals and review all the proposals to be financed by the central level
and the projects to be re-reviewed at the Regional Develogment consultation
meeting. The latter is held in August/September and is the final stage of
the local government preparation process. The meeting will: (a) review the



- 60 -
ANEXA 4
Page 2
previous years projects/programs proposed in the National and Local
Repelitas, the achievements and problems encountered in implementation; (b)
establish priorities on the proposals submitted for the coming year; (c)
agree on proposed projects te be financed by the local government; and (d)
projects to be financed by the central government. The final proposal
would be the initial draft of the IHPB as it would describe, in an
integrated framework, the proposed budgetary financing flows from central
and local governments to the different health programs. The IHBP, together
with a report on current year activities, would be submitted to the central
government -- Bappenas, MOHA, MOH and MOF.
(d) NAtional Development Consultation Meeting (Rakonas): This meeting
is held in October. It is chaired by Bappenas and involves all the other
relevant agencies. The meeting would review the IHPB, and establish the
broad central budget allocations for the health programs (Satuan 3
ceilings). The ceilings would be issued by January and would include the
funding for the SBBO, DIK, Inpres as well as the DIP. The ceilings will be
accompanied by directives from the central level concerning national
objectives and targets that should be achieved by the local level and
targets and programs to be reduced or cancelled.
(e)  Budget documents. Operational Guidelines and Working Sheets:  The
planning/budgeting cycle ends with the preparation of the budgets,
operational guidelines (PO's), and working sheets (Lembaran Kerja or LK's)
for the budgetary sources based on the Satuan 3 ceilings. The LK's would
provide the detailed information on expenditures, for example, the number
and types of supervision activities, and would, thus, represent the
detailed budget documents of the IHPB.    The budget documents  would be
completed by the end of JanuarE. They would be reviewed as an integrated
package at the central level by Bappeda and the other local government
agencies with Bappenas and the other central government agencies in early
February. The agreed and approved budget documents would be available at
the local government level by March for the next fiscal year.
Proposed Changes in Line with Decentralization
3. Changes in the planning and budgeting process in line with
decentralization policies would necessarily be a long term effort and in
line withi reforms being undertaken in other sectors. The major changes to
be tested under the project, through the implementation of the IHPB, would
be done gradually, continuously reviewed, monitored and evaluated and
adjustments made as appropriate.
4. The initial changes to be introduced under the IHPB would be the
following:
(i) the planning process would reflect local needs and
priorities, and operational costs would reflect regional factors and would
be done. as outlined above, largely at the local government level, as
against the existing system where national priorities and central planning
dominate. Additionally, any adjustments to the plan would be done with the
participation of the local government, as against the current system where
changes are made only by the center;



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
(ii) the proposals to be submitted to the National Development
Consultation meeting-., the initial IHPB, would provide in an integrated
framework the various budgetary sources for health activities. This would
be different from the current system where the proposals submitted are only
those with budgets requested from APBN. As the local government
contributions are not identified in the submissions, budget allocations
from the APBN have tended to be unrealistic. Additionally, the APBD budgets
tend to provide only supplementary financing for those activities or
programs which cannot be financed by APBN;
(iii)  the authority for the formulation of the budgets. currentl,
done by the center. would gradually be delegated to the local government.
At present, central budgets and associated documentation are prepared
without any participation by local government personnel following the
Satuan 3 ceilings. Under the IHPB, and in line with greater local
autonomy, the authority for the formulation of the budget documents, PO's
and LK's currently prepared in the center, would gradually be delegated to
the local governments, as appropriate, in line with reviews and
modifications of the procedures for the IHPB. The budgetary documents for
the Inpres would continue to be prepared by the local governments taking
into consideration national policies. The LK (Lembaran Kerja) for the APBD
budgets would also be prepared by the local governments as at present and
there would be a phased delegation of this authority under the IHPB.
Further, although initially, there would continue to be several DIPs
formulated as in the current system (one for each of the major health
programs, eg. CDC, Community health), a difference would be that under the
IHPB the DIP's would reflect much more local content than in the past;
(iv) under the IHPB, attempts would be made to provide a better
classification of budgetary disbursements, with a clearer breakdown between
investment and recurrent expenditures, both for the central and local
government budget accounts. The latter, at the moment, does not provide any
economic classification of expenditures.
5.    Other changes to be reviewed and gradually implemented during the
course of the project and, in line with reforms to be undertaken in other
sectors, would include: (a) the simplification and gradual consolidation of
the budgetary channels, for example a consolidated DIP or block grant SDO;
(b) the gradual integration of the PO's and LK's following from the
integrated ceilings agreed to above; and (c) provision of Bank funds
directly to the local government through Inpres or some other similar
channel to enable the planning process to be directly supported by
financial resources (under the existing system Bank funds would be provided
under the DIP). The implementation of the procedures would need to be
phased because considerable amounts of training and supervision will be
needed to ensure that the local government health offices are prepared to
implement the procedures and manage local health programs effectively.



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD HEALTH PROJECT
Health Financing in Kalimantan Timur and
Nusa TenRgara Barat
1.       A Health Financing Study 1/  was undertaken in the project provinces
of Kalimantan Timur and Nusa Tenggar Barat to assess past trends in government
expenditures and reveaues in the health sector, as well as develop proposals
for financial policy adjustments needed to ensure the sustainability of the
sectoral expenditure programs for Repelita V and beyond. The results of the
analysis are briefly summarized in the following paragraphs.
Health Sector Expenditure and Revenue Trends
2.       Kalimantan Timur (Kaltim).  A review of the expenditure and revenue
trends for the years 1982/83-1987/88 indicates that although Government health
expenditures show a nominal increase up to 1988/87, in real terms, there has
been a 322 decrease in the level of spending in the health sector. Further,
although recurrent expenditures also show an increase from about 55.8Z in
198E/83 to 88.6Z in 1987/88, a major portion of the increase has been on
salaries and by 1988/87 more than half of the recurrent expenditures was
allocated to the salary budget.  This has implied a significant decrease in
non-personnel expenditures leading to a deterioration in the quality of
existing services. Funds for investment also show a continuing decline from
44.22 in 1982/83 to 11.4? in 1987/88. The trend of Government health
expenditure per capita shows considerable fluctuation with the highest per
capita expenditures occurring in 1985/86 at Rp 6,900, and the lowest amounting
to Rp 5,200, in 1987/88 (Table 1).
3.       A breakdown of government expenditures by source and type of
expenditure from the central, provincial and district governments is seen in
Table 2 below and reflects the multiplicity of budgetary flows to the sector.
4.       As seen, Central aoverrmont health expenditure are the largest
portion of total Government expenditures, but it has decreased from 71.6Z in
1982/1983 to 63.7X in 1987/1988. This decrease occurred in the development
budget (DIP-APBN) and the Inpres Budget, while the routine budgets (DIK-APBN),
and particularly the salary budget, the SDO has continued to increase
annually. Health expenditures from the Provincial aovernment has ranged from
about 18Z-28Z of total government expenditures. The allocations reflect an
increasing trend with the provincial government, to some extent, offsetting
the decrease in central government spending.  The development budget, however,
reflecting the central trend has been drastically reduced in 1987/88. The
proportion of health expenditures from the District government has remained
relatively stable over the period, although the contribution is small being
less than 10? of total government expenditures.
1/ Health Financing Study in East Kalimantan and West Nusa Tenggara,
Bureau of Planning, MOH and Faculty of Public Health, University of
Indonesia.



- 63 -
ANNEX S
Page 2
Table-1: Government Expenditures for the Hearth Sector According
to Type of Expenditure, Kaltil Province
1982/83 - 1987/88
(Rp. Min)
Type of Expenditureu Average     1982/83     1988/84    1984/86       1985/86     1980/87      1987/88
Recurrent
1. Salary           8,668.7      2,047.8     2,866.8    2,528.9       8,652.6     8,s04.1     4,a82.7
X                84.9        28.1        29.6        28.6         88.5        as.?         46.2
2. Drug             1,621.9      1,124.8       962.9    1,206.9       1,872.7     1,911.4     2,684.2
X                 19.4        12.7        11.9        18.6         17.6        17.9         80.1
8. others           1,672.2      1,778.0     1,878.7    1,7065.7      1,916.2     2,228.1     1,0381.
X                16.8        20.1        17.2        19.8         18.1        20.9         11.7
4. Total Recurrent  8,386.2      4,956.1     4,693.4    5,440.5       7,841.5     7,948.7     7,828.1
X              71.8        56.8        68.8        61.5         69.2        74.6         88.6
5. Total Investment 2,982.9      8,916.4     8,290.9    8,400.2       8,274.2     2,706.8     1,009.0
28.7        44.2        41.2        88.5         80.8        26.4        11.4
Tftal        9,299.1     8,86.5       7,98s4.8    8,840.7    10,615.7    16,660.6      8,887.1
S            100.0       1660.        106.6      166.6        106.0        106.6       160.0
Population  1,56,905.7  1,887,0650.0 1,400,688.0 1,467,464.0  1,587,492.0  1,610,916.0  1,687,680.0
Por tplts         6.9          .8        s5.7         6.6          6.9         6.6          5.2
Public health expenditures have ranged between 0.22U-0.18Z of the domestic
regional product in Kaltim. National government expenditures on health as a
percent of GDP was about 0.62 in 1985.



- 64 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
Table 2: Government Expenditures for the Health Sector by sotcree and type
of Expenditure, Kaltim Province, 1982/88 - 1987/88
(Rp. Mn)
Source Type of
No.   Expenditures   1982/1988    1988/1984   1984/1986  1985/1988   1986/1987        1987/1988
I. Central           6,844.8      5,878.6     6,186.2    7,181.1      6,611.4        5,s83.9
x                 71.6         78.6         70.0       87.6        65.1           68.7
Per Capita            4.7          4.2         4.2         4.7         4.1            8.8
1. Development    2,088.7      1,790.0      1,780.9    1,897.2       734.4         219.1
2. Routine          469.9        520.8       540.6       718.9       877.9          997.8
S. Inpres         2,083.6      1,809.5      1,744.9    1,974.7     1,705.5          845.9
4. SDO            1,702.2      1,958.8      2,110.8    2,975.2     8,180.4        8,415.1
6. S8BO               0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0       118.2          168.0
I. Provinces          1,741.8      1,470.6     1,976.2    2,672.7      2,859.1       2,608.2
X                19.6         18.4        22.4        25.2        28.2           28.4
Per Capita            1.8          1.0         1.8         1.7         1.8            1.5
1. Development      844.9      1,802.0     1,219.7    1,207.0      1,26e.7         669.6
2. Routine          896.9        468.6       756.6    1,465.7      1,662.4        1,896.6
III. Distrlct           786.4         640.1       678.8       781.9       686.6         766.6
X                  8.8          8.0         7.7         7.2         6.7            7.9
Per capita            0.6          0.5         0.6         6.5         0.4           0.4
1. Development      586.1        486.2       852.4       875.0       880.0         888.6
2. Routine          194.8        209.9       825.9       886.9       850.6         466.6
Total          s.s88.6      7.984.3      8,840.7   10.615.7    10.656.5        8,837.1
8. Population  1,837,o60.0  1,466,888.0  1,487,464.0 1,657,492.0  1,610,915.6   1,687,686.0
Per capits         6.6          5.7         6.6         6.9         6.6            5.2
x                10.0         188.0        188.6      1W.6        100.0          188.O
5.        A comparison of recurrent expenditures of local government in the
health sector with revenues collected from health facilities is seen in Table
3 below.



-65-                            ANNEX 5
Page 4
Table 3: Comparison of Recurrent Expenditures and Revenue of
Local Government from the Health Sector, Kaltim Province, 1982/83 - 1987/88
(Rp. Mln)
Source               1982/1983  1983/1984  1984/1985  1985/1986 1986/1987  1987/1988
1. Province
- Expenditures    896.9       468.6       576.5    1,465.7   1,602.4      1,896.6
- Revenues         299.5      339.3       347.6      450.5      636.6       412.5
2. District
- Expenditures    194.3       209.9       325.9      386.9      350.0       400.0
- Revenues          73.9       79.5        95.4      124.3      152.0       138.4
It shows that expenditures have consistently been higher than revenues both at
the provincial and district level, indicating a low contribution from health
fees to operation and maintenance (O&M) costs as well as continuing subsidies
from the local government to the health sector.
Nusa Tengzara Barat (NTB)
6.       The trend of government expenditures in the health sector in NTB is
similar to that in Kaltim. As seen in Table 4, government expenditures have
tended to increase from 1982/83 to 1986/87 in nominal terms but have decreased
by about 18X in real terms. Recurrent expenditures have tended to increase as
well but with the salary budget constituting a disproportionate share (54.32)
of the total budgetary allocation by 1987/88. Investment expenditures have
shown a continuing decreasing trend from 32.2Z in 1982/33 to about 10.4Z in
1987/88. Government health expenditures per capita have decreased from the
peak level of Rp 2,900 per capita in 1985/86 to Rp 2,400 per capita in
1987/88.



- 66 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5
Tablo 4: Government Eexpendituree for the Health Sector According
to Type of Expenditure, NTB Province
Years 1982/88 - 1987/0B
(tRp. Mln)
Type of Expenditures  Average    1982/83    1983/84    1984/865     1985/88     198f/87     1987/88
Recurrent
1. Selary             2,889.9    1,881.6    2,224.9     2,482.9      8,874.6     8,876.7     4,099.2
X                  87.2       29.0       81.8         88.6        88.1        44.6        54.8
2. Drug               1,294.1    1,012.6    1,083.9     1,186.1      1,825.2     1,892.4     1,815.8
x                  17.1       16.0       14.8        16.4         14.9        16.6        24.8
8. Others             1,407.6    1,4386.6    1,355.4    1,469.4      1,722.7     1,817.3       858.5
X                  18.6        0.2        0.2         0.2          0.2         0.2        11.8
4. Total Recurrent    6,595.2    4,280.7    4,616.2     5,077.5      6,442.6     6,886.4     8,767.9
X                  78.9       67.8       65.9        70.1         72.6        75.5        89.6
S. Total Investment   1,915.7    2,032.7    2,890.1     2,181.2      2,448.5     1,677.6       786.4
x                  26.9       82.2       84.1        29.9         27.6        19.8        10.4
Total         7,672.6    6,818.4    7,006.8      ,281.6      8,868.9     8,468.9     7,564.8
U             100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0        100.0       100.0       100.0
Population    8,016,406.6 2,849,822.0 2,918,397.0 2,979,646.0  8,646,524.0 3,118,311.0 3,186,789.0
Percapita           2.6        2.2        2.4         2.4          2.9         2.7         2.4
7.        Reviewing expenditures by source and type, Central government health
expenditures in NTB also constitute the largest portion of the total amount of
Government health expenditure, averaging about 89Z. Decreases in 1987/88 have
also been due to fluctuations in development expenditures (DIP) and the
Inpres, because the routine expenditures (DIK) and the SDO have increased
annually. Health expenditure of the Provincial government vary between 5.92 -
9.72 of total health expenditures. Unlike '%altim, the provincial government
contribution to the health sector has fluctuated considerably although
contribution for 1987/88 at about 9.7Z has been the highest over the time
period. The portion of health expenditures from t.ae District government is
relatively very small, ranging from 3.252 in 1982193 to 4.12 by 1987/88
(Table 5).



- 67 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6
Table 5: Government Health Expenditures by Sourc, and Type
of Expenditure, NTO Province
Years, 1982/88 - 1987/88
(Rp. Min)
Source and
type
No.   expenditures   1982/1988    1988/1984   1984/1986   1986/1988   1986/1987  1987/1988
1 Central            5,679.6      6,369.9      6,651.9     7,859.1     7,439.2    6,610.6
(X)                  88.4         90.8         90.2        88.6        88.0       86.2
Per Capita            2.0          2.2          2.2         2.6         2.4         2.1
1. Development    1,710.3       1,986.7     1,984.4     2,868.5     1,037.9       402.2
2. Routin-          298.0         841.1       426.2       688.4       683.8       818.8
8. Inpres         2,014.1       2,131.5     1,967.8     2,009.4     2,843.9    1,673.1
4. SDO             1,588.8      1,869.6     2,072.2     2,882.8     8,158.8    8,447.7
S. SBBO              2F.8         61.1        112.8        80.0       215.8       169.0
II Provinces            528.8        414.8        468.1       743.1       649.6      784.2
(S)                   8.4          6.9         6.6          8.4         7.7        9.7
Per Capita            0.2          0.1          0.2         0.2         0.2        0.2
1. Development      140.0         122.8       112.8       267.7       196.8       268.6
2. Routine          888.8         292.5       855.8       485.4       473.8       477.6
UII  District            205.1        231.6       238.7        266.6       845.1      309.6
X                     8.8          8.8          8.8         8.0         4.1        4.1
Per Capita            0.1          0.1          0.1         0.9         0.1        0.1
1. Development       86.4         76.1        101.5        90.8       186.5       103.0
2. Routine          119.7         168.5       187.2       176.2       244.6       206.6
Total           6,818.4      7,006.8     7,288.8     8,868.9      8,458.9    7,664.8
X                 106.0        109.0       1O0.0       100.0        100.0      100.0
Percapita            2.2           2.4         2.4         2.9         2.7         2.4
Population     2,849,022.0  2,918,897.0 2,979,646.0 8,646,524.0 8,116,811.0 8,186,789.0
8.        Comparing local government routine expenditures in the health sector
with revenues obtained from health facilities in NTB, a pattern similar to
Kaltim is seen as the provincial level but a substantially different trend is
evident at the district level. As Table 6 below indicates, the provincial
government has consistently subsidized the sector over the time period as
revenues have generally averaged less than half the expenditures. However, at
the district level, revenues show a rising trend, and expenditures have
averaged about 502 less than revenues over the time period. Estimates
indicate that the contribution of health sector revenues to the district level



- 68 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7
budget has ranged between 10.6Z to 12.2Z between 1982/83-iI86/87. Given this
high proportion of revenues collected by the local treasury, and that all
revenues are not returned to the sector, it is evident that the health sector
revenues are being used for other purposes by the district government.
Table 6: Comparison between Current Expenditures and Revenue of
Local Government f.zm the Health Sector, NTB Province, 1982183 - 1987/88
(Rp. Mln)
Source               1982/1983  1983/1984  1984/1985  1985/1986  1986/1987  1987/1988
1. Province
- Expenditures    600.0       292.0       555.5      480.4       473.8       477.6
- Revenues         207.7      147.1       165.6      209.3       219.8      299.9
2. District
- Expenditures    119.7       156.5       137.2      176.2       244.6      206.5
- Revenues        119.0       204.7       294.7      332.7       410.8      449.9
Overall Trends
9.       Overall expenditure and revenue trends in Kaltine and NTB reflect the
national issues. First, central government expenditures have declined in real
terms, while local government spending has not fully compensated for the
decline. Second, revenue from user charges is low in both provinces. In
1987/88. for example, as seen in Tables 3 and 6, cost recovery measures
contributed Rp 551 million and Rp 750 mln in Kaltim and NTB respectively.
This represented 7Z and 11? of total recurrent expenditures in that year.
Third, although all health sector revenues are returned to the sector in
Kaltim, in NTB at the district level, health expenditures account for only
about 50Z of health revenues and in neither provinces are revenues retained at
the facilities. Finally, the current levels of central government subsidy
provided to the provinces are regressive and inequitable. As seen in Tables 2
and 5, Kaltim the better-off province gets more than double the per capita
allocation from the central government as subsidies than NTB the poorer
province.
Health Financing Options
10.      Based on the analysis of past expenditure and revenue trends, a
number of financing options were developed to deal both with the financing
issues and ensure the sustainability of the expenditure programs to be
financed under the project. These interventions include: (a) the return of
all health sector revenues to the sector; (b) variable central government
subsidies to the project provinces to reduce the regional inequalities;
(c) retention of fees in the health facilities to support O&M expenditures;
and (d) selective adjustments in fees in health facilities to increase cost
recovery. Most of the options would be implemented on a trial basis in the



- 69 -
ANNEX 5
Page 8
project provinces, and details of scme possible cost recovery measures in
health centers and hospitals are indicated below.
11.      Adjustments in fees would be determined by the communities ability to
pay the increased fees and the price elasticity of demand which would
determine the impact of fee increabes in utilization. On the former, using
sample patients at Government health facilities, comparisons were made between
household health expenditures and household income. The result of the
analysis indicated that in Kaltim, expenditures for inpatients per bed day
ranged between 0.982 to 7.9Z of the highest and lowest income groups per
capita, while in NTB it ranged between 2.3Z to 6.8Z. Expenses for one day
outpatient treatment in Kaltim ranged between 0.22 and 1.02Z of the highest
and lowest income groups per capita, while in NTB it ranged between .032 and
.62Z respectively. With the subtraction of food expenses from the household
income, the inpatient expenditures in Kaltim ranged between 1.2Z and 29.2X and
in NTB between 3.1Z to 18.9X; while outpatient expenditures ranged between
.032 and 4.82 in Kaltim and between 0.4Z and 2.22 in NTB for the various
income levels.   The above analysis, although based on sample patients,
provides a rough indication that outpatient fees could be increased in both
provinces, while inpatient fees could be substantially increased, particularly
aimed at the higher income groups. No elasticity calculations were undertaken
in the study but any fee adjustments would have to be accompanied by a
subsequent analysis of the effect on utilization.
12.      The main elements of a cost recovery policy, based on the above study
result, would thus be necessarily selective, with fee adjustments consistent
with ability to pay. Some recommendations for cost recovery measures in the
provinces, following from the above include price discrimination by regions or
by facilities with phased implementation (25Z-1990/91; 502-1991/92;
752-1992/93 and 1002 1993/94) as follows:
(a) different fee structures according to the aggregate income level of
the population, that is, regional variations in fee levels with
higher outpatient fees for health centers    more affluent regions
(particularly in Kaltim) as seen in the T.ole below;
Table 7: Possible Revenue Increases Through
Selective Adjustment of Health Center Outpatient Fees
(Rp. Mln)
Kaltim                          NTB
1989190                         103.6                        173.7
1990/91                         216.9                        346.4
1991/92                         257.0                        412.2
1992/93                         308.3                        499.2
1993/94                         375.4                        597.9
(b) increase in out-patient fees in hospitals covering nursing fees,
personnel and laboratory examinations; and



- 70 -
ANNEX 5
Page 9
Table 8: Possible Revenue Increases Through
Adjustments of Hospital Outpatient Fees
(Rp. Mln)
Kaltim                          NTB
1989190                           103.6                       173.7
1990/91                           325.4                       519.6
1991/92                           385.6                       618.3
1992/93                           462.5                       749.1
1993/94                           521.5                       896.9
(c)  increases in in-patient fees, particularly in VIP, Class 1 and 11.
For example, calculations on this option with phased implementation
showed the highest revenue increases as indicated in Table 9 below:
Table 9: Possible Revenue Increases Through
Selective Adjustment of Inpatient Fees
(Rp. Mln)
Kaltim                          NTB
1989/90                        103.6                           347.5
1990/91                        325.4                         1,039.3
1991/92                        385.6                         1,236.7
1992/93                        462.5                         1,498.3
1993/94                        563.2                         1,793.9
13.      Additional data collection and analysis is necessary to review and
require the above recommendation before fee adjustments are implemented.
Three key areas that would be supported under the project include: (a) an
assessment of unit costs and tariff structures in health facilities based on
ongoing and proposed studies; (b) improvements in financial accounting and
reporting systems to prevent leakages and for bettet accounting of fees
collected when retained in the facilities; and (c) continuing assessments of
the effect of fee increases on utilization of services. No adjustments in
health insurance would be tested under the project, as it would require
changes in national legislation which would have wider applicability than in
the project provinces.



- 71 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD HEALTH PROJECT
Summary List of Studies and Evaluations
Studies and Evaluations                             Target Dates
Decentralized Integrated Plan and Budget
1.  Organization and Management Study to formulate        December 1989
organizational structures with functions and
responsibiliti_s of staff at province and
district levels and development of necessary
management training programs.
2.  Integrated Health Plan and Budget (IHPB) - to         March 1990
review and further develop methodologies for
planning, monitoring, evaluating and control
procedures for the IHPB including the develop-
ment of manuals for each lev.-;l of the planning
process.
3.  Health Information System - to review and             June 1991
adapt existing HIS to local needs with particular
emphasis on data collection and analysis for the
preparation of the IHPB.
4.  Standard Accounting System study to develop an        February 1991
integrated sector expenditure accounting system
for all sources and uses of funds at provincial
and district level.
5. Manpower Planning and Management study to establish December 1990
a better manpower base and make realistic manpower
projections, refine existing systems to match staff
with workload and develop indicators of staff
performance and incentives for rural areas.
Resource Mobilization
6.  Utilize existing studies and make recommendations    March 199V
on tariff structure for hospitals taking into         and reviewed
account: (i) the effect of increased fees on utili-  annually
zation of services; (ii) revenue retention by
facilities; and (iii) develop an accounting system
to monitor unit costs and revenues.



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
Studies and Evaluations                                     Target Dates
7.  Study on tariff structure for health centers            April 1991 and
to assess the feasibility and impact of                reviewed annually
altering health center tariffs aimed at
increasing efficiency and cost recovery and
make recommendations on fee adjustments taking
into consideration: (i) the impact of tariff
adjustment on utilization; (ii) fee retention
at facilities; and (iii) develop an accounting
system to monitor unit costs and revenues.
8.  Assess allocation criteria and mechanisms for         January 1990
central government subsidy based on local revenue
capacity and other factors in the two provinces.



- 73 -
Deo ~    ~         ~         ~        ~ ~              n
Tt Rn tIEALTtt PFtOJUCT
IjIghnical A-ne  Proree
(innmonthe)
Local Consiutant&                                     Foralrn Consultanta
Cowonent                                  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/98  1998/94  Total  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  IM/93  1993/94  Total
Sactor Eo *nditur* Proara
COunity Partieipation                             14        -         -        -         -       14      -         -
Health Center                                      8        -         6        -         -       14      -         -        -        -         -        -
Hepital Devalopent
l"pital dealgn and controct documentation    S3          10         -        -         -       43     14         -        -        -         -       14
Medicl equipment   intenance                     -        -                                     -      a         9        -        -         -       12
DU0  .tudy end implementation                    -        3         -        -        -         a      a        -         -        -         -        J
Infectious deie.. study                          -        -        -         -        -         -      -        S         -        -         -        3
OevDcopent f standerd d;agnootic program         -        -                           -         -     12        -                  -         -       12
Hospital commissioning                           -        -                                     -      -                 12        -         _       12
Ieprovceant to Medical Referral Sy-tea           6        8                                     9      -                  -        -         -        -
Madical rcacrda                                 12        -         -        -        -        12      -
Rural water supply and *enitation                 1S       21       21        IS       11        el     82       34        sO       21        17      134
Health Education                                  22       12         -        -        -         4      -         -        -        -         -        -
Training                                          12        4         5        0        0        21      a        0         0        0         0        a
D    -cntral isitlon and Resource Mbilization
Dacentral icd end Integrated Plan and Budget   72          69       25        80       10       214     SO       82                  -        18       70
Reorce mobilination                              42       51       82        18       18       161     24       16         -        -        11       S1
Other Studies                                      -       16        16       16        -        48      -        6         5        5         -       is
TIoI Il                                              Ifi      IDE        zi       4!      Em      12        N         AR       21       41       21



- 74 -
ANNEXC 8
Table  I                                  Page 1
TMD WATH
PFRECT COST Sa1y
(WIM llillimn)                 (US1 '000)                     I Total
---             x~ Z Foreuul  Ome
Loal  Foreign  Total        Local forul*   Tota    Enh"           Costs
at HEALTH ICEM DEUY
1. EISED FREWI  W  INUIUTION
MLIMITI TImm                                      19319      300    19619      776      176      952         19         1
MM  TEKAa BRT                                     1,053       76   1W129       619       45      664          7         1
Sub-Total EXPANDED P08   OF IIKMUATIOI                2s372     376    2.748    1.395      221   1W6U           14         2
2. DIDA CTL
LINANMTIiR                                          3m        41      375      196       24      220         11         0
NUSA TE\OA    ARAT                                  205       40      246      121       24      145         16         0
S9t-Total DlIREA   CONTRL                              539       82      620      317       48      345         13         0
3. IUIRITIG
VAiWAN TIIM                                       1.037      315    1.352      610      185      795         23         1
jOSa TENJM   IT                                     490      115      595      293       67      350         19         0
iub-Totl WIIRITION                                   1.517      429    1 947      993     252    1.145          22         1
4. C2IIlMT PRTICIPATIUN
KALIIUTI TMII                                     1142       354    1o496      671     208       880         24         1
no  TEEA        MAT                                 701      149      851      412       Be      500         19         1
Sub-Total CEM TY PACJPATIO                           1.843      504    29346    1.084     296    1.380          21        2
5. 1(3r1 cN1
KIWTA4   TI17                                    15,310   3.166   189475    99006   1.962   10968            17        13
KlSM  TENUBARA DARAT                             22,256   39504   251760   139092   21061   15.153           14       18
>-To4I HEALTH CEowER                                37,566  6h669   44236   22M099   3,923   269021             15       31
6. HDSPITAL DE10INT
KALIIWITIN TISN                                  239002  89381   31.393   139530   4,930   18.460            27       22
Musa TEiAA  AMT                                  11.509   3.363   14.87      6.769   IsM       8.747         23       1o
S-Total HOSPITAL DBEVEL      T                      34,510  11.744   46.253   20.300   6,908   27,208           25       32
u-Total HEPATH SERVICE 1ELIiY                          79.347  19.804   98.150   46,06  114649   57,736            20       68
B. COIIICALE DISEAE CONMTL
1.  LRIA CONTROL
KIUATIITI1 TM                                       640      98       738      377      59       434         13        1
MA TIo6A  MANAT                                  1292       78    19370       760      46       806          6        1
9thTotal NIRIA CONTO                                 19932      176    2,108    1.137     103    1.240           8        1
2. TUoSIS cuNTRmL
KAIU IT   TIIIIR                                    516      37       553      304      22      325           7        0
Ka   TgUA  AAT                                      7H5       46      830      461      27       488          6        1
hTotal TUiERlUOSIS N aCTRL                           1W300      83    1.933       765      49       814          6        1
3. EPIRUENILLSICAL UEIIUA1E
T    411       TMTN                                 48           81   509      252      48       300         16        0
soJA     1RA   WARAT                                226      72       298      133      42       175         24        0
9S-Total EPIDIOUSICAL IUEIUIL                          654      153      807      380      90       475         19        1
4. OIlER CIIC PIDOWS
KALIUIWAN IIIn                                      450      32       482      265      19       283          7        0
Oa  Tefs   DOT                                      203       12      215      119       7       126          5        0
hTatal GIER CDC PFROM                                  653       43      697      384      26       410          6        0
St-Total COU lC4LE DISEASE C L                          4,540      455    4.995    2.670     268    2.938           9        3



- 7 5 -                          ANNEX 8
Table I                             Page 2
C. SWI1TIG PR06RANS
1. TRAINING
KALIIAKNTAN TIIIUR                              1.758   1.107   2,865    1.034    651   1.685           39        2
MmS TINGBARA BASAT                              2.976   1,801    4.776    1,750   19059    2,610        38        3
Sub-Total TRAINING                                 4i734   2908    7.642   2.785   10711    4,495          38        5
2. EALTH EDOCATION
KALIIWITAN TIHR                                   531     357      888      313    210      522         40        1
MAO  TE t 5ABT                                    369    434       804      217    255      473         54        1
Sub-Total 4AITH EUCATION                             901    791    1so92       530    465      99S         47        1
3. DRUI NWNGEIBIT AND COMTRML
KALINANTAN TIMMUR                                  31    319       948      371     187     558         34        1
MM  TENGGARA ARAT                                 489    186       675      287    109      397         28        0
Sub-Total DUG WAAEIT  AND CONTROL                  19119    504    1.623       658    296      m           31        1
4. MATER AND SANITATION
KALiAnTAN TlNUR                                   893    220    19113       525    130      655         20        1
INSA TENGR  BAT                                 4t222   4,763   8,985    2,483   29802   5.285          53        6
Sub-Total MATER AND SANITATION                     5.115  4,983   10,098    39005   2,31    5.940         49        7
sub-Total SUPPORTING PROGWRS                         11.869   9,185   214054   6,982   5-403   :2-385         44       15
D. POLICY SUPVORT
1. INTEGRATED PLI ANMD BUDmET
KALIIITAN TINAG                                   599   1.233    1.831      352    725    1077           .7       I
mmlA TENGORA BtRAT                                537    918   19455        316    540      856         63        1
JAKARTA                                           800   1.544   2.344      471    908    1.379          66        2
9Sb-Total INTEBPATED PIAN AND BUDGET               1.936  39694   5.630   1t139   29173   39312            66        4
2; RESOIRCE  OBILUATION
KAL. ANTITIMIR                                     91      16      107      54       9       63         15        0
STE8ARAB AT                                        69       9       78      41       5       46         12        0
JMATA                                             638   19230   1,868      375    724    14099          6'.       1
Sub-Total RESOIMCE UBIUZATION                        798   1,256   29054      470    739    1.208          t1        1
Sub-Total POLICY SIPIORT                              2.734  4,950   7.684   1,608   29912    49520           64        5
E. SECTOR IAASEiENT
1. PRO"  IWIIIENT COSTS
KALIIANTAN TINIS                                3,932     876   4,709   2.254      515   2,770          19        3
NUSA TEN6RA WAT                                 3,591     308   3899   29112    181   2W293              8        3
JAWKAPTA                                          290   1.561   1,851      170    918   1,089           84        1
Sub-Total PRONMI IANAEWIT COSTS                    7,713   2.745   10.458   4,537   19615   69152          26        7
2. PROWECT SECRETARIAT
%ALIHANTAN TINI                                   628      90      718      369     53      422         12        0
NUSA TENB8ARAb AT                                 358    103       461     211      60      271         22        0
JAATA                                           1,3;4    163    1?49?7     '5       96      881         11        1
Sut-Total PROJECT SCRETARIAT                      2,320    3W     29676    1.365    209    19574          13        2
Sub-Total SECTOR   IIANANENT                         109033  39100   13.134   5,902   1,824   7.726           24        9
Total BASELINE COSTS                                  107,522 37,495  145.017   63,248 22,056  85,304           26      100
Plical Cont1nenios                                   2,401   29049   49449    19412  1,205   2,617           46        3
Prie, CmtinOmnciw                                   22,229  4,416   264646   13,076  2,598  15,674           17       18
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   132.152 439960  176I112   77n737 25,859  103,595          25      121
zz=s=St   :=                     azag ~ U---  =s v       a =m_



- 76 -
Table 2                                       ANNEX 8
ili A                                         Page 3
HIlRD NEALTO
Projet Caents bh  Year
Toals Including CUntgnencies                     Totals Including Contingemies
(RWIMI lillien)                                      (US$ '000)
89990   90/91  n9192   92/93   93/94   Total    89190   9091   91192   92193  93/94   Total
3fl~~~ 2r.  ...s      !S_               s=-= rf=         --~   ==_=
A. IEWTN lNR'ICE DEUIER
1. EWNWED  W I OF 1111IZATION
KIITW    TI16                                    160    437      340    385    419    14941        212     257    200      227     247    1,142
MSO  TENINS    BWT                               231     257    277      283    307    1,354       136    151      163     166    181       797
9b-Total EFAKMED PMM"368 OF IIKIZATION              591    693    617    668        726    3.296      347     408     363    393      4.7   1.939
2. DIA       CTROL
KALIIWfiAN TIIR                                   78      77      91      86    117       445       46      45      54      50      69      264
MMA TENVRAI ARAT                                  70    S5        53      54      65      m         41      29      31      32      U8      1,.
Sub-Total OD LREA   TR O                            148    127      143    140    182        740       87      75      84      82     107      435
3. 14JIRI OI.
KllWITa in                                       241     346    290      339    413    1,628       141    203      170    200    243        95i
NUSA T_EIU 8  WT                                 163     122    155      1 ?     130      708       96      72      91      81      77      417
SiTotal UMITIE                                      404    468    444       N7    543   2M336         238     275    261    2M1       319    19374
4, C_MTY PMTICIPATIU0
KMWTN 7TUU                                       299    415    336    416    322    10788          176    244      198    245    190    1.052
NIS TENIMA NET                                   191     190    212      206    217    19014       112    112    124       121    128       597
Sub-Total COIITY FMRTICIPATMI                       490     605    547    621    539    2.802         288     356    322      365    317    1.648
S. HEALTN CENTER
KALINAT tAlN                                   2.736  59029  6M031   49313  4.475   22.585    1.609   2,95b   39548   2.537  24632   13.:25
NKISA TEIBA    88T                             4.029   6.437   6.379   79335  7284   31,464    2.370   3M787   3.752   4,315   4.285   18,508
SibTotal hALTH CEER                               6.764  119467  12.410  11.648  110759  54.049    3.979   6,745   79300  6.852   6.917   31,793
6. IUPITAL DEELPNT
KLIWAT  TIMMS                                  4.399  7M219  11,806  10.634  4,714   38,71    2.588  4,246   69944   6,255  27M    22807
UM  TEUR   MT                                  2132   5.188   5.876  29353  29622   18.172    1.254   3.052   39457  1W384   1.542   106M
Sb-Total  OSPITAL DEYELOPSENT                     6,532  129407  17.682  12.987  7M336   569943    3.842   79298  10.401  7M639   4.315  339496
k- Tol NWALTN S VI  DELIVERY                        149928 25,67  319844  26h42  21.085  120.166   8.781  154157  18,732  15.613 12,403  70.686
B. CMICAILE DISME  CONROL
1. *)1* CNO
KIIWITAN TINIR                                   155    202      204     168    148       877       91    119    120        99      87      516
NM  TENUW  ASMT                                  297    309    336    353    343    1,639          175    182    198    208    202          964
Sb-Tot    1AR  CONTROL                              452    511      540    521    491    2.515        266    300      318    306      289    1,480
2. TllEROLOSIS CONTROL
KLIWAT  TIM                                      178      87    104    llo       170      655      104      51      61      68    100       385
IS  TEOBM A ARAT                                 184    161    219       231     200      995      108      94     129    136    117        585
Stib-Toa TUIERRILOSIS CONTROL                       3?2    248    324       348    369    1.650       :.3     146     191    204    217        971
3. EPIENIULOSICAL S?IEILANCE
NALIIWITAT TinR                                  184     117      98    1O0        O    590       108      69      58      59      53      347
NM  TENIBOA4AT                                   109      54      59      63      66      351       64      32      35      37      39      207
S-Totl EP8GIIIIOLODICAL  JEIUAN                     293    171    158       163    156       941      172    101       93      96      92      553
4. GTE   CDC PR0WINS
IL  TNTIMI                                      134    174      117      85      47      "57       79    102       69      so      2       328
NMA TENGGARBMT                                    37      41      66      65      50      259       21      24      39      38      29      152
ub-Towtd   fE  CDC PIIS                             170     215    183    150        97      815      100    126      108      88      57      480
i-To    CN     1CAIE DISIANE COTL                    1277   1.44  I1M        1,182   1*114   5.922       751    673    709    685    655   3M4U3



- 77 -
Table 2
C. uuile BM
1. Tw11m
lauNIWII   TIM                                    438   1,258  1,378    229       199    3,490      257     740    910      134    111   2WU3
1as  Teem6      T                                 36  2,173   2,439       395     28   5s850        345   1,78   1,434      232    152    3441
9bTtabl IRAIIIIOR                                  1.024   3,431   3.816    622      447    9,340      602  2,01e  2,245    366    263    5494
2. IE4LTN DUCATIE
KAUMrJI      TTiNi                                107     500     115     147    177    1,04         63    294       67      86    104       614
am   tEI  NOT                                      73    328      146    145      266      959       43    193       86      a5    157       564
S*-Tta  KM.I E         nATIO                         190    828    26        m       443    2,003      106    487      153    172    261    1,178
3. - IWMT S CAM llM
IWIMN   Tilm                                      206    334    234       184    175    1.133       121    177      138     108     103      667
NM   TENW        A T                              214    135      171    151      134      912      124      79     101      93      79      478
-Tol1  IWas         lT M      llAN  CI               420     469     406    342      39    1946        247    276    239    201        182   I1,44
4. miTEi MD 9 l11611
AIIITIN TU                                         62    312      331    347      365    1417        36    183    195       204    214       933
NM  TEai  Boy                                   1.551   2,173   2730   2P496   1.956   10,906       912   1,278  1W606   1468   1,1        69416
Sib-Tal NMTER AND S9T6 TI8                         19613   2,45   39061   29,3   2.321   1323          949   1,462   19801   1673   1,36S    7249
bTotal W9TI            013                            3,236  7M213   79S.3   4.099   3520   253612    1t904  4,243   49437  2411   2071   153066
I. P.ImCT 9KANT
1. DOUbTED IUI MID 33061
ltWIT    TIDR                                    136    269    565       758    417   2W145         90     15      332     446     245    1.262
nIoA T1 I8 iT                                     454    529      331     260      56    1,631      267    311      195    153       33      959
MTA                                              9       m       201      150     480   29599       593    457      118      a      292    152
l-ol DllTE16ID  KAUN  D [e o                       1581   1,55   107   1.168    953   6.374            90      927    645    687    561    3#70
!                  2.    bu3~, M E    1LUATIN
UIWitl Tnu                                       -      u4      90       -       -      126        -      27      47       -       -       74
mm9A1 now        T                                 13     20      21      21       19      94        7       12     13      12      11       58
|J.T                                             767     64       153             4     21076 M4           3        90      S3     247    1,221
|S-Total REI0R     OIBUtlI                           790    711     254    111       440   2,296       459    418    14        65     259    1,350
Tot   DIUCT   mT                                      2361   2,296   1.351   1279   193M    8.670    1389   1.345    794    753          919    59100
h. ClIlR lllIt
1.  .1 I    051B
KIl ITMl TDU                                      620   1,562    905   1,162   1.446    5.695      365    919    532    684    151   3.350
mm Isom  3T                                      523    U5       912   1,096   19346   4,762       306    520    537    645        m      2,801
IMTA                                               66    495    743    682       144  2119          39    29       437    401       95   19247
-Taotal "11   3 1T  CoST                          1,209   2,931  2,s60   2,941  2,936   12,577        711   19724   1,506   19730   17M      7,m31
2* Nt CT TMA2T
IIIIMM TIM                                        201    1f7      147     15S    163       953      16     110      17       1      96      102
hf Te m   saT                                     209     76      e1        6     90      541      12       45      4        0       3      It
AMA                                               426    339    319    335    353    t7M           251    19       118    197    207   1l
1*Toal WECT ICCEMART                                935     602    548    576    606    3l66          491    354    322    339    356   1l
1Tb-T l SfECTO  IW      lt                          220M3   3W33  3,109   3,517   3,542   15,742    1s'2   2,079   1829   2,069  2,093   9,
Tot  FlMCtCOSTS                                       23,846 39,944 45,050  369619 30653  176,112   144027  23496  269500 219541  19,31  103,
_ s                                                      -    _~  *=-__=



-78 -
ANNE 8
Table 3                                     Page 5
IRM514
me18 IEITH
1511  AOI3I1  058  81113
(RWIAH lilli0)               (US$ 000)                      Total
2-          -      I Foreign  Bam
tocal  Fot,in  Total    Local Focign  Total   Exchww    Costs
1. BIIR4TI    COSTS
A. CIV. NM
1. tAND                                         1.319       -   1.319      776              776         -        1
2. 8UL18                                       22586  9.80   329266  13.286  5,694   18.990            30       22
S,*-Totul CIUIL ENS                               23.905  9M680   33,585   14062  5694  190756            29       23
8. FUlIlUtl  I EGUPIET   6E.ICU
1. fUITUilE                                       463    1"       662      27      117      389        30        0
2. EUP Iht                                        994  8.942   9M936       584  52460   5.845          90        7
3. IEICtE                                         392  3.531    39924      231  2,077   2M308          90        3
1*-Total FROaItE 7 EWAPIU     I t    110.E         1.849 129673   14.522    1088  7.4 4   8.542           87       10
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTMS / FELLUIIP
1. CONSUTAT
FOREOIE                                        775  6.976    7.752      456  4s104    4.560         90        5
UA                                           -";.7     477   2.384   1122    280   1.402            20        2
Sub'Total CUIULTMIT                             2682  7r4?3  10.136   1t578  49384   5.962             74        7
2. FEUOhlIP
OHM"EkS                                        196  39730   3926        115  2.194   2.309          95        3
UL                                             519      92      611     305      54      359        15        0
l-fTotal FEaLIIP                                  715  3.821    4.537      421  2.248   2669           e4        3
3. STUDIES                                      1,247    220    1467       734    129      863         15        1
Sub-Total IECCL ASSISMS 7 FE LUINIP                4.645 119495  16.140   2.732  6742   9.494             71       11
1. TlMIN                                        3.020    5      3 553   1.M        314   2.090         IS        2
2.- HDP                                           706    125      830      415      73     488         15        1
&jTotal TRAI11                                     3726    657   4.383   2.192    387   2.578             i5        3
Totl IIElTNT COSM                                    34.15  34.5t4  68.630    .074  20.297  40.370           50       47
II. -FqN  CoIS
O.M3  7 PEISC18EC
1. o11                                        30.418       -  30.418   17.893       -   17.9M          -       21
2. PETCID                                      1.079       -   19079      635       -      6           -        I
Si-Total 3A5 / PTICM                             31.496      -  3.m   18.528           -   18.528         -       22
8. 1C1TiM  IRtUA / U*IES
1. 331313                                      3,067      -   3.067    1.804        -   1.804          -        2
2. 541AlAS                                    11.918      -  11.918   7M011         -   7,011          -        8
-Total ICRO_IL HOIAR4IA  SIL5 I                  14.986      -  14.986    I815         -   8.815          -       10
C. WER*1T5O1.L1993
1. NAtIM.                                      7M514    835   0.349   4,420    491   4.911            10        6
2. TRWAWL.DISlRIJlTIN                          2.449    272   2.721    1441    160   1.601            10        2
3. SWrUISION                                   1.968    219   29187   1.158    i29   19286            10        2
4. NAINTEUANCE                                 3.452    384   3.836   2.031    226   2.e              10        3
5. OTERS                                      11.530   1.281  M2.811    6.783    754   7,.36          10        9
1*To Pl IAnT . S1         1                      26U914  2.990   29.904   15.832  1.759    M591          10       21
Tota   INT CNTo co.3mM    2.990  76.387  43.175  1.759  44934                                                 4       53
Tota 849ELD  COSTS                                   10722 37.495  145.017  639248  22.096  86.304            26      100
Pbosleal Contoan                                    2.401  2.04M    49449   1.412  1,205   2.61            46        3
Price Conainis                                     22.229  4.416  26.646  13,076  2.598   15.U4            17       18
TotalPOITIECOtC45S                                   132.152  43.96C 176112  77n.m   25.8   103.595           25      121
_    ,-   ~ma.                      -      .         a..  ----



%m        yFtAtm OWR
EMM   111100111 IF                                                                                                                                        anomuum00Wa 0026.
lm        INS                  010al                   go                   N                    no o                                     mi                    Am n 
A. am m ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~r                                                                                   unun                                                             mm
1. LO        ~im  om,iin.i                                                 sim    m mii                                     ti~                  sio.  mem                               i.Uoi  ono                              mm.o
2. Sam00--                                                                                                                               3.501   4.100       11.017    4.06           10                               
w-:a.  csm  11111                                                                                 -        --                       -      &so      *,*09       11,'17    low           32                                             
L.mm F11111101 I umm
1. FVLWM                                                                                a~- -  --                                32          30   0 0 to
24 4a                          6         *04      a*           2           49       1.2291.Ito           low971,1                14      23                                         a              
Len                                                   -                    -       2n          -       21             -         21        70    1,161            09      M                    U n                   21          to      21                    -
**-Tina0FM=I /O             ImUb MM                                                   a         a.    Is              2m          ,o    o.o,2 ino    3.m   I,5                          04   a1                        a 0         1o   16              I
C. IBNm mIMM  I coMV
mm                                                                                                    - ~-   - --            -                   W 0     224-
13*                                                 -                                                              4          -          0                    73       00 
144u1idmTU                                            --                            -                                14          -         a         -                   276 
2. 1OM
3. amM                                                *4       -          U                   247      40             -         20           -                   12                  470      a0          1         73         211                  is7
1111-"mabim Sin         ITmFfLlP                        2         -          d4        -        V          0            1          20         22        -         .2614     270           '      0           to        70         000 
O   A1.13013 11 0                                                          1t       aB        90       a            454        042        766      -3            71       29           7                             -        0         13                   a 
2m Imma                                                                                         202 7 8           -m-2   I=7i - 046            1                           -,00    -            -0 - IV 9    -    - -0                                  -
Ai.-
a. - e                                                                                                                                                                               in 2410
0.301d WM94                                                   73                               40       72                      1-4.4002.34                    4,22522.441             7      m            06      60            2        S         214      as
1. NOWA2U                              n~~2     10          21       6          66      002            a         1a          70       29           19      034         44       01            -                            9                    4
2. 0*5-                                                       -           -        -    -                -                              2.044    2,49        1402    1.463           -        --                    --                              -        -
WT"     WoML Nrt2I IUR0 21                                                    4z   6      102            1a         00      2.04   3.019          1.071    2,297          44      II-                    -                              
I. 001111W                                          U6        6          21        1         22       36            27         09        442       43        6.261     42           46       24          1U        0         133        7          1a        a
i.     j ittu03                                             221           -       92        14        a            107        15         02         -          27        21                  a 4         129       22         t9       F2         to0       30
3.                                    ~~       ~~~U 21      3       2          1us       U3             -                     -        -           -       to9                                -      24                   a3                   2
4. 030                                             00        23           -                   -        S                                  70      70         1.720      24           -       0                      I         I1        -                    -
9.0 0 am                                                                0          0         IA       61           no0        40        1.1001,69                -   2.014            -     29            a1       a0           -      2           2         2
w-160.               WPM 013166                                 a3          5       02n        4'       2*7           040       00        2.02     2,710        0.26*    0.17          40        9          062      021         lai     "I          19        In
11"  11111 mm                                           1.5101   1.0*          24      SO          42       411           640       32       02171   1463           4.449    7.91         206   1.0             404      in6        06        m          47       I90
?Adman  an2                                              1,61     joi.F12to9 19 4                 0,5         92          .49'        El      10.47     Wi.76       91.25   04.11          73    0.to            in0  NO             3        MS          a        55
no"        4mi4ma                                        26        1                    2          9        7            30         4         214      96         1,420      0                     I                     2           t                   0      -
PNo mCUsmdw                                             MS       221          is       44         25      la0           270        I         b 13is.19I            5.1 2,0               14       200         a0022                          9
lid 261PACIca                                           0.96     0.64          463     MS        0.63       2           1,700     14         22.2520.    3          .771Sk   10.12        877    low2           43       WS         50        a1        3        g



I.-     ..lZ            fin  ...              .              n.in       ,.f     .     ..     .      *0-,s-= .n   wam. .n..ws.    mn.n                                              s.        .,  
*   0     9 169      91"P  OR1    I        ill        691    116       VA6        liz      It      et         LIz    a;        6;;9*1 tti t-                   it      atI        atI    Oi           LtL      6994
ro    at'.    z        0        0                  a        91                                      -                          IL       91                               oz      91          In      asP
OS t'9~   LW-gI   1t'1   II         si 91      1        Bat 6 696    08'  691  ei          91        mi          1    111;     ~'U        nl*1        SLI                 me .uU mottL9'                                                       aim   Ulmn       P
o   90   9't        61     is       LI                 Li       612                                            -                            It;I        IL      4t          91       LI         It                                                         It
*      9.9   inn        cm      6       u           -       10      91                                             CZ-Ur                       sit-a                I 96                 a          L        -                                        3im
*      9.O       S      -       -       St          -      6        Li-                                            69      -           -       -            -        9          9a      69j         ;        -
Wm un., 8 at        8     IL          -       tU'It   LLLI       -       91      a-          -                                                i        01969                                   aimdin11ff UlImi 
o    1    6        9     8       9                     am                      9; -tit                    LI       U't         "i      0            6       6           9        -                   -1
amu  I    r uJIt,I
O      0 0   awl.uhii11i*
381    im u 1 1       I
at.    L       1 9      L       l       0!         13'    161      20        0U'I     es      61                 cm69   LU I 98     9U'     aL            6        a6        96      a.8          WI6    861'                                  - 1111011       2611141
o      9@    U          061    -                            8-                        is                                   L                               It       i          -       tO          69       1                                          1
I  m             CD      in                                amom~~~~~~~rn aP-
*  -    -    -  It~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4RMI
*    .      n ;     -                            6              -         16.9w   -        -          a                -           0169 -              -        -                    fi t      -        91111                                             -4 1
lnmu I misaim -imm 's
04  99100       6       it       IL                 to        t8                                                              as?                  a1       61        Li       OK1        Lt       UtSm
M110 imim  I WImAm I
45)1  VW9.96           9983 -  L        Ua                   i at                                    -LU't  6LL                                           tit      got         -       -6.9    Coal?                                                   om     It
wo MI-1    -                                                                                    a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uun',
~~   I  11691  613W    ilim   UOIA~~ 91w-   i-            .1      1W               al         i        i         Il      hm        61         him         .1        1m 1ll1.3
11111111uma.            mISi WgfAfirniw             mi       kVA 69IUUU         -  SUWUO Mi  wimImsu iwIIUm    wi UJLW   mm  u
im  11a    SNW
-   aim                              iuiou rn~~~(,16ou
wwwoo a- gua



- 81 -
Table S                                   ANN  8
INNSIA
THIRD HALTH
Smat, Acemts bh Year
Totls Including Continiincie                    Totals Iludird Cmtlnotas
(RWI miH llion)                                      I '0001
89no  9wn/    91/92   9/V       93/94  Total    89/0   90/91  91/92  92n3   93s4   Totl
1. ICPDTI CmII
1. Lm                                           7"9    226    143    146         6  1319        470    133      84      86       4      776
2. ILIl                                        1,163  12,292 19.528   6.650   1.920  414         684  7W231   17               19130  24.444
sI.-Tata   CIam                                   1.962  124518  19,671   6796   1t926  42874    WM5  7.364  119571  3.97   19133  25.220
B. FUQltU I E lt t Y  ILE
1. fUIf                                           83     70      20    60         4     937       49      41     12    3B8        2      492
2. ElIElit                                     2,495  3,617   1.648   3690      699   12,127   1462   2.12      96   2.170    405   7.134
3. ENIMCE                                      IO71  2.072    725    354    263   4.495          630  1.219    42r    201    155   29639
WhT*al FUBtUE / EDIIElNt / 43C1E                  39639  59759  29393  49704    954  179449   2,141  39IN   Is-7  2767    561  10,264
C, 11 7AL MSI9TIU  / FELL
to WEILTIAT
F IW                                       *'.9864  2t274  19223    937  1.23  9    36   1,685  13.3    719   5W             728  5S021
WEL                                          776    738    515    415    297   2.731         457    434    303    244    169   W607
91-Total 01311t1lt                             3.641  3M013   10739   1351   1.525  119267   2t142    .7M    19022    m         897  6h628
2. FEIOWEI
9e48                                          393    980  W,28U   1195    628   4.457         225    577    754    697    370   2.622
UWAL                                           97    184    244    143        48      716      57    109    143       B4      29      421
WTaotl FBLESEIP                                  480  1.165  1,52s  1.329    66   5.174          282    695    897    781    3s8   39043
3. STUDIJ                                        413    340    35    258    410   19724          243    200    179    152    241   1.014
TtaW  TEDICE   As8TM   / FU.E                     4.s33  4t517  3567  2.93    2.610  189165   2.66   2,657  2t08   1.72    1536   10.685
D. t1i96111
1. "ADM                                          910 1128       739    97    447   4.l32         5       664    435    534    263   24U3
2.,11                                            147    305    170    161         5     m         8      179    100             its 11   576
9TOta1 t B0                                      1so57   19433    910   1068    643   5110          622    843    535    628    378   3.006
!                      Total IIEST INETu Cam                              U1191  24.227  26,41  15.505  6,134  83.59    6.53  14U251  15.612  9.120  3WM08  49,175
II.    T    1 c1
A. mmd mucmTI
1. Dm                                         5.461  632  7.3s4  s.-t4   9.49  369809   3212  3,737  4,326  4tB7S   .499  21,453
2. EITICIE                                      200    296    304    244    257   1291,    118    168    179    144    151              760
b-TOt.  IUiS / P7c11K                            566U   69638  7.6s9  898   NM605  38,101   3.330  J9            405  5.022   5.4s   22.412
S. DIIT4L  1N 094IA / SAE9
1. IUl1h                                        623    7c9    748    781    821   3.482         36      417    440    459    483   2t166
2. 1WE1                                         789  1.754  2.667  3W934  5s554  1MSS           464  19032  1.687   29314   3.2V    8764
b-TOt  limiltL  _HMO          / SE941            I413  29462  3s615  4715  6.375  18.0             831  19448  29127  2m    3.7s    10.929
C. Wl1t10. 19913
1. WMA                                        1220   I.873  1.990  2,145  2.371   99989         953  1.102  I.64   1.262  I1395   5.876
2. TMA..ISTRII    M                             521    630    669    697    735   3252          307    37      394    410    432    .913
3. UWEMW                                        430    515    526    555    595   260           253    303    309    326    344   1.3s
4. NENTE                                        627    784    971  1,074   1,167   4.24         369    461    5n       632    687   2.720
5. 01413                                      2.382  2M813  3.9       .390   3.681  S1358    I.401   19655   1.818   l94   2.165    9.34
9B-Tota  Wn TIUL h6T                             s0   6t16  7.236  7.962  8.539  35.833   3.22  3.892  4.256  49624  5s023   MM.78
Tol IEIIm   Ca1m                                    Ut5   15,717  18,510 21114 24.520   92,14   7t444  9.245  10.98  12.0  14U423  54420
mm==m              mm1moX=mo =mmzmm mminmm=~ 
toal FltECtDITS                                      23tB46 39,94  45050 3.U619  30.651  176.112  14027 23.4k  26.500 21.541  18.   103,595
_m   _m   _m   mm  r_ t=   mm   _m   mm_



- 82 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1
Table 1
INDONESIA
THIRD HEALTH PROJECT
Estimated Financing Plan for Kalimantan Timur
Recurrent Costs
(millions of Rupiah)
1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1991195 Total
Center (+10)/a   1,682    1,682    2,018    2,220    2,442    2,686    2,955   11,049
APBDI (+12Z)/a    2,270    2,270    2,815    3,153    3,531    3,955    4,429   15,723
APBDII (+20Z)/a      775      775    1,085    1,302    1,562    1,875    2,250    6,599
World Bank             0    1,093       819      740      507       431      216    3,590
Total        4,727    5,820    6,738    7,415    8,042    8.947    9,850   36,961
Incremental salaries          388      843    1,347    1,702    2,485
(Totals excluding project secretariat)
Investment Costs
(millions of Rupiah)
1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95    Total
Center               224       49       51        54       56        59       62       269
APBDI                351       76        50       53       55        58       61       292
APBDII               175       38        40       42       44        46       49       210
Land (Province)               558       85         0        0         0                643
Taxes                         158      812    1,152       710        88             2,920
World Bank             0    3<445    9,951   13,109    9,013    2,162          0   37,680
Total          750    4.324   10,989   14.410    9.879    2,413         171   42.014
(Totals include recurrent costs of project secretariat)
Total GOI Financing (excluding taxes and salaries)
1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94
Center            1,906    1,731    2,070    2,274    2,499    2,746
Province          2,621    2,904    2,950    3,205    3,586    4,012
District             950      813    1,125    1,344    1,606    1,921
Total        5,477    5,448    6,144    6,823    7.691    8,679
/a  No increase first year of project
N.B. The project secretariat has been treated as an investment cost since 3t will only
be established during -he project period and, consequently, there is no issue of
sustainability.



- 83 -                             ANNEX 9
Page 2
Table 2
INDONESIA
THIRD HEALTH PROJECT
Estimated Financing Plan for Nusa Tenggara Barat
Recurrent Costs
(millions of Rupiah)
1988/89  1989190  1990/91  1991/92  1992193  1993194  1994/95  Total
Center (+20X) la  2,318    2,318    3,245    3,894    4,673    5,608    6,729   19,738
APBDI (+12.5X)       753       847       953    1,072    1,206    1,357    1,526    5,435
APBDII (+202)        483       580       696      835    1,002    1,202    1,442    4,313
World Bank             0    1,669    1,598    1,689    1,501    1,083          352    7,539
Total           3.554    5.413    6.492    7.490    8.381    9,249   10.050   37,025
Incremental salaries           401      912    1,520    2,232    3,069
(totals excluding secretariat)
Investment Costs
(millions of Rupiah)
1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95    Total
Center               678       292      307       322       338      355       373    1,616
APBDI                308       133      140       147       154      162       170       735
APBDII                63        27        29       30        32        33       35       151
Land (Province)                241      141       143       146         6                677
Taxes                          270      829       841       322      173              2,435
World Bank             0    2,869    8,674    8,284    2,728    1,281            0   23,836
AIDAB                        1,416    1,605    1,686    1,405    1,083                 7,195
Total           1.050    5,249   11,725   11.453    5,125    3.093          578   36,644
*           (totals including secretariat and AIDAB operational costs)
Total GOI Financing (excluding taxes and salaries)
1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94
Center             2,996    2,610    3,552    4,217    5,012    5,963
Province           1,061    1,221    1,233    1,362    1,506    1,524
District             546       607      724       865    1,033    1,235
Total           *#604    4.438    5.510    6.443    7.551    8.722
/a  No increase first year of project.
N.B. The project secretariat has been treated as an investment cost since it will only
be established during the project period and, consequently, there is no issue of
sustainability.



-  84  -                                                      A
TMI0 WPALTH PROJW
Int~~~~~~~o,. orI d. 8udr.-t teeY   1tF.98/
KNli_1nte TiondIurr
Sal ei                   APBN Aem                                    APDS1              Other            Orn<d
APN   AP8DZI ADIITotal          DIP    DIK  DWNS  SIBO   DIP    DIK    DIP   DV   ImR  an l  Tote l    Total
A. Ht   otcDlwr
1. Expanded prerom
ft ianizotion                           0.0    76.6            62.7                                      250.4           159.9   i59.9
2. Diarrhea control                          0.0    10.0                                                      59.2   6.5      77.7      77.7
S. Nutrition                                 0.0    61.0                        20.8           44.1            69.7  48.5    240.5    240.5
4. Cme-nity per-
ticipelon                               0.0                                 2S.5           21.6          254.S           290.4    299.4
5. Health center,                            0.0   195.9          996.5        190.8           252.0        1,102.5         2,785.6  2.7t5.8
6. H"oeitl-         21U.2                  213.2   404.7  169.6          204.0  806.6  1,915.5       267.7 1,002.6          4,270.4  4,488.6
S. Comne-Ible Blosso Ceontmi
1. Helari control                            0.0    25.2                                                      180.5           155.4    155.4
2. Tuberculos.is
control                                 0.0    70.0                                                      107.5           177.5    177.5
S.   doiolol1.89                                                                                                                       19
urvoi lI lne,                           0.0    12.9                                                      171.0           183.9    1lD.9
4. Other CDC program                         0.0    72.5                                                      59.2   2.2    115.8    185.8
C. S.earttno Proarem
1. Training         118.0                  115.0    21.7  S9.5                                               375.0           484.1    547.1
2. Health eduction                           0.0    27.0                         8.4             4.2           67.0           106.6    106.6
S. Drug manegement    69.7                  69.7    66.0  47.5                                                07.0            200.8    270.2
4. Water end menl-
tetion                                  0.0    61.9                                                                       61.9     61.9
0. Palle, hngeR
1. lntegrated plen
nd budget                               0.0                                                              156.8           18.8   1255.6
2. RPAgree mobi-
lization                                0.0
E. Seter ban-ant
1. Progrem inneg-
snt             6o.6u 640.6    17.5  74.4                                   45.1          12.0           255.4           824.4  1,168.0
2. ProJect *ecre-
tenret                                  0.0                                                              200.9           200.9    200.9
Z1a          114                   1MA4   jLg   #1044e1  2h                4 I ..Z 4 33191S.J 45   U.Z 4L  J   AU       28.  1 4
La  Other foreign asslitance. Amounts heve not been Included In the Finencing Plen due to the _ml I  amount (ebout wS2.000) Involved.



-  85-                                                      ANNE 1,
THIBD HERD TH PROJECT
t&,.. lanonara baret
Intaratd budr.-t o for, aI (F' 198V/901
lon-e I r Euinanditur .
Salarioea                AN                       .     pBu.        I                  Other           Orend
AP6N   AP2DI APSOlI Total      DIP    DC  DWRES  SBON   DIP    DIK    DIP   DIK  IBM           BW       Total    Totl
A. Health, Sewrle O .iver.
1. Eapand9d program
of imnization                         0.0    50.7            90.0          0.0    30.0   0.0  13.6    16.2    30.0    230.7    230.7
2. Diarrhea control                         0.0    *0.5                                 9.4   0.0   7.4    42.6               69.9     69.9
3. Nlutrition                               0.0    63.0                                17.6                  41.6    40.7    163.8    163.8
4. Comunity par-
ticipatlon                             0.0      6.6                         6.5     9.2          4.0   151.1    13.1    190.6    190.6
S. eialth  teotare                          0.0   211.7        2.220.6         25.0    16.5  73.2  34.0  1.447.6           4,026.6  4,026.6
6. Nailtal1          67.8                  67.3   257.8  61.2           222.0   0.0   556.3   6.0 273.0   608.7            2.041.7  2,109.0
6. Conaunliabla Disease Control
1. maleria control                          0.0     9.                          2.7    24.2                240.6             297.1    297.1
2. Tuberculoele
control                                0.0    49.4                         0.1      1.6                132.9             164.0    134.0
3. Epideuiological
urveillance                            0.0      8.6                        0.6    14.9                  64.4             106.7    106.7
4. Other CDC program                        0.0    16.1                         0.0     6.1                  14.6     0.7     86.5     86.8
C. Suroortina Prenrnm
1. Training         10S.4                 106.4    98.3  47.7                                              436.1              62.1 6A88.S
2. Health education                         0.0   83.7                          1.8    15.8   0.8            21.8             75.3    73.3
3. Drug management    99.5                 99.5    35 0  30.1                                               121.7            206.6    506.3
4. Water and eani-
tation                                 0.0    74.8           142.1                                            1,334.2  1,850.6  1,580.6
0. PolieJ uanorl
1. Integrated plan
and budget                             0.0      2.1                                                    452.2            454.3    464.3
2. Remar.e aebi-
lization                               0.0                                                              12.7             12.7    12.7
t,. Setr   _anwn
1. Preoram oanage-
_ent           436.3                 456.8           6.6                          100.0         98.2   143.0            407.8    674.1
2. Proj et macre-
toriat                                 0.0                                                             207.5            207.5    207.5
ITAl            [ZM 71                           Ja 225   2.452.7 222.0  U4 e       W     adZ  4ao.4 41905 1 418.6  J0S   11.2      7
^  Other foreign meejetnc. lmr.ly AIDAB'- contribution to the RWSI  comonent. Donor ee;ietance. other than AMOAB, has not bean included In the
Fi;nneing Plan due to the enaIl amounte involved.



- 86 -
ANNEX 1
INDONESIA
THIRD HEALTH PROJECT
Detailed Procurement Schedule
(US$ million)
Procurement procedure             Total
Category of expenditure          ICB      LCB           Other    N.A.   Cost
Land Acquisition        KT                                      0.4      0.4
(0.0)    (0.0)
NTB                                     0.4      0.4
(0.0)    (0.0)
Civil works             KT       8.1    4.7                     1.0/a   13.8
(7.4)   (3.7)                 (0.0)   (11.1)
NTB             10.6                            10.6
(8.3)                          (8.3)
Furniture/Equipment/
Vehicles.             KT       3.4     2.3                    0.4/a   iJl
(3.4)   (1.9)                  (0)     (6.0)
NTB      Ll      2-.2            0.3/b           4.2
(1.7)   (1.8)           (0.2)          (3.2)
Technical Assistance   KT                                1X             1.6
(1.6)          (L!i)
NTB                              2.9            -2.9
(0.4)          (0.4)
c                                3.1             3.1
(0.0)          (0.0)
Training                KT                               3.3             3.3
(3.3)          (3.3)
NTB                              1.8             1.8
(1.7)          (1.7)
C                                0.9              0 9
0.1             0.1
Incremental salaries   KT  -      -                     26.3             26.3
& other Recurrent cost                                   (3.9)           (3.9)
NTB                             24.3             24.3
3.6            (3.6)
C                                3.7              3.7
(0.5)           (0.5)
Subtotal             KT       11.5       7.0          4.9   28.1
(10.8)   (5.6)          (4.9)
NTB       1.7    12.8            5.0   24.7
( 1.7)  (10.1)          (2.3)
C                                4.0    3.7
(0.1)
Total                          13.2    19.8           14.0   56.5    103.5
(12.5)  (15.7)          (7.3)  (8.0)   (43.5)
Notes:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IBRD
Figures include contingencies, technical assistance and training
partially financed by the Japanese Grant
a) Financed by AIDAB
b) International & Domestic Shopping



in=3 SNALYR WROJUC
I~maN?AIo3scaDUiL FOR IIAJO!t CIMVILlRKS
opo      INDONESIA
-iiiD                                                      to "9  90       __ _    91                           102093                                                 9
ailonvmopom      I       0.52M
loapital Deustgr1uctiou                                                                                                 11         11     1
Balikpapan                   ICB    8.12 *5
Mau"
Sewerage Disposal                         0""i IIiIIIIIIIIII                                                                                      I                                
at Semarinda                 LCB    0.14 "'ww
ACTUAL.
Trainingt Center
at SemarLnda                 LCB    0.38 mv"
Workshop
at Smarinda                  LCB    0.06  IU
District Health Officee
Samrinda/BaliLkpapan         LCB    0.10 *Wm
TOTAL                      10.01 Rmlvi
elves
ACTUAL
am. swa?5.mff twa   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~IMf.erPT WIC0CA,4DSDOuSIT                                        ,C t0tTwc*4C35U%eC*0L.P        CO-fIPM.Y.ALSD
.U# OOAUMSO05tAI                                        I   CLMA"WCCO mwlw*ft' me DD S50CMwrw'                  .1 CG*OUCThvl PSWOOSWLU       Li -LOCaLwvtl
C-  nAMAIOF CQlmS'tTtwA                                   4 OW A MWATON TOS 6-                                   IsCOaNVOAMMMMu,ce I.r              gas..
MINIMALeUepNam  Se                                        S .am                                                                                  #.-#M A.c



tais     amuLt PROJEC
flEKUEU?A?ION SCMEJUL  FMR   MPNEN  AND VEIMCLES
wt' INDONESIA
"1irge  eqauiptmet  ICB    2.30  mvm
and vehicles
Package No. 2:  Ist and                      AU"
2nd Yr. Small equipment   LCD    0.56  ntvme
and supplies                                   TU
Package No. 3:, 3rd Yr.
Small equipment &             LCB    0.59   MORmE
supplies                                     ATA
acgeN.4:
ReWi inlarge                   IECE    1.60' mvsm
equipment & vehicles                          TU
Package No. 5: 4th Yr.
Small equipment &             LCD    0.73  masse =
suppliesACU
Package No. 6:  5th Yr.                                                                                                                                                                                                         O
Small equipment &             LCB    0.72  *fV=s
supplies                                     AA
TOTAL650 vm
ACT"L~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ssnC    ss,n
PS5ASSISSA5 74F54. WCIeAtOCC.:SICCCLAMTCIC SAPICtISASATC.
.-.anWTse,SgAmscssI StAV *SA*O.C  CCPATCCASSSCOWCS7                                                            ifit ISIS "VISimIATS*~54F
..s55055155AC CLAACSC'WC,CAIC. SI SSCC~StSItSIAL5L155 A STACTUALtC&SITC
e..csinswins,sMinS?sSA. et. .,..v~ 'APO 5RAC A.
RIVMD ~         nIaCP-01C5 .0a                                                                                                                                                .
~S,WSICStM.WA,nCtAS HASO S*.*tCS550' 4.*44* RcCetCCrOeACC ISCVIYIC
P-5~I5ASLM1etY A    eATeS                               tISACC.S SASCISSWSe
5-   CSEW   t15                                     S *4.450t 'ILIACC



TEnM HEALTH PROJKC?
UIHPLEZTATIOR SCUEDUE MtR MAJOR CIVIL VORlS
*T1INDONESIA
PttOAut.PA
Hospital
Hataram                       LCB    2.07 
Hospital                                      APAA                                       -1                                                                                                                                =
Praya District                 LCB    0.43  01
Hospital
Bima                           LCB    0.13    ea
HospitalT
Sumba"a                       LCH    0.10    Ii
Hospitals (02)                                 PQ
Selmnu    same schedule    LCB    0.13   Im
Training Complex                               MA
Mataram                         C       .4   i,si
SPE, SPAG ,SMAlt
Training
SPK Bias                      LICB     0.63  511
Workshop
Hataram                         C       4
Training Center
BIKN Hataram                  LCB      0.37 
Eandep KCesehaten
LExpansion & Renovation    LCB          0.17   I5            ,sa4
.SIA5IASM"  DP SSQA.WaCAaTIO 5OCtAtO'S                        I tIIfl flI-**0405                                                                             act. -CaflTflnnrC*AuIN'
A1102VALwTINs.IN"Il..                                            ,-. 145 P'ICflaCA1TC.t "O 0 00C OsctsES                          ASV#R,.CIa(aS %C0I@                Ot'lctast
8_11NNFTOMMIiTMAllsITtRIA                                        S   .sAl CSMII iv tC0.t*.' AN 0 3500C551S                     tOtta?fS Sc1'I8tuC~Ct5T?5 
C_          OFSI  5000,010 AND C.rftSa                             a 510 501*1A5C0 TO 0.0                                         coi me"oh l'.a" 151etea II          WMIN
Is-  C5tA5MAlgOP INC0MIM'450*                                          *d.Ca CtAC0



TRD IEULT  PRDJDCS
DEPLIUATIOIR SCHEDLE FOR EQOUfmlHU  AND VEHICLMS
MMS TWENCARA DOATA
vINDONlESIA
_    is 88                    "89                      n90       _                                       v     92    __ __    93|
Package No. 1: 1st and
2nd Yr. larne equipment  COD    1.00  ftIVP
& vebicles                             ATA
Package N. 2:                           pUS
Small Equipmnt            LCB    0.70  ivDe _e
Supplies               0        _T__
Package No. 3: 3rd Yr.   L                                   I
Small Equipment         S LQ      0.40  my                                                                                     4w0
Supplies
PacRage No. 4:
Reaidr, Large           lCB    0.40  a.vine
Equipmet A Vehicles                     MU
Package No. 5: 4th Yr.                                                       I i                    I A_
Small Equipment           LC      0.46  o,vs.s
supplies                                                Ub        C- 
package go. 6: 5th Yr.                                                                                                                                                                                 *0
Small Equipment 6         LCD   0D.44  meya,)w-o~         ~        
Supplies
subtotal                        3.50 04P450L T                                                           0     0+ --
Many Small Contracts030AEN
TOTAL~~~~~~~~~~ATA
.43dOIafflAS  C.*lfC Os 0WaLC,$CTATIZTyToF^g$.AMPSooCtWTI                                                I SISALt OLIVEP Al liT         Let. LtOAL COSTITIVS I
T 0 T A L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~S 5**41                                                                                         t IMT .5
A.4DlVALAAMCRIWW  A",T'                                                                                           IVIR-UTt              Its  ECO* S*SAATIQN
-'aA_m"'                                               9a CsA.
C.         A_ ,                                            MA                                                                               M"k SAAs.00*0lXu



ANNEX 13
- 91-                             Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD HEALTH PROJECT
Responsibilities for Proiect Implementation Activities
Activities                                           Agency responsible
Civil Works Conponent
Land acquisition                                   Dinas Kesehatan/Provincial Health
Administration (PHA) /a
Preparation of plans and tender documents          PHA
Tendering                                          PHA
Award of contracts and payment                     PHA
Supervision                                        PEA
Balikpapan hospital (ICB)                          PHA with central MOH
Procurement
Furniture, equipment, materials
ICB                                              PEA with central MOH
LCB                                              PEA
Vehicles
ICB                                              PHA with central MOH
Staff Training
Preservice/Inservice Trainina
Preparation of annual program                    PEA in consultation with central MOH
Training Team
Submission of program to the Bank for review /a  PHA through Central MOH
Implementation of program                        PHA
Overseas Fellowsa'ips
Preparation of annual program                    Central MOH and PHA
Submission of program to Bank La                 PHA through Central MOH
Implementation of program                        PHA and Central MOH
Domestic Fellowships
Preparation of program                           Central MOH and PHA
Submission to Bank /a                            PHA through Central MOH
Implementation                                   PHA



- 92 -                           ANNEX 13
Page 2
Activities                                             Agency responsible
Technical Assistance
Appointment of Consultants
Selection, contracting, payment
and supervision (international)                 Central MOH in consultation with PHA
Selection, contrac'ing, payment
and supervision (local)                         PHA and Central MOH
Studies
Selection, recruitment and payment of con-
sultants (local)                                PHA
Supervis'on of consultants                        PEA
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring of key indicators                       PEA
Analysis of data                                   PHA with technical assistance from
Central MOH
Monitoring, Evaluation and
Quarterly Progress Reports
Prepnration of reports                            PEA and Central MOH
Consolidation and submission to the Bank          Central MOH
Preparation of Future Health Projects               Central MOH
Budgets and Accounts
Preparation of annual Integrated Health Plan        PEA in consultation with Inter-
and Budgets                                         sectoral teams at provincial
and central level
Preparation of withdrawal applications and
supporting documents                              PHA and Central MOH
Preparation and submission of withdrawal
applications to the Bank                        Central MOH/DG Budget.
/a  All programs would be sabmitted with the annual Integrated Health Plan and Budget for
each province.



- 93 -
Annex 14
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD HEALTH PROJECT
Key Peformance Indicators
Principal Objectives                     Base         End of Project Target
1993/94
Kalimantan Timur
Sector Expenditure Program
Expanded program of immunization
% full coverage                38                   80
Nutrition
% 2-3 degree PEN               7.5                 < 2
6-36 months
Malaria
Prevalence rate                4-20%               < 5-15%
No. Houses sprayed/year        40,000               56,000
Tuberculosis
Prevalence rate                0.3%                 0.22%
Community Participation
Number of Posyandus            1,630                2,800
Health Centers
Contact Rate                   0.94                 2.0
Hospital Development
BOR - Provincial Hospital      71                   80
BOR - District Hospital        30                   70
Planning/Maternal Care
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate 61.3%                 75%
% Pregnant women receiving
ante-natal care                50                   80
Training
No. of Staff Trained           650                  To be determined
annually



- 94 -
Annex 14
Page 2
Principal Objectives                     Base         End of Project Target
1993/94
Policy Support
Decentralization                                        To be determined
annually
Resource Mobilization                                   To be determined
Tariff Adjustments - health centers                    annually
(Rp 300)
hospitals
(Rate schedule)
Nusa Tenggara Barat
Sector Expenditure Program
Expanded Program of Immunization
% Coverage                     36                   80
Nutrition
% PEN 6-36 mnths               19.8                 < 15
Malaria
Prevalence Rate                5%                   < 2%
No. of Houses SprayedjYea'    20,000                90,000
Tuberculosis
Prevalence Rate                0.25%                0.20%
Community Participation
Number of Posyandus            2,599                3,390
Health Centers
Contact Rate                   0.5                  1.5
Hospital Development
BOR - Provincial Hospital      68                   75
BOR - District Hospital        58                   75
Family Planning/Maternal Care
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate 62.4%                 68%
% of Pregnant Women Receiv-   30 %                  60%
ing Ante-Natal Care
Training
No. of Staff trained           300                  To be determined
,nnually



- 95 -
Annex 14
Page 3
Principal Objectives                    Base         End of Project Target
1993/94
Policy Support
Decentralization                                       To be determined
annually
Resource Mobilization
Tariff Adjustment - health centers                 To be determined
(Rp 300)                        annually
- hospitals
(rate schedule)



- 96 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD HEALTH PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Files
A.   Selected Reports and Studies related to the sector
A.1  Indonesia. Issues in Health Planning and Budgeting, World Bank
Report No. 7291-IND, August 26, 1988.
A.2 Indonesia. Selected Issues of Public Resource Management, World
Bank Report No. 7007-IND, March 11, 1988.
A.3 Strategies for Primary Health Care. Technologies Aupropriate for
the Control of Disease in the DeveloRing World, Edited by Julia
A. Walsh and Kenneth S. Warren, The University of Chicago Press,
1986
A.4  Better Health for Women and Children throueh Family Planning.
Basic Documents, The Population Council, October 1987.
A.5  HosRital Exoenditure in Indonesia, Howard Barnaum, PHN Technical
Note 87-17, July 1987.
A.6 Central Government and Local Development in Indonesia, edited by
Colin HacAndrews, Singapore, Oxford University Press, 1986.
A.7 Financine Health Services in Develonina countries: An Agenda for
Reform, A World bank Policy Study, April 1987.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.l Health Project 111. East Kalimantan and West Nusa Tenggara.
Ministry of Health, RI 1988.
B.2  Health Financing Study in East Kalimantan and West Nusa Tenggara,
Bureau of Planning, MOH and Faculty of Public Health, University
of Indonesia.
B.3  (i) Water s8uplv and sanitation component in Kalimantan Timur:
and (ii) Water sunplv and sanitation component in Nusa Tenggara
fBarat, DHV Consulting Engineers, June 1988.
B.4 Review and Assessment of the Government ProRosals for the
Construction/Rehabilitatior of Health Facilities in Two
Provinces. Kalimantan Timur and Nusa Tenggara Barat, Thompson
Berwick Pratt (International) Ltd., May 1988.



- 97 -
AWPEX 15
F-age 2
B.5  Phase 1 and Phase 2. Ceotechnical Investigation for the DroRosed
new Public Hosgital. BalikDaDan. East Kalimantan, P.T. Soilens.
B.6 (i) Calculation on. the need of personnel within the framework of
implementation of intebral health development in the provinces of
West Nusa Tenagara and East KaliMantan: and (ii) Estimating
manpower need for East Kalimantan and Nusa Tenggara Barat,
Berlian T.P. Siagian, A.L. Pong Tengko, Zainul Bakri Eko
Supriyanto, Siska L.H., Sudiarso, Eddy Purnomo, Planning Bureau,
Department of Health, R.I. 1988.
B.7  Master Plan and Program Development for East Kalimantan and NTB,
P.T. Riptikon, December 1988.
C.  Working Papers
C.   (i) Report on the Drug Need of East Kalimantan Province; and (ii)
Report on the Drug Need of West Nusa Tenggara Province.
C.2  Decentralinei Ingegrated Planning and Budgeting.
C.3  Health Sector Consolidated Budget and Plan (1989/90-93/94) for
East Kalimantan and West Nusa Tenggara.
C.4  Rapid Assessment on Kabupaten Health Management,
Kalimantan Timur, Faculty of Public Health, University
of Indonesia and Bureau of Planning, Ministry of Health,
June 1988.



alugt
EjIil&       iii X iIIt i --
t~~~i   I E           l
t~~ ii II I



99 -
CHART 2
INDONESIA
THIRD HEALTH PROJECT
Provincial Health Organlzatlonal Structure
|MINISTER OF |                              MINISTER9 OF 
HEALTH                                   HOME AFFAIIS
.                                  .l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ProIII1E                                                                 GOVERiNORe 
HEAD OF THE              HEDOIH
PROVINCIAL   IPHADOVINCIA
MIITYOFFICEOOVERNMENT                   
HEILT                  HEALTH OFFICE
|PROV. NT 
OM KRHEALTH  J.
j OFFICE      _PROVINCL  }
FOOD a DRU                   HOSPITAL 
P8YCHIATRI _
!HOSPITAL
TRIUNING 
S CHOOLS                                                       BUPATAYOR
PROV. HEALT 
TRAINIMt
CENTER    |   ~~HEAiD OF               HEAD OF D18TFICT'
018TlUl:                  GOVERNMEN
Dist" ~  ~                 M ONH                 HEALTH OFFC
f SU8 HEALTH |        | ~HEAD OF SU
Subdhf      HOPIA                     CENTER                         OFFIClLE
I~~~~~~~~                                        I
r POSYANDU              L P08SYANDU                         P08YNW 



- 100 -
CHART 3
INDONESIA
THIRD HEALTH PROJECT
Provincial Govemment Health Office Organizational Structure
(Dinas Keshatan DatI 1)
HEAD OF PROVINCIAL
GOVERNMENT
HEALTH OFFICE
DEPARTMENT:
I ADMINOSTRAT   CH
SUV DEPARTMENT
S   PLANNING E  C          MOACER
|PERSONNE                OiTC
G ENERAL AFFAIRS|
DMStON II0X   
SUB DIVISIONS                                                                            NUT_ITION
H NEA Y LMTER
-|    EALT    I  H  IMUNE NN      -| WATR SUPPLY |-  ELH Iq          HAT
-|   OENTAL   I        CONTRO   |  GAITATION  |SCHOOLH1        NUTRT N   |



- 101 -
CHART 4
INDONESIA
THIRD HEALTH PROJECT
MinIstry of Health Provincial Office Orgmnizatlonal Structure
(Kanwil)
HEAD OF
PROVINCIAL OFFICE
MINISTRY OP
HEALTH
ADMSINISTRATIVE
SUB DIVISION:   DIVISION
S PERICESONNISTIC
PROGRAM & HEALTO|   MONITOING OF NITONONrON OF                         MONITOR1NOF
MANPOWER PLANNING   HEALTH SERVICES        HEASE PROMOTION        PHMACY & FOOD
SECTION:                            ..
HEALTh    ]  INSTALI.ATION  JEALT
EVAUAIO                 HEALTH CENTRE |           PREV ON                 DRUG
_NUTRMON a
_FAMIL HEALTH
&PROGRIEFERRAL MOFOOBI&
_  PLANNING                S YSTE                                 _     EER
N                                          _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPIDEMIOLOY
|EDUCATIONAL  |      ISPECIAL HEALTH                                    HAZARDOUS 
MONnITRNG                                     COMMRCE    l H UNICA1E|         _ . 
_  ANAtLYSIS        _ INSTALLATION         _    COMMUNITY         _     EOUIPMONT I
a MOSILITY                       .PARTICIPATION 



- 102 -
CHART 5
INDONESIA.
THIRD HEALTH PROJIZCT
District Govemment Hsfth Office OrgnIzatlonal Structure
(Dinm Kesehatmn DotI 1)
HEAD OF DISTRICT
GOVERNMENT
HEALTH OFFICE
SUB OMSION
AFFAIR:
PLNNIFINANCE
PROMOTION OP  HEALTH        PROMOTION
DISEASE  PROMOTIONOF    HEALTH          MOTHER AND
PREV.M ENVPE EDUCATION            CHILD
HEALTH                    ~~~~~~WELFARE
SUB SECTION:
IWRVEICE1   lWVIRIENrALCOMMU If                     I    MoTHER
. -T HOS    _     _PARTICIPATION      HEALTH
HEALUAH _ERSUPPLY                                      HEALTH             CHILD
C XENTER                            A _   a L^TMNE  _   EDUCATON          HEALTH
t   DENTAL   I      VECTOR   |  L PUBUC   l  1 SCHOOL            NUTRITION 
#  HEALSH   l  H CoNnF:t  }  q   ^NZATON  |    |HEALTH !   II



- 103 -
CHART 6
BUDGETARY FLOWS FOR HEALTH, 1985/6
(In Rs billion)
Gavemment 
( DIP ) (INPRES) ( OIK ) ( SDO)DI(DBBOIKD
I~~~~~                                                               I  f(  X 
IL
~~~11.    116           13.
Totai 620.3 da



- 104 -
CHART 7
INDONESIA
THIRD HEALTH PROJECT
Prolect Management Structure
dMI                        "ad moFn
E
N
UreZ8                   Pmwid ORker                                R
~~~~~~(Chief Sueo of Pb) |< g 
L
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
lbmcww      PMIW OMMvP
I o~          l            _lliwI                                     N
I                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~C
I ~~~~~~MMA
I  ~~~~~memllmL
I                                                      D
I|T
(Head of DIm Kee 1)                          R
- I
Prjoje                            T
Mu=a
Offias



I N  D  0  N  E S I A                                                                                        O          -- -EBAATIK LS.
THIRD  HEALTH  PROJECT r                                  I                                      U1 Ap.                    NlNUKAN oi                                        40
KALIMANTAN TIMUR                             B   P.
BALIIKPAPAN HOSPITE?L (CLASS Blr                                                                  lo4o8
(_    HEALTH CENTERS WITH BEDS                                           to      n    Too.Eook                                           BUNT'
UPGRADING OF SUB-HEALTH CENTERS TO HEALTH CENTERS  i          I    Tolong                                                            IS
NEW SUB-HEALTH CENTERS                              0'                     Toogoog
e    DISTRICT HEALTH OFFICES                                                                                                    TARKN IS
SAMARINOA MEDICAL WORKSHOP
NURSING SCHOOL (SPKi                                     to  Too
IN-SERVICE TRAINING SCHOOL (BLKMI                            374Twgh Rondi
O    DRUG WAREHOUSE                            CQ/        log Ke..oos                                                 Toro
-       MAJOR ROADS                                                                    aB.hoh --oLo-    1  Rbo           -
OTHER ROADS                             _                 -                                                       /
o    SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES           F                                                                                                       PANJAND
@    KABUPATEN CAPITALS                    l.                                                                                                         IS
@    PROVINCE CAPITAL                 -                                                                               (
E    NATIONAL CAPITAL        /                                                                            - 'onorg ToE.,                                             Is
KABUPkTEN BOUNDARIES                          Ig           L    I E                i    7             iTom  R
P2OVINCE BOUNDARIES      f
.. INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES              D-So.o.o tdI 2o
tn7 bocngo_lbe ct 
j/~~~~O.O                                                       -                           lo loot.             lo-oo< .g 
X _ < _ SK    U    Th A
L'    ng       .-  -o                                                   -                                                                       ---r  -
v      ~              ~~~~~~ -\                                                                                                D U  gooI
/U  uoo oRob.
Ai.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LongQU hWrgootn
KILOMiETERSOuwoA97  
ctobonsloogbo                                                                            ;
t_~~~~~~~~~        ~       ~ ~~~~~~                ~~~~~~~~~       V                 > w  |  w   3Emi-s
bOg Slob~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UMAi                                                             UIWS
50   20   40   t0   SD   ISOo                       _ST                L   _.  I                                                                                        2
P.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
0                             SD~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
MILES                                          / \bLRk                           6     /
to emll  gooo                  iGomnog Moloog     .           - TOItBAN19
L~~~~0                              BOi1ocl 5POtt\ o                   -aA Utw5
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -  \O -m < l mA
2 . . :j t Koblo 2- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OP MAP
> _. t 1l <fifi} u>3 R I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AWA                                                                             IBR da3 .
114'                                   .AIS                           -.           X     m      Qh            17 -             J   ROlICS PROVINCESt
I~1~          _   _   _   _            I_                                                                                                 __   _  __  ___I__        __'___I_



117!0XE                                   IBRD                                     .1rUE 
I N  D O    N  E S I A                                                                                      I      ,                    .'b '
THIRD HEALTH PROJECT                                                                                                                                                        S- eIBM212
NUSA TENGGARA BARAT                                                                                                          A. .                                                     -              I
[3   MATARAM HOSPITAL ICLASS B)                   M AATARALM MEDICAL WORKSHOP                      MAJOR ROADS               0    KABUPATEN CAPITALS                                      Y-U$'                  I                      -w -
    REGENCY HOSPITALS ICLASS DS           Fi   NURSING SCHOOLS ISPK)                              OTHER ROADS               0    PROVINCE CAPITAL                                           E                                             -*                -                    Le
HEALTH CENTERS WITH BEDS             F7   ASSISTANT NUTRITIONIST SCHOOL ISPGI)               S ELECTED TOWNS AND       e    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                           ._A
IV    NEW HEALTH CENTERS                   .-    LABORATORY ASSISTANT SCHOOL (SMAEl               VILLAGES                  --- KASUPATEN BOUNDARMtS                                                                                               0- -  Swldo.   $I-
c    UPGRADING OF SUB-HEALTH CENTERS             IN-SERVICE TRWNING CENTER  SLKM)                                              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                               0(-                                             M AREA
TO HEALTH CENTERS                                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL B0UNDARIES
0 NEW SUB-BEACiH CENTERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IG
-o,W       EN  PROJECT PROVINCES                     TENGGARA
NX U S A                                                        T E N GG A RA                                            .B A R A T                                                       "BtIISE
F  L  O    R  E  S                          S  E  A                          MAY0                                                                                                                      ' S E  \   S rPrs:s  5ABGEANGB
NUSA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
BALI 
W                                                                                                                                                                                    1;Z 1tS ,^, ,^  Sa  2g X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 54~A o S   o
IT                                                                                                                             lIUMR/v         )                                            0                           -                                                     NUS,
TENGG
\  - -                -                             4            1 a"F                       %/                                                  SUMBAWASTIMt
LOMBOK                                                         T
KILOMETERS
0                      ap 20 3  0    50     6        0     tl O_
I N D I A N                                 O C E A N                                      6           lb          20          3'          Ic          s           -.
MILES
116                                      11630'                                    117W 01EP                                                                          I                                      1130                                      119W
MARC



