Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3042 IND
                      (Third Health Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 1, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3042 IND
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT,  dated  June  1,  1989,  between  THE  REPUBLIC  OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
    (B)  pursuant to a letter agreement dated June 3, 1987 between
Japan and the Bank, Japan has requested the Bank, and the Bank has
agreed, to administer grant  funds  to  be made available by Japan
for the financing of  certain  programs  and projects supported by
the  Bank  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  such  letter
agreement; and
    (C)  Japan has agreed  to  make  available  to  the Borrower a
grant (the  Japanese  Grant)  out  of  said  funds  to  assist the
Borrower in carrying out Parts B and C of the Project on the terms
Page  2
and conditions  set  forth  in  an  agreement  (the Japanese Grant
Agreement) of even date herewith;
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on  the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions  Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
    Section  1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General  Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein set
forth  and  the  following  additional  terms  have  the following
meanings:
    (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to  in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
    (b)  "Health Policy Statement" means the policies to be under-
taken by the Borrower  pursuant  to  Repelita V to: (1) strengthen
preventive  and  promotive   health   activities  including  their
referral, as well as improving the nutrition status of the people;
(2) improve the quality and coverage of health services; (3) adopt
decentralization  and   integrated   planning   and  budgets;  (4)
implement resource mobilization  measures;  and (5) enhancement of
the intersectoral  coordination  amongst  the central governments'
health agencies, the  local  governments'  health agencies and the
concerned Ministries;
    (c)  "Project Area" means  the  provinces  of Kalimantan Timur
and Nusa Tenggara Barat; and
    (d)  "Repelita V" means  the  Borrower's five year development
program for its fiscal years 1989/90 through 1993/94.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
    Section 2.01. The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to forty-
three million five hundred thousand dollars ($43,500,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for expenditures made  (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect  of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project  described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special account in the Bank of Indonesia
on terms and conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits into,
and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall  be June 30, 1995 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall  pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
Page  3
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
    Section 2.05.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
    (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the  end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
    (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
    Section 2.06.  Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower  declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall,  and  shall cause the Local
Government of Kalimantan Timur  and  Nusa Tenggara Barat provinces
to carry out the Project with  due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity  with  appropriate  financial,  health,  management and
administrative practices, and  shall  provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, land, services and other resources required
for the Project.
    (b)  Without limitation upon  the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower  and the Bank shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
    Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall  maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Page  4
    (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
    (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect  to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such  fiscal  year,  together  with the pro-
               cedures and  internal  controls  involved  in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k)  of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)  that the Health Policy Statement shall have been amended,
suspended, waived, repealed or abrogated so as to adversely affect
the carrying out of the Project.
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the
               right of the Borrower  to  withdraw the proceeds of
               any grant made to the Borrower for the financing of
               the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
               terminated in whole  or  in  part,  pursuant to the
               terms of the agreement providing therefor.
        (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of  this  paragraph shall not apply
              if the Borrower  establishes  to the satisfaction of
              the Bank that: (A)  such suspension, cancellation or
              termination is  not  caused  by  the  failure of the
              Borrower to  perform  any  of  its obligations under
Page  5
              such  agreement;  and  (B)  adequate  funds  for the
              Project are  available  to  the  Borrower from other
              sources on terms and  conditions consistent with the
              obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(b) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section  7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
         Ministry of Finance
         c/o Director General of Budget
         Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
         P.O. Box 139
         Jakarta, Indonesia
         Cable address:                      Telex:
              FINMINISTRY                      44319 DEPKEU-IA
              Jakarta                          45799 DJMLN-IA
    For the Bank:
         International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America
         Cable address:                      Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
              Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties  hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Page  6
                   By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of  items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works            17,000,000         91%
(2)  Equipment,              8,300,000         100% of foreign
     furniture and                             expenditures
     vehicles                                  95% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory
                                               cost) and 65%
                                               of local ex-
                                               penditures for
                                               other items pro-
                                               cured locally
(3)  Consultants'            1,000,000         100%
     services
(4)  Training                6,000,000         100%
     and studies
(5)  Incremental             1,600,000         FY 1989 - 100%
     Operation and           1,500,000         FY 1990 - 100%
     maintenance costs       1,500,000         FY 1991 - 100%
                             1,100,000         FY 1992 - 100%
                               700,000         FY 1993 - 100%
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6)  Project                 1,800,000         100%
     Secretariat
(7)  Unallocated             3,000,000
                            __________
     TOTAL                  43,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
Page  7
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the  acronym  "FY"  means  the  Borrower's  fiscal  year
commencing on April 1  and  ending  on  March 31 of each Gregorian
calendar year.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the  date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of $750,000, may be made in  respect of Category (3) on account of
payments  made  for  expenditures   before  that  date  but  after
October 1, 1988; (b) expenditures in respect of Category 1 for the
expansion of the hospital  at  Mataram  under  Part  A (iv) of the
Project, until the land  required  therefor  has been acquired and
adequate  compensation  and   rehabilitation  measures  have  been
provided to the owner(s)  of  such  land and property therein; and
(c) expenditures in respect of  Category 1 for the construction of
the hospital at  Balikpapan  under  Part  A  (iii) of the Project,
until the land required therefor is available for the carrying out
of such Part of the  Project and adequate compensation and rehabi-
litation measures  have  been  provided  to  those residing and/or
cultivating in such land.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to assist the Borrower to:
(a) improve the delivery  of  health  services to raise the health
status  of  the  people  living  in  the  Project  Area;  and  (b)
strengthen the Borrower's health sector management.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Sector Expenditure Program Support
          (i)  Implementation  of  the  Repelita  V  health sector
               expenditure program in  the  Project Area including
               (A) improvement of health service delivery both for
               the  outreach   (posyandu)   and  referral  systems
               (health   centers,   sub-centers   and  hospitals),
               (B)  communicable  disease  control  programs,  (C)
               training, (D)  health  education,  (E) drug control
               and management, (F) rural  water supply and sanita-
               tion, and (G) nutrition program and family planning
               service delivery program.
         (ii)  Provision of technical assistance and training.
        (iii)  Construction of a hospital  to replace the existing
               facility   in   Balikpapan   and   renovation   and
               upgrading, as the  case  may  be  of the provincial
               hospital in Samarinda, Kalimantan Timur.
         (iv)  Expansion of  the  existing  provincial hospital at
               Mataram, and the  rehabilitation  and upgrading, as
               the case  may  be,  of  the  district  hospitals in
               Praya,  Selong,  Dompu,   Bima  and  Sumbawa,  Nusa
               Tenggara Barat.
          (v)  Construction,    upgrading,    rehabilitation   and
               expansion, as the case  may  be, of health centers,
               sub-health centers and related staff housing in the
               Project Area.
Page  8
         (vi)  Construction, upgrading and  rehabilitation, as the
               case may be, of  existing,  training centers in the
               Project Area.
        (vii)  Construction, upgrading and  rehabilitation, as the
               case may be, of  workshops, district health offices
               and drug warehouses in the Project Area.
       (viii)  Provision   of   equipment,   furniture,  supplies,
               vehicles, drugs,  insecticides,  and  operation and
               maintenance costs in the Project Area.
Part B:   Decentralization and Resource Mobilization
     Implementation, on a pilot basis, of the decentralization and
resource mobilization measures under  the Health Policy Statement,
including technical assistance, studies and training.
Part C:   Sector Management Improvement
          (i)  Strengthening of  the  health  sector  both  at the
               center  and  local   government  level  in  project
               planning,  design,  management  and  implementation
               capabilities, as the case may be.
         (ii)  Enhancement  of   the   intersectoral  coordination
               amongst the  central  governments' health agencies,
               the local  governments'  health  agencies,  and the
               concerned  Ministries  in   the  planning,  design,
               management and implementation of projects.
        (iii)  Provision   of   technical   assistance,  training,
               vehicles, office facilities and equipment, staffing
               and operational and maintenance costs.
                     *     *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
October 1, 1994                                      800,000
April 1, 1995                                        830,000
October 1, 1995                                      860,000
April 1, 1996                                        895,000
October 1, 1996                                      930,000
April 1, 1997                                        965,000
October 1, 1997                                    1,000,000
April 1, 1998                                      1,040,000
October 1, 1998                                    1,080,000
April 1, 1999                                      1,120,000
October 1, 1999                                    1,160,000
April 1, 2000                                      1,205,000
October 1, 2000                                    1,255,000
April 1, 2001                                      1,300,000
October 1, 2001                                    1,350,000
April 1, 2002                                      1,400,000
October 1, 2002                                    1,455,000
April 1, 2003                                      1,510,000
October 1, 2003                                    1,570,000
April 1, 2004                                      1,630,000
October 1, 2004                                    1,690,000
April 1, 2005                                      1,755,000
October 1, 2005                                    1,825,000
April 1, 2006                                      1,895,000
October 1, 2006                                    1,965,000
Page  9
April 1, 2007                                      2,040,000
October 1, 2007                                    2,120,000
April 1, 2008                                      2,200,000
October 1, 2008                                    2,285,000
April 1, 2009                                      2,370,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:  Preference for Domestic Contractors
Page  10
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  the  Borrower  may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$2,500,000 each  or  less  and  in  the  aggregate  not  to exceed
$12,700,000 equivalent may be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Goods, except vehicles,  estimated  to  cost in the aggregate
the equivalent  of  $4,500,000  may  be  procured  under contracts
awarded on the basis  of  competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures  satisfactory to the Bank; provided,
however,  that  goods  estimated  to  cost  in  the  aggregate the
equivalent of $300,000  or  less  may  be procured under contracts
awarded through international and  local  shopping on the basis of
evaluation and comparison  of  bids  invited  from  at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $200,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
Page  11
1.   The Borrower shall adopt and thereafter implement the follow-
ing health  sector  policies,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank, in the
Project  Area:  (a)  strengthen  preventive  and  promotive health
activities, including their referrals  and improve the quality and
coverage of health  services;  and  (b)  on  a pilot basis, decen-
tralized integrated planning and budgeting, and resource mobiliza-
tion in the  health  sector.  Such  policies  shall be implemented
pursuant to an overall Action  Plan and annual action plans satis-
factory to the Bank.  For  such  purposes,  on  October 30 of each
year, commencing on  October  30,  1989  and  thereafter until the
completion of the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall, and shall cause
each local government in the  Project Area to, prepare and furnish
to the Bank, for its  review  and comments, proposed annual action
plan and  timetable  for  the  forthcoming  year, and, thereafter,
carry out, and  cause  to  be  carried  out,  such  action plan in
substance and manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   On October 30 of each  year,  commencing on October 30, 1989,
the Borrower shall, and shall  cause  each local government in the
Project Area to, prepare and  furnish  to the Bank, for its review
and comments, a detailed annual  integrated health plan and budget
for such parts of  the  Project  under their implementation during
the following Borrower's Fiscal  Year, and thereafter, taking into
account the Bank's comments,  if  any,  carry out such annual work
plan and budgetary allocations. Provided, however, that commencing
on October 30, 1990  and,  thereafter,  the  said annual work plan
shall include a retrospective review of the Project implementation
of the previous year's work plans and budgetary allocations.
3.   The Borrower shall, or  shall  cause each local government in
the Project Area to, appoint in the center and in each province in
the Project Area, as the  case  may be, Project Secretariats, each
to be  headed  by  a  full-time  officer  with  qualifications and
experience satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  each  assigned  with such
powers, functions, funds  and  supportive  staff and facilities as
shall be  required  to  enable  each  of  them  to  carry  out the
various  activities  under  the  Project  within  their respective
jurisdictions.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means, all Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $2,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
Page  12
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits  into   the   Special   Account  at  such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph  4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special  Account for eligible expenditures.
                All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn by the Bank
                from  the  Loan   Account   under  the  respective
                eligible  Categories,   and   in   the  respective
                equivalent amounts, as  shall  have been justified
                by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of  the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the   Loan   allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence  as  the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the  Special  Account  (or,  if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
Page  13
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
