Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE CP
Report No. 2183b-BR
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
January 17, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officia2L duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit  =  Cruzeiro
US$1.00        =  Cr$16.25  (January 1978)
UPC1.00        =  Cr$227.15 (January 1978)
UPC1.00        =  US$14.68  (January 1978)
MEASURES
1 mm       = millimeter              = 0.04 inches
l,cm       = centimeter              = 0.39 inches
1 m        = meter                   = 3.28 feet
1 km       = kilometer               = 0.62 miles
1 13       = liter                   = 0.26 US gallons
1 m3       = cubic meter             = 264 US gallons
1 m /sec     cubic meter per second = 22.82 MGD = million US gallons
per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABES     =   National Association of Sanitary Engineers
BNH      =   National Housing Bank
CAGECE   =   Water Supply and Sewerage Company of Ceara
COMPESA  =   Sanitation Company for Pernambuco
EMBASA   =   Water and Sanitation Company of Bahia
FAE      =   Water and Sewerage Funds
FGTS     =   Employee Indemnity Fund
FSESP    =   Special Public Health Service Foundation
FINEST   =   Credit Lines for Sanitation Sector
IDB      =   Interamerican Development Bank
OT       =   Technical Supervision Agency (BNH)
PAHO     =   Pan-American Health Organization
PLANASA  =   National Sanitation Plan
ORTN         National Treasury Securities
SATECIA  =   Technical Assistance Program for Institutional
Development of the State Water Companies
S/SFS    =   Superintendency of Sanitation Financing System
SUDENE   =   Superintendency for Development of the Northeast
SWC      =   State Water Company
UPC      =   Standard Capital Unit (BNH)
USAID    =   United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    GENERAL  ............... ............................                             1
II.    THE SECTOR               .........................................                1
Country Background  ............. ... .             .        .             1I
Service Levels  ......            ......................... .              I
Sector Development  .....           .......................                2
Institutional Developments  .................              ...             4
Financial Viability .....             ......................               4
Tariffs  .......          .............................. .                 5
Environmental Legislation  .................             ....              6
Bank Participation  .....            .......................               6
Experience Under Previous Loans  ............              ...             7
III. THE BORROWER ...  8
Organization . .         ........................ .                        8
Loan Approvals Procedures  .....................                          10
Evaluation  ....... .............             ................           10
IV.    THE, BENEFICIARIES  ...... .............              ...............            11
Background            ....................................                11
Organization and Management  .................              ..           11
Metering,  Billings and Collections  ............                         12
Accounting Organizations  ...........           .. .........             12
Accounting Systems                ............................            13
Finance       .......................................                     14
Audit      .........................................                      14
V.    PROJECT AREA,  DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS  ...... ......                          15
Location and Development Prospects  ...........              .            15
Water Resources  ......            .........................              15
Population ....... .............             ................            16
Present Water Supply and Sewerage Service Levels                         17
Demand Projections .................                                      19
This report was prepared by Messrs. A. Sanchez, Engineer; A. Heron, Financial
Analyst; J. Culagovski, Economist; A. Guzman, Financial Analyst; P. Larroque,
Financial Analyst; and R. Westin, Consultant. The appraisal took place
in April 1978.
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performancel
of theif offcisi duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wotld Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VI.    THE PROJECT  .............................                                    21
Project Origin .......... . ...                                        21
Project Objectives    ..21
Project Description   .                      .22
Engineering   .                         .23
Project Costs   ..24
Financing.                                                             26
Implementation.                                                        27
Subproject Selection    .                       .28
Procurement   .                         .29
Disbursements    .                         .30
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS    ..32
The Borrower   .                         .32
Past and Present Finances   .                    .32
Financial Projections                 . . .34
The Beneficiaries. .                                                   35
Financial Status and Projections of the
Beneficiaries                 ...38
EMBASA    ...38
COIPESA    ...39
CAGECE    ...40
Evaluation                        ...    42
monitoring Indicators/Reporting Requirements  ..                      42
VIII.    ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS               .       .......                    43
Introduction   .                         .43
Internal Rate of Return and Long Run Marginal Cost                    43
Design and Selection Criteria   .                   .45
Population Served   .                       .45
Impact on Poverty Groups.                                             45
Project Services Affordability   .                  .47
IX.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   .                     .47



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
List of Tables                                                              Page No.
5.1  Population Data in the Project States and Brazil (1977) .......       16
5.2  brban Population in the Project States (1977) ....       .............   17
5.3  Water Supply Service Levels for 1977 (%) ......................   17
5.4  Water Production and Sales for 1977 .....       ......................    18
5.5  Present and Projected Water Production and Sales, 1978-1982  ...   20
6.1  Projected Annual Investments for EMBASA, COMPESA, and
GAGECE - 1979-1982 ..........................................    25
6.2 Summary of Project Costs .26
6.3  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement .31
7.1 BNI Summary Funds Flow Statement   .           .32
7.2 BNM Summary Balance Sheets .33
7.3  B1i Projected Sources and Application of Funds, 1978-1980             34
7.4  Project SWCs' Tariff Structures - 1977 .36
7.5 Selected Financial Data - EMBASA .39
7.6 Selected Financial Data - COMPESA .40
7.7 Selected Financial Data - CAGECE .41
8.1 Average Incremental Cost and Tariffs (January 1978) .44
8.2  Water Supply:  Incremental Change in Population Served
in the Capital Cities, 1977-1985 .46
8.3  Sewerage:  Incremental Change in Population Served in the
Capital Cities, 1977-1985 .46
List of Annexes
1.   Graphical Representation of BNH's Supervision Arrangements
2.   Organization Charts for State Water Companies
3.   Description of Subprojects for Capital Cities and List of
Communities to be Served in the States of Bahia, Ceara and
Pernambuco
4.   Schedule of Execution for Water and Sewerage Subprojects
5.   Summary of Project Costs
6.   BNH Financial Statements
7.   State Water Companies' Financial Statements
8.   Outline of Terms of Reference for Metering and Tariff Studies
9.   lnternal Financial Rates of Return and Average Incremental
Costs
10.  I)ocuments Available in Project File



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
List of Maps
13716     -     The Northeast Region
13717     -     Rainfall and Probability of Drought
13718     -     City of Salvador - Major Works
13719     -     City of Recife - Major Works
13720     -     City of Fortaleza - Major Works



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. GENERAL
1.01      The Government of Brazil has requested Bank financing for the
expansion and improvement of water supply and sewerage systems in the three
northeast States of Bahia, Ceara and Pernambuco. The Bank has been assisting
the water supply and sewerage sector in Brazil since 1971 through the financing
of five projects. The water supply and sewerage systems for which Bank
financing would be provided under the proposed loan have a total cost of
US$303 million, of which the proposed Bank loan of US$100 million would cover
the foreign excharge cost. The loan would be made to the National Housing
Bank (BNH). The executing entities would be the State Water Companies (SWCs)
of Bahia, Ceara and Pernambuco (EMBASA, CAGECE and COMPESA, respectively),
which are public agencies owned by their respective state governments, and
responsible for the implementation of the National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA)
in their respective states. The works to be financed are scheduled for
construction and completion in the four-year period 1979-1982 inclusive.
II. THE SECCOR
Country Backpround
2
2.01      Brazil has an area of 8.5 million km  and is divided into 23 states,
four territories and one federal district. The population of Brazil at the end
of 1977 was estimated to be 113.2 million and growing at 2.8% per annum. 1/
Of this total, 69.5 million, or 61.4%, is classified as urban population, 2/
which is growing at an estimated rate of 4.1% per annum. By 1984, two-thirds
of Brazil's population is expected to be living in urban ienters.  While the
overall population density is only 13 inhabitants per km , the distribution
of population throughout the country is uneven with a high proportion concen-
trated along the East Coast, in particular the four southeastern states which
include the large urban centers of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo and account
for 42.1% of Brazil's population. This concentration has been partially due
to migration from the north and northeast regions.
Service Levebls
2.02      At: present about three-fourths of the urban population has access
to public water supply and about 35% is served by public sewerage.
I/   Source of Population Statistics:  Anuario Estatistico do Brasil.
2/   Brazil:Lan official definition of "urban population" is based on adminis-
trative status (a county seat, "sede do municipio," is an urban place)
rather than minimum population size.



- 2 -
There are however, regional imbalances'. water supply service levels in
the lesser developed states in the interior and northeast are below 50% with
many communities not supplied at all. In rural areas, there are only limited
sanitation facilities, with less than 5% of the households having water
connections. Only 2% of the rural households have septic tanks, 23% latrines
and three-fourths have no satisfactory excreta disposal facilities. The urban
poor group (para 8.09) is the most severely affected by the lack of services.
Many of the urban poor are recent migrants who squat on the periphery of
metropolitan areas where the land is still to be serviced, or in centrally
located but often precarious old squatter settlements. Statistics on mortality
and morbidity rates from waterborne diseases are not complete, but the figures
available indicate one of the highest infant mortality rates in Latin America
and a high incidence of deaths due to waterborne diseases. Infant mortality
in the country reaches 70 per 1,000 live births and life expectancy is 61
years 1/. These indices are, respectively, well above and below the ones for
countries with similar income levels, and compare with about 60 per 1,000 live
births for infant mortality and 60.5 years of life expectancy for Latin
America.
Sector Development
2.03      Prior to 1971 expansion of urban infrastructure, particularly water
supply and sewerage facilities, had not kept pace with Brazil's overall devel-
opment. The resulting inadequacy of services had been due primarily to
institutional problems and the method of financing water and sewerage systems.
Responsibility for these services had been vested in the municipalities, which
was the level of government which was weakest in organizational, technical and
financial capacity. Thus, in 1970, less than 60% of the urban population had
access to public water supply and less than 30% were connected to sewerage
systems. Furthermore, in the majority of Brazil's cities, the capacity of
the water supply systems was insufficient to meet demand requirements.
2.04      Initial measures to improve sector development were undertaken in
1967 when the Federal Government created the Sistema Financeiro de Saneamento
(SFS) and assigned to it the responsibility for the financing of the sanita-
tion sector in the country. At the same time the Banco Nacional da Habitacao
(BNH), was designated as the agency to operate SFS. A concerted effort began
in 1971 when BNH launched PLANASA, the National Sanitation Plan for Brazil,
which encompassed the financing, design, and construction of water and sewerage
services and the training of personnel for their management and operation.
The PLANASA objectives for 1980, as revised in 1975, are to provide water
services to 80% of the urban population in 80% of the communities and sewerage
services to all main urban centers (over 50,000 inhabitants). The program is
expected to cost around US$6.6 billion in 1977 prices, 2.6 times the original
estimate as a result of enlarged programs, underestimation of project costs,
and inflation, which has particularly affected the construction industry.
2.05      The PLANASA program is implemented through SWCs formed in each state
through consolidation of existing regional or local water companies. Each
SWC is responsible for construction and operation of the water supply and
1/   Source:  World Development Report, August 1978 - World Bank.



sewerage systems throughout the state. Initially each SWC prepared a global
feasibility study for the state which set forth the sector service level
objectives, priorities, and financing program. On the basis of this study
and a comLitment by the state to provide one-half of the financing for the
sector investment program from a Sanitation Revolving Fund (Fundo de Aguas
y Esgoto - FAE), BNH has entered into "PLANASA Agreements" with all the states,
which incorporate the service level objectives of the global feasibility
studies and commit BNH to providing the other half of the financing for the
investment program. The PLANASA program has been conceived to alleviate
regional imbalances in services through cross subsidization and to remedy,
through the creation of SWCs, municipal deficiencies in qualified manpower,
capacity of expansion, and maintenance and administration of systems, espe-
cially outside of the capital cities. It replaces a large number of municipal
companies in each state with one organization enabling economies of scale,
central review of all system designs and proper operation and maintenance
of municipal systems.
2.06      Implementation of the PLANASA program has been slower than expected
due to time taken to organize SWCs and consolidate operations, and to the
capacity of some SWCs in preparing and implementing water supply and sewerage
projects. In retrospect, the PLANASA objectives were too ambitious consider-
ing the fragmented state of the sector in 1971. Actual performance, however,
has been satisfactory in water supply. By the end of 1977, 75% of the urban
population was receiving water supply services and 35% was served with sewerage.
In terms of number of urban centers (total 3,164) to be served with water
systems, some 1,511 (47%) remained to be supplied, and these are almost all small
communities. Out of the 160 cities and towns to be provided with sewerage
services, 93 were partially served in 1977 and 67 remained unattended. Meeting
sewerage service level objectives will be a major problem in the next decade,
especially because of the amounts of capital required and the technical problems
involved.
2.07      It appears that by 1980 the original water supply service level objec-
tive of 80% of the urban population could be met, although the target to reach
80% of the communities will not be attained. The sewerage service level objec-
tive will not be met in 1980. It is estimated that 3 to 4 additional years,
after 1980, are required to meet the proposed objectives for water supply and
more than that to reach sewerage targets.
2.08      The PLANASA program has established service level targets for the
urban subsector but there are no explicit objectives for the rural areas
and knowledge of this subsector is still very incomplete. There is no organized
plan of action on a countrywide basis, although specific programs to assist
the rural subsector have been established at federal, state and municipal
levels. The Ministry of Health has a "Special Public Health Service Founda-
tion" (FSESP), which provides subsidies to the poorest municipalities for
implementation of water supply and waste disposal projects. Recently, BNH
entered into the rural sector (para. 3.05), offering funds to the state
government (2% below the interest rate charged for urban projects). Regional
development agencies have also been including assistance to the rural popula-
tion through their integrated rural development programs. Actions are clearly
required to coordinate and organize these efforts to make them more efficient.



The Bank is planning to include in the sector review to be carried out in
cooperation with the Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO) 1/, a preliminary
assessment of the rural subsector. This sector review has been tentatively
planned for 1979.
Institutional Developments
2.09      In order to strengthen the execution capabilities and administrative
efficiency of the SWCs, BNH in 1974 entered into an agreement with PAHO to carry
out a technical assistance program, SATECIA 2/. The program is being developed
by 36 specialists, including 12 foreign experts, and has improved organization
and financial reporting in the SWCs. The first three-year program, which
included a diagnosis and formulation of recommendations of each of the SWCs
and produced standardized information systems, has been completed, and a new
program (1978/79) is now underway which will assist the SWCs in implementing
the recommendations.
2.10      As a complement to the technical assistance program, BNH established
a National Sanitation Training Program through the National Association of
Sanitary Engineers (ABES). The initial objective of the program was to train
60,000 employees from the SWCs by the end of 1980. This objective was revised
in January 1977, and a new target was set at 84,000 employees. Through 1976,
some 37,000 participants, 44X of the new target, were trained. ABES and the
SWCs are periodically analyzing the results of the program and introducing
adjustments to make the training meet the actual needs of the sector.
2.11      For the sector overall, design and construction capabilities, and
availability of finance from BNH/FAE appear to be in balance. There are,
however, unclear financial and economic criteria applied in evaluation and
selection of BNH-financed projects, and specific criteria should be agreed
to in negotiations for the proposed loan (para 6.18). BNH's loan super-
vision through its regional offices and Technical Supervisory Agency (OTs)
(para. 3.03), which covers technical, administrative and financial aspects of
the projects and the SWCs, is working satisfactorily. Project execution is
monitored through periodic visits to each project site by representatives of
BNH and its OTs. Disbursements are controlled by BNH on a quarterly basis.
Financial Viability
2.12      One of the basic principles of the PLANASA program was that the SWCs
should be financially viable, with revenues sufficient to cover cash operating
and maintenance costs and debt service payments. For the sector generally and
most SWCs individually, this requirement has not been met. The principal
reason for this is the failure of tariffs, which are regulated by both the
Federal and state governments, to keep pace with the increases in operating
costs and debt service requirements. As a result, some SWCs are meeting
debt service payments, and even operating expenses, through loans from BNH/FAE
and state government equity contributions.
1/   IBRD/WHO - Cooperative Program - Latin America Region.
2/   SATECIA:  Programa de Assistencia Technica para o Desenvolvimento
Institucional das Empresas Estaduais de Saneamento.



-5-
Tariffs
2.13      One major problem of the SWCs has been the mechanism for revising
tariffs which has resulted in delays in rate increases, and increases granted
often being, of insufficient magnitude to improve an SWC's financial viability.
In the pasit an SWC presented a request for tariff increase, along with proper
justification to the state government, which had the power to approve a level
lower than requested. Approval must then be obtained from the Interministerial
Price Committee which in 1977 established annual ceilings on increases of 25%
in current terms as a normal case. Since operating costs and debt service are
indexed in line with the UPC, which in 1976 and 1977 increased 34% p.a. in
relation to the Brazilian Cruzeiro, tariff increases have often not maintained
revenues of the SWCs at existing levels in real terms.
2.14      On May 12, 1978 a National Tariff Law for the Water Supply and
Sewerage Sector was approved by the Brazilian Congress. The objectives of
the Law are: (a) to relate tariffs to service costs; (b) to ensure the
financial viability of the SWCs; (c) to put a ceiling on the cost of obtaining
water supply and sewerage services for the low-income population by estab-
lishing a minimum consumption tariff related to income level; and (d) to set
tariff levels which would produce the necessary revenue to pay for all costs
and allow a rate of return of up to 12% on capital investments. In addition,
the Law establishes that tariff studies should be undertaken in accordance
with guidelines to be set by the Ministry of the Interior.
2.15      Implementing regulations of the Tariff Law are contained in Decree
No. 82586 of November 6, 1978. The regulations set forth the procedure
for, and frequency of, tariff adjustments and spell out the criteria to be
used in the design of tariff structures. The regulations establish 1983 as
the year for SWCs to attain the position where revenues cover operating and
maintenance costs and depreciation and provide a rate of return on operating
assets, after covering these expenses, which will produce sufficient cash flow
to cover debt service. Gradual and continuous financial programs are provided
for SWCs to reach this objective, although interim targets are not specified.
The main features of the Decree are the following:
(a)  SWCs must submit to BNH by March 1979 financial plans for
the 1979-1983 period, including tariff proposals to attain in
1983 the financial objectives of the Law and Decree.
(b)  Tariffs are to be revised each year.  SWCs will prepare and
submit to BNH annual tariff recommendations which will
enable them to comply with the Law and Decree. No approval
of the tariff recommendations is required now by the state
governments.
(c)  BNH is responsible for reviewing the tariff proposals
prepared by the SWCs and, if in agreement with a proposal,
to forward it to the Interministerial Price Committee (IPC)
with a recommendation for approval, otherwise the proposal
will be returned to the SWCs for review. BNH is also
responsible for supervising the financial performance of
the SWC's.



- 6 -
(d) Responsibility for final tariff approval is with the IPC,
and authorization of effectiveness of tariff adjustments is
done by the Ministry of the Interior.
(e) SWCs revenues must cover operation and maintenance costs
and depreciation and, after covering these expenses,
provide a rate of return on fixed assets in operation which
in 1983 and subsequent years will produce sufficient cash
flow to cover debt service.
(f) Tariffs should be progressive according to volumes consumed, and
users should be classified as residential, industrial, commercial
and public.
It is expected that under the Decree the process of tariff adjustment will be
more systematic and timely. In addition, water and sewerage rates will be
related to costs and cross-subsidization to the poor will be possible through
improved tariff structures. Progressiveness of tariffs would also permit
pricing practices to control waste.
Environmental Legislation
2.16      The federal and state authorities in charge of environmental pollu-
tion controls regulate the permissible pollution loads to be discharged into
the water courses. In October 1973, the Federal Government created the
Secretaria Especial do Meio Ambiente in the Ministry of Interior to monitor
changes in the environment, establish air and water quality standards, enforce
pollution control legislation, and coordinate all federal pollution control
programs. Several laws and decrees were issued thereafter providing regula-
tions for the enforcement of pollution control. In January 1976, the
Government issued a regulation to classify inland water resources according
to their uses, and limit their contamination by setting up maximum permissible
physical, chemical and biological concentration.
2.17      The enforcement of the pollution control laws will demand large
investments, as well as substantial operational and maintenance expenditures
for sewage disposal. For those cities needing sewage treatment, the total
costs of the services, including water supply, could be so high that tariff
increases will not be sufficient to recover these costs, and capital contri-
butions from the state and/or the Federal Government might be required in
addition to BNH and FAE debt financing. Sewage tariffs will have to be
structured so as to achieve, where appropriate, a cross-subsidization among
the consumers, in particular the industrial ones, to make systems financially
viable. Studies to establish appropriate tariff structures and levels for
sewage collections and treatment are now underway by BNH under a covenant
in the Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project (Ln. 1525-BR).
Bank Participation
2.18      The Bank has been assisting Brazil since 1971 in the implementation
of PLANASA through the financing of five projects. Five loans totalling
US$220 million have been extended for water supply and sewerage.  In 1971, two



- 7 -
loans were approved for the City of Sao Paulo (Lns. 757 and 758-BR), one for
water distribution and storage (US$22.0 million), and one for sewage collection
and disposal (US$15.0 million subsequently reduced to US$12.0 million). In
1974, a loan was extended to BNH (US$36.0 million, Ln. 1009-BR) for relending
to the SWC in Minas Gerais for municipal water supply and sewerage projects,
and a second loan for the same purpose followed in 1976 (US$40.0 million, Ln.
1309-BR). The last loan, approved in February 1978 (US$110.0 million), is for
the first phase of a large sewage collection and treatment project in Sao
Paulo which forms part of a high priority program of water pollution control.
2.19      Total actual and planned Bank assistance to the water supply and
sewerage sector is estimated to account for about 10% of sector investment in
the period 1971 through 1981. The only other external lenders to the sector
since 1970 have been USAID, which in 1971 extended a loan to BNH (US$25.0
million) for urban sanitation, and IDB which in 1971 provided a loan to BNH
(US$30.0 million) for water and sewerage projects throughout Brazil.
Experience Under Previous Loans
2.20      Projects financed under Loans 757-BR and 758-BR were completed
with a three-year delay. Initial failure of the State of Sao Paulo to supply
the necessary funds to complete financing, substantial technical revision of the
project, and reorganization of the executing agencies resulted in the above-
mentioned slippage. However, population served with water as a result of the
project reached 3.3 million (against 2.4 million initially targeted). At the
same time 1.3 million persons were served with sewers, the water pollution
control ccomponent kept pace with population growth, and the Borrower improved
substantiaL1ly its overall operations. As a result, service levels rose from
58.9% to E88.7% of population served with water and from 35.8% to 44.6% served
with sewerage during 1971-1977.
2.21      The first Minas Gerais Loan (US$36.0 million) became effective
in Januaryr 1975 and is now fully committed. The second Minas Gerais Loan
(US$40.0 million) became effective in January 1977 and is also fully committed.
The Sao Paulo Loan 1525-BR (US$110.0 million) became effective in August 1978.
Initially,, there were problems related to efficiency of internal operations of
the executing agencies, especially in regard to commercial and financial areas
as well as to technical quality of the projects. These problems have been
substantially overcome and projects are progressing satisfactorily. There are
still financial problems in Sao Paulo and Minas Gerais as a result of inade-
quate tarLff increases, which have resulted in non compliance with the revenue
covenant for 1978. Recently the Government has approved a 36% increase in
their tariffs effective January 1, 1979, which will allow both companies to
achieve a satisfactory financial condition. However, the water company of
Minas Gerais may require a further tariff increase in mid-1979. For the future
it is exp,ected that the application of the new tariff legislation (paras. 2.14
and 2.15) will allow them to operate within a framework of financial discipline.
2.22      The Bank has been holding regular discussions with BNH regarding
improvements in its operations in the sanitation sector. The major improve-
ments have been: (i) the decentralization of project approval and loan
supervision to BNH's regional offices which has resulted in faster project
execution; and (ii) the establishment of a uniform accounting system for the
SWCs, which, with some revisions, will enable BNH and the SWCs to have uniform



- 8 -
and reliable financial information. Much has still to be done in other areas
such as coordination with the SWCs, general information systems for BNH in
regard to SWCs' operational and technical data, project appraisal, and loan
administration by BNH. These objectives will be pursued in the proposed
project.
III. THE BORROWER
Organization
3.01      The Borrower for the proposed loan will be the Banco Nacional da
Habitacao which has also been the Borrower for Loans 1009-BR and 1309-BR
for the First and Second Water Supply and Sewerage Projects for Minas Gerais,
and Loan 1525-BR for the Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment
Project. BNH was established by Federal Law in August 1964, and since 1967
has been under the Ministry of the Interior. It has legal personality, is tax
exempt and is administratively and financially independent of the Ministry.
Its major activities have been to finance low-cost housing programs, urban
development and sanitation. BNH does not operate as a commercial or savings
bank.
3.02      BNH is administered by a Board of Directors (Conselho de Adminis-
tracao) and an Executive Committee (Diretoria). The Board consists of the
seven Directors of the Executive Committee and nine counselors. The Executive
Committee is composed of the President of the Board and six Directors, all
appointed by the President of the Country with the approval of the Federal
Senate. Daily operations are the direct responsibility of the President and
Department Heads, but decisions concerning routine operations have been
delegated to Regional Credit Committees.
3.03      Since September 1967, BNH has had a Department (Superintendencia),
called the "Superintendencia do Sistema Financeiro do Saneamento" (S/SFS),
which is responsible for water and sewerage activities. The S/SFS consists of
three divisions as indicated on the organization chart (3.1). The Analysis
and Planning Division is responsible for the review and approval of each water
supply and sewerage investment programs and supervises projects proposed by
the SWCs for BNH financing. The Technical Control Division supervises the
Technical Supervisory Agency (OT) which has been retained by BNH to review
project design and assist in supervision of construction, and in addition,
provides S/SFS with technical consulting services when needed. The Finance
Division authorizes disbursements from BNH and FAE and monitors the financial
performance of the SWCs.
3.04      Project technical review and project supervision are done by 11 BNH
regional offices established in December 1976. These offices are a microcosm
of the S/SFS Department in BNH Headquarters and operate under well-defined
guidelines. The functions of the offices include the control of loan agree-
ments between BNH and the SWCs, the control of disbursements, the updating of
the physical and financial project schedules, the monitoring of the FAE's and
OT's performance, and the supervision of the SWCs' operations, technical
assistance, and training programs. This decentralization is necessary and is
working effectively. A graphical representation of the supervision system is
shown in Annex 1.



CHART 3.1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
National Housing Bank (BNH)
Superintendency of the Sanitation Finance System (SFS)
Organization Chart
SUPERINTENDENT
ASSISTANT
SUPERINTENDENT
| ANALYSI AND                   TECHNICAL                       FINANCES 
L  PLANw4ING  |                 C N RCL                        IANESLCONTROL
PLANNING AND   I               CONSTRUCTION                [     P|RAIOAN
PROGRAMMING                      CONTROL                       P .OGRAMMIN
TECHNICAL                      TECHNICAL    1                 OFNANCIAL
ANALYSIS                      ASSISTANCE    J                  CONTROL
TECUNICAL                   CONTROL OF- SIATE |
COST ANALYSIS                    AUDITING                    SANITATION FUNDS



- 10 -
Loan Approvals Procedure
3.05      BNH analyzes water supply and sewerage projects proposed for finan-
cing by the SWCs, extends loans, and provides technical assistance to SWf s
through S/SFS. Projects are normally prepared by local consultants retained
by the SWCs or sometimes by SWCs' staff. The technical aspects and costs of
the projects are then reviewed by the OTs, which are specialized agencies (or
consultants) retained by BNH, and are then either returned to the SWCs for
revision or accepted and forwarded to BNH headquarters by the regional office
for final evaluation and approval. BNH has established a basic line of credit
for the water supply and sewerage sector. Through this line BNH lends to the
SWCs (through the state banks, called the financial agents) 50% of project
costs for medium and large-size cities 1/. A second line of credit, known as
FINEST I 2/, has been created to assist the states to meet their obligations
to finance 50% of the project costs. Under this line, loans are made to the
states (through financial agents) upon request and channeled to SWCs through
FAEs. Two additional credit lines with the objective of promoting investments
in small communities, FINEST II and FINEST III, are available for direct
lending to state governments (through the financial agents) which are used to
assist the states in the financing of projects for small communities. To be
eligible for these loans, at least 40% of the state contributions to FAEs must
be allocated to small communities. The SWCs receive 70% of these funds as
equity and 30% as an FAE loan. Loans granted to the states under FINEST II
and III are repaid to BNH out of the proceeds of general tax revenues.
Principal and interest payments on all BNH loans are guaranteed by the state
government.
3.06      State government funds for financing 50% of subproject costs are
deposited in the FAEs for lending to the SWCs. The FAE is a revolving fund
continually replenished by appropriations from the state government, normally
equivalent up to 5% of the state tax revenues, and by the debt service pay-
ments of the SWCs.
3.07      Interest rates on BNH/FAE loans vary from 2% to 8% p.a. depending
upon the per capita tax revenue levels in the state. Maturities are normally
18 years, after a one to three-year grace period on principal repayment.
Interest and principal on loans are denominated in indexed standard capital
units (UPCs) 3/.
Evaluation
3.08      Up to 1975, the PLANASA program did not develop as expected, due
to poor organization and management in the SWCs resulting in underestimated
1/   Medium-size arid large cities are those over 5,000 people.  Small size
villages are those with less than 5,000 inhabitants, according to 1970
census figures.
2/   Subprograma de Emprestimo Suplementar.
3/   An accounting unit which is revalued quarterly using the Ministry of
Finance monetary correction index (ORTN).



- 11 -
project costs, overoptimistic scheduling, constraints of interrelated activ-
ities, such as poor engineering studies and cost estimates, and a shortage of
materials and equipment. In addition, S/SFS activities were centralized at
BNH Headquarters in Rio de Janeiro, where inaccurate information was received
from t'e SWCs, further delaying projects' review and approval by overloaded
staff. During implementation of the three Bank-financed projects with BNH
and during project appraisal, many discussions were held with S/SFS staff in
order to solve the above-mentioned problems. In early 1976, BNH issued new
regulations decentralizing PLANASA and delegating more responsibility and
authority to the regional offices in order to speed up implementation. It is
now considered that BNH's project selection, approval and disbursement pro-
cedures, and loan supervision procedures are improving, but further efforts by
BNH are necessary to adapt these procedures to the requirements of expanded
operations. Assurances were obtained that the Bank will be given the oppor-
tunity to exchange views on any proposed modifications to SISFS organization
and guidelines.
IV. THE BENEFICIARIES
Background
4.01      The three beneficiaries and executing agencies for the project will
be Empresa Bahiana de Aguas e Saneamento S.A. (EMBASA), Companhia Pernambucana
de Saneamento (COMPESA), and Companhia de Agua e Esgoto do Ceara (CAGECE).
The three SWCs were formed in 1974 through mergers of the water authorities
in the state capital cities and a large number of municipalities. All states
have complied with S/SFS requirements and have signed PLANASA agreements setting
forth service level objectives, state financial participation and empowering
BNH to control all SWCs' programs financed by BNH. All states have committed
5% of state tax revenues to FAEs and are eligible for maximum BNH loans. The
three SWCs have completed global feasibility studies and have ongoing construc-
tion programs financed by BNH, FAEs, and the states.
Organization and Management
4.02      All SWCs are owned by their respective state governments.  Each has
a six-member Board of Directors appointed by the state governor for a period
of four years. Apart from the President, who is the Chief Executive Officer,
each director is the working head of one of the functional departments.
4.03      Organizational structures have evolved with the assistance of
SATECIA and are straightforward with departments for planning, construction,
operations, administration, and finance and accounting (see Organization
Charts, Annex 2). These organizational structures are considered appro-
priate for the activities undertaken. In all of the SWCs, investment planning
has been over-ambitious, and the expansion programs, such as they appear in the
global feasibility studies presented to the Bank during project preparation,
were unrealistically high with respect to executing capabilities and funding
limitations. The state government plays an active role in the selection
of projects. Construction activities are carried out by local contractors.



- 12 -
Engineering studies and design as well as supervision of works are executed
mainly through local consultants and coordinated by SWCs engineering units
(para. 6.17). Projects are generally implemented on schedule. Project
programming and control procedures are now being improved to handle the
increased volume of construction. System operations and maintenance require
improvements, especially in EMBASA and CAGECE, and programs have been developed
with the assistance of SATECIA which are now being implemented. In addition,
the three SWCs annually prepare two-year training programs to be executed under
ABES (para. 2.10). These programs were reviewed and found acceptable vis-a-vis
the forecasted staffing needs of the SWCs. Administration and finance and
accounting are the weakest areas in the SWCs and special assistance is being
provided through SATECIA for this purpose (para. 6.06).
4.04      All three SWCs have suffered from the common problems of new organi-
zations and the need to consolidate the large number of previously separate
operations into a unified operation. The difficulties of consolidation have
been compounded by the large geographic areas covered by these SWCs, their
inability to attract and retain qualified technical and managerial staff and
by too frequent changes in directors who are working department heads. In the
environment in which they are operating, the present managements of the SWCs
may be considered satisfactory.
Metering, Billings and Collections
4.05      Metering levels for consumption are very low in the three SWCs
(Table 5.4). On the average 69% of the connections are unmetered and produc-
tion metering is nonexistent. Meter maintenance is poor. Only COMPESA and
EMBASA have completed partial studies in this regard. Meter reading, billing
and collection procedures are satisfactory in all three SWCs. Meters are read
monthly on a continuous basis by zones, and consumers are billed within 20 to
30 days of the reading. Inspectors are used to verify accuracy of the readings.
Billing is centralized in the SWCs' headquarters, and all bills are prepared
on the state government computers, although keypunching is performed by SWCs'
staff. Bills are delivered by messenger (EMBASA) and by mail (COMPESA, CAGECE);
payments may be made at the SWCs' offices or in state banks throughout the
states. Recent programs to improve collections, including the cut-off of
service after two months of nonpayment of bills, have resulted in monthly
receipts exceeding new billings, and outstanding accounts receivable now
represent slightly less than three months of billing, which is satisfactory.
Accounting Organizations
4.06      All SWCs have similar organizational structures for the accounting
and finance functions. The department is headed by a director of the SWC and
is divided into two functional divisions, one for accounting and one for
finance. The Accounting Division is responsible for general accounting, cost
accounting, and budget and expense control and the Finance Division for
financial planning, treasury, and control of borrowings. These organization
structures are considered appropriate, and accounting staff are considered
capable of satisfactorily implementing the routine accounting functions in the
SWCs.



- 13 -
4.07      EMBASA's Accounting and Finance Department is in the process of
reorganization under a Finance Director appointed in May 1977. COMPESA's
and CAGECE's Accounting Departments are satisfactorily organized. While
CAGECE's Accounting Department is almost fully computerized, both EMBASA and
COMPESA have been slow in having their accounting systems placed on the
computer, and require additional assistance from SATECIA.
Accounting Systems
4.08      Accounting functions are centralized in the three SWCs headquarters
located in the capital cities. All SWCs are utilizing the uniform system of
accounts prepared in January 1976 by S/SFS with the assistance of SATECIA.
The SWCs' new accounting systems are expected to be fully computerized in 1979.
The introduction of the uniform system of accounts and the use of the computer
will provide timely financial reports for management review and for the first
time will permit BNH to consolidate SWCs' financial statistics and to evaluate
and compare SWCs' financial performance on a consistent basis. It does not,
however, provide for an appropriate statement of sources and applications of
cash, and it is difficult to derive this data from the existing income state-
ments and balance sheets. Since cash management is critical for all SWCs, it
is essential that the uniform system of accounts include a statement of
sources and applications of cash. BNH has agreed to revise the uniform
accounting manuals to include cash flow statements before December 31, 1979.
4.09      The individual SWCs are to some extent having difficulties in
producing meaningful financial statements under the new accounting system.
First, all SWCs have been formed by mergers of the capital city water authori-
ties and a large number of interior municipal water authorities. Because of
incomplete inventories and cost data, it has been difficult for them to
determine a proper valuation of fixed assets, and( efforts are being made to
accomplish this. Also, there are delays in transferring assets of completed
projects from construction in process to fixed assets in operation, which
understates the value of the latter. Finally, none of the three SWCs has its
own in-house computer specialists or a computer, and have to rely on outside
services which has made the shift to the uniform accounting system more diffi-
cult. These areas will all be included in the technical assistance program to
be provided under the proposed project (para. 6.06). Assurances have been
obtained from the SWCs that not later than December 31, 1980: (a) they will
take the necessary steps satisfactory to the Bank to update fixed asset
inventories and to have them properly recorded in the books of account; and
(b) that uniform accounting systems, including a statement of sources and
applications of cash, will be fully implemented.
4.10      Accounting for long-term debt obligations and for project disburse-
ment is relatively complicated. Since all borrowings are specifically
related to individual SWC projects, separate bank accounts and loan accounts
are maintained for each project (one BNH and one FAE account for each project).
All loan advances and interest and principal repayments are effected by
BNH/FAE, and the SWCs do not now maintain proper separate accounting records
for these transactions, but simply record the transactions from statements
provided by BNH/FAE. Thus, at this time there is no independent verification
of SWCs' transactions with BNH/FAE. This situation will be remedied when the
accounting system is computerized.



- 14 -
Finance
4.11      Financial planning in the SWCs has been poor.  While all SWCs have
long-range capital budgets, these have been unrealistically high in relation
to demonstrated capabilities of preparing and executing projects and the
availability of funds from FAE and BNH. Because the SWCs have operated with
the knowledge that a project's costs will be wholly-financed by BNH/FAE, they
have not been particularly concerned with either long-range or short-range
cash management. The SWCs have now introduced financial projections which are
expected to become increasingly useful as accounting statements improve.
Assurances have been obtained from the SWCs that these financial projections
will be submitted annually to the Bank and BNH not later than March 31 (para.
7.24). Technical assistance for financial planning will be implemented under
SATECIA's supervision (para. 6.06).
Audit
4.12      CAGECE and EMBASA have internal auditors, but COMPESA does not.
The internal audits now made are of limited utility under existing authorities
and staffing, and assurances have been given by the SWCs that they will
maintain adequately staffed and properly functioning internal audit offices
beginning no later than December 31, 1980.
4.13      All SWCs retain external independent private auditors 1/.  These
audits are generally superficial and are concerned primarily with the presen-
tational aspects of the financial statements. The audits by SWCs' lenders,
BNH and the FAEs, and the Federal and state governments are more comprehensive,
but are designed primarily to ensure that federal and state loans to the SWCs
are properly disbursed and accounted for. None of the audits may be considered
satisfactory in the commercial sense, as no independent verification is made
of fixed assets, inventories, and accounts receivable and payable. Assurances
were obtained from the SWCs that their accounts and financial statements for
each fiscal year will be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the
Bank and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
by April 30 of each subsequent year certified copies of the audited financial
statements will be submitted to the Bank.
4.14      In addition to its audit, BNH provides a continuing control over
disbursements on projects. At the time a loan contract is signed with
BNH/FAE, the SWC presents a monthly disbursement schedule against which
actual disbursements are compared by the BNH regional office. When actual
disbursements are 20% below projections, disbursements are suspended until
the SWC provides a satisfactory explanation. BNH technical staff, together
with its OT staff, visit project sites quarterly to verify the extent to which
construction is completed. The BNH regional offices supervising the three
project SWCs are functioning satisfactorily.
1/   CAGECE and COMPESA, Boucinhas, Campos and Claro S/C Ltda., EMBASA, Loudon
Blomquist Auditores Associados Ltda.



- 15 -
V.   PROJECT AREA, DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS
Location and Development Prospects
5.01      With an estimated 33.6 million inhabitants and a per capita product
estimated at 38% of the country's average (US$1,140 in 1976), the Northeast
Region of Brazil 1/ is one of the largest concentrations of poverty in Latin
America.  Total population of the Region is growing at an average annual rate
of 2.5% and urban population is growing at 3.2% to 4.6% per annum. Life
expectancy at birth is only 49 years compared to 61 years for Brazil and
infant mortality rate reaches 137 per 1,000 live births in the Northeast,
against 70 for the country. These high indices are partly due to poor
sanitation conditions.
5.02      The project area consists of three states in the Northeast of Brazil
(Bahia, Pernambuco and Ceara; see Map 13716) which accounts for 9.5% of the
land area and 18% of the population of Brazil. These three states were
selected by BNH and the Bank as the ones having the strongest executing
capacity as well as the largest investment requirements for 1979-82. Economic
and health conditions for these states are similar to those prevailing through-
out the Region.
5.03      Aware of the serious income disparities and economic and social
development differences between the Northeast and other more developed regions
in the country, the Government has launched a series of programs aimed at
promoting employment, industrializing the area and diversifying production.
The Government's actions have been mainly devoted to heavy investments in
transport, power, rural development, and stimulus to industrialization which
have contributed to regional growth. These investments together with the
population increase have built up pressure on the already precarious public
services, especially urban water supply and sewerage. The Bank has supported
this regional development policy through several recent loans to develop
different sectors in the Northeast. According to the Superintendency for
Development of the Northeast (SUDENE) the regional GDP grew during 1977 at 8%
as a result of the above-mentioned programs, compared with 4.7% for the
country. This growth is closely related to agriculture and in minor scale
to industrial activities. If this growth is to be maintained, adequate
infrastructure has to be provided in the immediate future.
Water Resources
5.04      The Northeast can be classified in general as a semi-arid region.
Rainfall is scarce (200 to 1,000 mm per year) and unevenly distributed.
Average annual rainfall is higher along the coast (around 1,000 mm) and less
towards the interior (as low as 200 mm). Severe droughts are frequent in
the State of Ceara, the interior of Pernambuco and the northern part of Bahia
(see Map 13717). Surface water is available only on a seasonal basis in most
1/   Northeast Region comprises the States of Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara, Rio
Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe and Bahia.



- 16 -
of the project area. Groundwater, especially in the State of Ceara and in
the interior of Pernambuco (with the exception of narrow river valleys), is
scarce and of poor quality (high salinity). This is basically due to pre-
dominance of geologic crystalline formations of low permeability. These
characteristics are reflected quite often in high water supply project costs
in comparison to those in the rest of the country.
Population
5.05      The combined population of the three project area states is 20.4 mil-
lion, equivalent to 61% of the total population of the Northeast Region. The
population and density of the individual states are given in the following table:
Table 5.1: Population Data in the Project States and Brazil (1977)
Bahia       Ceara       Pernambuco        Brazil
Estimate5 Population           8,850,000   5,409,000      6,141,000    113,209,000
Area (km )          2            559,951      146,817         98,281      8,512,000
Density (persons/km )                 16           37             62              13
Source: Anuario Estatistico do Brasil.
5.06      Of note is the fact that while Bahia has a large population, its
population density is low because of its large area. Conversely, both Ceara
and Pernambuco have population densities that are well above the average for
Brazil. The latter is in fact one of the most densely populated states, on
par with those in the southeast of Brazil.
5.07      Population growth in the project states overall is below the 2.8%
p.a. growth rate for Brazil. In Ceara the growth rate is 2.9% p.a., and in
Pernambuco and Bahia 2.5% and 2.4% p.a., respectively. The lower population
growth rates have been primarily a result of outward immigration, and it
is expected that this will continue to be the situation in the near future.
5.08      The ratio of urban to total population of the project area is below
the national average of 61.4% as indicated in Table 5.2. Of the three states,
only Pernambuco in the future can be expected to approximate the national
degree of urbanization, as the economic activity in Bahia and Ceara is more
centered in the rural areas. Population annual growth rates in the capital
cities are estimated at 4.9% for Salvador (Bahia), 4.4% for Recife (Pernambuco)
and 5.8% for Fortaleza (Ceara), which are in excess of the overall urban growth
rates for each state.



- 17 -
Table 5.2:  Urban Population in the Project States (1977)
Bahia       Ceara      Pernambuco
Urban Population          4,044,000   2,439,000    3,741,000
% of Total                      45.7        45.1          60.9
Growth Rates (%)                 3.6          4.0          3.7
Source:  SUDENE.
Present Water Supply and Sewerage Service Levels
5.09      Service levels for urban water supply are below the national average
of 75% of the urban population as indicated in the following table:
Table 5.3: Water Supply Service Levels for 1977 (%)
Bahia     Ceara      Pernambuco
Capital City a/                   73        34           71
Total Urban b/                    63         30          56
Total State
(urban and rural) b/          28         14           32
a/   Source:  State Water Companies.
b/   Source:  SUDENE.
5.10      The service levels appear relatively good for the capital cities
in Bahia and Pernambuco but poor in Ceara. The situation is less satisfactory
than is statistically indicated because of the deficient water supply condi-
tions (para. 5.11). Also, in these states with relatively large rural
populations, the overall state service levels are very low compared to the
estimated national average of 46% of the population served. In Ceara the
situation is the most serious with only 14% of total population served and
less than one-third of the urban sector being attended.
5.11      The inadequacy of service is very serious in the capital cities
where vast portions of population, mostly poor, remain unserved or served on a
very restricted basis. In Salvador (capital of Bahia), present production
capacity iLs only one-half of that required to serve the population connected
to the system. Consequently, service is provided intermittently and is



- 18 -
suspended 40% of the time on a rotational basis. The city has a hilly topo-
graphy and consumers located in the higher areas are deprived of service for
one to three continuous days of the week. In Recife (capital of Pernambuco),
idle production capacity coexists with unsatisfied demand due to inadequacy of
the storage and distribution system. The system is subject to low pressures
in some city districts combined with frequent pipe bursts in others. In
Fortaleza (capital of Ceara) the situation is even more serious due to low
percentage of the population served through networks. The unconnected population
relies basically on individual dug wells. However, due to the extensive use
of latrines and septic tanks, resulting from low coverage of sewerage networks,
groundwater is heavily contaminated.
5.12      Although inadequate records, and limited metering of production and
consumption do not allow precise computations of water production, sales, and
unaccounted-for water, the mission prepared rough estimates, shown in Table 5.4,
based upon water production capacity and other operational data.
Table 5.4: Water Production and Sales for 1977
Bahia           Ceara           Pernambuco
Water Productisn (m /sec)             4.4              2.0               5.9
Water Sales( m /sec)                  2.4              1.0               3.0
Unaccounted-for Water (%)               46              50                49
Number of Connections               340,000           93,000           271,000
Percentage Metered                     26               10                44
From these estimates it appears that a substantial amount of water produced
is unaccounted for as a result of the lack of metering, illegal connections and
water leakages in older or poorly maintained systems.
5.13      Sewerage service levels in urban areas were estimated to be, at the
end of 1977, 8% for Pernambuco, 5% for Ceara and 6% for Bahia in comparison
with the national average of 35%. Since most of the sewerage systems are in
the capital cities, the situation in the other urban centers is even more
serious, with Bahia and Ceara not having any sewerage systems outside the
capital cities. As a result of the unequal expansion in water supply and
sewerage, there has been increased water use without improving disposal
systems, and the population basically relies on septic tanks and latrines, or
discharges wastes in the storm drain system. In very poor areas where people
cannot afford these facilities, sewage is dumped on the streets or in sidewalk
drainage ditches with great danger of epidemic diseases. This situation, if
not solved, will be aggravated by the increased consumption of water.



- 19 -
5.14      The situation of sewerage services in the capital cities varies among
them. In Salvador, EMBASA recently completed the first stage of a collection
and disposal system (about 150 km of collectors and interceptors, pumping
stations and sea outfall) to serve the most densely populated areas. However,
for technical and financial reasons, connection rates have been very low, and
in four years only 5,300 connections have been made. The portion served with
networks corresponds only to about 10% of the city area although the disposal
facilities (pumping and sea outfall) were designed and constructed to handle
100% of the sewage in 1990.
5.15      In Recife only 20% of the urban area is served with sewerage networks
due to high construction costs. High water table levels and expansive soils
make it difEicult and costly to install interceptors and collectors. For this
reason, programs for Recife are more modest in terms of increased coverage.
5.16      In Fortaleza there are some 200 km of sewerage networks of which
100 km are operative and the rest require complementary investments to be
committed. Only less than 5% of the city is now served with networks.
Fortaleza has primarily single dwellings and low-rise buildings and, therefore,
extension of required networks is considerable.
Demand Projections
5.17      Expected water production and sales through 1982 are indicated for
each state in Table 5.5. The estimates were based on: (i) the future avail-
ability of supply coupled with distribution facilities resulting from the
investments programs; and (ii) per capita consumption was considered constant
after supply constraints are removed. This assumption is justified because
the increased industrial demands and the elimination of rationing should
offset the lower per capita consumption in the poor areas to be incorporated
in the systems. For this estimate present per capita consumptions for metered
and permanently supplied sectors in the cities or figures provided for in
the consultants' studies were used. Because of the inability to measure
unaccounted-for water (para. 5.12), these projections are considered only
indicative of the expected results.



- 20 -
5.18      Forecasted sewerage connections over the next four years are a result
of the planned works. Levels of service are still far behind the requirements
for collective waste disposal systems, but it is expected that only after 1982
will it be possible to improve the situation substantially, given the limited
investment capacity of the SWCs.
Table 5.5: Present and Projected Water Production and Sales,1977-1982
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
EMBASA
Water
Water Production (million m3)              157    173    188    200    207    215
Water Sales (million m )                    85      99    107    116    124    133
Unaccounted-for Water (%)                   46      43     43      42     40      38
Number of Connections ('000)               340    345    368    396    424    452
Urban Population Served ('000)            2110   2261   2429   2617   2798   2890
Percent of Urban Population Served          63     64      66      68     72      74
Sewerage
Population served ('000)                   210    252    288    507    570    660
Percent of Urban Population Served           6       7      8      13     15      17
COMPESA
Water
Water Production (million m3)              186    196    229    248    267    285
Water Sales (million m3)                    94    106    128    143    160    176
Unaccounted-for Water (x)                   49      46     44      42     40      38
Number of Connections ('000)               271    304    356    386    415    444
Urban Population Served ('000)            2020   2190   2572   2802   3209   3260
Percent of Urban Population Served          56     59      66      69     72      74
Sewerage
Population Served ('000)                   280    285    371    463    639    810
Percent of Urban Population Served           8       8     10      11     14      18
CAGECE
Water
Water Production (million m3)               64      67     69      69     98    103
Water Sales (million m3)                    32      34     36      38     59      67
Unaccounted-for Water (%)                   50      49     48      45     40      35
Number of Connections ('000)                93    106    126    151    181    211
Urban Population Served ('000)             670    756    881   1052   1207   1400
Percent of Urban Population Served          30      31     34      39     43      47
Sewerage
Population Served ('000)                   115    128    191    252    313    375
Percent of Urban Population Served           5       5      7       9      11     12



- 21 -
VI. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
6.01      Since October 1975 the Brazilian Government has ,een considering
the possibility of Bank participation in the implementation of PLANASA in
the Northeast Region. During that year the Bank held discussions with the
Government and BNH on the nature and scope of a potential Bank-financed
project for the Northeast. Since then, three Bank missions have visited
Brazil to assist BNH in the identification and subsequent preparation of the
project. The investment programs initially presented by the SWCs to the Bank
were too ambitious and reduced substantially during preparation to keep
them in line with the executing capacity of the companies, the availability of
funds and the possibility of timely and adequate supply of materials and
equipment for the works.
Project Objectives
6.02      The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to support through the provision of water and sewerage services
the Government actions aiming to promote economic growth and
social development in the Northeast Region;
(b) to improve the environment and health conditions of the
population in the project area by assisting the SWCs in
achieving PLANASA's water supply and sewerage objectives.
It is estimated that the project will provide safe water
to an additional 2.3 million people and sewerage to an
additional 1.2 million by the end of 1982;
(c) to assist the SWCs in making institutional improvements
iLn the areas of planning, operations, finance and accounting,
through technical assistance under the coordination of SATECIA
program;
(d)  to ensure the continuation of the training program under the
coordination of ABES;
(e) to improve the financial position of the SWCs through the
establishment of adequate tariff levels and structures and
rationalization of operating costs;
(f) to contribute to the strengthening of BNH's capability for
project appraisal and supervision; and
(g) to gain experience in administration of loans for this sector
covering several SWCs that can be replicated in future
operations in Brazil.



- 22 -
Project Description
6.03       The project consists of all major subprojects (representing 68% of
the total investment program) to be commenced and completed in the States of
Bahia, Ceara and Pernambuco in the period 1979-1982. The proposed Bank
financing would cover the foreign exchange component of procurement contracts
awarded by the SWCs for eligible subprojects between loan signature date
(expected to be February 1979) and June 30, 1981. The project includes the
following:
(a)  the increase of water production, treatment, storage, and
distribution facilities for the capital cities of Salvador
(Bahia) and Fortaleza (Ceara);
(b) the extension of water distribution networks in Recife
(Pernambuco);
(c) the provision of about 125,000 new house connections in the
three capital cities;
(d) the execution of metering and leak detection and control
programs in the capital cities and major towns;
(e) the extension of sewerage networks, sewage treatment and
disposal facilities, and house connections in the capital
cities and in about 20 of the major urban centers of the
interior of the states;
(f) the expansion and improvement of water supply systems in
approximately 35 medium-sized cities;
(g) the construction or expansion of water systems in small
villages as follows:
Bahia         -         approximately 140 villages
Ceara         -         approximately  60 villages
Pernambuco   -          approximately  85 villages
(h)  tariff and metering studies for the three SWCs;
(i)  specific consulting services provided under the coordination
of SATECIA to the SWCs in the areas of project management,
finance and accounting, systems operations and inventory
control; and
(j) engineering services for detailed design and construction
supervision.
6.04      A listing of communities to be served through Bank-financed subproj-
ects during 1979-1982 in the interior of the states is presented in Annex 3.
A description of the subprojects for the capital cities, and their execution



- 23 -
schedules are included in Annexes 3 and 4, respectively. Major works for the
capital cities are indicated on Maps 13718, 13719, and 13720. Cost estimates
are shown in Annex 5.
6.05      The tariff and metering studies included in the project are geared
to: (a) rationalizing consumption; (b) improving the financial position of the
SWCs; (c) removing subsidies to commercial and industrial consumers; (d) estab-
lishing a more progressive tariff structure; and (e) implementing adequate
metering levels and meter maintenance practices (paras. 4.05 and 7.14).
6.06      Although SATECIA is carrying out a nationwide technical assistance
program for all SWCs in Brazil (para. 2.09), additional and specifically tailored
support in certain areas in the three SWCs was found necessary as summarized
below:
SWC                            Areas for Technical Assistance
EMBASA (Bahia)               Financial Management, Accounting, Systems
Operation, Information Systems
CAGECE (Ceara)               Financial Management, Project Management,
Systems Operation, Commercial Area
COMPESA (Pernambuco)         Financial Management, Supplies and Materials
Control
It is estimated that a total of 100 man-months of specialized consulting
services, in addition to the regular SATECIA program, are required. The
assistance would be coordinated by SATECIA. BNH submitted during negotiations
a detailed program, prepared with the assistance of SATECIA, to carry out
these activities, which is considered satisfactory. Assurances were obtained
that the programs will be implemented by BNH in accordance with the proposed
plan and that the SWCs will take all required steps to enable BNH to implement
the program.
EngineerirLg
6.07      Final engineering design is completed or well advanced for all
major works in the capital cities and for some 50% of the subprojects to be
executed in the interior. It is estimated that an equivalent of 70% of the
total program is already designed and that bids for about 30% of the total
project components will be called during the first year of project execution.
Additiona:L engineering consultant services, about 2,850 man-months, are required
to complete designs and for construction supervision during 1979-1982.
6.08      Water works proposed for Salvador are part of the Master Plan for
water supily and pollution control prepared in 1974 by consulting engineers,
Hidroservice and Coplasa from Sao Paulo. The study is a comprehensive analysis
of demands, sources and alternatives of supply to meet demands up to the year
2000. The plan analyzed five technically feasible alternatives of sequential



- 24 -
works (four using Joanes Basin waters and a fifth using Paraguacu River
waters) and selected the least-cost solution. Part of the works recommended
by the consultants are under construction (interconnections of storage tanks
and Santa Elena Reservoir). Sewerage works are also part of a master plan
prepared by Walter Sanchez y Associados from Rio de Janeiro. The feasibility
report, concluded in 1968, reviewed the different alternatives for sewage
collection and disposal in the natural basins of Salvador City and recommended
the least-cost plan. Later, in 1969, the same consultants prepared a basic
project for the recommended alternative which has been followed by EMBASA.
These studies were reviewed by the Bank during the appraisal and the conclu-
sions and recommendations found acceptable.
6.09      Water distribution and sewerage networks for Recife are now under
final design by private consultants retained by COMPESA. The alternative for
final disposal of sewage, which was found acceptable, is under design by the
consultants as well as the updating of the Sewerage Master Plan for Metro-
politan Recife. The results of this updating would be reviewed by the Bank
during project execution. Detailed designs for Fortaleza, with the exception
of water distribution networks, that are being designed by CAGECE's own
engineers, were executed by local consulting firms on the basis of previous
preliminary studies to select the least-cost approach, and were found satis-
factory during appraisal.
Project Costs
6.10      Table 6.1 shows a summary of investment costs for the three SWCs
from 1979-1982. The program amounts to US$460 million. Out of this total
program, about US$148 million corresponds to ongoing works or works which
would be committed before expected loan signature (February 1979) or after
July 1981, and would not be eligible for Bank financing. In addition,
according to previous experience in other similar Bank-financed operations, it
is estimated that some 3% (or US$10 million) of the proposed investments will
not meet subproject selection criteria (para. 6.18). Total project cost for
which Bank financing would be available is about US$303 million and the
resulting proposed loan amount is US$100 million, representing the estimated
foreign exchange cost of the project. Table 6.2 shows a summary of project
costs. Subprojects for capital cities represent about 61% of the total
project cost.



Table 6.1
PROJECTED ANNUAL INVESTMENTS FOR EMBASA, COMPESA, AND CAGECE - 1979-1982
(thousand of UPCs)                                           (million of US$)
DESCRIPTION                    1979        1980        1981        1982        TOTAL        1979         1980        1981        1982    TOTAL
EMBASA
Water Supply                 2942.4      2311.4      2469.1      1172.8      8895.7        42.9        33.7        36.0        17-1    129.7
Sewerage                     1076.8      1035.7       864.2       109.7      3086.4       15.7         15.1        12.6         1.6      45.0
Subtotal                     4019.2      3347.1      3333.3      1282.5    11982.1        58.6        48.8         48.6        18.7    174.7
Price Contingencies           219.5       404.7       692.7       377.2      1694.1         3.2         5.9        10.1         5.5      24.7
TOTAL (EMBASA)               4328.7      3751.8      4026.0      1659.7    13676.2         61.8        54.7        58.7        24.2    199.4
COMPESA
Water Supply                 2174.2      1076.8      1618.6       473.2      5342.8        31.7        15.7        23.6         6.9      77.9
Sewerage                     1035.7      1001.4      1625.5       939.6      4602.2       15.1         14.6        23.7        13.7      67.1
Subtotal                     3209.9      2078.2      3244.2      1412.9      9945.2       46.8         30.3        47.3        20.6    145.0
Price Contingencies           178.3       253.8       665.3       342.9      1440.3         2.6         3.7         9.7         5.0      21.0
,TOTAL (COMPESA)              3388.2     2332.0       3909.5      1755.8    11385.5        49.4        34.0        57.0        25.6    166.0
CAGECE
Water Supply                 2366.2      1111.1        816.2       397.8     4691.3        34.5        16.2        11.9         5.8      68.4
Sewerage                      445.8        68.6       473.2        68.6      1056.2         6.5         1.0         6.9         1.0      15.4
Subtotal                     2812.0      1179.7      1289.4       466.4      5747.5        41.0        17.2        18.8         6.8      83.8
Price Contingencies           157.8       144.0       267-.5      137.2        706.5        2.3         2.1         3.9          2.0     10.3
TOTAL (CAGECE)               2969.8      1323.7      1556.9       603.6      6454.0        43.3        19.3        22.7         8.8      94.1
TOTAL (GENERAL)               10596.7      7407.5      9492.4      4019.1    31515.7        154.5       108.0       138.4        58.6    459.5
1.  Investment costs include provisions for physical contingencies (between 10% and 20% depending upon the nature of the works and
status of engineering) and for engineering and administration (8%).
2. 1 UPC = US$14.68.
3. Base costs at September 1978.



- 26 -
Table 6.2: Summary of Project Costs a/
(In US$ million)
-        SWCs     
Item                   EMBASA  COMPESA  CAGECE  Local  Foreign  Totals
Construction Costs:
Water Supply                      72.1      45.6    32.8   85.9    64.6    150.5
Sewerage                          27.5      35.9    10.3   59.5    14.2       73.7
Engineering and
Technical Assistance               7.9       6.4     3.4   17.1      0.6      17.7
Base Cost                     107.5     87.9    46.5  162.6    79.3    241.9
Physical Contingencies              11.3      10.5     4.8   18.0      8.6      26,6
Price Contingencies                 14.2      13.5     6.8   22.5    12.0       34.5
Total                         133.0    111.9    58.1  203.0   100.0    303.0
a/   See Annex 3 for details.
6.11      Cost estimates have been based on bills of quantities prepared by
the consultants for those projects with final engineering designs. Estimates
for the rest were obtained on the basis of average unit per capita costs using
samples of similar projects previously financed by the Bank in Brazil or
executed by SWCs. Basic costs were estimated at December 1977 price levels and
updated to September 1978 and include physical contingencies allowance which
vary between 10% and 20% according to the type and location of works and to
the status of engineering. Engineering and technical assistance consulting
services have been calculated on the basis of US$6,000 per man-month, with an
estimated cost of US$17.7 million! Costs exclude administrative expenses
incurred by the SWCs that may be capitalized and interest during construction.
Estimates were prepared in UPCs (para 3.07). Over the years the relative
value of UPC with respect to the US dollar has been approximately constant.
Thus an annual price escalation of 7% in US dollar terms was used for the
period covered by the program.
Financing
6.12      The SWCs expansion programs are to be financed by loans from BNH and
state revolving funds (FAEs). The Bank loan of US$100 million would finance
the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project estimated at 33% of project
costs. The balance of project costs will be financed by BNH funds (17%) and
loans from the state FAEs (50%). Due to the possible shortages of FAE funds,
assurances were obtained from BNH and the state governments for the timely
provision of necessary local currency funds to carry out the Bank-financed
program on schedule.



- 27 -
6.13      BNH would relend the Bank funds to the SWCs at interest rates of
3% to 4% per annum, a one- to three-year grace period on principal repayments
and 19 to 21 years' final maturity and principal and interest subject to
monetary correction (denominated in UPCs, para. 7.09). The loan would be
allocated among the three SWCs as follows: US$60 million distributed
according to project costs for the three capital cities; US$20 million in
proportion to the investments in the interior of the three states; US$0.6
million for technical assistance to be provided under SATECIA and US$19.4
million unallocated, to be assigned on a first-come first-served basis.
According to these criteria, distribution of loan funds would be as follows:
US$ million
EMBASA (Bahia)                           38.0
COMPESA (Pernambuco)                     26.0
CAGECE (Ceara)                            16.0
Technical Assistance                       0.6
Unallocated                               19.4
Total                              100.0
Implementation
6.14      The project will be executed by EMBASA, COMPESA and CAGECE during
the period 1979-1982 in accordance with the investment program shown in Table
6.1. The construction schedule for the capital cities is given in Annex 4.
Annual construction schedules for the interior would be prepared during
project execution, with the schedule for 1979 to be agreed upon in January
1979. The individual subprojects to be financed by the Bank have been
prepared, or will be prepared, by competent consultants retained by the
SWCs. Subproject design will be subsequently reviewed by BNH's OT for the
Northeast Region, SUDENE. SUDENE has a well-qualified team which reviews
first the basic project and then the final designs and also assists BNH's
central and regional offices in the supervision and control of project execu-
tion. Financial and economic evaluation will be carried out by BNH headquarters.
BNH will have the responsibility for coordination of the entire project.
6.15      The Bank will review all subprojects with an estimated investment
cost of US$2.0 million or more. It is estimated that some 35 subprojects will
require review. These 35 subprojects, together with the ones for the capital
cities, represent around 80% of the programmed investments. Subprojects where
the estimated investment cost is less than US$2.0 million may be approved by
BNH subject to ex post review by the Bank on a selective basis. At the time
Bank financing is approved, funds sufficient to cover the Bank's share of
subproject costs will be committed to the subproject to ensure Bank participa-
tion in the subproject up to the time of its completion. BNH has prepared
technical guidelines, and on this basis the SWCs have adopted standard
technical designs for communities with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. These
design standards aim at: (a) reducing the design costs and the construction
period for subprojects; (b) ensuring that construction costs are kept to the



- 28 -
minimum level; and (c) reducing, through standardization, the operating and
maintenance costs of small communities. These design standards were reviewed
during the appraisal and found in conformity with the current design practices
followed for similar Bank-financed small community systems and with sound
engineering principles. The delegation of approval authorIty to BNH for sub-
projects under US$2.0 million is consistent with the institutional capabilities
of BNH in subproject analysis and approval.
6.16      Low connection rates to existing sewerage networks in Salvador have
been a problem for EMBASA. There are several areas, especially in the older
parts of the city, where connections to the network are difficult due to
topographic and other reasons. However, the variety of individual situations
is not very large and typical technical solutions can be devised for similar
connection conditions. In addition, there are some low-income areas with very
narrow, steep and zigzagging streets where conventional network designs could
be very costly and alternative technological solutions should be analyzed.
Finally, EMBASA has not officially approved technical norms for sewerage
of new construction sites. Assurances were obtained that: (a) as a condition
for disbursements for sewerage in Salvador, EMBASA will prepare a plan satis-
factory to BNH and the Bank including technical and financial solutions to the
existing problem of difficult sewer house connections in Salvador; (b) not
later than December 31, 1979 EMBASA will prepare alternative solutions and
implementation schedules satisfactory to the Bank to collect and dispose
of sewage in those areas where current sewerage practices are very expensive
or inappropriate; (c) EMBASA will prepare sewer house connection standards
satisfactory to BNH and the Bank, not later than December 31, 1979.
6.17      The proposed investment program and construction schedules have been
discussed with the SWCs and are compatible with their execution capabilities.
SWCs are staffed with qualified personnel and have experienced engineering
units, which with appropriate consultants' assistance as provided for in the
project, can execute the proposed works (para. 6.07).
Subproject Selection
6.18      Assurances were obtained that the following basic criteria for
subproject acceptability for Bank financing will be used (para. 8.07):
(a) All subprojects should comply with the following two
conditions:
(i) design must be in conformity with sound engineering
practices; and
(ii) subprojects must be the least-cost solution.
(b) Subprojects for communities with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants
must be in accordance with the standards for small communities
(para. 6.15) and must:
(i) generate revenues to cover at least operating and
maintenance costs; and



- 29 -
(ii) have a per capita construction cost of less than 10 UPCs
(or approximately US$150).
(c) Subprojects for municipalities between 5,000 and 50,000
inhabitants must have a positive internal financial rate
of return;
(d) Subprojects for municipalities with 50,000 or more inhabitants
must have an internal financial rate of return of not less
than 5%; and
(e) If a project for a municipality between 5,000 and 50,000
inhabitants does not meet the criteria under (c) above, it
would be redesigned in accordance with lower acceptable
standards to fulfill the criteria. If, even after redesign,
the project does not meet the criteria on (c) above, it would
be eligible for Bank financing only if its revenues cover at
least operation and maintenance costs and if economic and social
justifications are presented to the Bank and found acceptable.
BNH would furnish subprojects for approval (para 6.15) together with an
appraisal of the subprojects including economic and financial analysis. BNH
would also provide information on financial terms to be applied to the
subproject.
Procurement
6.19      Project goods and civil works will be purchased and carried out
respectively under contracts awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines, on
the basis of international competitive bidding. However, civil work contracts
under US$1,200,000 and equipment or materials supply contracts under US$400,000
can be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding according to procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign bidders will not be precluded from partici-
pating in local bidding. Assurances were obtained that: (a) SWCs will
prepare and make available to the Bank not later than sixty days prior to the
issue of first tender or prequalification documents a general procurement
notice satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) SWCs will update such a notice
annually as long as any goods or works remain to be procured. The Bank will
request prior review and concurrence of invitations to bid and of proposed
awards for all contracts estimated to cost US$2.0 million or more. For all
other contracts the SWCs will make available to the Bank for review copies of
each contract together with the respective bidding documents, bid analysis
report and recommendations for award. In the evaluation of bids, the local
manufacturers will be allowed a margin of preference of either 15% of the
c.i.f. price or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower. Consulting
services will be awarded on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. It
is expected that all contracts for engineering design and supervision be
awarded to local firms. Given the advanced development of the civil works
construction industry in Brazil, all civil works contracts are expected to be
won by local contractors. Also, the bulk of the equipment and materials are
likely to be won by Brazilian firms or Brazilian subsidiaries of foreign
suppliers.



- 30 -
Disbursements
6.20      Disbursements for the proposed loan are scheduled to be completed
before December 31, 1982. The closing date for the loan would be June 30,
1983. Table 6.3 shows the estimated schedule of disbursements. The proceeds
of the loan would be made available to BNH in an amount equivalent to:
(a)  58% of BNH's disbursements to SWCs on eligible subprojects 1/;
(b) 29% of BNH's disbursements to the states under FINEST II
line of credit for small communities approved subprojects; 2/
(c) 58% of BNH's disbursements to the states under FINEST III line
of credit for small communities program 1/; and
(d) 100% of foreign costs for consulting services for the technical
assistance program referred to in para. 6.06.
In case the amounts disbursed by BNH qualify for withdrawals from the Loan
Account under (b) and (c) above, withdrawals shall be made, at BNH's choice,
under either subparagraphs but not both. Bank disbursements would be made
against a certificate of expenditure made by the Borrower for each subproject,
the detailed documentation of which would not be submitted for Bank review,
but would be retained by the beneficiary and made available for inspection
during the course of supervision missions. Disbursements against consulting
services for technical assistance program ((d) above) would be made against
standard documentation. No works by force account are envisaged. Similar
procedures have been used in previous loans for the sector in Brazil.
1/   BNH and FAE each lend to SWCs 50% of the direct project cost, plus an
amount equivalent to 6.5% of the direct project cost to cover project
related expenses of the SWCs which are capitalized (Annex 7, para. 1.04).
2/   BNH loans under FINEST II finance 100% of the direct project cost plus
an amount equivalent to 6.5% of the direct project costs to cover project
related expenses of the SWCs which are capitalized.



- 31 -
Table 6.3: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US $ '000)
Fiscal Year                   Disbursement             Cumulative at
and Quarter                  in the Quarter            end of Quarter
1978/79
March 31, 1979
June 30, 1979                       0.5                       0.5
1979/80
September 30, 1979                  3.5                      4.0
December 31, 1979                   5.0                       9.0
March 31, 1980                      6.5                      15.5
June 30, 1980                       7.2                     22.7
1980/81
September 30, 1980                  8.0                     30.7
December 31, 1980                   9.2                      39.9
March 31, 1981                      8.2                      48.1
June 30, 1981                       9.4                     57.5
1981/82
September 30, 1981                  9.0                     66.5
December 31, 1981                   8.6                     75.1
March 31, 1982                      7.0                     82.1
June 30, 1982                       6.8                     88.9
1982/83
Sepitember 30, 1982                 6.4                     95.3
December 31, 1982                   4.7                    100.0



- 32 -
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
The Borrower
7.01      BNH is the largest government-owned banking institution in Brazil
dedicated to social development, with total assets at the end of 1977 of
US$11.6 billion. BNH's main activities, which are nationwide, are concerned
with the financing of low-cost housing, urban development and the sanitation
sectors. Over the period 1971-1980, BNH expects to invest about 54% of its
resources in low-cost housing programs, 17% in urban development for infra-
structure and mass transportation systems, 17% in sanitation projects, and the
remaining 12% in studies, training, technical assistance, and miscellaneous
activities. BNH's primary source of funds is an 8% employer's payroll contri-
bution (Employee Indemnity Fund-FGTS) for all nongovernment employees covered
by labor legislation. Individual FGTS accounts are maintained for the parti-
cipants and withdrawals of the deposits can be made when a worker is unemployed
or retired. All deposits made after 1974 earn interest at the rate of 3% p.a.
Other fund sources for BNH include interest and principal repayments from its
existing loans and investments.
Past and Present Finances
7.02      The following summary financial statements indicate the development
of BNH's financial activities since 1971. Full details are given in Annex 6.
Table 7.1
BNH Summary Funds Flow Statement
(US$ millions)
1971     1973      1975     1976      1977
Loan and Service Income              163.0      341.1    559.6    667.2    801.3
Operating Expense                    102.0      196.5    339.0    411.2    592.6
Operating Income                      61.0      144.6    220.6    256.0    208.7
Indemnity Deposits (net)             424.4     727.1  1,135.1  1,199.6  1,458.0
All Other Sources                    249.0      361.8    904.7  1,132.5    912.2
Total Sources                      734.4   1,233.5  2,260.4  2,588.1  2,578.8
New Loans Granted                    618.4   1,021.9  1,939.4  2,569.7  2,483.2
All Other Applications               116.0      211.6    321.0      18.4     95.6
Total Applications                 734.4   1,233.5  2,260.4  2,588.1  2,578.8



- 33 -
Table 7.2
BNH Summary Balance Sheets
(US$ Millions)
December 31                  1971      1973       1975       1976      1977
Loan Receivables                 1,545.3   3,131.7   5,461.4   7,246.1   9,284.9
Negotiable Bonds                   203.8      761.1   1,120.0   1,048.8   1,001.3
All Other Assets                   378.1      345.4     893.2      995.8   1,279.7
Total Assets               2,127.2   4,238.2   7,474.6   9,290.7  11,565.8
Indemnity Fund Deposits          1,741.5   3,373.3   5,337.7   6,400.3   8,021.7
Capital and Reserves               283.8      696.4   1,349.8   1,495.2   1,644.5
Other Liabilities                  101.9      168.5     787.1   1,395.2   1,899.6
Total Liabilities          2,127.2   4,238.2   7.474.6   9,290.7  11,565.8
7.03      BNH's gross loan and service income has shown steady and rapid
growth (30% p.a.) since 1971, and until 1976 operating income increased at the
same rate and averaged about 40% of revenues during the period. The Govern-
ment has directed BNH, as an institution promoting social welfare, to minimize
its operating income. While loan and service income continued to grow in
1977, operating income declined from US$256.0 million in 1976 to US$208.7
million in 1977, a figure which represented only 26% of loan and service
income. This reduced margin reflected primarily the fact that operating
expenses increased at more than twice the rate of revenue growth, 44% and 20%,
respectively.
7.04      Since 1971 net receipts of the Employee Indemnity Fund have grown
at a rate of 23% p.a. In 1977 they increased at almost the same rate (22%)
and represented about 57% of total BNH fund sources, about the same level which
prevailed in 1971. Amortization of loan principal, which has increased only
slightly since 1974, was about the same level as the previous year. As a
result of this, the reduction in internal cash generation, and lesser funds
being provided by working capital reductions, total funds available for
investment were almost the same in 1977 as in the previous year. They were,
however, sufficient to meet requirements for new loans, which were below the
1976 level reflecting the Government's desire to restrain investment for the
purpose of reducing inflation.
7.05      In 1974, BNH established a liquidity fund (Fundo de Assistencia
de Liquideza-FAL) financed by contributions from savings and loan institutions
to provide short-term assistance to financial institutions in the housing
sector in financial difficulty. In spite of the assistance, BNH had to take
judicial action to force the liquidation of six institutions. Debts of these
Borrowers amounted to US$636.8 million, or about 6% of BNH's total assets at



- 34 -
the end of 1977. BNH has established a reserve of US$255.0 million to cover
any loss from these liquidations although none are expected.
7.06      Since 1971, BNH's loan portfolio has expanded five-fold and its
total ass-ts have grown by 440%. To protect the Employee Indemnity Funds
from losses due to inflation, BNH denominates all financial transactions in a
constant monetary equivalent, the Unidade Padrao de Capital (UPC). Addition-
ally, BNH requires that all its loans be guaranteed by state or municipal
governments, financial institutions, or by mortgages where appropriate. At
the end of 1977 BNH's capital and reserves were equal to 16% of liabilities,
which is satisfactory.
Financial Projections
7.07      Each year BNH prepares a three-year investment program (expressed
in UPCs) which is approved by the Minister of Interior. For the period 1978-
1980 BNH's investment budget totals US$11.4 billion with projected fund sources
and applications as indicated in the following Table:
Table 7.3: BNH Projected Sources and Application of Funds, 1978-1980
Amount          %
(In US$ Millions)
Sources
FGTS (Net)                                       5,559           49
Net Receipts on Lending Operations               3,571           31
Operating Income                                   808             7
Sale of Securities/Other (Net)                   1,201           11
Foreign Loans (including Bank Loan)                220            2
Total Sources                              11,359          100
Applications
Housing                                          7,169           63
Sanitation                                       1,872           17
Urban Development                                1,176           10
Technical Assistance                               747            7
Other                                              395            3
Total Applications                          11,359         100
7.08      During the three-year program period, BNH's growth has been
projected at 14% p.a. The sectoral distribution of investments, in general,
follows the same proportions as in previous periods. BNH's administrative
costs are projected to rise from their historic 40% of service income level to



- 35 -
67%. This increase is attributed to the need to establish a new reserve for
contingencies, additional technical assistance, and additional personnel for
the decentralization of BNH's activities. BNH's management is aware of its
rapidly increasing administrative costs, and has recently initiated programs
to promote better utilization of its personnel.
7.09      As the interest rate on the Bank loan will be higher than the
relending rate and the maturity of BNH's loans to the SWCs exceeds the maturity
of the Bank loan, BNH's debt service payments to the Bank will exceed payments
to BNH by the SWCs. BNH's financial position is expected to be strong enough
to absorb this shortfall without difficulty.  A comparison of Bank terms and
BNH onlending terms to the SWCs follows:
Lending in the
Normal             Northeast
PLANASA Terms           Terms         Bank Terms
BNH       FAE     BNH          FAE
Annual Interest (%)          2-8        5.5/a 3.0-4,0      3.5-4.0        -
Grace Period (years)         1-3        1-3      1-3         1-3          3
Final Maturity (years)      19-21      19-21   19-21        19-21        12
/a   Average.
In addition to the interest rates, BNH may charge up to 2% of the total loan
as a one time fee for administration and technical services. Also a commitment
fee of 12; is charged by BNH on the undisbursed portion of the loan. The
financial agent also charges 1% per year for administrative expenses and is
entitled to receive 0.1% of each periodic payment made by the SWCs to amortize
the loan. The resulting interest cost on BNH loans to the SWCs thus ranges
between 4.0 and 5.0% p.a. The low interest rates and extended maturity
periods for the Northeast SWCs are justified for the following reasons:
(a) the urgency to provide safe water and sewerage services to satisfy at
least basic minimum needs, at the lowest possible cost to a large segment of
the poor population; (b) the magnitude of tariff increases required to meet
the debt service; (c) higher tariffs could jeopardize consumers' affordability
of these services; and (d) the maturity period is in line with the economic
life of the project.
The Beneficiaries
7.10      All three SWCs share the common problem of inadequate rates of
return on assets and low internal cash generation.  This situation exists
primarily because of high cost structures and inadequate tariff levels. This
section will cover tariff matters common to all SWCs and then review the past,
current and projected financial position of each SWC.
7.11      Tariff structures for the SWCs are basically similar, with three
consumer categories including residential, commercial and industrial as
indicated on Table 7.4. The bulk of residential customers are not metered
(para. 5.12 and Table 5.4) and most are billed at a flat rate of about US$1.75
per monYh. Metered residential customers pay minimum charges for the first 12
to 15 m   which is roughly equivalent to the nonmetered customers' total



Table 7.4
BRAZIL - NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT SWCs TARIFF STRUCTURES - 1977
(current Cr$)
CONSUMER CLASSIFICATION            EMBASA                           CAGECE                                         COMPESA
Minimum   Excess    Minimum                Excess m3               Minimum              Excess m'
l2m3       mJ        20m3    21-50m-   51-lO0m3   over lOOmJ       15mJ      16-55m:   56-75m3   over 75m3
RESIDENTIAL/PUBLIC
Not metered           (small)25.00               33.00                                          30.00 - 121.00  based on floor Area
(large)56.00
Metered               (small)25.00    3.75       33.00    1.72        1.80         1.87         30.00     2.00       2.20          2.50
(large)40.00    3.75
COMMERCIAL/PUBLIC
Not metered                  56.00               33.00                                          30.00 - 121.00 based on flobr area
Metered                      56.00    3.75       33.00    1.72        1.80         1.87         60.00     2.20       2.60
INDUSTRIAL
Not metered                 190.00               66.00                                          60.00 - 256.00  based on floor area
Metered               (30m3)190.00    1.75       66.00    1.57        1.50         1.35         60.00     2.20       2.60
Raw water                                                                                       1.50/m3



- 37 -
billing, and then pay UJ$0.11 to US$0.22 per m  for excess consumption.  EMBASA
has a flat charge per m for excess consumption, while COMPESA and CAGECE have
slightly increased charges in three successive consumption blocks. Commercial
and industrial rates are about the same as the residential rate, with the
exception oE higher initial minimums. Sewerage tariffs are generally a
percentage of water tariffs, with the percentage ranging from 30% to 110%.
7.12      Tlhe tariff structures are applicable to both the capital city and
interior municipalities and no attempt is made to relate charges to capital
investments and operating cost conditions in the various municipalities. The
tariff structures are only mildly prog5essive, except for EMBASA which bills
any consumption above the minimum 12 m block at almost twice the base rate
per cubic meter for small consumers, and the structures, therefore, provide
only limited incentive for metered large customers to conserve water.
7.13      All SWCs and their respective state governments have recognized
the need to improve their financial position and have agreed to revenue
covenants which will provide for sufficient revenues to cover the sum of
operating and maintenance expenses and depreciation, and provide the following
rates of return on revalued net fixed assets in operation:
1983/
1979/1980    1981      1982    Subsequent Years
EMBASA                 6%         6%        6%           7%
COMPESA                5%         5%        5%           7%
CAGECE                 1%         3%       5%            6%
The specified rates of return are consistent with each SWC's present financial
position and future cash requirements. In the case of CAGECE, the magnitude
of real tariff adjustments required to achieve the long-run objective return
is large, aLnd accordingly lower rates of return have been established for the
early years; to allow for more gradual tariff increases.
7.14      In-the past, tariff increases have generally been affected by adding
a fixed percent to the water charge for each category. Because of the low
per capita income in the project states, this procedure could result in
unmetered residential consumers paying for water an amount in excess of the
government guidelines of 5.0% of the minimum wage. Accordingly, future tariff
increases will have to be accompanied by tariff restructuring and metering
policies to take into account aspects of income distribution, resource
allocation, and water conservation. Under the project, by October 31, 1979,
the SWCs will carry out studies in the fields of metering policies and water
supply and sewerage tariffs, in accordance with terms of reference and with
the assistance of consultants satisfactory to the Bank. These studies are
expected to make recommendations on the improvement of tariff structures and
metering policies. The summary terms of reference for the studies are in-
cluded in Annex 8. The individual SWCs will put into effect the findings
and conclusions of the studies as shall be agreed upon between the Bank, BNH
and each SWC.



- 38 -
Financial Status and Projections of the Beneficiaries
7.15      Past and projected income, cash flow statements and balance sheets
for EMBASA, COMPESA and CAGECE are presented in Annex 7. Because of the high
rates of inflation, which distort year to year comparisons, the historical
income statements and balance sheets and the projected financial statements
have been stated in UPCs. The 1976 and 1977 results are at best indicative,
since SWCs income statements include monetary adjustments, and asset and
liability accounts are maintained by the SWCs in current Cruzeiros, both of
which make it difficult to present financial statements on the basis of a
constant monetary unit. I/ The UPCs used in the financial projections
have been escalated at 7% p.a. during the period 1979-1982, to reflect the
recent differential growth rates in the ORTN (on which the UPC/Cruzeiro parity
is based) and the general price index in Brazil.
EMBASA
7.16      In 1977 EMBASA had an operating ratio of .77, but interest expense
exceeded operating income resulting in a net loss equal to 11% of revenues.
The rate of return on net revalued fixed assets in operation was 2.9%.
EMBASA had not generated enough cash internally to meet its debt service
requirements in 1977 (debt service ratio 0.8), and required equity contribu-
tions from the state for these purposes. EMBASA's current financial position
is tight in spite of a satisfactory current ratio of 2.8. This is because
some cash balances represent advance loan drawdowns from BNH/FAE and are
reserved for subsequent disbursements to contractors on specific projects.
The capital structure of EMBASA is overburdened with debt, which accounts for
86% of total capitalization. The following table summarizes financial results
for 1977 and projections through 1983:
1/   Decree Law 1598 of December 26, 1977 requires firms to set up a special
ledger as of January 1, 1978 in ORTN in which all items subject to
monetary correction are to be entered.



- 39 -
Table 7.5: Selected Financial Data - EMBASA
(UPC millions)
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Water Sold (Million m3)        85       99      107      116     124      133      141
Revenue/rI  (water) (UPCs)   .015    .017    .019    .021    .023    .027    .029
Revenues                     1.51    1.98    2.44    3.03    3.60    4.41    4.95
Operating Costs a/           1.17    1.43    1.52    1.92    1.28    2.91    3.06
Operating Income              .34      .55      .92    1.11    1.32    1.50    1.89
Interest                      .50      .54      .63      .69     .78      .98    1.15
Net Income (Loss)            (.16)    .01       .29      .42     .54      .52      .74
Operating Ratio               .77      .72      .62      .63     .63      .66      .62
Debt Service Ratio           0.8      1.2      1.6     1.7      1.8      1.7      1.6
Rate of Return (%)           2.9      4.3      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0      7.0
Debt/Total Capital (%)        86       88       89       89      89       87       86
a/   IncLudes depreciation.
7.17      Income projections based on tariffs designed to meet the Bank's
revenue covenant (para. 7.13) indicate that through 1983 operating ratios will
be in the range of 62% to 66% and that EMBASA will have a satisfactory net
income position. To achieve this performance EMBASA will have to increase
tariffs in real terms by about 21% during the 1979-1983 period. 1/ Internal
cash generation will be adequate to cover working capital and debt service
requirements during the forecasted period. All capital expenditures not
covered by internal cash generation are assumed to be financed by BNH/FAE
loans. 'With regard to the balance sheet, liquidity will be satisfactory and
the ratio of debt to total capital is expected to remain close to its
present level of about 88% as a result of the fact that the bulk of capital
expenditures will be debt-financed.
COMPESA
7.18      In 1977 COMPESA had an operating ratio of .75 and reported a net
income equivalent to 9% of revenues. However, construction in progress in-
cluded a large amount of completed work, and had this work been transferred to
1/   In current Cruzeiros the tariff increase needed to keep pace with price
escalation is estimated to be equivalent to the annual devaluation of the
Cruzeiro vis-a-vis the UPC plus 7% (para. 7.15), currently equivalent
to between 35% and 40% p.a.



- 40 -
fixed assets, the larger amount of depreciation would have placed COMPESA in a
loss position. The rate of return on net fixed assets in operation was 11.1%,
the high figure resulting from the understatement of fixed assets (para 4.09).
Internal cash generation was sufficient to provide a debt service ratio of
1.5. COMPESA's current financial position is tight (current ratio 1.6), and
most of the cash balance is committed to specific work in progress payments.
COMPESA's capital structure is largely debt, which constitutes 77% of the
total. The following table gives the highlights of COMPESA's financial
performance for 1977 and the projected performance through 1983:
Table 7.6: Selected Financial Data - COMPESA
(UPC millions)
1977     1978      1979     1980      1981    1982    1983
Water Soll (Million m )         94      106       128       143      160      176     196
Revenue/m  (water) (UPCs)    .011       .012      .013      .014     .014    .015    .017
Revenues                      1.32     1.57      2.07      2.66     3.07    3.88    4.71
Operating Costs /a             .99     1.32      1.64      2.11     2.38    3.04    3.34
Operating Income               .33      .25       .43       .55      .69      .84    1.37
Interest                       .22      .19       .30       .49      .60      .77     .89
Net Income/(Loss)              .12      .06       .13       .06      .09      .07     .48
Operating Ratio                .75      .84       .79       .79      .77      .78     .71
Debt Service Ratio            1.5      1.5       1.2       1.3      1.2      1.5     1.4
Rate of Return (%)           11.1      4.5       5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0     7.0
Debt/Total Capital (%)         77       78        80        81       83       84      83
/a   Includes depreciation.
7.19      Income projections based on maintaining tariffs in real terms through
1983, which will allow COMPESA to meet the Bank's revenue covenant in 1979
and subsequent years (para. 7.13), indicate an operating ratio averaging about
78%, and a net income position in all forecast years. COMPESA's internal cash
generation will be adequate to meet debt service, with the debt service ratio
averaging 1.3 during the forecast period. The debt to total capital ratio is
projected to increase slightly to .83 by 1982.
CAGECE
7.20      In 1977 CAGECE had an operating ratio of .79 and reported a modest
net income, although both depreciation and interest expense have been under-
stated. More importantly, CAGECE capitalized an estimated 73% of its operating



- 41 -
and administrative costs (Annex 7, para. 1.04) without which a 100% increase
in tariffs would have been required to break even. The rate of return on net
fixed assets in operation was 3.2%, also overstated because of the above items
and because of excessive construction in progress which did not enter the rate
base. The debt service ratio-was 1.5. CAGECE's current position is poor,
with a current ratio of .9, but CAGECE's capitalization is satisfactory, with
debt equivalient to 56% of total capital. CAGECE's financial position is worse
than the othier two SWCs because revenues are extremely low in relation to
assets and debt and are also lower on a unit basis. The table below indicates
CAGECE's financial results for 1977 and projected financial performance
through 1983:
Table 7.7: Selected Financial Data - CAGECE
(UPC millions)
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Water Sold (Million m3)          32      34       36       38      59       67      75
Revenue/m3 (water) (.01 UPC)  .008    .010    .014    .017    .017    .023    .024
Revenues                        .31      .40     .61      .83    1.23    1.83    2.17
Operating Costs /a              .25     .37      .54      .75     .99    1.30    1.42
Operating Income (Loss)         .06      .03     .07    (.08)    .24       .53     .75
Interest                        .05     .14      .14      .15     .27      .45     .52
Net Income (Loss)               .01    (.11)   (.07)   (.07)   (.03)    .08        .23
Operating Ratio                 .79     .92      .89      .91     .80      .71     .65
Debt Service Ratio             1.5     1.1      1.7      1.6     1.4      1.4     1.5
Rate of Return (%)             3.2     0.9      1.2      1.1     3.0      5.0     6.0
Debt/Total Capital (%)          56      70       80       82      84       84      83
/a   Includes depreciation.
7.21      For CAGECE's projections, tariffs have been increased gradually
as the real increase in tariffs required to meet the Bank's financial viability
in 1979 and 1980 (para. 7.13) would be too large in terms of consumer afford-
ability. Through 1981 CAGECE is projected to be in a loss position, but will
be able to meet its debt service. By 1983 CAGECE will have to raise its
tariffs by 71% in real terms to meet the rate of return requirement of 6%.
CAGECE's financial position is worse than the other two SWCs because revenues
are extremely low in relation to assets and debt and are also lower on a unit
basis. In that year the operating ratio will be .65, the debt service ratio
1.5, and debt will account for 84% of total capital.



- 42 -
Evaluation
7.22      The financial performance of the SWCs will have to be closely
monitored during supervision and the financial projections revised at least
annually. In this regard it must be noted that the risks of the three SWCs
not attaining or maintaining financial viability during the forecasted period
are high for a number of reasons, the most important of which is the require-
ment for a 35-40% annual tariff increase needed just to keep pace with
inflation. Also the required tariffs have been based on aggregate statewide
projections of water produced, unaccounted for and sold, and if water sales
fail to materialize, actual tariffs in real terms will have to be higher than
indicated in the financial projections. Another major problem is that all
three SWCs have embarked on large sewerage programs in the capital cities
which are not likely to be financially viable during the forecast period. The
sewerage investments, coupled with high cost per capita water supply systems
and correspondingly high debt service requirements, will make it difficult to
maintain tariffs at levels which will keep the SWCs financially viable.
Assurances have been obtained from the Federal and state governments and BNH
that they will support and assist the SWCs in meeting the Bank's revenue
covenant (para. 7.13).
7.23      The SWCs' managements are aware of the magnitude of their problems
and have developed financial recovery programs encompassing the following
actions: (a) increased metering of existing connections, particularly in high
income and high consumption areas; (b) increased water supply through upgrading
the capacity of existing treatment plants; (c) increased consumer connections
in existing water distribution systems and sewerage networks; (d) close
control of operating expenses; and (e) reduction of unaccounted-for water.
Assurances were obtained that the SWCs will propose for Bank consideration
specific programs, implementation schedules, and objectives not later than
October 31, 1979, and these programs will be carried out in accordance with
agreed-upon schedules.
Monitoring Indicators/Reporting Requirements
7.24      In order to permit the satisfactory monitoring of its investment
program and financing plans, EMBASA, COMPESA and CAGECE have agreed:
(a) to prepare three-year financial projections before March 31
of each year expressed in local currency and UPCs, which would
include an income statement, statement of cash flow, balance
sheet, and calculation of fixed assets in operation;
(b) to establish, not later than October 31, 1979 a system of
monitoring indicators satisfactory to the Bank. Under
this system, each SWC would provide a quarterly progress
report which would include:
(i) progress on the project implementation, giving details
about design completion, physical execution of the
works and disbursements;



- 43 -
(ii)  progress in meeting the objectives of the financial
recovery programs (para 7.23);
(iii)  statistical data for the number of water and sewer connec-
tions, volume of water produced, volume of water and
sewerage billed, and average tariffs; and
(iv)  preliminary financial statements indicating key operating
and financial ratios for water supply and sewerage; and
(c)  to prepare a report satisfactory to BNH and to the Bank on the
execution and initial operation of the project, not later than six
months after project completion. BNH will be responsible for the
timely preparation and submission of these project completion
reports.
VIII. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
IntroductLon
8.01      The project aims to achieve two major objectives:  (a) to enhance
the living and health conditions of the people in the three project states,
especially for the low-income population, by improving and extending water
supply and sewerage systems; and (b) to improve the planning and execution
capabilities of the three project SWCs by additional consulting services and
Bank supervision. These objectives are particularly important in the Northeast
Region where health conditions are worse than in the rest of the country and
water supply and sewerage coverage is behind the PLANASA targets set for 1980.
Internal Rate of Return and Long Run Marginal Cost
8.02      The combined internal financial rate of return (IFRR) for the sub-
projects and their complementary works in the three capital cities is estimated
to be 10%. These subprojects, the cost of which is US$250.1 million at
December 1977 prices 1/, account for 61% of the total project cost. Of these
subprojects, the IFRRs for Recife, Fortaleza, and metropolitan Salvador are
estimated to be 13%, 12%, and 7% and account for 17%, 15%, and 29% of the
total project cost, respectively. Since the subprojects outside the capital
cities are numerous and are at various stages of preparation, their internal
rate of return has not been calculated. Their cost is estimated to US$152.9
million which represents 39% of the total project cost.
8.03      The IFRRs can be used as a proxy for the minimum internal economic
rates of return (IERR) by using existing tariff levels to represent benefits
based on demonstrated willingness to pay. All taxes and subsidies are excluded
and the Eoreign exchange costs are shadow priced at 1.30 times the official
exchange rate, to represent its opportunity cost. On this basis the minimal
economic rates of return are 11.2% for Recife, 1.2% for Fortaleza, and 3.4% for
metropolitan Salvador. These IERRs understate the real economic return since
1/   Including complementary investments.



- 44 -
they do not include those important benefits that are not meaningfully quanti-
fiable. Water sales to the urban poor 1/ (about 28% of total incremental
volume sold), while priced at a low tariff, represent in fact much higher
benefits since they are the first increment in safe water consumption and will
ensure most of the health benefits from an improved supply. Improvements in
public health, labor productivity, infrastructure for economic development and
institutional capabilities, are not reflected in most cases in revenues from
tariffs, and provide evidence that economic and social benefits of the proposed
project exceed its financial benefits. These considerations lead to the
conclusion that the above IFRRs are acceptable.
8.04      The estimated IFRRs are highly sensitive to tariffs or demand changes
since estimated benefits include only revenues from consumption charges. The
existence of water rationing and the extremely low level of sewerage coverage
suggest that services to be provided by the project are not likely to be
restricted by a limited demand despite the increase in tariffs in real terms.
Annex 9 includes the calculation of the IFRRs for the three capital cities.
8.05      The long-term marginal cost of water supply and sewerage has been
estimated for the three capital cities by calculating the average incremental
cost of each subproject and complementary works. Details of the calculations
are also given in Annex 9. A comparison between average incremental cost and
the average tariff at December 1977 price level is also shown in Table 8.1.
Table 8.1: Average Incremental Cost and Tariffs a/
(December 1977 prices)
Average Incremental Cost
City                            (at 11% Discount Rate)      Average Tariff
Salvador
Water Supply (C$/m )                        5.3                       3.7
Sewerage (Cr$/m  equivalent)                8.8                      3.8
Recife
Water Supply (C$/m 3)                       3.2                       2.6
Sewerage (Cr$/m  equivalent)                2.3                      2.7
Fortaleza
Water Supply (CS$/m )                       3.5                      2.2
Sewerage (Cr$/m  equivalent)                3.9                      2.2
a/   A shadow exchange rate factor of 1.3 was used to reflect the opportunity
cost of the foreign exchange.
1/   See para. 8.01 for definition.



- 45 -
8.06      From the preceding table, it can be concluded that, except for
sewerage charges in Recife, average tariffs for water supply and sewerage are
significantly lower in all three capital cities than the corresponding average
incremental costs. Since tariffs in most cases are not progressive with
respect to volume, tariffs for marginal consumption are also lower than
average incremental costs and are likely to have a detrimental impact on
resource allocation. Specific tariff studies are included in this project to
correct the present situation (para. 7.14).
Design and Selection Criteria
8.07      Project design and selection (para. 6.18) are in accordance with the
objectives of the Brazilian sector authorities (to serve 80% of urban popula-
tion) to ensure that a significant proportion of low-income population will
have access to safe water and basic sanitation at an affordable tariff, while
still ensuring, through cross-subsidization, the basis for the financial
viability of the SWCs.
Population Served
8.08      On an overall basis (para 6.02, Table 5.5) it is estimated that
by 1982, an additional 2.3 million persons will benefit from the water supply
extension and 5.3 million existing consumers from improved service. The
project will increase the overall urban water supply service levels in the
three project states from 52% in 1977 to about 67% of the urban population by
1982. Sewerage service will be extended to about 1.2 million individuals,
increasing service levels from 6.5% to 16% of the urban population. The
impact of the project will continue increasing as complementary works are
completed.
Impact on Poverty Groups
8.09      The direct impact of the project on the poverty group, defined as
families earning a monetary income of three regional minimum salaries or less
1/, in the three capital cities was estimated by calculating the proportion of
urban poor in the total incremental population served. In water supply this
rate is 61%, increasing the amount of urban poor served from 53% (1,300,000)
in 1977 to 73% (2,500,000) by 1985. The SWCs will undertake studies with the
Bank's assistance to prepare low-cost solutions to service the remaining poor
areas.
1/   According to the 1970 census, close to 1.6 million families or 8.1
million persons living in the metropolitan areas of Brazil were in the
poverty group that year. The percentage of families living in poverty
ranged from 41% in Sao Paulo to 76% in Fortaleza.  Variations in thre
minimum salary among regions were assumed to reflect variations in tfle
cost of living. On an annual basis the three minimum salary threshold
corresponds approximately to one-third of the national per capita income.
Minimum monthly salaries on April 28, 1978 were (for the capital cities):
Fortaleza       Cr$ 1,111.20 (US$68)
Recife          Cr$ 1,226.40 (US$69)
Salvador        Cr$ 1,226.40 (US$69)



- 46 -
Table 8.2: Water Supply: Incremental Change in Population Served in the
Capital Cities, 1977-1985
('000 inhabitants and percentages)
Urban Poor           Others               Total
Salvador               452 (62%)            282 (38%)           734 (100%)
Recife                  283 (64%)           160 (36%)           443 (100%)
Fortaleza              469 (60%)            317 (40%)           786 (100%)
Total              1,204 (61%)            759 (39%)        1,963 (100%)
8.10      Since the limited information available suggests that the proportion
of low-income population is higher in the interior than in the capital cities,
the impact of investments on poverty outside the capitals (about 40% of total
project cost) is likely to be more significant.
8.11      Due to present low coverage of sewer service, the investments
programmed under this project will cover initially commercial and high-rise,
high-density residential areas. The proportion of urban poor in these areas
is lower than in the areas to be served with water. The distribution of house
connections among the different income groups was not available at the time
of appraisal and consequently, only rough estimates of the incremental poor
to be served are possible. The situation would be as follows:
Table 8.3: Sewerage: Incremental Change in Population Served in the
Capital Cities 1977-85
Percent of incremental
population served by the project which
are classified as urban poor
City                      (1977-1985)
Salvador                         35
Recife                           37
Fortaleza                        39



- 47 -
Project Services Affordability
8.12      Brazilian Government guidelines indicate that the minimum charges
for water and sewerage should not exceed 5% of one minimum monthly salary
(equivalent to Cr$56 to Cr$61) and the combined charge for water and sewerage
should not exceed 7% of one minimum monthly salary. The existing monthly
charges for minimum consumption range from Cr$34 to Cr$51, and are therefore
within Government guidelines.  However, since between 1978 and 1982 the three
SWCs will be maintaining or increasing tariffs in real terms, the SWCs tariff
structures may have to be made more progressive if revenue objectives are to
be met without exceeding Government guidelines for the low, income population.
Since approximately 70% of the poor earn more than one minimum wage per
family, it may be concluded that water will be provided to most families at
affordable prices. It must be recognized, however, that even 5% of one
minimum salary may represent an unaffordable amount to the 30% of the poor
classified as extremely deprived and greater cross-subsidization than now
exists has to be incorporated into the tariff structure to serve these persons.
It is estimated that although 61% of the incremental population served with
water belongs to the poverty group, only 28% of the incremental water produced
will be consumed by these groups. Therefore, the possibilities of cross-
subsidization between low-income and high-income groups are feasible with an
appropriately designed tariff structure. A tariff study to be undertaken by
the three SWCs will include these considerations (para. 7.14 and Annex 8).
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During loan negotiations, agreements were obtained:
(a)  from the Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH) that it will:
(i) implement a technical assistance program to the three
SWCs (para. 6.06);
(ii) ensure that sufficient local currency funds are made
available to the SWCs for completion of the project on
schedule (para. 6.12);
(iii) ensure that subprojects will be selected in accordance
with agreed upon criteria (para. 6.18);
(iv) give the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views on future modifications to BNH/SFS organi-
zation and guidelines and rules to be used for PLANASA
(para. 3.08);
(v) revise the uniform accounting manuals to include cash
flow statements before December 31, 1979 (para. 4.08);
and



- 48 -
(vi)  cause SWCs to prepare and submit not later than
six months after project completion individual reports,
satisfactory to the Bank, on the execution and initial
operation of the project (para. 7.24).
(b)  from the State Governments of Bahia, Pernambuco and Ceara
that they will:
(i)  ensure that sufficient local currency funds for the
project will be made available to the SWCs for completion
of the project on schedule (para. 6.12); and
(ii)  take whatever steps are required to ensure that the respec-
tive SWCs maintain revenues at levels sufficient to cover
all cash operating and maintenance expenses and depreciation
and provide the rates of return on revalued net fixed assets
in operation established in para. 7.13;
(c)  From State Water Companies:
(i)  The SWCs will take all required steps to enable BNH to
implement a technical assistance program, according to
the plans agreed upon during negotiations (para. 6.06);
(ii)  EMBASA will propose with respect to the city of Salvador,
a plan satisfactory to the Bank on: a) solution of the
technical difficulties for sewer house connections. The sub-
mission and Bank concurrence on this plan will be a condition
for disbursements for sewerage in Salvador; b) not later than
December 31, 1979 alternative technical solutions and an im-
plementation schedule satisfactory to the Bank for sewage
disposal where conventional sewerage is not feasible; and
c) sewer house connection standards not later than
December 31, 1979 (para. 6.16);
(iii)  ensure that subprojects will be selected in accordance with
agreed-upon criteria (para. 6.18);
(iv)  SWCs will prepare and make available to the Bank not later
than 60 days prior to the issue of first tender or
prequalification documents a general procurement notice
satisfactory to the Bank. Such a notice will be annually
updated as long as any goods or works remain to be procured
(para. 6.19);
(v)  SWCs will take the necessary steps satisfactory to the
Bank to update fixed asset inventories and to have them
properly recorded in the books of account, and will fully
implement uniform accounting systems not later than
December 31, 1980 (para. 4.09);



- 49 -
(vi) SWCs will submit annually, not later than March 31, updated
three-year financial projections satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.11);
(vii)  SWCs will establish internal audit offices adequately
staffed and properly functioning no later than December 31,
1980 (para. 4.12);
(viii)  SWCs will have their accounts and financial statements for
each fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank, and will submit to the Bank no later than
April 30 of each year, starting calendar year 1979, certified
copies of the audited financial statements (para. 4.13);
(ix) SWCs will undertake whatever steps required to ensure
that revenues will be maintained at levels sufficient
to cover cash operating and maintenance expenses, and
depreciation and to provide the rates of return on
revalued fixed assets in operation established in
para. 7.13 (para. 7.13);
(x) SWCs will prepare not later than October 31, 1979 tariff and
metering studies satisfactory to the Bank to be implemented
not later than December 31, 1979 (para. 7.14);
(xi) SWCs will submit for Bank consideration specific programs
and objectives for financial recovery, including a water loss
reduction program, not later than October 31, 1979. These
programs will be carried out in accordance with agreed-upon
schedules (para. 7.23);
(xii)  SWCs will establish and implement, not later than October 31,
1979, a system of monitoring indicators and quarterly progress
reports covering project implementation, operations, and
financial performance  (para. 7.24); and
(xiii)  SWCs will submit to BNH not later than six months after
project completion a report satisfactory to the Bank on
the execution and initial operation of the project
(para. 7.24).
9.02      Provided the above conditions are met, the project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$100.0 million. The loan would be for a period of
15 years, including a grace period of three years.






ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Graphical Representation of BNH's Supervision Arrangements
r     -lBNH
SFS-RIO    9
Technical Supervision
Agency
I                                                'i
------------------------->|Seii rjcs1-------------------- 
0~~~~~~~ I
0-4
State-WtrC.4 1 .;
0           1aer   0.1
--------> Specific Projects] *----------4



BRAZIL - NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
EMBASA ORGANIZATION CHART JUNE 1978
GENERAL
ASSEMBLY
FISCAL                             EXCTV
COUUNC;IL                                  COUCI
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
PRESIDENT'S
BOARD
LEGAL                                   PFtESD
ADVISORH                                   ADVIOR
NG& ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~POUCINADMINISTRATION                                                                  FINANCIAL-COMMERC)AL
|  PLANNIN&                r                 I    PRODUCTION                 - 
DIRECTOR                                        DIRECTOR       l                         DIRECTOR                          DIRECTOR
CONRO                               ADIISR                            FINACIA
|  ADVISOR                            ~~~~~~~ADVISOR  _ADIO                                   _                  ADVISOR       _
INSTITTIONAL  EVAUTIONS      TANG             OPRINS         OPERATION        EXPANTION       DEPARTMENT      ASSISTANCE
OQ 
World Bank -19081
0)



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
BRAZIL - NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COMPESA ORGANIZATION CHART
|  GENERAL
ASSEMBPLY
BOARD      LTONSTI
OF DIRECTORA
PRESIDN
DIRECTORS
CABINET
PLANNING          GNRLLEGAL                               PULC l         COMMECA           PRTOL
INJ              ADVISOR~~~~~~~DVSO
AVSRADTNAADVISOR                                          DVSRl        COORDIAON         CRDATN
SUPERINTENDENT      SUPERINTENDENT      SUPER OPERATIONS                                 RATINS
| ADMINISTRATION |  [   FINANCES       lMETREOPOLITAN                               INTERIOR          CONSTRUCTION
(   3   *| OPERATIONS  MA    E            CARPINAL        METROECOFLETAN
RESOURCES           ACCOUNTINGCIF
j  MATERIALS | I   FINANCE   l    |COMMERCiAL |                            REGIONAL  |    j ITRO
LAND PROPERTY |    1   l    1   ~RECIFE                                    CARUARU
GENERAL                                   REGIONAL                                                    TECREIONLNICAUPOR
SERVICES                                  OLINDA                                                     S  ARNUS| 1 PROJECT
JABOATAODl                          1  ARCOVERDE 
|   REGIONAL
PERTROLINA
VVorld B-nk   19079



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
BRAZIL - NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CAGECE ORGANIZATION CHART
[ GENERAL ASSEMBLY
ADmZISTRATIVE                                       FSA
COUNCIL                                         UNCIL
DIRECTOR
PRESIDENT
CAB INET  
PLANNING ADVISOR
SECRETARY PUBLIC REL.
ACCOUNTING   ]                      OPERATRNALMAUNTENR
.~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRT &MNTN
ADMINIETRATION             FINANCE             SERVICE EXPANTION          OPERATIONS
DIREC'TOR               DIRE CTOR   'DIRECTOR                           DIRECTOR
BIDDINGS          |CONSTRUCTION |      EO
COMMITTEE   _ _       PROGRAMS  
I   ,                              _   _      | ~~~~~~~~~~COORDINATrOR 
|HUMAN RESOURCES |         ACCOUNTING                 PROJECTS            OPERAT. & MAINTEN.|
MANAGMA       NAGER                             MANAGER                 CAPITAL
MANAGER
GENERAL SERVICES |          FINANCES               CONSTRUCTION          OPERAT. & MAINTEN.|
MANAGER                    MANAGER                 MANAGER                 INTERIOR
MATERI[AL FOR        TECHNICAL SUPPORT
CONSTR. & OPERATS. |       MANAGER
MANAGER                    Bank-19080
World Bank - 19080



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 12
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Description of Subprojects for the Capital Cities and a List of
Communities to be Served in the States of Bahia, Ceara, and Pernambuco
1.   Water Supply and Sewerage Subproject for Salvador-Bahia
This subproject comprises:
(a)  Water Supply
(i)  Construction of intake works and raw water transmission main (4 km
in length and 1,500 mm in diameter) and p mping stations (5 x 2,000
hp) with a capacity to divert up to 4.5 m /sec, to interconnect
Joanes I and Ipitanga II Reservoirs.
(ii)  Construction of intake works, pumping stations (4 x 1,240 hp) and
raw water transmission main (2 km in length, 1,800 mm in diameter)
with a capacity for 4.5 m /sec to connect Ipitanga Reservoir to the
new treatment plant.
(iii)  Construction of the first3stage of the new treatment plant with an
initial capacity of 4.5 m /sec. Upgrading of Boulerdera treatment
plant and related works.
(iv)  Pumping stations (5 x 1,100 hp) and treated water transmission mains
from new treatment plant to R-7 storage tank with a total length of
13 km and diameters varying from 1,100 to 1,400 mm.
(v)  Construction of approximately 350 km of primary and secondary
distribution networks with diameters varying from 32 to 600 mm,
for reinforcement of existing networks and extensions of services
to new areas.
(vi)  Construction of approximately 45,000 new house connections.
(vii) Metering and leak detection and repairs programs, the scope of
which will be agreed upon on the basis of the studies provided
for in the project (para 4.04, d).
(b) Sewerage
(i) Construction of approximately 22 km of interceptors and collectors
in diameters varying from 400 to 1,750 mm.
(ii) Construction of approximately 237 km of sewerage networks in
diameters varying from 100 to 300 mm.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 12
(iii) Construction of two sewerage pumping stations (4 x 29 hp and
8 x 160 hp).
(iv) Construction of approximately 18,000 new house connections.
2.   Water Supply and Sewerage Subproject for Recife - Pernambuco
This subproject comprises:
(a) Water Supply
(i)  Construction of approximately 207 km of primary distribution
networks in diameters varying from 150 to 1,500 mm for reinforce-
ment of existing networks and extensions to new areas.
(ii)  Construction of approximately 740 km of secondary distribution
networks in diameters varying from 60 to 300 mm for reinforcement
and extensions.
(iii)  Construction of approximately 40,000 new house connections.
(iv) Installation of about 50,000 water meters for house connections
and meters for production and for storage tanks outlets.
(v)  Execution of leak detection and repair program.
3.   Sewerage
(i)  Construction of 27 km of collectors and interceptors varying from
400 to 900 mm in diameter.
(ii) Construction of 21 sewerage pumping stations totalling 1,700 hp
and ranging from 5 to 300 hp in capacity.
(iii)  Construction of approximately 260 km of sewerage networks with
diameters ranging from 150 to 350 mm.
(iv) Construction of approximately 25,000 new house connections.
(v)  Expansion of sewage treatment capacity in 2.4 m /sec.  Definition
of the location of this expansion (Cabanga or Peixinhos) is under
study.
3.   Water Supply and Sewerage Subproject for the City of Fortaleza - Ceara
This subproject comprises:
(a) Water Supply
(i)  Improvements and reinforce Ient of Gaviao Dam to increase the firm
capacity from 0.3 to 0.4 m /sec.
(ii)  Raw water intake with a final capacity of 9 m 3/sec.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 12
3
(iii)  First stage of a new treatment plant for 3 m /sec initial capacity.
(iv)  Construction of first stage of treated water pumping station with
3 m3/sec initial capacity (2 x 260 hp).
(v) Construction of force main from pumping station to Ancuri storage
tank 1,400 mm in diameter and 4.7 km in length.
(vi)  Construction of Ancuri storage tank 70,000 m  in capacity.
(vii)  Interconnections from Ancuri storage tank and other existing
storage tanks with a total length of 38 km and diameters ranging
from 400 to 1,600 mm.
(viii)  Construction of three new storage tanks (Messejana, Coco and
Mucuripe) with capacities of 10,000 m3, 2,000 m3 and 2,000 m3,
respectively.
(ix)  Construction of approximately 195 km of water distribution
networks.
(x) Construction of approximately 40 000 house connections.
(xi)  Metering and leak detection and repair programs.
(b) SeweraRe
(i) Construction of approximately 175 km of sewerage networks in
diameter varying from 150 to 1,200 mm.
(ii) Construction of approximately 12,000 new house connections.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 12
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
List of Medium-Size Towns to be Served by the Project
STATE OF BAHIA
Name of Town                                          Population 1977
Water Supply
1. San Francisco do Conde                                      7,000
2. Caetite                                                     8,150
3. Jeique                                                     80,500
4. Jacobina                                                   24,300
5. Itabina                                                  120.500
6. Tucano du Sul                                               6,800
7. Paulo Alfonso                                             57,200
8. Entre Rios                                                  7,000
9. San Antonio de Jesus                                       26.000
10. Cachoeira                                                  11.800
Sewerage
1. Feira de Santa Ana                                       197.000
2. Ilheus                                                    68.000
3. Itabuna                                                  120.500
4. Vitoria da Conquista                                     115.000
5. Jeique                                                    80.500
STATE OF PERNAMBUCO
Water Supply
1. Afogados Ingazuna                                         10,900
2. Aguas Belas                                               10,378
3. Altinho-Cruzes-'Ibirajuba                                  6,500



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 12
Name of Town                                           Population 1977
4. Amaratji                                                    5,422
5. Arcoverde                                                  47,800
6. Cabo                                                       47,300
7. Caruaru-Granhuns-Vitoria/outros                           140,000
8. Catende                                                    13,400
9. Cupira                                                      6,100
10. Cust6dia                                                    5,200
11. Floresta                                                    8,300
12. GameLeira                                                   6,600
13. Goiana                                                     28,500
14. Gravats                                                    26,000
15. Joboatao                                                   68,000
16. Moreno                                                     20,000
17. Nazare da Mata                                             15,000
18. Palmares                                                   44,300
19. Pedra                                                       6,200
20. Ribeirao                                                   17,000
21. S. Lourenco-Camaragibe                                     63,000
22. Tambe                                                       7,000
23. Toritama                                                    5,600
24. Vit. Sto. Antao                                            52,200
Sewerage
1. Paulista/Apreu e Lima/Praias da zona Norte                  23,000
2. Cabo                                                        47,300
3. Jaboatao/Cavaleiro                                           6,800
4. Sao Lourenco da Mata/Camaragibe                             63,000
5. Petrolina                                                   67,000
6. Cararnhuns                                                  61,000
7. Limoeiro                                                    38,300
8. Pesqueira                                                   27,900
9. IgaraLssu                                                   30,100
10. Morerno                                                    20,000
11. Itamaraca                                                   6,300
12. Gravata                                                      2,600
13. CarpiLna                                                   33,400
14. Timjbaiuba                                                 33,300



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 12
STATE OF CEARA
Name of Town                                          Population 1977
Water Supply
1.  Bela Cruz                                                  7,800
List of Small-Sized Communities to be served by the Project
STATE OF BAHIA
1.  Acupe (Sta. Amaro)                                           NA 1/
2.  Agua Fria                                                  1,213
3.  Amelia Rodrigues                                           5,703
4.  Andarai                                                    2,243
5.  Argolo (N. Vicosa)                                           NA
6.  Agua Quente                                                1,205
7.  Baixa Grande (Inhambupe)                                   2,655
8.  Banes do Pedro (Ilehus)                                      NA
9.  Faitanga                                                     NA
10. Belo Campo                                                 3,068
11. Brotoas -Macaubas                                            NA
12. Boninal                                                      819
13. Baixos (Esplanada)                                           NA
14. Bom Jesus dos Pobres                                         NA
15. Cabucu                                                       NA
16. Cardeal da Silva                                             685
17. Condeuba                                                   1,607
18. Cacule                                                     5,818
19. Campo Alegre de Lourdes                                    1,943
20. Cabeceiras do Paraguacu (Mluritiba)                          NA.
21. Cansancao                                                  2,986
22. Campin Grosso (Jacobina)                                     NA
23. Cassilandia (Itambe)                                         NA
24. Cordeiros                                                  1,036
25. Cotegipe                                                   1,343
26. Cruzeiro do Sul (Prado)                                      NA
27. Caldeirao Grande                                           2,172
28. Carrapichel (S. Bonfim)                                      NA
29. Coqueiros (Maragogipe)                                       NA
30. Carnaibas (C. Formoso)                                       NA
31. Campo Formoso (P. Dutra)                                   5,972
32. Cinco Rios                                                   NA
33. Coquinhos (F. Azul)                                          NA
1/ Not available. Mostly communities subsidiaries of municipalities.



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 12
Name of Town                                          Population 1977
34.  Cachoeira do Mato (Alcobaca)                               1L,727
35.  Catulezinho (Itambe)                                         NA
36.  Dario Meira                                                 2,517
37.  Duas Serras (Antas)                                          NA
38.  Duque de Caxias (Caravelas)                                  NA
39.  Dom Basilio                                                   585
40.  Entre Rios.                                                 7,758
41.  Entrocamento (Jaguaquara)                                    NA
42.  Elisio Med rado                                               941
43.  Fatima (C. Dautas)                                           NA
44.  Ferradas (Itabuna)                                           NA
45.  Gentio do Ouro                                                920
46.  Goes Calmcin (Simoes Filho)                                  NA
47.  Ipupiara                                                    2,020
48.  Ibipetum (Ipupiara)                                          NA
49.  Itabatam (Mfucuri)                                           NA
50.  Ibitiara                                                      533
51.  Ituacu                                                      1,667
52.  Iraporanga (Iraquara)                                        NA
53.  Iraji (Itamaraju)                                            NA
54.  Itiuba                                                       NA
55.  Itamari                                                     1,643
56.  Ibiraja' (Itanhem)                                           NA
57.  Itubera                                                     5,469
58.  luiu (Malhada)                                               NA
59.  Ibicoara                                                      313
60.  Itupeva (M. Neto)                                            NA
61.  Inhata (A. Rodrigues)                                        NA
62.  Ibipitanga                                                  1,074
63.  Tbiassuce                                                   1,219
64.  Itaia (F. Alves)                                             NA
65.  Iraquara                                                    1,266
66.  Itanagra                                                      761
67.  Jussiape                                                     NA
68.  Jacaraci                                                      615
69.  Joao Amaro                                                   NA
70.  Junco (Jacobina)                                             NA
71.  Jacuipe (S. S. Passe)                                        NA
72.  Jacurucu (Itamarju)                                          NA
73.  Juacema (Jaguarari)                                          NA
74.  Lucinio de Almeida                                          3,494
75.  Livramento do Brumado                                       6,321
76.  Laje                                                        1,811
77.  Malhada                                                     1,703
78.  Mfacarani                                                   5,385
79.  Mortugaba                                                   2,036
80.  Malhada de Pedras                                           1,016
81.  Vairi                                                       3,942
82.  Plarau                                                      1,561



ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 12
Name of Town                                         Population 1977
83.  Mirangaba                                                  1,163
84.  Mulurgu do Morro (Caparnaum)                                 NA
85.  Mata da Alianca (A. Rodrigues)                               NA
86.  Manoel Victormo                                            2,140
87.  Nilo Pechara                                               1,550
88.  Nage (Maragogipe)                                            NA
89.  Nova Lidice                                                  NA
90.  Nova Alegria (Itamaraju)                                     NA
91.  Oliveira dos Brejinhos                                     1,081
92.  Paramirim                                                  3,686
93.  Palmeiras                                                  2,442
94.  Porto Nova                                                   NA
95.  Pedrao                                                       834
96.  Piritiba                                                   3,719
97.  Presidente Dutra                                           4,346
98.  Pecho Alexandre                                              NA
99.  Paripiranga                                                3,837
100.  Palmira (I do Colonia)                                       NA
101.  Posto da Mata (N. Lidice)                                    NA
102.  Planalto                                                   4,752
103.  Piripa                                                       899
104.  Pindobacu                                                  2,011
105.  Paraiso (Jacobina)                                           NA
106.  Pirai do Norte (Itubera)                                     NA
107.  Piraja (Itamaraju)                                           NA
108.  Pocos (Campo Formoso)                                        NA
109.  Quice (S. do Bonfim)                                         NA
110.  Ribeira do Amparo                                            448
111.  Rio do Pires                                               1,217
112.  Sitio do Meio (E. Rios)                                      NA
113.  Santo Antonio Barcelona                                      NA
114.  Saubara                                                      NA
115.  S. Jose do Colonia (Itambe)                                  NA
116.  Santiago do Iguape                                           NA
117.  Santa Cruz da Vitoria                                        NA
118.  S. Miguel das Matas                                          NA
119.  Salobro (Canarana)                                           NA
120.  Sao Jose (Buerarema)                                         NA
121.  Santa Luzia (Canavieiras)                                    NA
122.  Sao Paulinho (Itamaraju)                                     NA
123.  Tremedal                                                   1,096
124.  Triunfo (Antas)                                              NA
125.  Taquarinha (Mucuri)                                          NA
126.  Tanhacu                                                    2,063
127.  Teolandia                                                    NA
128.  Ubiraita (Andarai)                                           NA
129.  Utinga                                                     2,165
130.  Varzea do Poco                                             3,131
131.  Varzea                                                       NA



ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 12
STATE OF CEARA
Name of Community                               Population 1977
1.  Alcantaras                                             NA
2.  Antonina do Norte                                      3,788
3.  Aratuba                                                NA
4.  Arneiroz                                               1,314
5.  Aurora                                                 6,111
6.  Caridade                                               1,068
7.  Coreau                                                 2,830
8.  Itatira                                                  563
'9.  Meruoca                                               1,145
10.  Moraujo                                                1,346
11i  Penaforte                                                794
12.  Piquet Carneiro                                        1,947
13.  Abaiara                                                  607
14.  Alto Santo                                             1,698
15.  Apuiares                                               2,063
16.  Aquiraz                                                1,976
17.  Aracoiaba                                              2,910
18.  Araripe                                                1,529
19.  Assare                                                 3,327
20.  Barro                                                  2,830
21.  Beberibe                                               1,837
22.  Capistrano                                             1,776
23.  Carire                                                1,702
24.  Carius                                                1,590
25.  Carnaubal                                             4,087
26.  Catarina                                              1,229
27.  Chaval                                                5,198
28.  Frecheirinha                                          2,218
:29.  General Sampaio                                      2,696
30.  Granjeiro                                               849
31.  Groairas                                              2,278
32.  Cuaramiranga                                            607
33.  Ipueiras                                              4,389
34.  Iracema                                               3,144
35.  Itapiuna                                              1,628
36.  Jaguaruana                                            6,838
37.  Jati                                                  1,782



ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 12
STATE OF CEARA (Continued)
Name of Community                               Population 1977
38.  Lavras da Mangabeira                                5,301
39. Mauriti                                              5,207
40.  Milagres                                            6,379
41.  Mucambo                                             2,376
42.  Novo Oriente                                        2,640
43.  Pacoti                                              1,445
44.  Pacuja                                              1,104
45.  Palhano                                             1,473
46.  Poranga                                             2,547
47.  Porteiras                                           1,903
48.  Potengi                                             2,793
49.  Quixere'                                            1,622
50.  Redencao                                            3,776
51.  Reriutaba                                           4,395
52.  S. Goncalo do Amarante                              2,081
53.  S. Luiz do Curu                                     4,494
54.  Senador Sa                                          1,000
55.  Tamboril                                            1,218
56.  Trairi                                                919
57.  Ubajara                                             2,747
58.  Uruburetama                                         5,335
59.  Uruoca                                              2,784
60.  Vicosa do Ceara                                     3,451
61.  Taperuaba                                             NA
62.  Varjota                                               NA
STATE OF PERNAMBUCO
1.  Afranio                                             2,100
2.  Agrestina                                           3,778
3. Agua Fria                                              NA
4.  Agua Preta                                          4,903
5.  Alagoinha                                           3,288
6.  Altinho                                             4,870
7.  Barra da Gaubiraba                                  3,296
8.  Belem de Maria                                      3,678
9.  Betania                                               877
10.  Bodoc6                                              3,148
11.  Brejao                                              1,455
12.  Brejinho                                            1,611
13.  Buenos Aires                                        1,667
14.  Caetes                                              1,742



ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 12
STATE OF PERNAMBUCO (Continued)
Name of Community                                PopL-ation 1977
15.  Calcado                                              1,534
16.  Calurabi                                               935
17.  Camutanga                                            3,660
18.  Capoeiras                                            2,237
19.  Carnaiba                                             3,623
20.  Cedro                                                1,057
21.  Cha de Alegria                                       3,714
22.  Cha Grande                                           2,981
23.  Cortez                                               4,152
24.  Cumaru                                               1,648
25.  Exu                                                  4,563
26.  Ferreiros                                            4,200
27.  Flores                                               2,689
28.  Frei Miguelinho                                        952
29.  Gloria de Goita                                      3,108
30.  Granito                                                730
31.  lati                                                 1,484
32.  Ibimirim                                             4,622
33.  Ibirajuba                                            1,090
34.  Iguaraci                                             1,091
35.  Inaja                                                2,252
36.  Ingazeiya                                            1,912
37.  Ipoj,uca                                             3,982
38.  Ipubi                                                3,269
39.  Itacuruba                                            2,008
40.  Itaiba                                               2,591
41.  Itapetim                                             5,052
42.  Jatauba                                              2,505
43.  Joao Alfredo                                         3,705
44.  Lagoa do Itaenga                                     4,936
45.  Lagoa do Ouro                                        1,667
46. Lagoa dos Gatos                                       2,481
47. Macaparana                                            5,299
48.  MacIhados                                            1,619
49. Maraial                                               3,810
50. Mirandiba                                             2,699
51.  Orobo                                                1,817
52.  Oroco                                                2,182
53.  Palmeirina                                           2,115
54.  Panelas                                              2,236
55.  Paranatama                                             945
56.  Paranamirim                                          4,071
57.  Passira                                              2,962
58.  Pocao                                                1,810
59.  Poinbos                                              2,957



ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 12
STATE OF PERNAYBUCO (Continued)
Name of Community                                 Population 1977
60.  Primavera                                              4,187
61.  Quipapa                                                4,702
62.  Riacho das Almas                                       1,266
63.  Rio Formoso                                            4,463
64.  Saire                                                  1,235
65.  Salgadinho                                               929
66.  Saloa                                                  2,157
67.  Sanharo                                                4,021
68.  Sta. Maria da Boa Vista                                2,671
69.  Sta. MIaria do Cambuca                                 1,232
70.  Sao Benedito do Sul                                    2,458
71.  Sao Joao                                               2,680
72.  Sao Joaquim do Monte                                   3,839
73.  Sao Vicente Ferrer                                     2,203
74.  Serrita                                                1,684
75.  Sitio dos Moreiras                                     1,634
76.  Solidao                                                  913
77.  Tacaratu                                               3,655
78.  Taquaritinga do Norte                                  2,747
79.  Teresinha                                              1,092
80.  Terra Nova                                             1,950
81.  Tracunhame                                             2,575
82.  Tupanatinga                                            4,307
83.  Tuparetama                                             2,293
84.  Venturosa                                              3,839
85.  Vertentes                                              3,697



BRAZIL NORTHEAST WATER AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
BAHIA - EMBASA
Schedule of Execution for Water and Sewerage Works in Salvador
Period 1978 - 1982
1978                          1979                          1980                           1981                          1982
.     J- F     M    F s||   JASON|   I I, 41;MIA    I JI  A ST. N[ J   u_M                                                  N D J                       N|||    D||||||    |||||||||||
VVATER SUPPLY - SALVADORM
Upgrading of Boulandera Treatment Plant ---------- TII
New Transmission Mains - Joanes -                     M
Boulandera - Storage R-7                             c
Transmission System Joanes I - Ipitanga III -         M
New Treatment Plant - Storage R-7                    c 
Housraronnectlons-          -~~---------- M4)                        iil_Ei Ea                                                ;*n t;ITI    s ,X
New Treatment Plant list Stage) ----                  vmlI
Connections to Exsti tit Storage Tanks 1- a----
New Storage Tank- --                    -            Ew
Water Distribation Network             ----------P1
House C~orn,atnions --------------------------g-
Metering   - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - 
Leak Defection and Repadr
SEWVERAGE - SALVADOR
Sewerage Networks Extensio             - -----------                             Elim I
le,n.r.. otors and Track Li.en-----------
Pumping Statios- ---------------                                                                      i114III
CCW                                              is
Hoase Corinection- -Installatio                                                                                                                                                               W III
CW
Legend
*M l Desigjn
1111Bidding
PFNA   Deliwery                                                                                                                                                                                  -
ConstructionMl
M       Materials or Equipment 
CW      Cwii Werks                                                                                                                                                                              0
I       Installation                                                                                                             World Bank -19082 



BRAZIL NORTHEAST WATER AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PERNAMBUCO - COMPESA
Schedule of Execution for Water and Sewerage Works in Recife
Period 1978 - 1982
_           ~~~~1978                     1979  -1980                                              1981                        1982
_         _   J~~ F M _A M J J AS 0 N D   i         V F~ JA   J  A S 0 N D   1 4J FMATJT|A|STO|ND J|F  MA M|J J|A|S4t; J|||AMJ|||S.
VYATER SUPPLY RECIFE                | Mi                                                                        .       E3                                         ;
WVater Distribution Networks ----c
House Conniections --------
Metering    - - - - - - - - - - -- 
Ieak Defection and Repair
SEWERAGE RECIFE - Ist STAGE
Sewerage Networks Extension ---- V
interceptors and Force Mains -----c                               AII
Pumping Stations ---;;;;;--- -
Exten,sion of Treatment facilities --- 
House Connections ---------------                                                                      l l    
Legend
a    * Design
Iloilo Bidding
WAWA Delivery
Construction
M      Materials or Equipment
CW      Civil Works
I      Installation                                                                                                       World Bank - 19083
0.10
t ll
0



BRAZIL NORTHEAST WATER AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CEARA -CAGECE
Schedule of Execution for Water and Sewerage Works in Fortaleza
Period 1978 - 1982
_            t~~~~978  .1979                                           1980                        1981                         1982
J F I  MA  J JA_SONDJFMAM J_JA_SONDJFM_AMJJASONDJ JFM|A|M|J|J|A|S|O|N|DJ|F|M|A|M|J|J|A|S|OINI|C
WATER SUPPLY - FORTALEZA
New Treatment Plant (lst Stage) Includring                                                       m
(Treated Water Reservoir, Pumping Stationan.
Intake Works and Reinforcement of Gaviao Dam) JIW
Transmission Main to Anari Tank --------------- - _
New Storage TanksE-CW--------------------          CW
Connections to New Storage Tanks ----------w 
Distribution Networks                              c                            
House Connections ------------------------------
Leak Defection and Repair
SEWERAGE - FORTALEZA                                    maIIFW
Sewerage Networks Extension  ------------c 
House Connections---------------
Legend
8 _ * Design
919999 Bidding
P'"-  Delivery
Construction
M      Materials or Equipmsrnt
CW     Civil Works
I      Installation                                                                                                          World Bank - 19084
'0
La.9



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs - EMBASA
DESCRIPTION                               Local  Foreign  Total        Local  Foreign  Total
(thousands of UPC)            (million of US$)
Water Supply - Salvador
Transmission System Joanes I-
Ipitanga III - New Treatment
Plant - Storage R-7                     514      494      1008       7.54    7.25    14.79
Intakes & pumping stations              189      242       431      2.77    3.55       6.32
New treatment plant -
1st stage                               426      526       952      6.25    7.72    13.97
Water distribution networks             510      342       852       7.49    5.02    12.51
House connections                         38      21        59      0.56    0.31    0.87
Metering                                  21      21        42      0.31    0.31    0.62
Leak detection & repairs                  17       4        21      0.25    0.06    0.31
Sewerage - Salvador
Sewerage network extension              552       63       615      8.10    0.92    9.02
Interceptors and trunk lines            350       33       383      5.14    0.48    5.62
Pumping stations                         43       53        96      0.63    0.78    1.41
House connections                       147       26       173      2.16    0.38    2.54
Water Supply Medium-Size Cities            547     263       810      8.03    3.86   11.89
Sewerage Medium-Size Cities               522       58       610      8.10    0.85    8.95
Water Supply Small Communities            473      263       736      6.94    3.86   10.80
Engineering & Administration              526       10       536      7.72    0.15    7.87
Total Basic Cost                    4905    2419      7324      72.00   35.51  107.51
Physical Contingencies (10.5%)            517      254       771      7.59    3.72   11.31
Price Contingencies  (12%)                629      338       967      9.23    4.97   14.20
Total cost of EMBASA                6051    3011      9062     88.82   44.20  133.02



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs - COMPESA
DESCRIPTION                              Local  Foreign  Total        Local  Foreign  Total
(thousands of UPC)            (million of US$)
Water Supply - Recife
Water distribution networks            910      610      1520        13.36   8.95    22.31
House connections                       34       19        53        0.50   0.28      0.78
Metering                                53       53       106        0.78   0.78      1.56
Leak & detection repair                 17        4        21        0.25   0.06      0.31
Sewerage - Recife
Networks extension                     558       95       653        8.19   1.39      9.58
Interceptors & force mains             172      258      430         2.52   3.79      6.31
Pumping stations                        81       99       180        1.19   1.45      2.64
Extension of treatment facilities    126        126      252         1.85   1.85      3.70
House connections                       76       14        90        1.11   0.20      1.31
Water Supply Medium-Size Cities          568      379       947        8.34   5.56    13.90
Sewerage Mediun-Size Cities              762       80       842       11.19   1.17    12.36
Water Supply Siall Communities           279      184       463        4.09   2.70      6.79
Engineering & ALdministration            425        8      433         6.24   0.12      6.36
Total Basic Cost                    4061    1929      5990        59.61  28.30    87.91
Physical Contingencies  (12%)            489      232       721        7.13   3.39    10.52
Price Contingencies  (14%)               589      329      918         8.63   4.84    13.47
Total Cost of COMPESA               5139    2490      7629        75.37  36.53   111.90



ANNEX S
Page 3 of 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs - CAGECE
DESCRIPTION                                Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total
(thousands of UPC)            (million of US$)
Water Supply - Fortaleza
New treatment plan (civil works)         189         95    284       2.77    1.39    4.16
Pumping station                           46         59    105       0.67    0.87    1.54
Transmission main to Ancurl              123        101    224       1.80    1.48    3.28
Storage tanks                            106         36    142       1.56    0.53    2.09
Connections to storage tanks             306        293    599       4.49    4.30    8.79
Distribution networks                    246        164    410       3.61    2.41    6.02
House connections                         27         15      42      0.40    0.22    0.62
Metering                                  21         21      42      0.31    0.31    0.62
Leak detection & repair                   17          4      21      0.25    0.06    0.31
Sewerage - Fortaleza
Interceptor & collector                  290         25    315       4.26    0.37    4.63
Sewerage networks                        307         35    342       4.51    0.51    5.02
House connections                          36         6      42      0.52    0.09    0.61
Water Supply Medium-Siee Cities              71        34    105       1.04    0.50    1.54
Water Supply Small Communities              105       158    263       1.54    2.32    3.86
Engineering & Administration               222          8    230       3.26    0.12    3.38
Total Basic Cost                     2112       1054   3166      30.99   15.48   46.47
Physical Contingencies (10.5%)              222       109    331       3.24    1.60   44.84
Price Contingencies (13.2%)                 312       150    462       4.58    2.21    6.78
Total Cost CAGECE                    2646       1313   3959      38.81   19.29   58.10



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITAGAO
INCOME AND CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(us$ million)
Year Ending December 31                   1971          1972        1973        1974          1975           1976          1977          1978            1979           1980
------------------------------ Audited --------------------------------                    ---------- Estimated 1/ -------
REVENUES FROM OPERATIONS
Loan income                             120.3         120.4       173.8       245.8         362.7         437.4          529.8         693.7           830.0          963.3
Service income                           36.8         47.5         65.2        83.0         111.1         140.3          167.2         168.8           202.6         237.8
Other income                              5.9          60.3       102.1       105.1          85.8           89.5         104.3          108.6          120.4          129.2
Total                                163.0        228.2       433.9        559.6         667.2         801.3          801.3         971.1         1,153.0       1,330.3
OPERATING EXPENSES
Administrative expenses                  t4.5          17.6        24.5        36.2          43.9           55.7          76.7          130.6          152.7          177.6
Financial expenses                       83.5         115.3       159.9       196.7         273.4         336.5          494.1         567.1           673.4          786.8
Other expenses                            4.0          10.6        13.0        15.1          21.7           19.0          21.8          55.8            52.8           49.9
Total                                102.0        143.5       196.5        248.0         339.0         411.2          592.6         753.5           878.9       1,014.3
Internal Cash Generation                 61.0          84.7       144.6       185.9         220.6         256.0          208.7         217.6           274.1         316.0
CAPITAL RESOURCES
Employees/Indemnity Fund (FGTS)
net of withdrawals                    424.4        523.7       727.1        912.4       1,135.1       1,199.6        1,458.0       1,688.9         1,862.9       2,007.6
Amortization of loan principal          242.5         551.1       325.2       618.7         570.2          664.1         661.7       1,012.2         1,193.5       1,365.7
Foreign loans                             4.1          8.7          8.6        16.5          19.9           13.6          22.8          58.7            73.4           88.1
Short-term deposits - net                             49.7                                  301.0          20.4                        198.2           168.8         161.5
Short-term investments - net
(Bonds)                                 0.7                                                             163.1           33.9         231.9           205.5         233.4
All other 2/                               1.7         27.3       28.0         97.7          13.6         271.3          193.7       _
FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR INVESTMENT            734.4      1,245.2    1,234.5    1,831.2          2,260.4       2,588.1        2,578.8       3,407.5         3,778.2       4,172.3
FUNDS APPLIED
New loans granted                       618.4        961.1    1,021.9    1,535.4          1,939.4       2,569.7        2,483.2         339.7         3,766.4       4,159.2
Foreign loan                              0.8           0.8         0.8         0.8           0.8            1.7           2.7          10.5            11.F           13.1
Short-term deposits - net                                         19.2          1.1
Short-term investments - net
(Bonds)                                            255.6       197.7       254.0           50.1                         95.6
All other 2/                            115.2          27.7        11.9        39.9         270.1           16.7
Total Applications                   734.4      1,245.2    1,233.5    1,831.2          2260.4        2        5                     407                         4,172.3
FGTS - Withdrawals                        291.8         378.1      482.6        618.3         860.2       1,061.2        1,278.5       1,466.4         1,666.3       1,886.1          |
0
1/  Data extracted from 1978-80 budget-forecast of BNH.
2/  Includes net increase or decrease in working capital.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWEAGE PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
BALANCE SHEETS
(US$ million)
AUDITED
year Ending December 31                              1971        1972        1973         1974        1975        1976       1977
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                                     4.4         9.6         6.6         8.2          9.6         6.4       23.2
Treasury bonds                                    73.3        56.7        56.3        92.6        121.9        36.3        1.9
Receivable from loans 1/                            --       160.0       195.0       418.0       420.8        284.4      348.1
other accounts                                     5.7         1.1         0.9         0.9          1.2         2.1       36.5
Sub-total                                    83.4       227.4        258.8       5197        553.5       3292       407.7
Long-tem Receivables
Housing loans                                 1,545.3    2,144.2    3,131.7    4,176.5    5,461.4    7,246.1   9,284.9
Treasury bands                                   203.8       528.1       761.1    1,062.3    1,120.0    1,048.8   1,001.3
Mortgages                                        249.8         7.3         0.8         0.4           --          --         -_
other investments                                 15.2        18.8        40.3       113.1         49.4        40.4      156.3
Collecting agents - INPS                           7.7         2.8         2.3         0.9           --          --         -_
Property for resale                                5.0        10.3        12.9        16.8         20.5        15.1        8.3
Housing loans in liquidation                        --          --          --           --      287.9       365.4       286.7
Other accounts                                     1.6         3.9         6.1         8.3         8.4          9.0        7.5
Sub-total                                 2,028.4    27           3,955.2    5,378.3                   8,724.9  10,745.0
Fixed Assets
Land and buildings                                14.0        19.0        22.9        25.3        39.1         40.5       43.2
Equipment and installations                        1.8         2.1         2.8         3.2         3.5          4.0        4.6
Other fixed assets                                 0.8         1.2         1.6         1.9         2.2          2.7        3.2
Sub-total                                    16.6        22.3        27.3         30.4        44.8        47.2       51.0
Accumulated depreciation                          (1.4)       (2.2)       (3.4)       (4.4)        (5,9)      _8.1)    (10.5)
Sub-total                                    15.2        20.1         23.9        26.0        38.9        39.1       40.5
Other Assets
Interest & i4onetary dorrection on
loans to tentities in liquidation                --           --          --          --        34.8       197.0      370.9
Prepaid insurance                                  0.1         0.6         0.1          --           --          --         --
Material in transit                                0.1         0.8         0.2         0.1           --          --         --
Interest Rec. on Treasury bonds                     --          --          --         0.5         0.4         0.5        1.7
sub-total                                     0.2         1.4          0.3         0.6        35.2       197.5      372.6
TOTAL ASSETS                           2,127.2    2,964.3    4,238.2    5,924.6    7, .6    9,290.7  11,565.8
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Entities of the National Housing
System (deposits)                              26.1        64.5         45.0       111.7       324.7       634.4      823.1
Sundry creditors                                   3.3         9.2        16.2        19.2        29.5        41.9      162.5
Sub-total                                    29.4        73.7        61.2       130.9       3.2 2        676.3      985.6
Long-term Debt
Employees' Indemnity Fund                     1,741.5    2,379.5    3,373.3    4,424.7    5,337.7    6,400.3   8,021.7
BNHl housing bonds                               31.2         35.4        36.3        37.8        36.2        34.2       34.2
Foreign Loans:
IDB (IDB/BNH 104/SF-BR)                        18.9        21.0        25.4         30.7        37,9        48.4       52.1
AID                                            10.2         15.8        19.4        29.8        40.6        40.6       40.5
IBRD                                             --           --         --           --         0.9        12.5       27.8
Miscellaneous                                   0.2          0.3       _              --       148.8       166.9      180.9
Sub-total                                 1                       3,454.4    4523.0    5,602.1                   8,375.2
Other Liabilities
Unallocated collections and repayments            12.0        16.0        14.3         4.7         8.8        30.8       26.8
Deferred income                                     --        13.3        11.9         8.9         9.3        10.6        7.9
Emp. Ind. Fund - to confirm                         --          --          --          --      215.6        189.7      196.9
Other unidentified receipts                         --        _             --          --        34.8       185.2     346.9
Sub-total                                    12.0        29.3        26.2        13.6       268.5       416.3      578.5
Capital and Reserves
Capital                                         177.5       160.9       321.5       442.1    1,068.1    1,392.1   1,641.4
Reserves                                        106.3       248.4       374.9       815.0       281.7       103.1         3.1
Sub-total                                  283.8       409.3       696.4    1,257.1    1,349.9    1,495.2   1,644.5
TOTAL LIABILITIES                    2,127.2    2,964.3    4,238.2    5,924.6    7.574.6    9,290.7  11,568.8
1/  During 1971 through 1974, BNH considered all items over 180 days as long-term.,- In 1975, BNH changed to 365 days or
more as the long-term criterion.  Data shown for 1972 through 1974 Was estimated by BNH auditors.



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 7
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
State Water Companies Financial Statements
Assumptions Underlying Financial Projections
1.   Notes on Existing Financial Statements
1.01      The financial projections are based on the historical financial
statements of the SWCs, which are prepared in current Cruzeiros. Because of
rapid inflation and incomplete records, it has been difficult to convert these
Cruzeiros statements into UPCs in which the finarcial projections have been
made by Bank staff. There are also deficiencies in the uniform accounting
system presently in use by the SWCs, as noted below, and as a result of these
factors, the historical financial statements do not provide a reliable base
for the financial projections.
1.02      The first deficiency in the accounting system is in the treatment of
monetary corrections on fixed assets and long-term debt, which are revalued
quarterly in conformity with an index provided by the Ministry of Finance for
adjustment of Obrigacoes Readjustaveis do Tesouro Nacional (ORTN). Under the
corporate law, for income tax determination 1/, these monetary adjustments
must be reflected respectively as income and expense in an SWC's income
statement, and this has been provided for in the uniform system of accounts.
Since the monetary adjustments to assets and debt have not usually been
equivalent, due either to differing indexing and/or to differing ratios of
assets to debt, the net income shown for an SWC has often been distorted. A
commercial accounting system would exclude these monetary adjustments from the
income statement and only adjust asset, liability and revaluation surplus
accounts. While from an economic and investor standpoint these adjustments
have merit, they must be excluded if income and cash statements meaningful for
purposes of cost control, rate making and comparisons of financial performance
among SWCs are to be produced. Monetary corrections have been excluded from
the SWCs' historical income statements and financial projections have been
prepared in UPCs which obviates the need to adjust for monetary correction. 2/
1.03      The second deficiency in the uniform system of accounts is the fact
that it does not provide for an appropriate statement of sources and applica-
tions of cash. It is difficult to derive this data from the existing income
statements and balance sheets, and the historical statements presented here
are subject to a margin of error.
1/   The SWCs must follow the accounting requirements of the corporate law,
although they are specifically exempted from income taxes.
Z/   The new corporate law effective January 1, 1978, requires corporations
to keep accounts in ORTN for all items subject to monetary correction.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 7
1.04      Finally, the uniform accounting system provides for one other adjust-
ment which distorts reported net income. To cover operating and adminis-
trative costs of SWCs which are considered directly related to project design
and construction, BNH and FAE lend an amount equivalent to 10% of total
direct project cost. The SWCs in turn may capitalize an equivalent amount of
operating expense which will likely be in excess of actual project-related
internal costs and will result in an understatement of operating expenses and
an overstatement of net income. For the three SWCs combined in 1978, it is
estimated that about 30% of operating expenses exclusive of depreciation will
be capitalized, and for CAGECE about 49% of operating expenses will be
capitalized. Proper cost accounting, which is not now undertaken in the SWCs,
would allow capitalization of only project-related costs and provide a more
realistic income statement. The present practice will be reviewed by consul-
tants to be recruited to assist the SWCs in the areas of Finance and Accounting.
However, it is not expected that this practice will change in the near future
and the income statement projections reflect the capitalization of operating
expenses equivalent to 10% of direct project costs.
1.05      Finally, in addition to these conceptual deficiencies, the indi-
vidual SWCs are having difficulties in producing meaningful financial state-
ments. First, all SWCs have been recently formed by mergers of the capital
city water authorities and a large number of interior municipal water autho-
rities. Because of incomplete asset inventories and cost data, it has been
difficult for them to determine a proper valuation of fixed assets, and
efforts are being made to accomplish this. Also, there have been delays in
transferring assets of completed projects from construction in process to
fixed assets in operation, which understates the value of the latter as well
as the charge for depreciation. Finally, none of the SWCs has its own in-house
computer specialists or a computer, and they have to rely on outside services
which has made the shift to the uniform accounting system more difficult.
1.06      Financial planning in the SWCs is virtually non-existent.  None of
the SWCs has made any attempt to project operating financial results beyond
one year. All SWCs do have long-range capital budgets, but these have been
unrealistically high in relation to demonstrated capabilities of preparing and
executing projects and the availability of funds from FAE and BNH. One year's
capital expenditure disbursement projections on a monthly basis are maintained
for those projects for which loan contracts have been signed with BNH/FAE.
Basically, the SWCs operate with the knowledge that a subproject's costs will
be wholly financed by BNH/FAE and have not been concerned with either short-
range or long-range cash management.
2.   Financial Projections
General
2.01      The financial projections are presented in UPCs.  The implied
assumption is that tariffs will be regularly adjusted upward to compensate for
Cruzeiro depreciation against the UPC, (which was 33.9% in 1976 and 30.1% in



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 7
1977), apart from real increases needed to achieve or maintain financial
viability. If revenues are not in fact maintained in real terms, and the
tariff increases assumed are not implemented, the future financial performance
will be less satisfactory than is indicated in the projections.
Income Statement
2.02      Water produced has been based on the expected availability of water
from on-going source and treatment plant projects and planned projects. Water
sold has been determined in relation to supply availability, gradual reductions
in unaccounted-for water and on expected consumption per connection under
normal conditions of supply. Tariffs have been assumed at levels sufficient
to comply with the Bank's revenue covenant.
2.03      Operation and maintenance expense has been assumed to increase
in time with water connections plus 7% during the 1978-82 period to reflect
inflation. In the 1983-85 period these expenses have been increased in line
with water connections only on the assumption that the UPC will no longer have
to be adjusted for inflation. 1/ As is the practice of the SWCs (see para.
1.04), an amount equivalent to 10% of the current year's capital expenditures
has been capitalized and treated as an offset to operating and maintenance
expenses on the income statement.
2.04      Administrative expenses have been increased under the same assumption
indicated in para 2.03.
2.05      Interest expense has been based on an average interest rate of 5.0%
p.a. and normal average BNH/FAE terms of a three-year grace period on principal
repayments followed by an 18-year repayment period. Interest on loan require-
ments to construction in progress has been capitalized.
3.   Cash Requirements and Sources
3.01      Capital expenditures are based on the expansion programs of the
SWCs (Table 6.1). Long-term debt incurred is assumed to be equivalent to
capital expenditures, which include capitalized administrative expenses and
interest during construction, less availa'ble internal cash generation.
To the extent any projects may actually be financed by equity, the amount of
such contributions would be subtracted from the new long-term debt and
reflected in new equity.
3.02      Debt service has been based on assumptions given in paragraph 2.05.
1/   In the period 1975-1977 the general price index was up by 37% as opposed
to devaluation of the Cruzeiro vis-a-vis the UPC of about 30.3%. To
reflect the likelihood of this disparity, continuing in the 1979-82
period, the UPCs in the forecast have been escalated at 7%.



ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 7
3.03      Net working capital requirements have been based on the assumption
that inventories would be three months' stock, accounts receivable would amount
to three months' sales, and current liabilities would be equivalent to inven-
tories plus an amount equivalent to 5% of annual investments to allow for
contractor's guarantee retentions.
4.   Balance Sheets
4.01      Current assets and liabilities have been derived from the assumptions
given in paragraph 3.03.
4.02      The long-term debt has been derived from the assumptions given in
paragraphs 2.05 and 3.01. Equity has been increased (decreased) annually by
the amount of net income (loss) for that year and by new equity contributions.



11*11.                                                                       ANNEX 7
Page 5 of7
NOREnMAST WATER SUIPIY 4LY SAUM   Z      E PCT  - 3416
F'LNANCtAL 1RSULTS WE8SD IN TH8MSADS o0 uPc3
1976        1977        1970        1979        1980        1981         1982          1983       1984          1985
OPES 'ING DATA
i,ter produced (.illison =3)                         133         157        173          l88         200         207          215         224           239         24P
Ilater sold (=illion = )                              69          85         99          107         116         124          133         141           153         161
al.coo..ted-for (%)                                   52          46   '    43            43          42          40           38          37            36          35
I,. of connections (000)-water                       300         340        345          368         396         424          452         476           498         522
It, of connections (O05)--eseeraSgo                   -           19.9       24.3         28.4        42.1         48.4        51.8         56.1         60.4        *4r
,venue/tho.n...d s3-.ater (trPCs                      12.38      15.09       16.90       19.10        21.09       23.35        27.11       28970        27.49             
ztoe---/..mtectio-s-ewerage                          --7.04                   7.90         9.12        9.96       10.53        11.27       11.92         11.92       ii
STAT. :.l'hT OF INCGIE AND EXPENSE
RE. huMES
E ,ter                                                854      1,283       1,673       2,044       2,446        2,896       3,606        4,047        4,206       4,3t.
- e-e-sge                                              10        140         192         259         419          511         584          669          720         771
thor                                                  20         90         119         139          165         193         224          238          258         272
Total                                           884       1.513      1,984       2,442'       3030       '37W_         4.4         4,954        5,184    25,4
t'peratioss and naintenance                          462        449         586         678          786         899        1,032       1,094        1,187       1,299
.,dministration                                       405         408        437         500          572         655          750         803          859         919
' pit.li.ed                                          (215)       (135)      (201)       (433)        (375)       (400)        (166)       (238)        (240)        (241)
Subtotal                                        652         722        822         745          983       1,154       1,616        1,659        1,806       1,977
epreciation                                          287        450         612         776         935        1,130       1,289        1,396        1.442       1_466
Total                                           939      1,172       1,434.      1,521       1,918        2,284       2,905        3,055        3,228       3,443
!3pcrating incone                                     (55)       341         550         921       1,112        1,316       1,509        1,899        1,936      1it7
,,tereSt                                             216        523         541         625         690          779         978        1,147        1.333       1_346
:03t intome (loss)                                   gzn, )(2715              9          2i6         422         537          531         752          603          621
Opersting ratio                                         1.06         .77                     .62         .63        .63           .66         .62          .62
lote base                                           9,871     11,690      12,794      15,356      18,541       21,928      25,144       27,133       27,655      28,102
tate of return (7.)                                    (0.6)       2.9         4.3         6.0          6.0         6.0         6.0          7.0          7.0         7.'
STA >:5t0  OF CASH LOW
S. R9ES
[sternal cash generation                              232        791       1,162       1,697       2,047        2,446       2,798       3,295         3,378       3,433
Long-tern debt                                      2,365      1,701       2,222       4,406       3,588        3,661         988        1,404        1,687       1,692
Eq-i~~~~~~y--79                                                 --.-                   --.7      ---             -           -             -           -
Equity                                              -_          2.7 -sg 5.-                                    -           -        8  -, 9 5,065 
Total                                       ,,.2!,97     2,571       384          .03         5.635       6.107       3.786        4.699      ,,5065,,,    _______
P FLICATTONS
Capital ..pesditur.s                                2,037       1,349      2,010       4,329        3,752       4,026        1,660       2,375        2,400       2,410
Capitalized adtnistrative espesditures                215         150        201         433          375         400'        166          138          140         141
Qapitali-d interest                                   113         151        145         184          213         220         144          101          118         159
Total                                         2,365       1,650      2,358         946       4,340        4,646       1,970        2,614         656        2,710
Debt service                                          460         934        978       1i078        1,190       1,344       1,686        1,997        2,298       2,321
Working capital                                      (218)         26         35          55           75          81          86           39           57          40
Total                                         2,607                  3.369       6.079       5.605       6.071        3742        4650           013       5071
Iscresse (D..resse) in sash                           (10)       (39)        15           24          30          36           44          49           52           54
Debt service ratio                                      0,5         0.8        1.2         1.6          1.7         1.8         1.7          1.6          1.5         1.'
MA.L !CE SHEET
i3ETS
Fixed As.ets
Fixed assets is operation                         10,962       12,841     15,295      19,404      23,374       28,244      32,225      34,907        36,107      38,709
Reserve for depreciation                             519         993       1,605       2.381       3,316        4.446       5,735       7 131        8.573      IOL339
Net fixed assets in operation (NFA)               11,481       11,898     13,690      17,023       20,058      23,798      26,490      27776         27,534      28,670
Construnctio  in progress                          2,500       3.360       3,313       4,360       5,141        5,542       4,015       4.Z56        5,827        5_986
Total                                       13,981      15,208      17,003      21,383      25,199       29.340      30,505      32.032       33,361       34,656
Current Assets
Cash                                                 600          645        586         678         786          899       1,032       1,094         1,187       1,249
Inventories                                          170         189         248         295         375         463          544         579          627          665
Accounts Receivllble                                 580          541        556         580         610          646         690         739           791         845
Other                                                 25           18      *19            19          19           19          19          19           19           19
Total                                        1,375        1,393      1,409       1,572       1,790        2,027       2,285       2,431        2,624       2,778
TOTAL ASSETS                          15,356      1          18,412       22.955      26,989      31.367       32,790      34,463       3.985        7,434
L. 3IILITIES AND CAPITAL
Long tern debt                                    12,611       13,901     15.694      19,857      23.356       27,077      27,840      28,703       29,538       30,306
Equity                                             2,292       2 209       2.218       2.514       2.936        3.473       4,004       4.756        5,359      53980)
Total C.plt.l                               14,903      16,110      17,912      22,371      26,292      30,550       31,844      33,459       34,897      36,216
Current Liabilities                                  453         491         500         584         697         817          946       1.004        1,088      1  14E
TOTAL LIABILITIES & CAPITAL           15.356      16         18412        22.955      26.989      31,367       32790 34.465 37    ,4J4
Debt/Total Capital (1 )                               85          86          88          89          89          89           87          86           85          84



ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 7
BRAZIL
N0R1TAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - CAGECE
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED FINAICIAL STATIES (UPCs '000)
Actual                                                     Projected
OPERATING DATA                                                  1977                    1978     1979      1980     1981     1982      1983     1984     1985
Water produced (million m3)                                     64                      67       69       69        98      103       107      118      130
Water sold (million a3)                                         32                      34       38       38        59       67        75       83       91
Unaccounted-for (%)                                             50                      49       48       45        40       35       30        30       30
No. of connections ('000) - water                               93                     106      126      151       181      211      236       261      286
No. of connections ('000) - sewerage                             8.7                     9.7     14.7     19.7      24.7     29.7     34.7      39.7     44.7
Revenue/thousand m3 - water (UPC)                                8.31                   10.06    14.00    17.47    17.47    23.03    23.78    23.99    24.07
Revenue/connection - sewerage                                    3.91                    4.32     5.58     6.42      6.42     7.25     8.00      8.00     8.00
STATEfENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSE
REVENUES
Water                                                         266                     342      504      664    1,031    1.543    1,784    1,991    2,190
Sewerage                                                       34                      42       82      126       159      215      278       318      358
Other                                                          13                      17       25       35        40      68       90        100      103
Total                                         313                     401      611       825    1.230    1.826    2.172    2.409    2.651
EXPENSES
Operations and maintenance                                    230                     257      272      305       384      430      451       475      546
Administration                                                186                     208      233      261       343      375      441       485      560
Capitalized                                                  (304)                   (230)    (297)    (132)    (156)      (60)     (94)      (94)     (94)
Subtotal                                      112                     235      208       434      571      745       798      866    1,012
Depreciation                                                  134                     134      336      317      418       555      624       703      720
Total                                         246                     369      544       751      989    1.300    1.422    1.569    1,732
Operating income                                               67                      32       67       74       241      526      750       840      919
Interest                                                       50                     141      135      145      273       446      520       601      611
Net income (loss)                                              17                    (109)     (68)     (71)      (32)      80      230       239      308
Operating ratio                                                  .79                    .92       .89      .91       .80      .71       .65      .65      .65
Rate base                                                   2,100                  3,755    5,648    6,859    8,02(0  10,511   12,501   13,429   13,914
Rate of return (%)                                              3.2                     0.9      1.2      1.1       3.0      5.0      6.0       6.3      6.6
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW
SOURCES
Internal cash generation                                      201                     228      403      391       659    1,081    1,374    1,543    1,639
Long-term debt                                              2,661                   2,526    3,394    1,609    1,811       689      801       767      731
Equity                                                         --                      69       --      118                      --       --            --
Total                                       2.682                   2.823    3,797    2.118    2.470    1.770    2,175    2,310    2.370
APPLICATIONS
Capital expenditures                                        2,250                  2,101    2,970    1,324    1,557        604      940       940      940
Capitalized administrative expenditures                       304                     230      297      132       156       60       94        94       94
Capitalized interest                                           85                     195      161      275      239       178       86        68       57
Total                                       2.639                   2.526    3.428    1.731    1.952       842    1,120    1.102    1.091
Debt service                                                  132                     211      232      250      472       769      898    1,036    1,053
Working capital                                               144                      86      134      133        35      151      143       155      205
Total                                       2.915                   2.823    3.794    2.114    2.459    1.762    2.161    2.293    2,349
Increase (Decrease) in cash                                   (53)                    -0-        3        4        11        8       14        17       21
Debt service ratio                                              1.5                     1.1      1.7      1.6       1.4      1.4       1.5      1.5      1.6
BALANCE SHEET
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Fixed assets in operation                                   2,603                   4,911    7,398    7,929   10,455   13,883   15,614   17,166   18,008
Reserve for depreciation                                      176                     310      646      963    1,381    1.936    2,560    3.263    3.983
Net fixed assets in operation (NFA)                         2,427                  4,543    6,752    6,966    9,074   11,947   13,054   13,803   14,025
Construction in progress                                    2.984                  3.177    4.308    5.508    4.934    2.348    1.737    1.387    1,636
Total                                       5.321                   7,720   11,060   12.474   14,008   14,295   14,791 .    Ik       15,661
C: rrent Assets
Cash                                                          144                     144      147      171       162      170       184      201      222
Inventories                                                   218                     248      291      320       398      465      512       666      719
Accounts Receivable                                            73                     100      146       206      295      410       550      615      680
Other                                                         176                     176      176      176       176      176       176      176      176
Total                                         611                     668       760      853    1,031    1.221    1.422    1,658    1.797
TOTAL ASSETS                                5,932                   8,388    11,820  13,327   15 039   15,516   16,213   16,848   17,458
LONS-TERM LIABILITIES
Long-tens debt                                              2,930                   5,455    9,000   10,504   12,116   12,321   12,631   12,891   13,212
Equity                                                      2.323                   2,283    2,215    2.262    2,230    2.310    2.540    2.779    3,087
Total                                       5,253                   7.738   11,215   12,766   14,346   14.631   15,171   15,670   16299
Current Liabilities                                           679                     650      605       561      693       885    1,042    1,178    1.159
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL                               5,932                   8,388   11.820   13.327   15.039   15,516   16,213   i6 848   17.458
Debt/Total Capital (%!                                         56                      70        80       82       84        84       83       82        81



ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 7
BRAZIL
NORTPEAET WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - COMPESA
ACrUAL ASD PROJECTED FINaNCIAL STAT4EHBNS (UFPCs '000)
Actual                                                     Protected
O1 HATING DATA                                                1976           1977        1978        1979       1980        1981       1982       1983        1984        1985
later produced (million u3)                                                186          196        229         248        267         285       301          321        338
1.stor sold (million a3)                                                    94          106        128         143        160         176       196          208        220
3accounted-for (2)                                                          49           46         44          42         40          38        S5           35         35
3. of connections ('000) - water                                           271          304        356         386        415         444       473          504        533
-a. of connections ('000) -  seerage                                        38           39          51         63          89        111       135          159        182
ovonue/thousand uS - water  (UPC)                                            10.89       11.65       12.56      14.24       13.94      15.15      16.59       16.83      17.00
*evenue/connection - sewerage                                                 6.71        7.18        7.69       8.75        8.60      10.12      10.13       10.20       10.20
_  TEKENT OF INCCME AND EXFENE
lEVENUES
Water                                                        571          1,024       1,235       1,608      2,037       2,230      2,667      3,251       3,501       3,740
oewerage                                                     149            255         280         392        551        765       1,123      1,367       1,622       1,856
other                                                         73             43          50          68         74          80         86         92          96         104
Total                                                793         1.322        1.565      2,868       2,662      3.075       3.876     4,710        5.21       570
E;XPENSES
Operations and msintennce                                    295            420         503         629        727         840        962      1,029       1,101       1,167
Adninistration                                               455            652         781         978      1,130       1.306      1,495      1,600       1,712       1,814
Japitalioed                                                  (90)          (171)       (201)       (338)      (233)      (391)       (176)      (207)       (326)       (232)
Subt,tal                                             660           901        1,083      1,269       1,624      1,755       2,281     2,422        2,587      2,749
Depreciation                                                  50             84         238         373        488         627        767        917       1.068       1.189
Total                                                610           985        1.321      1.642       2.112      2.382       3.042     3,339        3.655      3.938
Operating income                                              83            337         244         426        550         693        834      1,371       1,566       1,762
Interest                                                     248            222         189         299        487         601        767        885       1,095       1,183
Net income  (toes)                                          (165)           115          55         127         63          92          67       486         471         579
Operating ratio                                                 .77            .75          .84        .79         .79        .77         .78       .71          .70        .69
Rote base                                                                 3,037       5,443       8,486     10,944      13,863     16,671    19,591       22,366      25,171
Rate of return (%)                                                           11.1         4.5         5.0        5.0         5.0        5.0        7.0         7.0         7.0
.CATEMESNT OF CASE PLOW
SOURCES
Internal cash generation                                                    421         482         799      1,038       1,320      1,601      2,288       2,634      2,951
Long-tern debt                                                            4,103       2,428       3,554      2,720       4,342      2,338      2,072       2,193       2,304
Equity                                                                      829         463         418        253         254          --        --           --         --
Total                                                            5.353        3.373      4,771       4.011      5.916       3.939     4,360        4,827      5,255
APPLICATIONS
Capitalined expenditures                                                  4,481       2,075       3,388      2,332       3,910      1,756      2,091       2,264       2,324
Capitalized administrative expenditures                                     171         202         339        233         391         176       209         226         232
Capitali-ed interest                                                         --         353         355        387         406        413        350         288         258
Toital                                                           4,652        2,630      4,082       2,952      4,707       2,345      2,650       2,778      2,814
Debt service                                                                389         311         517        840       1,037      1,322      1,525       1,888       2,040
Working capital                                                              31         530          55        192         141         233       138          109        106
Total                                                            5.072        3.471      4.654       3,984       5.885      3.900     4.313        4,775      4,960
Increase (Decrease) in cash                                                 281          (98)       117         27          31         39         47          52          56
Debt service ratio                                                            1.2         1.5         1.5        1.2         1.3        1.2        1.5         1.4         1.4
3ALASCE SHEET
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Fined asset in operation                                   2,984          3,736       8,200      10,432     13,978      17,385     20,987    24,910       28,521      32,778
Reserve for depreciation                                     240            406         644       1 017      1 505       2 132      2.899      3,816       4884        6,073
Net fixed assets in operation (NFA)                        2,744          3,330       7,556       9,415     12.473      15,253     18,088    21,094       23,637      26,705
Construction in progress                                   4.197          8.927       7,093       8.943      8.349       9,991      8,734      7,461       6.628       5,185
Total                                              7.661         12.257      14.649      18,358     20_822      25.244     26,822    28,555       30,265      31,890
Current Assets
Cash                                                         148            429         331         448        475         506         545       592          644        700
Inventories                                                   75            205          246        308         355        411         470       503          538        571
Accounts ReceivabLe                                          198            303          391        514         653        823         999     1,139        1,248      1,354
Other                                                        264            281          281        281         281        281         281       281          281        281
Total                                                685          1218        1.249      1L551       1,764       2,021      2,295      2.515       2.711       2.906
TOTAL ASSETS                                       8,346         13,475      15,898      19,909     22,586      27,265     29,117    31,070       32,976      34,796
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Long-tens debt           .                                 5,931          9,825       12,131     15,467      17,834     22,082      23,865    23,297       26,697     27,905
Equity                                                     2,152          2.902       3,420       3,965       4,281      4,627       4,694     5,180        5.651      6.230
Total Capital                                      8,083         12,727      15,551      19 432     22,115      26,709     28,559    30,477       32,348      34,135
Current Liabiliti.s                                          263            748          347        477         471        556         558       593          628        661
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL                      8.346         13.475      15,898      19,909     22_586      27.265     2._117    31_070       32.976      3t,796
Debt/Total Capital (7.)                                        73            77           78         80          81         83          84        83           83         82



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Outline of Terms of Reference for Metering and Tariff Studies
Introduction
1.01      Each State Water Company in the States of Salvador, Pernambuco and
Ceara will undertake water supply and sewerage metering and tariff studies
in order to revise their tariff structures to achieve its resource allocation
objectives and to provide sound basis for the expansion of water supply and
sewerage services. Each tariff study will be presented for BNH approval and
submitted for Bank's comments not later than June 30, 1979.
Objectives
1.02      The purpose of the studies is to devise a tariff structure which
reflects as closely as possible the costs to the economy of meeting the
increasing demand for water and sewerage subject to the constraints imposed
by the revenue requirements of the State Water Companies in connection with
their financial objectives and by distributional objectives (e.g., subsidizing
minimal services for poorer consumers). The study will recommend a timetable
for the implementation of the proposed metering programs and the tariff
structures.
1.03      The tariff studies should follow these basic principles:
(a) the removal of subsidies to commercial and industrial customers
for water supply and sewerage services;
(b) the establishment of tariff structures progressive with respect
to volume; and
(c) the fulfillment of the financial covenants established in the
Loan Agreement for the SWCs.
Summary of Activities
1.04      To carry out the studies, the following main activities should be
undertaken:
(a) gathering of information on:
(i) existing tariffs,
(ii) demand levels,
(iii) income distribution,



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
(iv) operating and capital costs, and
(v) other relevant data;
(b)  identifying the incremental cost of services;
(c)  identifying and quantifying economic, financial and social
objectives to be served through the tariff design;
(d) comparing existing tariffs with incremental costs and the
tariff implications of financial and social objectives;
(e) making a cost-benefit analysis of consumption metering for
different consumer groups;
(f) analyzing the need for lower standards of service in low-
income areas;
(g)  formulating programs for meter installation and maintenance
and tariff proposals, integrating economic, financial and
social factors (assessing the affordability of low-income
groups); and
(h) proposing implementation schedules and procedures for the
recommended metering programs and tariff structures.



BRAZIL
(A)  Metropolitan Salvador                 NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INTERNAL FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN AND AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COSTS
INTERNAL FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN (IFRR)
(thousand UPCs of Dec. 1977)
C 0 S T S                  R t V E N U E S    N E T  R E V E,N-ULE S
Year  Construction  Operating &  Total          1          2          1          2                 As S U M P T I O N S
Costs       Mainterance
1978      1067            101      1168      167        167        (1001)      (1001)          Revenue 1:  Based on average tariff
1979      2811            207      3018      347        367        (2671)      (2651)           levels as of 1978 and assumed
1980      2484            261      2745      484       1089        (2261)      (1656)           constant in real terms thereafter.
1981      2312            315      2627      674         755       (1953)      (1872)                                               3
1982       495            371       886      753        902         (113)         36               Water Supply:  UPCs 16.3/000 m
1983       153            579       732      852       1011          120         279               Sewerage:  UPC 7.6/connection year
1984       154            650       804      943       1081          139         277
1985       164            736       900     1044       1183         143          283           Revenue 2:  Based on expected tariff
1986        199           785       984     1141       1295          157         311           levelresultingefron  finacial
1987        214           836      1050     1239       1407         189          357           levels resulting  from financial
1988        214           886      1100     1336       1517         236          417           covenant.
1989        214           937     1151      1434       1629         283          478
1990        231           990      1221     1535       1745         314          524
1991        231          1046      1277     1641       1866         364          589
1992        247          1107     1354      1757       1999         403         645
1993        264          1168     1432      1873       2132         441          700
1994        280          1233     1513      1997       2274         484          761
1995        231          1297     1528      2114       2408         586         880
1996-
2012       -           1337      1337      2167       2468         830        1131
IFRR 1:  4.1%
IFRR 2: 7.0%
IFRR 3:  3.4% 1/
01
1/ Using a shadow exchange rate factor of 1.3 and present tariff levels in real terms.



LONG RUN AV-h-RGE IN1t . NiL A
W A T E R  S U P P L Y                    S E W E R A G E                   A S S U M P T I O N S
Volume             Cost                Volume  3             Cost
Year                 3        (thousand UPC         (million m         (thousand UPC
(million m )       of Jan. 1978)        equivalent)         of Jan. 1978)
3,
1978          10.2               1,168                 _                    _                 0.46 million m3/
1979          20.7               2,469                 0.6                  549               connection year
1980          26.2               2,133                 3.4                  612
1981          32.0               2,094                 6.9                  533
1982          37.5                 656                 8.5                  210
1983          43.0                 342                 9.0                  150
1984          48.6                 614                 9.0                  150
1985          54.7                 711                 9.0                  150
1986          60.7                 782                 9.0                  150
1987          66.7                 844                 9.0                  150
1988          72.6                 894                 9.0                  150
1989          78.6                 945                 9.0                  150
1990          84.8               1,010                 9.0                  150
1991          91.3               1,066                 9.0                  150
1992          98.4               1,139                 9.0                  150
1993         105.5               1,213                 9.0                  150
1994         113.1               1,289                 9.0                  150
1995         120.3               1,317                 9.0                  150
1996-
2007        123.5              1,187                  9.0                  150
AICW:  22.24 UPC/000 m                    AICS!  36.82/000  3
=   5.1 Cr$/m3                            =   8.4 Cr$/m
xI
AICW:  23.50 UPC/OOOm3  1/                AICS:  38.93/OOOm3                                      , x
-   5.3 Cr$/m3                            =   8.8 Cr$/m3                                     
1/ Using a shadow exchange rate factor of 1.3.



(B) Recife
INTERNAL FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN (IFRR)
(thousand UPCs of Dec. 1977)
Year  Donstruction   operating &   Total        1        2            1           2                  A S S U M P T I E   N S
Costs        Maintenance
1978       -                 -       -                                                         Revenues 1:  Based on average tariff
1979     1,628              28    1,656       75        75          (1581)      (1581)         levels as of 1978 and assumed
1980     1,162              51    1,213      149       159          (1064)      (1054)         constant in real terms thereafter.
1981     1,762              75    1,837      348       340          (1489)      (1497)
1982       223              97       320     520       537          ( 200         217              Water Supply:  UPC 11.3/000 m3
1983        13             117       130     611       618            481         488              Sewerage: UPC 6.9/economic year
1984        17             126       143     701       716            558         573          Revenues 2:  Based on expected
1985        21             133       154     805       825            651         671          average tariff levels resulting from
1986-                                                                                          financial covenant.
2012       -              133       133     805       825            672         692
IFRR 1: 12.3%
IFRR 2: 12.6%
IFRR 3: 11.2%
fD p
0
?lfi
1/  Using a shadow exchange rate factor of 1.3 and present tariff levels in real terms.                                         7



LONG RUN AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COST (AIC)
W A T E R  S U P P L Y                       S E W E R A G E                  A S S U M P T I O N S
Volume               Cost                 Volume                Cost
Year   (m.il 3i            (thousand UPCs         (million m3          (thousand UPCs
MilllOIon IU       of Jan. 1978)          equivalent)           of Jan. 1978)
1978                                                                                            0.56 million m /
1979          6.0             1,074                   0.6                  582                  ,,
1980        12.0                446                   1.1                  767                   economia-year
1981        18.0              1,094                  11.8                  743
1982         24.0               255                  20.2                   65
1983         29.0                64                  23.0                   66
1984         29.0                64                  30.2                   79
1985         29.0                64                  38.6                   90
1986-
2007       29.0                 64                  38.6                   69
AICW:  12.94 UPC/ooo m3                   AICS:  9.52 UPC/ooo m 3
=   2.9  Cr$/m3                           =  2.2  Cr$/m 3
AICW:  13.99 UPC/OOOm3 1/                 AICS:  10.27 UPC/OOOm3 1/
=   3.2 Cr$/m3                            =   2.3  Cr$/m3
VD
0 UefO
1/ Using a shadow exchange rate factor of 1.3.



(C) Fortaleza
INTERNAL FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN (IFRR)
(thousand UPCs of Dec. 1977)
COSTS                          REVENUES       NET REVENUES                        ASSUMPTIONS
Year    Construction  Maint.& Oper. Total              1      2         1         2
1978            73            -            73         -        -    (  73)   (  73)          Revenues:  Based on average tariff
1979          1930           38          1968         21      25    (1947)   (1943)          levels as of 1978 and assumed constant
1980           645           42           687         42      54    ( 645)    ( 633)         in real terms thereafter
1981           680          235           915        248    338    ( 667)    ( 577)
1982           905          261         1166         326    532    ( 840)    ( 634)              Water Supply:  UPC 9.7/000 m3
1983           100          326           426        415    662    (  11)        236              Sewerage: UPC 4.2/connection year
1984           110          392           502        504    810          2       308
1985           121          460           581        593    956         12       375         Revenues 2:  Based on expected tariff
1986           132          541           673        692   1116         19       443         levels resulting fron financial
1987           145          670           815        839   1356         24       541         covenant.
1988           158          690           848        880   1420         32       572
1989           170          750           920        958   1547         38       627
1990
2012            -           750           750       1000   1613        250       863
IFRR 1: 1.8%
IFRR 2: 12.0%
IFRR 3: 1.2%
a/  Using a shadow exchange rate factor of 1.3, and present tariff levels in real terms.                                               X X
'0
0ll



LONG RUN AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COST (AIC)
W A T E R  S U P P L Y                       S E W E R A G E              A S S U M P T I O N S
Volume                      ~~~~~Volume               Cost
Year        Volume           Cost                (million m3             (thousand UPC
(million m3)    (thousand UPC           equivalent)            of Jan. 1978)
of Jan. 1978)
1978                             -                      -                    -                 0.42 million m3/
1979          -                 1578                  2.1                    390                connection year
1980          -                  588                  4.2                     99
1981         19.0                484                  6.3                    431
1982         25.0                707                  8.4                    459
1983         32.0                292                 10.5                    134
1984         39.0                347                 12.6                    155
1985         46.0                404                 14.7                    177
1986         54.0                471                 16.8                    202
1987         67.0                588                 18.9                    227
1988         69.0                600                 21.0                    248
1989         75.0                648                 23.1                    272
1990-
2007        78.0               587                 24.4                     163
AICW:  14.60 UPC/OO0  m 3               AICS:  16.42 UPC/O00 m
5   3.3 Cr$/m3                          =   3.7 Cr$/m3
AICW:  15.24UPC/OOOm  1/               AICS:  17.16 UPC/00Om3  1/
=   3.5 CrO/W3                          =   3,9 Cr$/m3                 
0%
0'
1/ Using a shadow exchange rate factor of 1.3.



ANNEX 10
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECTS
Documents Available in Project File
1.   BNH Basic Legislation.
2.   BNH Audited Financial Statements, 1976 and 1977.
3.   BNH Annual Budgets, 1976-1980.
4.   BNH Annual Reports, 1976 and 1977.
5.   BNH Credit Lines.
6.   Accounting Manual for SWCs.
7.   Audited Financial Statements for the SWCs, 1976 and 1977.
8.   Training Program for Brazil SWCs, January 1977 - ABES.  Two volumes.
9.   Status of Water Supply and Sewerage Service Levels in the urban
areas under SUDENE - June 1977.
10.   Investment programs, cost estimates and project maps for the SWCs.
11.   Justificative analysis for water treatment works in Salvador.
12.   Poverty impact analysis - June 1978.



I B R D  13716
AUGUST  1A78
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
THE NORTHEAST REGION
_MAlN RAODS:
P AVED
UNPAVED
N -  vTATA- AtE    ROINDAR SES
\   ;  tv   ,   ;>,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s 7  ATES NCILUNDEi THE PROJEtT
Hi,<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
i'{~~~~~~ (L    20N                                   NT)       CL 
I~~~~ ME[r                                                    ,-                                 >        .0wrz= w






4-   f4W'                                                  44                            42                                                                                          i-l 
B  R A Z  IL9OT1990
WATER  SUPPLY  AND  SEWERAGE  PROJECT                                                . -
-/ .*       I~                                                              THE  NORTHEAST   REGION
I'                    -.   ,         -                             RAINFALL  AND   PROBABILITY   OF  DROUGHT
*2'                                                                                                                                                              d. P-'
D A D A   .*             -  - ' .  . r  -               .P IA   U -.  bo
G O I A S 
PARA1                      ;              8 \ \  *~-         ': LAINFALL
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(~~~~ ... >S~_. .. ...                                                           Rt 1REoding si.-t
g   .;                       W.:>                             :> ;- . i,    , i  -~~~~~~~~~~~~"L           PRO8ABI.ITY OF DROUGHT
ITTEDERAL                                                                                                                                                -$       ,  61 - 8ClN
|DISTRIC  I                                                                              %r                                                            41 - 60%
s  r32 R AsI L | t  ,                            -  .t                               .                    : 0 . . . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 1 - 40 .%
_16   0                         :  ~~~~~~~M  I N  A  S  G  E R A  I S                                                                          0.4'     - 20%                             le
\                                                       :j              !                       ---  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Srors, B-ud- r-e
/ '-DYprdBon r Be-wenCer & P-1,
,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- --v                                 -EPI RI TO.~                                         
t    I6+   4E  - G r l                .4U                            4,D (   S A~-_jL__2 N T 9 0 ,             






_______________! ___________________                                                                                                                            IBRD  13718
r  -                                                                                                                   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPTEMBER 1975
[                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~CANDEIAS
B R A Z I L        RC
C)U   T H              ,.,,                                            g                                               F_ ,,    /
h  ~~~O~~~UTH~ BRASILIA
,_~~~~~                                                                                                                       ~ I Ql   ;re-   1SJ        f 
_55.w/ 1.                                                                      im&   /1   ,  Soo  \, - . u , \ \ 0 / SlklCES FILHO.ARi
___50__p'__________________,,I                                                                                                            DO JOAA.1S
KwLOMETERS                                                                                                                 LJR  DE-
~~~~~~~~  ; I    [5        d.',,  -    /
a1                 WAJZEIA             R S              A                       G  PrOJEC
KILOMETERS  1      \        :::5.m /Xt       tf                                             LAU~~~~~~~      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ROEamn  Wi; er
4~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ae Mom                                                          Plant S,rg .Tanks-.t,s  /<F  |g
X ': t ;<X; / / / CAJAZI Ae  r                                                                Prs          U
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Secnday Access Road                                                         .u,r 
W t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRAZIL
ALVADOR,, jgA VADO                                        WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
MA -                                                                                     Cit  of Salvador\i  _U.     [   ,
,',,,, A./ 2 i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E$.4C l -                                         I IiiWter Mcins  _bnts   Storaige Tonks
1i F / I . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mrain Access Roads                                             Proposedli 
V   I  I                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secondary Access Roads  - Future         
Railroads                        '    Exishng     /E,L
Built-up Areas                        Under Construction






6-0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
0 0 0 ~~~00 
j  00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
'5    x 2"~~~~~~~~~~~~I ~;
~~~0~~~~0 , ~ ~     l                                                                T'i0
0'  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l jt 






__________________________________                                                                                                                    BRO  13720~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[B D172
.01                                                                                                                                                                                         18ePTM.0E  9178
I
a' i tLR
//  /./\r S  /; 7 ziSREWa/'ter  Supply and Sewerage Pralect
ZA'am ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ IY   FFRTLZ
y ain Sewerags ro
- X       It-ap AI,pp,areas g t
O R 4 O ~A                                                                                                                                                                     g Zr7we   EeN r ;u2. 7G  ....................................._
{  /   A lf   />le_restrlenlD<-~~~~~~~~~~~   1                           XS=          -dT'-!'F,                  o         !         o         3         4         5  e~~~~~~-fi~
t e L ! ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Pot.ls                                                                                    t-eDm    ,Ml-           3    l



