Document of
The World Bank   F Q   ZOPY
Report No. P-2447-BR
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
January 17, 1979
This report may not be published nor may it be quoted as representing the views of the World Bank.
The World Bank does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977       November 20, 1978
Currency Unit     -      Cruzeiro (Cr$)             Cr$
US$1              -      Cr$14.1                   20.05
Cr$1              -      US$0.07                    0.05
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
3NH      -   Banco Nacional da Habitacao
CAGECE   -   Companhia de Agua e Esgoto do Ceara
COMPESA  -   Companhia Pernambucana de Saneamento
EMBASA   -   Empresa Bahiana de Aguas e Saneamento S.A.
PAHO     -   Pan-American Health Organization
PLAN4SA  -   Plano Nacional de Saneamento
ORTN     -   Obligacoes Reajustaveis do Tesoro Nacional
SABESP   -   Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo
$ATECIA      Programa de Asistencia Tecnica para o Desenvolvimento
Institucional das Empresas Estaduais de Saneamento
S/SFS        Superintendencia do Sistema Financeiro do Saneamento
SUDENE   -   Superintencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Banco Nacional da Habitacao
Guarantor:          Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiaries:      Empresa Bahiana de Aguas e Saneamento S.A. - EMBASA;
Companhia de Agua e Esgoto do Ceara - CAGECE; and
Companhia Pernambucana de Saneamento - COMPESA.
Amount:             US$100 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace,
at 7 % per annum
Relending Terms
to Final
Beneficiaries:    Repayment in 20 to 24 years, including 1 to 3 years of
grace at 4.0% to 5.0% p.a. on the indexed principal, plus
various one-time fees amounting to about 2% of loan amount.
Project
Description:      The project would extend water supply services to 2.3
million people and sewerage services to 1.2 million people
in the northeastern states of Bahia, Ceara and Pernambuco.
It would also improve the provision of water supply to 5.3
million people who now receive a deficient service in the
same states. The project would include construction of
water production, treatment, storage and distribution
-       facilities and about 125,000 house connections in the
capital cities of the three states; execution of metering,
leak detection and control programs in capital cities
and major towns; construction of sewage collection and
disposal facilities in capital cities and major urban
centers; and expansion and improvement of water supply
systems in about 35 medium-sized cities and 285 small
villages, most of them in rural areas. The project would
also include tariff studies and consultancy services for
the three state water companies which would be the
executing agencies. It is estimated that 61% of the final
beneficiaries of water supply investments in the capital
cities would belong to families having incomes below the
relative poverty level. In rural areas this proportion
would be higher. In the case of sewerage investments,
about 37% of the direct final beneficiaries would have
incomes below the relative poverty level. Indirect
benefits in terms of water pollution control would sub-
stantially accrue to the urban poor. The project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
involves the administrative risks associated with carrying
out complex and large investment programs by state water
companies. However, the experience already gained by the
companies under previous expansions and the subproject
preparation and eligibility criteria developed should
ensure the successful execution of the project.
Estimated Cost:                                         --------US$ Million----
Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Works and Equipment
Water Supply                     85.9      64.6    150.5
Sewerage                         59.5      14.2      73.7
Engineering and
Technical Assistance             17.1       0.6      17.7
162.6     79.3    241.9
Physical Contingencies             18.0       8.6      26.6
Price Contingencies                22.5      12.0      34.5
40.5     20.6      61.1
Total                          203.0    100.0    303.0
Financial Plan:      Proposed IBRD Loan                                    100.0
States Water Supply and
Sewerage Revolving Funds                           151.5
Banco Nacional da Habitacao                            51.5
303.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                        --------…      US$ Million--------------
Bank FY79  1980    1981    1982    1983
Annual                0.5      22.2    34.8    21.4    11.1
Cumulative            0.5      22.7    57.5    88.9   100.0
Rate of Return:      The most important project benefits are not meaningfully
quantifiable since they relate to improvements in the
health and living conditions of the population. The
internal financial rate of return (conservatively used as
a proxy for the minimum economic rate of return) for
subprojects in capital cities is estimated at 10%. The
internal financial rate of return for subprojects in
medium-sized cities and small villages is expected to be
somewhat lower.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO (BNH)
FOR A WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT IN THE NORTHEAST OF BRAZIL
1.        I  ubmit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH) with the guarantee of the Federative
Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$100 million to help finance a
water supply and sewerage project in the northeastern states of Bahia, Ceara
and Pernambuco. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of
grace, with interest at 7% p.a.. Proceeds of the loan would be relent
to the state water companies of Bahia, Ceara and Pernambuco at 4% to 5% per
annum (plus various one-time fees amounting to about 2% of the loan amount)
with principal subject to monetary correction in accordance with changes in
the national treasury bond index. Relending would be for 19 to 21 years
including grace periods of 1 to 3 years. Payments due to the Bank but not yet
collected from the companies would be met from the general resources of BNH.
PART I - THE ECONOMY *
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (1665a-BR),
dated October 13, 1977, was distributed to the Executive Directors on
October 21, 1977. An economic mission visited Brazil in April 1978. A new
economic report to be issued shortly is being prepared. The following para-
graphs as well as the country data sheets attached as Annex I to this report
reflect the findings and projections of that mission.
Recent Economic Performance
3.        During the late 1960s and early 1970s, Brazil achieved very rapid
economic growth together with much reduced inflation rates and a good balance-
of-payments performance. Net capital inflows fluctuated between I and 2.5% of
GDP. The petroleum crisis of late 1973 and the ensuing world recession cum
inflation produced a sharp deterioration in the balance of payments and infla-
tion accelerated. Brazil's response was more successful than that of most
LDCs, even though, with 80% of its petroleum imported, it was particularly
hard hit. The growth rates of the economy and of prices were:
General
GDP               Price Index
1973              14.0                    15.1
1974               9.8                   28.7
1975               5.6                   27.7
1976               9.2                   41.3
1977               4.7                   42.7
*    This section has been reprinted from the President's Report on the
Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project (Report No.P-2442-
BR of January 4, 1979).



- 2 -
The maintenance of high rates of growth after 1973 required large amounts of
external financing. Gross capital inflows averaged $9 billion in 1974-77,
compared to $6 billion in 1973. Government policies were to keep imports
approximately constant through a combination of import restrictions and import
substitution; to maintain investment levels; and to continue to stimulate
non-traditional exports.
4.        The major problem facing Brazil after the onset of the petroleum
crisis was the merchandise trade balance, which turned into a large deficit in
1974, as a result of a doubling in the value of imports. Since then, under
the influence of the policies described below, the trade balance gradually
improved, and turned again into a small surplus in 1977, helped in part by the
favorable trend of coffee and soy export prices in 1976 and in the first half
of 1977. In 1978, on the other hand, agricultural exports have been adversely
affected by falling commodity prices and have suffered the impact of a severe
drought in Brazil's most important agricultural states. As a result, primary
product exports are estimated to have fallen by more than $1 billion. This
shortfall has been largely offset by increased manufactured exports which are
rising very rapidly. Total exports, thus, are estimated to have remained at
about the same level as in 1977. The merchandise trade account has shown a
deficit of about US$1 billion because of increasing imports. Borrowing require-
ments will continue to be high because of rising debt service payments.
5.        During 1977, at the same time as the balance of payments was improv-
ing, the Government began to make some headway in the fight against inflation,
by placing more rigid limitations on credit expansion and more effective
restraints on public sector investment. By May 1978, the annual rate of
inflation, which had accelerated sharply in 1976, was reduced to 35%, as
compared to 47% a year earlier. The restrictions on public investment played
a major role in the program to control aggregate demand. The overall size of
the public investment program leveled off in real terms in 1977, after a
decade of strong growth which had, in recent years, come to place a signifi-
cant amount of strain on available resources. In 1977, in addition, ceilings
were placed on the lending programs of the National Economic Development Bank,
the National. Housing Bank, and other official credit agencies. These measures
reinforced the impact of increasingly stringent policies in other areas,
including increases in bank reserve requirements and continued curbs on con-
sumer and real estate credit designed to dampen speculative demand and reverse
inflationary expectations. The anti-inflationary program induced a slowdown
in the rate of growth of GDP, from 9.2% in 1976 to 4.7% in 1977. The growth
of manufacturing industry dropped to 2.3%, reflecting a slackening of both
consumer demand and gross fixed investment.
6.        While information on economic trends during 1978 is still fragmentary,
it appears that a recovery of industrial activity has taken place in 1978.
Agricultural output, on the other hand, grew very little because of widespread
crop failures caused by the drought, and the overall rate of growth of the
economy is not believed to have exceeded 5%. The Government has maintained
its anti-inflationary monetary and fiscal policies. Credit policy remained
tight and current public sector investment plans did not call for a significant
increase in investment in real terms, except in the priority sectors of
petroleum, electric power and steel. The overall increase in public investment



- 3 -
has probably not exceeded 5%. However, a number of factors have led to some
intensification of inflationary pressures in 1978. In the first place,
inflation was affected by the drought, as the decline in food production put
pressure on the cost of living. Moreover, on the wage front some industrial
workers in the state of Sao Paulo were able in May-June 1978 to negotiate
increases significantly above the annual inflation adjustment and the slight
real increase authorized by the official guidelines. Finally, as the Govern-
ment has continued to take advantage of favorable conditions in the inter-
national financial markets to borrow in excess of requirements and build up
exchange reserves, there has been a large inflow of external capital into the
economy.  Although steps were taken to minimize the domestic impact of this
inflow by sterilizing the funds temporarily at the Central Bank, the pace of
inflation has accelerated to approximately 42% a year.
Poverty Programs
7.        Brazil is a country with great income inequalities and extensive
poverty. While the debate on income distribution goes on, and the statistical
evidence remains inconclusive, in recent years the Brazilian Government has
made serious efforts towards the relief of poverty. During the Administration
of President Geisel social programs have increasingly been designed to meet
the needs of the lower income groups. Although the provision of basic social
services such as health, education and housing is still very inadequate, there
has been significant progress in many areas. The coverage of the social
security program has been expanded in the urban areas and extended to rural
populations in the early 1970s. The urban public health care system now
covers more than 70% of the urban population. In the rural sector, a system
of cash transfer to poorer old persons has been established. By 1978 virtually
all rural persons over 65 years of age received the equivalent of US$30 per
month per household--a very substantial income supplement equal to almost
twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural Northeast and a much
higher proportion for the poorer rural recipients. A similar program covers
the urban population over 70. Literacy of the population aged 10 and over has
increased from 48% in 1950 to 67% in 1970, and between 1970 and 1974 the adult
literacy program (MOBRAL) enrolled some 7 million persons. In the area of
urban housing, the National Housing Bank (BNH) has made over 1.7 million loans
over the period 1964-77. Beginning in 1975, a new sites and services program
(PROFILURB) was established to serve the urban poor and in 1977 this was
complemented by a program to finance the purchase of construction materials.
Increased priority has also been placed on improving urban water supply. The
percentage of urban dwellings connected to general water supply networks rose
from 54% in 1970 to 61% in 1973, and it appears likely to reach at least 70%
by 1980.  Available evidence suggests that malnutrition remains one of the
most serious social problems in Brazil.  Beginning in 1973, the Government
established a National Nutrition Program (PRONAN) to attack the problem.
Long-Term Prospects
8.        During the past decade, the Brazilian economy grew at an average
rate of 10% a year. The Government has now recognized the need for moderating
growth because of the balance-of-payments constraint and to contain inflation.



- 4 -
In broad terms, a growth rate of 6 to 7% a year is probably needed to absorb
new entrants into the labor force and permit the continued transfer of man-
power from low to high productivity areas and sectors. GDP growth rates in
that range seem feasible through 1980, and growth might accelerate to 8 to 9%
a year in the 1980s. The assumptions underlying this projection include a
significant growth of export volume (at a rate of about 10% a year in 1980-85).
The terms of trade are expected to turn against Brazil sharply in 1978-80, but
should improve again slowly after 1982. Coffee prices are expected to level
off in the early 1980s, but to resume their rise subsequently. Soybean prices
should improve earlier. The growth of manufactured exports volume is projected
to range between 15 and 18% a year until 1983, and taper off gradually there-
after, to 10% in the late 1980s. Assuming a continuation of present import
substitution policies, a sizeable trade surplus would begin to emerge by 1980
and the current account deficit would narrow in the early 1980s to about $3
billion or 1% of GDP as compared to 4-5% in 1974-76. The rate of growth of
the external debt would slow down considerably in the 1980s. In the late
1980s, the growth of imports is expected to accelerate as import-substitution
projects are completed and the import ratio to GDP can be expected to increase
as a result. At the same time the exceptional momentum of export growth can
be expected to slow down as the absolute magnitude of Brazil's non-traditional
exports becomes large by world standards. As a result, the current account
deficit of the balance of payments is projected to increase somewhat in
nominal terms, although it would still remain below 1% of GDP.
9.        This outlook rests on a number of basic assumptions, including, in
particular, the expectation of a relatively favorable world economic situation
and the continued expansion of market opportunities for manufactured exports.
Although there are indications of increasing protectionism in industrial
countries, Brazilian commercial policy has so far proven extremely flexible.
Brazil can be expected to diversify its export products and markets and revise
its commercial strategy within a wide range of options to overcome emerging
obstacles in international trade. Even under a less favorable set of assump-
tions, however, Brazil can still be expected to sustain a long-term growth
rate of about 6.5% a year, a growth rate which would constitute a reasonably
good performance, and would in all likelihood be adequate to satisfy the
expected demand for employment opportunities.
10.       Brazil's current development strategy was defined in the second
National Development Plan (1975-79). It relies on rapid expansion of both
agriculture and industry. Agriculture grew by an impressive 5% per year over
the past decade, largely by expansion of land under cultivation. The culti-
vated area makes up less than 5% of Brazil's surface, and there is every
indication that rapid agricultural growth will continue to meet both export
and domestic demands, though the development of frontier lands will become
progressively more expensive. In the industrial sector, manufacturing has
been expanding at the average rate of 11% over the past 10 years. In the late
1960s and early 1970s the leading sectors were automobiles, consumer durables
and light equipment, with basic industry lagging behind. Since 1975, however,
Brazil's strategy has been to promote a more balanced pattern of industrial
growth and reduce dependence on imports by emphasizing heavy industry. One



element of this policy involves stepping up the development of Brazil's raw
material resources to supply industrial input needs. Large investment programs
are now being carried out, often with substantial public sector involvement,
in steel, petrochemicals, fertilizers, pulp and paper, non-ferrous metals and
cement. At the same time, Brazil is building up its capability in the
machinery and equipment sectors, moving into the production of heavy and
more sophisticated equipment, and equipment made to order. The recent decision
to build the turbines for the Itaipu dam (one of the largest in the world) in
Brazil reflects the growing capability of the sector. The National Economic
Development Bank (BNDE) is supporting these efforts through its large credit
program.
11.       Public sector investment plays a key role in Brazilian national
development plans. Defined broadly, public sector investment accounts for
more than half of total fixed investment in the Brazilian economy. Federal
investment has been heavily concentrated in infrastructure and basic industry.
These two areas together account for about 70% of total investment by federal
Government agencies and enterprises. Regional development and social programs
absorb most of the remaining 30%. Until 1975, the rapid expansion of public
investment reflected a heavy emphasis on road construction and regional devel-
opment. The Second National Development Plan added the massive program
of import substitution in basic industrial inputs, and an acceleration in
the pace of social programs. Since 1977, with the restraints placed on
public investment, road and rail transport expansion plans have been cut back
sharply. Investments in electric power, on the other hand, are maintained at
a high level. In basic industries such as steel, non-ferrous metals and
petroleum, investments are being stepped up considerably. The share of
regional development programs in total federal investment has now stabilized
at about 7%. The percentage allocated to social investment is increasing
gradually, reflecting continued expansion of federal investment in housing,
water supply and sewerage, and other urban development programs. State and
municipal governments also devote a substantial proportion of their resources
to health, education, welfare and other public services.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
12.       Although Brazil's resource gap may be expected to turn into a
surplus in the early 1980s - barring major unforeseen developments in the
world economy - and its balance-of-payments current account deficit is
expected to be reduced by half in 1980 as compared to the levels reached
in 1974-1976, external capital requirements will remain high in 1979-84
because of heavy debt service payments. The gross capital inflow needed
during 1979-84 is projected at US$10.7 billion annually, compared with a
US$8.3 billion average medium- and long-term capital inflow (including net
direct foreign investment) in 1974-77. Of this, gross disbursements of
suppliers' credits are expected to average US$1.6 billion a year, bond issues
are projected to continue at she current annual rate of US$1 billion and
the gross inflow of financial credits needed should average US$5.2 billion a
year over the 1979-84 period, or about the same as in 1974-77. This level of
borrowing would represent mostly the roll-over of existing credits. In
contrast to the period 1974-77, when financial credits supplied a net inflow
of US$3.8 billion a year, the net contribution from this source is expected to



- 6 -
drop to less than US$1 billion a year, on average, in 1979-84. The remainder
would be made up of direct private investments and bilateral and multilateral
credits.
13.       On December 31, 1977, Brazil's public and publicly guaranteed
medium- and long-term external debt amounted to $19.3 billion. Financial
credits make up a little more than half of this amount. Total external debt
(both public and private) registered by the Central Bank at the end of 1977
was $32.0 billion. Of this total, $21.5 billion, or about two-thirds, was in
the form of financial credits. During 1977, the share of financial credits in
total debt outstanding declined slightly, as a result of an increase in net
disbursements by multilateral agencies and bilateral lenders, and a significant
rise in bond issues. The share of public and publicly guaranteed debt in
total external debt has continued to increase, largely reflecting the growing
needs of public sector entities for investment capital. Reflecting this
change in the composition of the total debt, the public debt service ratio is
expected to rise from about 20% in 1977 to 31% in 1978. The net debt service
ratio (debt service less interest earned on reserves) on the total external
debt, which reached 49% of exports of goods and non-factor services in 1977,
is also expected to increase to about 55% in 1978. This ratio will be high in
1978, because of the exceptional factors depressing Brazilian exports in that
year, but can be expected to improve steadily beginning in 1979 and fall
gradually to about 28% in 1985. The public debt service ratio can also be
expected to decline from its 1978 peak, as a result of the growth of exports
and the improvement of the debt profile.
14.       During 1974-77 Brazil has been able to finance a cumulative
current account deficit of nearly $25 billion, while increasing reserves by
more than $1 billion and improving the terms on which it obtains credit in the
world financial markets. With the balance-of-payments deficit on current
account expected to continue to improve in the early eighties, and with
further improvement in the terms of new borrowing, the rate of growth of debt
service payments should slow to an average of about 5% a year in 1980-85, as
compared to more than 25% a year during the period 1974-77. In sum, Brazil
may be expected to remain fully creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
15.       By October 31, 1978 the Bank had made 82 loans to Brazil, amounting
to US$3,887.4 million, of which 42 were not yet fully disbursed. During
FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year, reaching US$248
million in FY75, US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77 and US$252
million in FY78. The decline in disbursements in FY76 was due primarily to
the reduced level of lending in FY73-74. Disbursements are expected to
increase during the next few years. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans as of October 31, 1978 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.



16.       Over the FY75-FY77 period, Bank lending to Brazil amounted to
between US$400 and US$500 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made
totalling US$426.5 million; in FY76, ten loans totalling US$498 million; and
in FY77 seven loans totalling US$425 million. In FY78, nine loans totalling
US$705 million were made. Work is advanced on the preparation of an indus-
trial pollution control project in Sao Paulo; an aluminum project; a second
irrigation project in the lower Sao Francisco river valley; a power distri-
bution project in southern Brazil; a medium-sized cities development project
and two rural development projects in the northeast. We expect to propose
loans for these projects in the near future.
17.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1977, amounting to nearly US$19.3 billion, the Bank held about 8.0%.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 7.0%. When Brazil's
total (public and private) external debt is considered, the Bank's share in
the total outstanding at the end of 1977 was 4.8%, and its share in Brazil's
external debt service was about 2.9%. By 1980, the ratios of the Bank's share
in total outstanding debt and in total debt service are expected to rise to
6.2% and 3.3%, respectively.
18.       As of Ocober 31, 1978, IFC commitments to Brazil, totalled US$395.2
million, of which US$265.4 million had been cancelled, repaid or sold. Of the
balance of US$129.8 million, US$98.7 million represent loans and US$31.1
million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of October 31, 1978 is given
in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
19.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is
to help to intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop
projects that will increase productivity and income of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. The loans for nutrition
research and development, vocational training, agricultural research, agricul-
tural extension and polder construction in the Lower Sao Francisco as well as
for integrated rural development in the States of Rio Grande do Norte, Minas
Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba and Bahia were all designed to assist low-income groups
in rural areas. The loans for water supply and sewerage in the State of
Minas Gerais and in Greater Sao Paulo and for urban transport in five major
cities are assisting to improve the living conditions of the urban population,
particularly the urban poor. Additional projects designed to assist low-income
groups in rural areas are in preparation, including a rural education project,
several integrated rural development projects in the Northeast and a second
irrigation project in the lower Sao Francisco river valley. Also, several
projects to reach low-income groups in urban areas are in preparation: a
medium-sized cities development project, a water supply and sewerage project
for southern Brazil, and a second urban transport project. The proposed
project would better the standard of living of the urban population,
particularly the poor, in the Northeast of Brazil by providing water supply
and sewerage services.



- 8 -
20.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and help
maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically through
rational selection of investment projects. This institution-building objective
has been important in Bank assistance, for example, in the transportation
sector where there has been emphasis on the rational selection of investments,
the strengthening of railway operations, and the improvement of railways'
financial performance and in the power sector as well. The proposed project
would assist the three beneficiary state water companies to improve their
operations, strengthen their financial management and enhance their project
planning and execution capabilities. We expect that the experience gained
from structuring the proposed project will be instrumental for the development
of similar projects in other areas of the Northeast.
21.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic
policy. Lending for the electric power sector supports this objective, since
it is based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the
need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemical
projects is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient
domestic production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Bank lending
for agro-industries in the Center and South of Brazil is also supporting this
objective and much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector --
railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and
economical flow of exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping
Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can
be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high-
grade iron ore and the scale of its internal markets. A similar objective
would be achieved through the aluminum project being prepared.
22.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence in
Brazil and encourages others to continue their own programs there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation is
helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institu-
tions than may have otherwise been provided. Eight co-financing operations
for about US$275 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private financial
institutions and several others are in preparation.



- 9 -
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Introduction
23.       The proposed loan to BNH would be the Bank's sixth loan for the
water supply and sewerage sector in Brazil and the first for this purpose in
the Northeast. Five loans totalling US$223 million have been extended. In
1971, two loans were made for Greater Sao Paulo, one for US$22.0 million for
water distribution and storage (Loan 757-BR) and the other for US$15 million
for sewage collection and disposal (Loan 758-BR). These two loans were
assumed by the water company of the state of Sao Paulo (SABESP) in 1974 after
it had taken over the functions of the original borrowers. The original
objective of Loan 757-BR to help extend water supply services to 2.4 million
people in the municipality of Sao Paulo, has been exceeded. By 1977, water
services had been extended to 3.3 million people. The project financed under
Loan 758-BR suffered initial delays resulting mainly from problems in the
management of the original borrower, SANESP. SABESP, however, brought the
sewerage works included under the project to a successful completion.
24.       In 1974, a loan was made to Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH) for
US$36.0 million (Loan 1009-BR) for relending to the state water company of
Minas Gerais for water supply and sewerage subprojects. A second loan for
US$40 million for the same purpose followed in 1976 (Loan 1309-BR). These two
loans are now fully committed. The first, to 41 subprojects of which 10 are
under construction and 31 completed. The second, to 65 subprojects in cities
of less than 5,000 inhabitants, 38 subprojects in cities of between 5,000 and
20,000 inhabitants and several subprojects in Greater Belo Horizonte.
Execution of subprojects is well advanced and progressing satisfactorily.
25.       The most recent loan for US$110.0 million, and also made to BNH, was
approved in early FY78 (Loan 1525-BR). It is assisting in the financing of a
very large sewage collection and treatment project for Greater Sao Paulo which
forms part of a priority program of water pollution control. Execution of
this project has started on schedule.
26.       The state water companies of Sao Paulo and Minas Gerais, have had
considerable financial problems because of their inability to receive adequate
tariff increases to finance their operations. Recently, the Government has
approved a 36% increase in their tariffs effective on January 1, 1979 which
will allow both companies to achieve a satisfactory financial condition.
However, the water company of Minas Gerais may require a further tariff
increase in mid-1979. For the future, it is expected that the application of
the recently approved tariff legislation (see para. 33) will allow them to
operate within a framework of financial discipline.
Sector Organization
27.       Municipalities have traditionally had responsibility for the pro-
vision of water supply and sewerage services in Brazil. During the sixties,



- 10 -
the acceleration of the urbanization process coupled with the financial,
technical and managerial inability of the municipalities to provide even
minimum services prompted the Federal and State Governments to build and
finance new water and sewerage systems with budget grants to satisfy the most
urgent needs. In this way, some US$700 million were invested in urban and
rural sanitation between 1960 and 1970. However, in 1970, the situation was
far from satisfactory and rapidly deteriorating. Less than 60% of the urban
population had public water service; and less than 30%, sewage collection
services. These facts, together with manifest administrative and financial
weakness of municipal governments further aggravated by rapid urbanization
made apparent to the Federal Government the need to establish a nationwide
program to finance, promote and coordinate the development of the water supply
and sewerage sector.
28.       In 1971, the Government launched the Plano Nacional de Saneamento -
PLANASA (National Sanitation Plan), under the aegis of the Banco Nacional de
Habitacao - BNH (National Housing Bank), to increase the availability of water
and sewerage services to the urban population. The initial goals of the
program were to provide water services to 80% and sewerage services to 50%
of the urban population by 1980. These goals were revised in 1975 to estab-
lish more realistic targets for the large cities and include the smaller
communities under the program. The present goals of the program are: to
provide water services to 80% of the urban population in 80% of the urban
communities (including Brazil's nine metopolitan areas); extensive sewerage
services to all of the state capitals and main urban centers (over 50,000
inhabitants); and some sewerage services to smaller urban communities. In
these respects, it should be noted that the Brazilian definition of urban
population includes people living in small communities which are mostly
located in rural areas. Over the 1971-83 period, the Government plans to
invest US$6.6 billion equivalent in the sector. So far, about US$2.5 billion
has been invested.
29.       The PLANASA program is financed one-half by BNH and one-half by
the states through revolving water and sewerage funds (Fundos de Agua e
Esgotos - FAE). BNH makes its loans to its financial agent in each state
(usually the state commercial bank) at interest rates varying from 2% p.a. in
the poorest states in the Northeast to 8% p.a. in the relatively more pros-
perous states of the South and Center of Brazil. Principal and interest are
adjusted in accordance with changes in the national treasury bond index (ORTN
index). 1/ The financial agent relends the proceeds of BNH loans to the state
water company at one percentage point above BNH's rate. The states lend
FAE resources to their water companies on somewhat softer terms than those
applicable to BNH loans, but in all cases loans are subject to monetary
correction. FAE resources are obtained from allocations of up to 5% of the
states' annual tax revenues. In cases where 5% of a state's revenues is not
sufficient to meet the state's 50% financing commitment to the program, BNH
extends supplementary loans to the state to cover this shortfall.
1/   Inflation in Brazil in the years 1975-77 was 28%, 41% and 43% respec-
tively and is expected to average about 40% p.a. during 1978-80. The
ORTN index used in public sector lending increased by 24%, 37% and 30%
over the same period and is expected to increase 32% p.a. on average
during 1978-80.



- 11 -
30.       Recently, BNH has started a new program in support of small communi-
ties (of less than 5,000 inhabitants). This program has two subprograms.
Under one subprogram, BNH provides financial assistance to the states for
carrying out water supply projects in small communities. BNH makes loans to
its financial agents for relending to their respective states. The amount of
BNH loans is equivalent to the amount that the states make available to their
water companies, substantially as a capital contribution, for projects in
small communities. Under the other, BNH provides financial assistance to the
state water companies. BNH makes loans to its financial agents for relending
to their respective states. The states make available the proceeds of BNH
loans, together with an equivalent amount from their own budgetary resources,
to their water companies, substantially as a capital contribution, for projects
in small communities. This new program is expected to allow the state water
companies to step up the level of their investments in small communities
without unduly impairing their financial position.
31.       The main focus of the PLANASA program is to help the states develop
their own organizations in the water supply and sewerage sector. To enter the
program, a state must sign an agreement with BNH establishing a statewide
water and sewerage company, draw up a statewide sector investment plan and
provide for state guarantee of BNH loans. The statewide organization of the
program has two major advantages. First, it makes possible the establishment
of statewide tariff levels which permit a cross-subsidization mechanism
within the state. In this way, wealthier cities contribute to support poorer
and small communities. Second, the statewide organization derives economies
of scale from centralized management of the water supply and sewerage system,
thus ensuring a more efficient use of available human resources.
The Development of PLANASA
32.       The PLANASA program is progressing well although at a slower pace
than expected. All of the 23 states of Brazil have entered the program and
more than 2,000 municipalities all over the country have already benefitted
from it. Six million households comprising about 30 million people have been
connected to public water supply systems. As a result, about 75% of the urban
population is now receiving water supply services as compared with less than
60% of a smaller urban population when the government started the program in
1971. It is estimated that PLANASA's water supply objectives will be met by
1983. The levels of service attained and projected for the provision of
sewerage services present a different picture. At present, only 35% of the
population receives sewerage services as compared with 30% in 1971 when the
program began. There are two reasons for the slower progress of the sewerage
program: one is the relatively high cost of providing sewerage services and
the other is the technical complexity of building and operating adequate
sewerge systems in some areas in Brazil. It is unlikely that the major cities
of Brazil will receive sewerage services at the levels envisaged by PLANASA
much before 1990.
Sector Tariffs and Legal Framework
33.       In 1975, in order to define a suitable framework for the sector,
BNH hired consultants to study the various aspects of water supply and
sewerage tariffs, the ownership of water resources and the administrative



- 12 -
responsibilities for the provision of water supply and sewerage services. As
a result of this initiative, the Brazilian Congress approved a tariff law for
the sector on May 12, 1978. On November 6, 1978, the Government issued a
decree regulating the application of the law. The approved legislation
ensures the state water companies sufficient funds to cover their operating
expenses (excluding financial charges), depreciation, and a rate of return on
investment (defined as revalued net fixed assets in operation plus capitalized
expenses and current assets) of up to 12% p.a. The legislation establishes
that starting in 1983, each company shall obtain, as a minimum, a return on
investment at least equal to its debt service payments. Over the 1979-1982
period, each company will carry out a financial program to gradually reach the
minimum return stipulated in the legislation by 1983.
34.       The new legislation also deals with some important aspects of the
structure (as distinct from the level) of tariffs. It establishes four
categories of consumers: residential, commercial, industrial and official and
stipulates a progressive tariff system which allows for cross-subsidization
between lower and higher income consumers. Further, it establishes that
tariffs for low-income consumers should not exceed a certain percentage of
the minimum wage. On the institutional side, the new legislation assigns to
BNH the responsibility for overseeing the financial situation of the companies
operating in the sector, including making recommendations to the government
for the adjustment of rates.
The Northeast Region and the Project Area
35.       With an estimated 33.6 million inhabitants and a per capita product
estimated at only 38% of the one for the country as a whole, the northeast
region of Brazil is one of the largest concentrations of poverty in Latin
America. The population of the region is growing at an annual rate of 2.5%
p.a. while urban centers, particularly capital cities, are growing at 3.2% to
4.6% p.a. Life expectancy at birth is only 49 years compared to 61 years for
Brazil as a whole and 63 years for countries with similar income levels. The
infant mortality rate reaches 137 per 1,000 live births against 70 for the
country and 38 for other countries in the same income bracket. These adverse
indices are due partly to poor sanitation conditions.
36.       Aware of the serious income disparities and economic and social
development differences between the Northeast and other more developed regions
of the country, the Government has launched a series of programs aimed at
promoting the economic development of the area. The Government's actions have
been mainly devoted to heavy investments in transport, power, rural development,
and stimulus to industrialization. These actions have contributed to regional
growth. However, together with the population increase, they have built up
pressures on the already precarious public services, especially urban water
supply and sewerage. According to Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do
Nordeste - SUDENE (Northeast Development Authority), the regional GDP grew
during 1977 at 8% (compared with 4.7% for the country as a whole). To maintain
this high rate of growth, the Government will have to continue to make substan-
tial investments in infrastructure in the region over the coming years. The



- 13 -
Bank has supported and intends to continue to support the development of the
Northeast by financing rural development, education, transport, power, urban
and industrial projects in the region.
37.       The project area consists of the states of Bahia, Pernambuco and
Ceara. These three states account for 9.5% of the area of Brazil and have a
combined population of about 20.4 million inhabitants. Their economic and
health conditions are similar to those prevailing throughout the Northeast.
38.       The population and density of the three project states are as
follows:
Bahia       Ceara      Pernambuco       Brazil
Population (1977)            8,850,000   5,409,000   6,141,000    113,209,000
Area (km )                      559,951      146,817      98,281       8,512,000
Density (inhabitants/km2)            16           37           62              13
The overall population growth in Pernambuco and Bahia (2.5% and 2.4% p.a.
respectively) is below the 2.8% p.a. growth rate for Brazil mainly as a result
of outmigration. In Ceara, the growth rate is 2.9%. The degree of urbani-
zation in the project area is below the national average of 61.4% (46% in
Bahia, 45% in Ceara and 61% in Pernambuco) 1/. Of the three states, only
Pernambuco and Bahia can be expected to approximate the national degree of
urbanization in the near future, as the economic activity in Ceara is still
centered in rural areas. Urban population in the project states is growing at
an average 3.7% p.a. Annual population growth rates in the capital cities are
estimated at 4.9% for Bahia, 4.4% for Pernambuco and 5.8% for Ceara, which are
in excess of the overall urban growth rates for each state.
39.       Service levels for urban water supply are below the national average
of 75% of the urban population as indicated in the following table:
Water Supply Service Levels         Bahia     Ceara       Pernambuco
In capital cities, as a percentage
of capital cities population            73        34            71
In state, as a percentage
of state's urban population             63        30            56
Although service levels are better in Bahia and Pernambuco than in Ceara,
they are all quite inadequate when compared with those for the rest of the
1/   While the generally accepted definition of urban population includes
people living in cities of at least 20,000 inhabitants, the Brazilian
definition also includes people living in communities of smaller size
that are considered urban on the basis of their administrative status.



- 14 -
country and with PLANASA's target of 80% of the urban population in 80% of the
urban communities. The inadequacy of service is very serious in the capital
cities where a large part of the population, mostly the poor, remain unserved
or served on a very restricted basis. Rationing, low pressures, and poor
water distribution are prevalent in the capital cities of the three project
states, leading to the use of very often heavily contaminated individually dug
wells. Also, in these states with relatively large rural populations, the
overall state service levels are very low, compared to the estimated national
service level of 46% of the total population.
40.       At end 1977, sewerage service levels in urban areas were estimated
at 6% for Bahia, 8% for Pernambuco and 5% for Ceara in comparison with the
national average of 35%. Since most of the sewerage systems are in the
capital cities the situation in secondary urban centers is even more serious,
with Bahia and Ceara not having any sewerage systems outside their capital
cities. Because of the unequal, although necessary, expansion in water supply
and sewerage services, water consumption has sharply increased without a
corresponding increase in the capacity of waste water disposal systems. As a
result, the population has had to rely basically on septic tanks and latrines
or discharge wastes in the storm drain system. In very poor areas, where
people cannot even afford these facilities, sewage is disposed of on the
streets or on sidewalk drainage ditches seriously endangering public health.
Under the proposed project, the state water companies would make a first
attempt to correct this situation in the main urban centers of the project
states.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
41.       The Brazilian Government has been considering the possibility of
Bank participation in the implementation of PLANASA in the Northeast Region
since October 1975. The Bank assisted Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH) to
identify and subsequently prepare a project focussed on the states of Bahia,
Pernambuco and Ceara because these states had the strongest executing capa-
cities as well as the largest investment requirements for 1979-1982. A
report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage
Project" (No. 2183b-BR dated January 17, 1979) is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors. Negotiations with the Borrower, Guarantor, state
water companies and related local governments took place from November 6 to
January 4, 1979. BNH was represented by Mr. Fabio Alvares. A supplemental
project data sheet, including a timetable of key events and a summary of
special conditions, is presented in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
42.       The proposed project would support, through the provision of basic
services, the Government actions aimed at promoting sustained economic growth
and employment in the Northeast Region; improve the living conditions of



- 15 -
water companies in making institutional improvements in the areas of planning,
operations, and finance and accounting, through technical assistance under the
SATECIA program; ensure the continuation of their training programs; improve
the financial position of the companies through the establishment of adequate
tariff levels and rationalization of operating costs; and contribute to the
strengthening of BNH's capability for project appraisal and upervision.
43.       The project consists of all major subprojects to be started and
completed in the States of Bahia, Pernambuco and Ceara in the period 1979-1982.
These subprojects represent about 68% of the investment program of the three
beneficiary state water companies. The proposed Bank loan would cover the
foreign exchange component of contracts awarded for elegible subprojects
between the date of the proposed loan and June 30, 1981. Disbursement of the
loan is estimated to be completed by June 30, 1983.         The project would
include: (a) water production, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities
for the capital cities of Bahia and Ceara; (b) water distribution networks in
the capital city of Pernambuco; (c) provision of about 125,000 new house
connections in the three capital cities; (d) execution of metering and leak
detection and control programs in the capital cities and major towns;
(e) sewage collection and disposal facilities, and house connections in the
capital cities and in about 20 major urban centers of the states; (f) expansion
and improvement of water supply systems in approximately 35 medium-sized cities
(of more than 5,000 inhabitants); (g) construction or expansion of water
systems in about 285 small villages, most of them rural; (h) tariff studies
for the three water companies (see para. 50); (i) consulting services provided
through SATECIA in the area of project management, finance and accounting,
systems operations and inventory control (see para. 48); and (j) engineering
services for detailed design and construction supervision.
The Borrower
44.       The Borrower (BNH), was established in 1964 as a financially and
administratively autonomous institution. Since 1967, it has been under the
overall responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. BNH's main activities
are to finance, through intermediary institutions, low- and medium-income
housing, urban development and sanitation programs. A Board of Directors and
an Executive Committee administer the institution. BNH has eleven regional
agencies to coordinate its activities at the state level. BNH's principal
source of funds is the deposit of the Fundo de Garantia de Tempo de Servico -
FGTS, a national retirement fund. Its other sources of funds include interest
and principal repayments on outstanding loans as well as interest and monetary
correction on funds invested in national treasury bonds. Net receipts of the
FGTS increased from US$424.4 million equivalent in 1971 to US$1.5 billion
equivalent in 1977 and total funds available for investment increased from
US$0.7 billion equivalent to US$2.6 billion equivalent in the same period.
BNH's financial position is sound and its resources are expected to be suffi-
cient to carry out its planned investment program.
45.       Within BNH, the Superintendencia do Sistema Financiero do Saneamento -
S/SFS (Sanitation Financial System Department), is responsible for the PLANASA



- 16 -
program. The administrative capacity of S/SFS was severely taxed as the
PLANASA program moved into full operation. In early 1976, BNH decentralized
the administration of the program by giving more responsibility to the regional
offices. During the execution of previous projects the Bank has maintained a
continuous dialogue with BNH on the evolution of PLANASA. During the execution
of the proposed project, the Bank would continue exchanging views with BNH on
the management and regulations of the PLANASA program (Section 4.02 of the
draft Loan Agreement). To provide the S/SFS with adequate support, BNH has
contracted a technical agent for each state to supervise and monitor the
design and construction of projects.  In the Northeast, the technical agent is
the Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste - SUDENE.  SUDENE has
qualified staff and should be able to perform its role appropriately in connec-
tion with the proposed project.
46.       Under the project, BNH would make subloans equivalent to US$151.5
million for subprojects in the three project states. Part of these loans
would be financed with the proposed US$100 million Bank loan. BNH would make
its subloans to the State Banks of Bahia, Pernambuco and Ceara, the financial
agents for PLANASA in their respective states. In the case of large- and
medium-sized communities, the State Banks would onlend BNH's funds together
with funds in equal amounts from the States' water supply and sewerage revolving
funds (FAE) to the beneficiaries, the state water companies. BNH's subloans
to the State Banks would be at 3% to 4% p.a. with monetary correction and
would have amortization periods ranging from 19 to 21 years including grace
periods from 1 to 3 years.  The State Banks would onlend BNH's subloans to the
water companies at 4% to 5%. Otherwise the same conditions would apply. In
addition, BNH would charge to the water companies various one-time fees and
levies equal to 2% of each subloan and a commitment charge equal to 1% of
undisbursed balances. In the case of small communities, the same terms and
conditions would apply. However, as explained in para. 30 above, the
respective states would be responsible for repayments to BNH. BNH's relatively
long amortization periods reflect the long useful life of the subprojects
to be financed. As the interest rate on the Bank loan would be higher than
the onlending rate and the maturity of BNH's loans would exceed the maturity
of the Bank loan, BNH's debt maturity of the Bank loan and BNH's debt service
payments to the Bank would exceed payments to BNH by the state water companies.
BNH's financial position is expected to be strong enough to absorb this
without difficulty.
The Beneficiaries
47.       The three beneficiaries and executing agencies for the project would
be Empresa Bahiana de Aguas e Saneamento S.A. (EMBASA), Companhia Pernambucana
de Saneamento (COMPESA) and Companhia de Agua e Esgoto do Ceara (CAGECE). The
three state water companies were formed in 1974 through mergers of the water
authorities in the capital cities with a large number of such authorities in
smaller municipalities. They are owned by their respective state governments.
Each has a six-member board of directors appointed by the state governor for a
period of four years. The president is the chief executive officer and the
directors are the working heads of the functional departments. Organizational



- 17 -
structures and staffing have evolved with the assistance of SATECIA (the joint
BNH-PAHO technical assistance program 1/) and consists of departments for
planning, construction, operations, administration, and finance and accounting.
These organizational structures are considered appropriate for the activities
undertaken.
48.       Because a large number of separate operations were merged into a
new organization, the three water companies have had some teething problems.
The difficulties of consolidation, which are being overcome, have been com-
pounded by the large geographic areas covered, lack of accurate fixed asset
records, and frequent changes in high level management. While all three
companies have long-range capital budgets, these have been unrealistically
high in relation to their capability to prepare and execute projects and
availability of funds. Up to now, the companies have not been particularly
concerned with either long-range or short-range cash management as BNH and
FAE have fully financed their investment programs. Under the project, the
companies would put into effect a revised system of accounts by December 31,
1980. This system would allow them to prepare adequate cash flow statements
and financial projections. Also they would strengthen the internal audit
office under the direction of experienced management. Furthermore, under the
technical assistance component of the project, BNH would cause SATECIA to
continue to strengthen the technical and financial management of the three
companies (Sections 5.08, 5.09 and Schedule 1, Part D of the draft Loan
Agreement).
49.       The three water companies share the common problem of low rates
of return on assets and insufficient internal cash generation primarily
because of inadequate tariff levels. In 1978 EMBASA and COMPESA had a very
modest net income while CAGECE incurred a loss. All three companies are
finding it difficult to meet their debt service payments.  The three companies
and their respective state governments have recognized the need to improve
the companies'financial position.  Under the project, they would request
the Government for approval to set or increase their rates to the satisfac-
tion of the Bank over the 1979-1982 period. The (Government, BNI and the
companies have informed the Bank that they would take all steps necessary
for EMBASA to earn a rate of return on investment not lower than 6% p.a. for
the years 1979 through 1982; for CAGECE, not lower than 1% in 1979 and 1980,
3% in 1981, and 5% in 1982; and for COMPESA, not lower than 5% p.a. for the
years 1979 through 1982.  For 1983 and thereafter, EMBASA and COMPESA would
earn a rate of return on investment of at least 7% p.a. and CAGECE 6% p.a.
The Government and BNH would enable the companies to comply with their under-
takings. A change in the legal framework affecting the carrying on of the
business, or the setting or adjustment of the rates of the companies would be
an event of default under the Loan Agreement (Sections 4.07, 5.07 and 7.01 of
the Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement and draft supple-
mental letter). The rates of return on investment proposed are satisfactory
in view of the income levels of the population served and cash flow require-
ments of the companies. In addition, the three companies would develop
1/   PAHO:  Pan-American Health Organization.



- 18 -
recovery programs encompassing the following actions to improve their financial
situation: (a) increasing the number of metered connections, particularly in
high income and high consumption areas; (b) increasing water supply by upgrading
the capacity of existing treatment plants; (c) increasing consumer connections
to existing water distribution systems and sewerage networks; (d) improving
control of operating expenses; and (e) reducing water losses. The three
companies would set forth the specific objectives of these programs by
October 31, 1979 (Section 5.11 of the draft Loan Agreement). Accomplishment
of the planned financial performance would require COMPESA to maintain tariffs
in real terms and annual tariff increases in real terms of about 21% for
EMBASA about 71% for CAGECE.  The states would take all necessary actions to
allow the water companies to improve their financial performance (Section 6.02
of the draft Loan Agreement).
50.       Up to now, the three beneficiary state water companies have carried
out across the board tariff increases without giving due regard to the more
complicated issue of tariff structures. Under the project, by October 31, 1979,
the state water companies would carry out studies in the fields of metering
policies and water supply and sewerage tariffs, in accordance with terms of
reference and with the assistance of consultants satisfactory to the Bank.
These studies are expected to make recommendations regarding the improvement
of tariff structures and metering policies taking into account the income
distribution of consumers, the cost of providing services and the need to
provide for adequate water conservation incentives. The state water companies
would put into effect the recommendations of these studies (Section 5.10 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimate and Financing Plan
51.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$303 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$100 million equivalent.
The cost estimate includes, on average, 11% of base project cost for physical
contingencies, given the relative advanced status of engineering studies. The
cost of the project has been estimated in the indexed monetary unit that BNH
uses for all its transactions. Over the years, the relative value of this
unit has remained approximately constant with respect to the US dollar. Thus,
price contingencies have been calculated in US dollar terms and reflect
worldwide inflation projections. They amount to 7.0% p.a. The estimated cost
of the project includes consultancy services for detailed engineering, project
supervision, and technical assistance totalling US$17.7 million at US$6,000
equivalent per man-month.
52.       The financial plan for the project would consist of subloans from
BNH totalling US$151.5 million equivalent. The proposed Bank loan would
partly finance these subloans. The balance of US$151.5 million would be
provided from a revolving fund set up by the states for this purpose (FAE).
The increase in the additional working capital requirements of the water
companies, amounting to US$15.8 million, consequent upon the implementation of



- 19 -
the project, would be met by internally generated funds by these companies.
The Federal and State Governments would provide any additional financing that
may be needed for the project (Sections 2.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement
and 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Execution
53.       EMBASA, COMPESA and CAGECE would execute the project during the
period 1979-1982. BNH would be responsible for the project coordination.
A construction schedule satisfactory to the Bank has been discussed with the
water companies and BNH for subprojects in the capital cities.  Schedules for
subprojects in other towns would be prepared annually during project execution.
The beneficiary water companies would retain consultants for the design of
individual subprojects. SUDENE would carry out the technical review of sub-
projects and BNH the financial and economic analysis. SUDENE and BNH would
supervise the execution of the project.
54.       Subprojects for the three capital cities, representing about 61%
of total investment, have been reviewed in detail during appraisal and found
technically sound and economically justified. The Bank would review all
subprojects costing US$2.0 million equivalent or more. Subprojects costing
less than US$2.0 million would be approved by BNH subject to ex-post-facto
review by the Bank, on a selective basis. The delegation of approval authority
to BNH for subprojects under US$2.0 million is consistent with its
project evaluation capabilities (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Selection Criteria
55.       Each subproject would have to meet the following criteria:  (a) it
would have to represent the least-cost solution for providing the service to
a given community; (b) it would have to be designed in accordance with sound
engineering practices. In addition, in the case of small communities of less
than 5,000 inhabitants, it would have to comply with BNH's standards for small
communities which are acceptable to the Bank; (c) in the case of small com-
munities, the subproject per capita cost would not exceed US$150 equivalent
and it would generate enough revenues to cover its operating and maintenance
costs; (d) in the case of medium-sized communities of 5,000 to 50,000 inhabi-
tants it would have a positive internal financial rate of return. If not, it
would be redesigned to lower acceptable standards.  If, after redesign, the
subproject still does not meet this financial criterion it would be eligible
for Bank financing only if acceptable economic and social justifications are
presented to the Bank and if it generates enough revenues to cover its oper-
ation and maintenance costs; (e) in the case of communities with more than
50,000 inhabitants each subproject would have an internal financial rate of
return of not less than 5% (Schedule 4 to the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
56.       All contracts with estimated values exceeding US$400,000 equivalent
for goods and US$1,200,000 for civil works would be procured after international



- 20 -
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Brazilian
suppliers of equipment and materials would receive a margin of preference of
15%, or the applicable import duty, whichever is less. All other contracts,
of smaller size, would be procured under locally advertised competitive
bidding, under procedures satisfactory to the Bank. These procedures would
allow foreign suppliers and contractors to bid. Due to the large number of
contracts expected, Bank staff would limit their prior review to contracts
over US$2.0 million. For contracts reviewed ex post facto, if it were deter-
mined that the bidding and awards had not been conducted in accordance with
the agreed procedures, the Bank would have the right to cancel an equivalent
amount of the loan (Section 2.02(b) and (e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Since virtually all the equipment and materials for the project are manu-
factured in Brazil and available at competitive prices, most supply contracts
are expected to be won by local suppliers. The civil works contracts are also
expected to be won by local contractors.
57.       Bank disbursements would consist of the reimbursement of 58% of
all BNH disbursements (or 29% in the case of small communities) on its subloans
for eligible subprojects, in accordance with statements of expenditures to be
submitted by BNH to the Bank. BNH subloans would be equivalent to 50% (or
100% in the case of small communities) of the direct costs of each subproject.
In addition, BNH subloans would also include an amount equal to 6.5% of the
direct cost of each subproject for administrative expenses. Thus Bank dis-
bursements would finance 33% of the direct cost of each subproject which is
equivalent to the estimated foreign exchange cost. The documentation in
support of the statement of expenditures would be retained by BNH and made
available for inspection during the course of project supervision. Bank dis-
bursements would also cover 100% of the foreign cost of the technical assis-
tance. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1983 (Sections
2.02, 2.03 and 2.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits and Urban Poverty Impact
58.       By 1982, some 2.3 million additional people would benefit from
water supply and 5.3 million from improved services. The project would
increase the overall urban water supply service levels in the three project
states from 52% in 1977 to about 67% of the urban population. Sewerage
service would be extended to about 1.2 million people, increasing service
levels from 6.5% to 16% of the urban population. The impact of the project
would increase as complementary works are completed. The direct impact of the
project on families below the urban poverty level was estimated by calculating
the proportion of urban poor in the total incremental population that would be
served. In water supply, this rate would be 61%, increasing the proportion of
urban poor served from 53% in 1977 to 73% by 1985. It is expected that in
subsequent years most of the remaining portion of the urban poor would be
served. Since the limited information available suggests that the proportion
of low income population is higher in the rural areas than in the capital
cities, the impact of investments on poverty outside the capitals (about 40%
of total project cost) is likely to be more significant.



- 21 -
59.       Due to present low coverage of sewerage service, the investments
programmed under this project would initially cover commercial and highrise
high-density residential areas. The proportion of urban poor in these areas
is lower than in the areas to be served with water. The percentage of people
below the relative urban poverty level to benefit from new sewage connections
would be as follows: Salvador: 35%; Recife: 37%; and Fortaleza: 39%. The
distribution of house connections among the different income groups was not
available at the time of appraisal and consequently only rough estimates of
the incremental urban poor to be served are possible. However, it is con-
sidered that basic sanitation services for the urban poor are and for some
years to come will continue to be inadequate.
60.       The recently approved tariff laws for the sector (para. 33) estab-
lishes that charges for water supply for low-income consumers should not
exceed 5% of the monthly minimum wage and the combined charges for water
supply and sewerage should not exceed 7%. Current monthly charges for those
consumers are within the established limits. However, since between 1979 and
1982 the three state water companies would maintain or increase tariffs in
real terms, charges may have to be made more progressive if revenue objectives
are to be met without exceeding the Government's guidelines for the low-income
population. Since approximately-70% of the poor earn more than one time the
minimum wage per family, it may be concluded that water would be provided to
most families at affordable prices. However, even 5% of one minimum wage may
be too large a sum for 30% of the poor and greater cross-subsidization than
now exists would have to be incorporated into the tariff structure to serve
these persons. It is estimated that although 61% of the incremental population
served with water would belong to the poverty group, only 28% of the incre-
mental quantity of water produced would be consumed by these groups.  Therefore,
the possibilities of cross-subsidization between low-income and high-income
groups are feasible with an appropriately designed tariff structure. A tariff
study to be undertaken by the three water companies will include these con-
siderations (para. 50).
Internal Rate of Return and Long-Run Marginal Cost
61.       The combined internal financial rate of return for subprojects and
their complementary works in the three capital cities is estimated at 10%;
these subprojects, which would cost US$250.1 million, account for 61% of
total project costs. Of these subprojects, the rates of return for Recife,
Fortaleza, and Salvador are estimated at 13%, 12%, and 7% based on projected
tariff levels. These three subprojects account for 17%, 15%, and 29% of
total project costs, respectively. Since subprojects outside capital cities
are numerous, and at various stages of preparation, their internal rate
of return has not been calculated. The financial rate of return, which uses
expected revenues as a proxy for economic benefits, probably underestimates
the economic return. Water sales to the urban poor (about 28% of total
incremental volume), while priced at a reduced tariff, represent in fact
substantial benefits to the urban poor. Improvements in public health, labor
productivity, infrastructure for economic development and institutional
capabilities, are only partly reflected in most cases in revenues from tariffs,
and provide evidence that economic and social benefits of the proposed project
exceed its financial benefits.



- 22 -
Project Risks
62.       The proposed project involves the administrative risks associated
with the carrying out of complex and large investment programs by the state
water companies. Furthermore, not all of the project components are yet
firmly identified, nor have all of them been subject to prior appraisal by
Bank staff. However, the project execution experience gained by the companies
while carrying out PLANASA, and the subproject preparation and eligibility
criteria developed, should ensure the soundness and the successful execution
of the investments undertaken.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banco Nacional da
Habitacao, the state water companies of Bahia, Pernambuco and Ceara and their
respective state governments as well as the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Federative Republic of Brazil and the Bank and the draft Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments                                            by I. P. M. Cargill
January 17, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-23-                                              Page I
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL          8512.0                                                  SAME       SAME    NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULrURAL    2066.0                               HOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME      INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION  c   GROUP ld   GROUP le
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                320.0       580.0   1390.0           1066.7    1796.4       2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    332.0       474.0    670.0           911.1    1525.0       2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, ItID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                       69.8        92.8    113.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 44.5       55.7      61.4            57.9       52.2*
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       8.0        11.0      13.3            25.6       27.6       55.8
PER SQ. RM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    44.0        49.0      55.0            77.6      116.4       83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        43.0        42.0      41.7            42.0       34.8       40.0
15-64 YRS.                        54.0        55.0      55.1            52.2      56.0        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0         3.0       3.2             3.7        5.7        3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             3.0         3.0       2.8             2.7        1.6        2.9
URBAN                             5.5         5.0       4.4             4.3        3.4
CrRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    40.8       38.4      37.1            35.8      27.0        31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    11.7         9.9       8.8             9.1        9.9        7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.6         2.6       2.5             2.6        1.9        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       111.0    203.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         1.6        *-            15.1       19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTIONI
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            87.8       100.0    112.3            102.1     103.8       114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 102.0       104.0    105.0            103.9      110.4       113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         61.0        64.0      62.1            60.3      77.7        89.9
OF wEICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      38.0        39.0      33.6            26.7       22.2       48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      ..          ..        ..             8.7        1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   56.0        59.4      61.4            62.6       63.0       60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         180.0       110.0        ..            56.9       38.2       22;1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        56.3      71.7            60.7       67.7       83.0
URBAN                              ..        77.7      83.2            78.0       83.5      100.0
RURAL                              ..        29.0      52.9            34.9       41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        59.9      65.5            61.1       70.3       57.8
URBAN                              ..        86.1      86.3            80.3       90.7       99.3
RURAL                              ..        26.5      39.0            25.4       38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSIC7AN         2110.0      1910.0   1650.0 /f        1899.3    1310.8       976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..      3220.0   2920.0 /f        1220.1      849.2      676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           275.0       260.0    260.0            422.3      275.4      325.8
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..           258.2      129.9      250.0
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..          2281.6     965.9       770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        18.0        ..            25.6       18.9       18.7
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.1         4.8        ..             5.2        3.9
URBAN                              ..         4.6        ..
RURAL                              ..         5.2        ..
AVERAGE NUNMER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         1.1       1.1 /f          2.0        0.9
URBAN                              ..         1.0       1.2 7T          2.1        0.8
RURAL                              ..         1.2       1.2 If          2.7        1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            38.7        47.6      55.1            51.2       59.2
URBAN                              *-        75.6      77.9            77.3       78.0
RURAL                              .,         8.4      1.2.5           12.8       12.5



-24-
Page 2
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
/a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP Ld    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                95.0         83.0      90.0            103.5       97.6       104.1
FEMALE               93.0        83.0       90.0           102.9       87.4        120.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 11.0         27.0      26.0            37.2        47.8        44.7
FEMALE               10.0        27.0       20.0            37.9       42.6         46.0
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 19.0         17.0      47.0             14.7       22.7        18.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRLMARY                           33.0         28.0      22.0            32.8        25.4        30.6
SEGONDARY                         13.0         13.0      11.0             17.8       24.9        16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        61.0        66.0        ..             74.9       96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.0         25.0      35.0            26.9        32.3        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        66.0         60.0      60.0           173.5       201.9       195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        18.0        66.0       83.0            69.4       97.7        108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  54.0        37.0      39.0            72.8        70.9       108.0
CINEKA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0          1.9        ..             4.3         4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22700.0      29400.0   34100.0
FEKALE (PERCENT)                  17.5         20.4      21.6            21.4        17.4        26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             52.0         40.4      37.8            37.8        38.4        25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                14.8         18.3        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.0         31.6      31.5            30.8        33.7        40.1
MALE                                 52.7        50.3      49.5            47.2        50.8        55.8
FEMALE                               11.2        12.8      13.6            13.2        12.6        24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6         1.5       1.4             1.7         1.4         1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   27.7 /h      34.9 /      ..            28.9       20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEBOLDS  54.4        62.2 /       ..            57.7       47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.5  h       3.2  y     ..             3.2        3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.6 /h      10.0 /h     ..            10.7       13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..           251.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      150.0           200.6      157.9.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               *-           *-    465.0            403.1      448.8
RURAL                               ..          ..    332.0             258.0      313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..       34.0            24.8       23.2
RURAL                                ..         ..       55.0            65.2       54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator ore population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and thq most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries aong the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, betveen 1973 and 1977.
/c    Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Upper Middle Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /a High Income
(over $2500 per capita, 1976);  If  1972; LI  Beginning 1973, duration of general education reduced
from 7 to 4 years, therefore data my not be comparable to those of earlier years;  /h  Data refer
to economically active population.
September, 1978



-25-
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                         Page 3
hSaz:  The adjusted group average* for each iodicator are populetion-weighted gometric "ans, excluding the extrme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. 'Coverage of countries mong the indicators depends on availability of date and is not unifom. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excrete disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-waighted geometric mes   without the exclusion of extreme valus.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. b)                                                                  Population per hospital bed - total, urban, snd rural - Population (tota1.
7otal - Total surface area comprising land ares and inland waters,                            urban, end rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used tmporarily                      available in publ]ic and private general and specialized hospital and re-
nr permanently for crops, postures, market and kitchen gardens or to                       habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                                at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included, Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current mrket prices,                       cal ceters not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a nedical  a-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                 provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of comercial energy                         from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                                A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population. mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                       and their main mals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
overage of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                              the household for statistical purposes.   Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                        hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may aftect comparability                      Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average our-
of data among countries,                                                                   ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                           dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per   q. kh. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                      unoccupied parts.
of total ares.                                                                           Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. kh. alriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                      Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                      of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Populatino age structure (perc-nt) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 yearn and over) as percentages of mid-                 EDUCATION
year population.                                                                        Adjusted enrollment ratina
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                      Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                          at the primary Level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                      populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edo-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic ayerages ending in 1960 and                       cation enrollment ay eoceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for  aost recent estimate,                       above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                       Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; necondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 end 1970                      tion  requires at least four years of approved primary instr-ction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                             vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                      usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondenco courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                          excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                     Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                            clde technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thoueands) - Annual number of                           or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                    Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students erolled in
planning program.                                                                          primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of tescheru in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                           sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 year.) who use birth-control                  Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and   rite) an
devices to a11 married women in sane age group,                                            a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                        CONSJMPTION
inden of food production per capita (1970-100) - Indeo number of per                      Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise  outer cars
capIta annual production of a11 food commodities,                                        seating less than eight persons; eacludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                    vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of recefver- for radio
per day.  Available oupplien comprise domestic production, imports less                  broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; eocludes unlice-ned
exportn, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                 receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets wa  in
quontities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                     effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since mosc coot trion
quire.ento   were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensLng.
al activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                     TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to generai
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10- per-                    public per tho-eand populatisn; exclude- unlicensed TV cec-iver-  in coon-
cent for waste at household level,                                                         tries and in yearn when registration of TV sets wan in eifect.
Per capita  supply of protein.(grasd    per doy) - Protein content of per                 Newspaper circolotion (per thousand popaulatio) - Shos tc at   ergod  circ-lo-
capita net sapply of f..d per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                       tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined aso.p-riodic-l pbliC-
above.  Requirements for a11 countries established by USDA provide for                     cation devoted primarily to recording general news   It is considered to
o mininum allowance of 60 grams  of total protein per day and 20 grsas                     be "daily" if it appears at leant foor tines a wek.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.               Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Bosed on the nuner  i f tickets
These standards are Iower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                      Sold during the year, inclading admissions to drive-in cinemas and rohblc
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                        units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                 EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including  -r-ed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                    forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, stcdents, etc.  Defic-
and in age grasp 1-4 years, to children in this age group,                                 tion  in various countries are not comparable.
Pemale (percent) - Fesale labor force as perc--tage cf totol lhuab- f-r-
HEALTHi                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor farce in farming, forectry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                           as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   lndustry (percent) - Labor force in  ining, consruacton, manafactaring and
and 1975.                                                                                  electricity, water and gas as percentage of totai labor force
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Participstion rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, nair, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                  cexale labor force as percentages of their respe-tive poyalations
Access to safe water (psrcent of population) - total, urba, and rs            1 -            These are 7Li's adjucted participation rates rrtlecoccg age-sex
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to               -        troctore or che popsiatio.n  and I0cc tisc cred.
safe water supply (iocludes treated surface waters or untreated but                     cv_epdency ratjc - Ratio of poptiai    ode  1  ac  65  cd  -c ro
occnttaminated water su.h an that from protected boreholes, springs,                       the labor force in age poup of 15-6h  year.
-nd sanitary cell.) as percentages cf their respective populatc.too.
In an urban area a publ-c fountric or standpost located not  rore                    inclli (:ISTi BUiTlJN
than 200 neters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                    Percentage of private income (both in coIc and kind) received l} ricnest 5
senable access of that house.  In r-ral areas reasonable access would                      percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent.  and pccrect 401 pe-cent
imply that the housewife or members of the housshold do not have to                        of household.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excreta dis2os.I (perceot of population) - total. urban, and                    Estimated absolute poverty income level (DS$ per capita) -arban and ror,  -
rural - Nuhber of people (total, urban, and rural) nerved by e.creta                         Absolute poverty Income level is that ircome level beciw wcchch a  inica
dinposal as percentages of their respective populations.   Excreta                         nutritionally adequate diet pluu essential non-focd reqai--cocts is no
disposal nay include the collection and disposal, with cr without                          affordable.
treat-ent, of human eacreta and waste-water by water-banns systemn                    Ertinoted  -elative poverty incone level (i-          er oopcco) - orcac   rcral
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                       Relative poverty incone level is that income level less tho   c-third
Pocplation per phyaician - Populatton divided by number of practicing                        per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified fron a pedical school at university level.                        Etinated popuirtion below poverty income level (Percent) - urbio  and rol -
'opalatioc per nursing persoc - Popolatio- divided by number of                              Percent cf p,,pulatios (urban and rural) vho are either -aicsolutt poor" cr
practicing  tale and female graduate torsos, practical nurses, and                        "relative po-r" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.er 
Econcoic and Sociul Dats Liiccouc
Econ-ic Analysis cod Projecticns Dep-tnces-



w_ >rws~--                                                       0>s s   owo>u
NO.    cm 004r9    ¢95  S   '|A  44wfiz2 @1>9$4  <"4                       c     t  g° -        o-g -no ogJ   o4   ff c4 c iY¢  
Ni          001.        3   -      ft0 5 t                               -   '1C.7i ~*"*                                               ;]=g==>     .0  i-     
X     ~            ~~~ rO F F-HOBO|_>wr                                             w                             WW_              Vr                 r>  
>~~~~ .oo Fs' F                                            on - 8NWO_                     .1 F~    _        N _0             Ct  B.CB w_gv  vseww   
-'CO              C w         o  111 NWO OCO N J    tB O           U O0 ft~                                  - O4C H_O                             - U400    _> O 
=CNB_N   _C         W NO C01 W              Cs W0         -                                - _1 Cf   <-C l> _fNt   L  B     £OWWW  U
r _ _     FF    F.    |C                                                      WN  W.           W ON   -        w NCN N w-                      ._
o IC|    N  O- Ntf                                              0      C      C        0: Nr                            o- r   N rw_ w wwwow   v  vv_O   _   OC-  H 3V
| ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     O                                               C                                                      0   .N W                N N-          
7 w r  3 D IN                  .          v                                                                                             '     S                               0          
_     -                             - n         _. __r                                                         - I     - _0  _> vP
=0 0 0         0          O N         V0                                     00      0               00 0 0 0               0 N            NC   PO                    
ft~~~                              ~~~ W           -  *'  - -0 -                      - W~ 'Z 0AW < r      .......         ,_      i>oo........ 
ft    _    000000r  N    O              00fN                       0     V     0           0    1= 0         00      0    0           W      0 0 0 0            O          W
3                                                                                                      e 0D0 0  S    00 0  .                 r -  O 0,,0  _ _0No000| 
rt          0O0         0           N00 0            N    00 0                Oo           0                             W000  0* o       00 0 0 0               0                 0    ,       
N~~~~~~~~~    VWnoNMWNnW. 0000                                                                     o -. W-°                     0 
--l 0 .        *                             0- 
- .  00   0  0000000~~O                          V  N  00  O    V0 00              N    02,                n$    ........ 0               .       .0
00~ ~      ~ 0rO > 000o ->~                                                                                            ,,vtF                       _ 0     0 . 0   N00 0 0N0  0 0 0 0HN   0  O00



-27-                                                                           ANNEX I
Page s
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Mi 11 Irw US$)
A C T U A L                                                                  PR OJECTED
1974             1975             1976            1977              1978             1979              1980           1985              1990
A   Summary of Balance of Payments
1.    Exports (incl. NFS)                                    8,471            9,376           10,797            12,826           12,772           15,373            17,775          40,115           76,892
2.    Imports (incl. NFS)                                   14,678           14,308            14,440           13,847           14,194           15.749            16,987         35,166            73,094
3.    Resource Balance                                      -6,207           -4,932           -3,643            -1,021           -1,422             - 376              788          4,949             3,798
4.    Net Factor Service Income                              - 916           -1,770           -2,339            -2,859           _3,440           -3,873            -4,374         -7,068           -10,129
1.  Net Interest Payments                                - 652           -1,498            -1.809           -2,103           -2,284            -2,412           -2,521          -3,538           -4,604
2.  Direct Investment Income                              - 248            - 235            - 380             - 455            - 493            - 542            - 590          -1,030            -1,775
3.  Other Factor Service Income                           -  16            - 37             - 150             - 301            - 663            - 919           -1,263          -2,500            -3,750
5.    Current Transfers (Net)                                    1                2                 4                6                7                 7                7               7                7
6.    Balance on Current Account                            -7,122           -6,700           -5,978            -3,8V44          -4,855           -4,242            -3,579         -2,112            -6,324
7.   Net Private Direct Investment                             887              892              962               840              780               770              760             750              750
Medium and Long Term Loans
a. Tradi tional Sources-X
8.    Disbursements                                          1,956            1,612            2,054             2,553            3,303            3,571             4,005          6,599            10,328
9.   ADortization t                                            739            - 992           -1,350            -1,701           -1,280           -1,218            -1,518         -3,818            -6,146
10.    Net Dlsbursements                                      1,217              620              703               852            2,023            2,353             2,487          2,781             4,182
b. Financial Credits
11.    Disbursements                                          5,103            4,524            5,978             5,940            5,671            5,644             6,603          3,574             8,523
12.    Amorti zat i on                                       -1,181           - 93             -1,664           -2,426            -3,526           -4,150            -5,008         -3,907            -4 ,947
13.    Net Disbursements                                      3,922            3,331            4,314            3,514             2,145            1,494               595           - 333            3,576
14.    Use of IMF Resources                                     -                  7              -
15.    Short-trm Capital and Gaepital  3.e.i.                   138              788           -2,25f i                              -                 -
16.    Reserves (-  increase)
1. Reserve Accumulation_/                                   958            1,062           -2,255              -699              -93             -375              -263         -1,086            -2,183
2. Dollar Valuation Adjustme,)t                             185              176             -252               -16              _        -                         -               -
3. Changes in Reserve Level-/i                            1,143            1,238           -2,507              -715              -93             -375              -263         -1,086            -2,183
17.    Foreign Exchange Reserves                              5,272            4,034            6,541             7.296            7,349            7,724             7,987         11,894            20,160
(End of Period)
B.  Grant and Loan Commitments
1.    Total MiLT Loans                                      7,179             7,005            9,482            9,637
I1..  IBRD                                                     242              426              498              425
1.2.  IDB                                                      723              167              186              270
1.3.  Governments                                              518              512            1,251             1,184
1.4.  Suppliers                                              1,088            1.376            1,300             1.100
1.5.  Bonds                                                     25              -                269               718
1.6.  Financial Credits                                      5,103            4,524            5,978            5,940
C.  Memorandum Items
1.    Grant Element of Total Commitments                         2.5              2.5              2.5               2.8
2.    Average Interest (Percent)                                 9.5              9.5               9.4              9.3
3.    Average Maturity (Years)                                   9.0              9.9              8.3               8.9
a/  Includes Multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, supplIers' credits and bond issues.
bh  IFS Line 79d.
c/  IFS Line ld.
September 1, 1978



ANNEX I
-28-                                               Page
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
Actual
1974          1975          1976          1977
A.  Medium and Long-Term Debt
(Disbursed only)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                    17,166       21,171         25,985        32,037
1.  By type of Debt
1,  Financial Credits                                11,211       14,561         18,194         21,528
2.  Traditional Lenders±'                             5,955        6,610           7,791        10,509
2.  By type of Borrower
1.  Public and Publicly Guaranteed                    8,533       11,461         14,852        19,309
2.  Private                                           8,633        9,71u         11,133         L2,7a9
2. Net Debt Service                                           2,572        3,6°3          4,825         6,230
1.  Total Interest                                        1,370         1,863          2,091         2,462
2.  Net Interest                                            652         1,498          1,810         2,103
3. Public Debt Service                                        1,287        1,550          1,982         2,500
B.  DIebt Burden
1.  Net Debt Service Ratio b/                                  30.4           39.3          44.7          48.6
2.  Total Net Debt Service Ratio -                             33.3           41.8          48.2          52.1
3.  Public Debt Servicp Ratio                                   15.2          16.5          18.4          19.6
4.  Liquidity Ratio -                                           23.0          33.3          43.0          39.2
5.  Net Debt Service/GDP                                         2.6           3.0           3.6           4.0
6.  Public Debt Service/GDP 5!                                   1.3           1.3           1.5           1.6
7.  Total DOD/GDP e/                                            17.0          17.2          19.2          20.5
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD A!                          10.9          10.9           9.9           9.5
2.  Net Debt Service/Total DOD f/                               20.5          21.5          22.8          24.0
D.  Dependency Ratios for MiLT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                    48.1           42.9          55.6          61.3
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                            25.7          14.6          20.3          13.8
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                            53.4          34.0          36.4          22.4
E.  Exposure
l.  IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                                 3.5           4.1           2.2           315
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                           4.9           5.2           5.0           4.8
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service                           3.0           2.5           2.4           2.9
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                              Outstanding December 31, 1977
Amount                            Percent
1.  IBRD                                                               i,540                               4.8
2.  Other Multilateral                                                   815                               2.5
3.  Governments                                                        2,939                               9.2
4.  Suppliers                                                          3,773                              11.8
5.  Bonds                                                              1,222                               3.8
6.  Financial Credits                                                 21,528                              67.2
7.  Other                                                                219                               0.7
8.  Total M&LT Debt                                                   32,037                             100.0
9.  Total Public M&LT Debt                                            19,309                              60.3
G.  DebtLProfilJe
1.  Net Debt Service 19784-95/Total DOD end of 1977                                        199.0
a/  Includes multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits, bond issues and M&LT loans n.e.i.
b/  Net Debt Service as percent of exports of goods and NFS.
c/  Including Direct Investment Income in debt service.
d/  Net Debt Service as a percent of exports of goods and NFS plus exchange (at beginning of year)
in excess of 3 months imports.
e/  In constant 1975 prices.
f/  As percent of DOD at beginning of year.
Note:  Debt service ratios have been calculated on the basis of net rather
than gross interest payments in order to take into account interest
earned upon 3razil's international reserves.
September 1, 1978



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of December 31, 1978)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose     Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Forty-three loans fully disbursed                                1,360.5
756   1971  Brazil                            Ports               45.0          12.2
828   1972  Companhia Siderurgica             Industry            64.5           1.0
Paulista
829   1972  Centrais Eletricas de Minas       Power               60.0            .1
Gerais - Sao Simao
853   1972  Brazil                            Land Settlement      6.7           3.2
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -       Power              125.0          38.7
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                            Agro-Industry       54.0          31.2
1008   1974  Cia. Ridro Eletrica do Sao        Power               81.0          33.7
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional de Habitaco        Water Supply        36.0           4.0
1067   1974  Brazil                            Education           23.5          19.2
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal          Railways           175.0          33.3
1075   1975  Brazil                            Roads              110.0          42.3
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry              95.0          82.4
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry              60.0          55.0
1153   1975  Brazil                            Agriculture         23.0          16.8
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista        Railways            75.0          40.5
1195   1976  Brazil                            Rural Development  12.0           11.2
1206   1976  Brazil                            Development Bank   85.0           72.3
1207   1976  Brazil                            Feeder Roads        55.0          53.0
1249   1976  Brazil                            Agriculture         40.0          37.0
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes           Fertilizer          50.0          28.6
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de           Power               52.0          37.3
Energia Eletrica - COPEL



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of December 31, 1978)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose     Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1300   1976  Eletrobras                      Power                 50.0            41.0
1302   1976  Brazil                          Nutrition             19.0            18.2
1309   1976  Banco Nacional de Habitacao   Water Supply            40.0            32.2
1317   1976  Brazil                          Agro-Industry         83.0            83.0
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                       Power                 82.0            52.2
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development   42.0              32.7
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes         Fertilizer            64.0            60.4
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do           Fertilizer           82.0             59.2
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                          Education            32.0             31.3
1488   1977  Brazil                          Rural Development   17.0              16.6
1525   1978  Banco Nacional de Habitacao   Sewerage               110.0           110.0
1537   1978  Brazil                          Rural Development   24.0              24.0
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                      Power                130.0           130.0
1557   1978  Brazil                          Roads                114.0           114.0
1562   1978  COPESUL                         Petrochemicals       85.0            83.3
1563   1978  Brazil                          Urban Transport      88.0            86.7
1568   1978  Brazil                          Agric. Extension   100.0            100.0
1589   1978  Brazil                          Rural Development   37.0             37.0
Total                                             3,887.1 /
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                520.7
Total now outstanding                            3,366.4
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            35.3          10.5
Total now held by Bank                           3.355.9-
Total undisbursed                                                1.764.8
/1   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



- 31 -
ANIEX II
Page 3
B. STATEMNT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1978)
Fiscal Year                           Obligor                                      Type of Business         Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957               Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                     Electrical Equipment        2.00       -       2.00
1958               Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                           Pulp and Paper              1.20       -       1.20
1958               D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                           Automotive Parts            0.45       -       0.45
1958              Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e ComIercio                                    Motor Vehicles              2.45       -       2.45
1959               Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                Cement                      1.20       -       1.20
1959              Champion Celulose, S.A.                                     Pulp                        4.00       -       4.00
196611968/
1972              Acos Villares, S.A.                                         Steel                       8.00      1.93     9.93
1966/1969         Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                          Pulp and Paper              3.78      3.41     7.19
1967/1972         Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                         Fertilizers                 8.22     3.03    11.25
1969              Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                    Petrochemicals              5.50      2.88     8.38
1970              Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio                     Petrochemicals              5.50      2.88     8.38
1971              Oxiteno, S.A. Industria e Comercio                          Petrochemicals              4.60      1.44     6.04
1971              Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose  do Sul   Pulp                                       4.90      -        4.90
1972/1975         Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                      Cement                     29.14     3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977    Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                Steel                      76.96     7.50    84.46
1973               Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                   Capital Market
Uevelopment               5.00       -       5.00
1973/1978         Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                      Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                  Refining                  85.00      8.34    93.34
1974              Industrias Villares, S.A.                                   Elevators and Indus-
trial Equipment           6.00       -       6.00
1974              Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                            Textiles                   31.00      -       31.00
1975              Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                            Carbon Black                6.18     1.08      7.26
1975              Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                      Petrochemicals             10.00      -       10.00
1976              Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.               Textiles                    6.45     1.00      7.45
1976              Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste               Textiles                    6.00      -        6.00
1977               FMB S.A. Productos Metalurgicos                            Iron and Aluminum
Castings                 20.00       -      20.00
1977              Mineracao Rio do Norte S.A.                                 Mining                     15.00      -       15.00
1978               Cimetal Siderurgia S.A.                                    Iron and Steel              7.0       3.0     10.0
Total Gross Commitments                                                              355.53    39.69   395.22
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                              259.70    8.51 268.21
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                                    95.83   31.18 127.01
Total Undisbursed                                                                     10.38     6.94    17.32



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
There are now 40 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
755       Education Project:  US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 28, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978. The project
is substantially completed. Final project costs are US$25.2 million
with a cost overrun of US$4.2 million (20%) being met by the Borrower.
Final disbursements of the Bank loan are underway.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date:  October 29, 1971; Closing Date:  June 30, 1979.  After long
delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Construction
of the railway access Paratinga-Pereque by FEPASA is completed. The
inability of RFFSA to pay its share of the costs for the left bank
rail access was overcome by PORTOBRAS which obtained a loan from
Banco do Brasil for this purpose. Because of insufficient increases
in tariffs to compensate for inflation, Santos port is experiencing
financial difficulties.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972: Closing
Date: June 15, 1979. The Stage II project will be substantially
complete by December 1978 at a total project cost of US$970 million.
This is thirty months behind the appraisal schedule and at a cost of
US$593 million (157%) higher than anticipated at the time of appraisal.
However, the project is still justified. Production reached 1.54
million tons of raw steel equivalent in 1977. Production reached
the project's design capacity of 190,000 tons of raw steel per month
(the annual equivalent of 2.3 million tons) during one peak month in
mid-1978.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:  US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date:  September 20. 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule, and is expected to be completed by March of
1979. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which does not affect the
economic justification of the project, is being covered by local and
foreign borrowing. The first four units of the power plant were
commissioned in June of 1978.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The settlement agency, COLONE, has prepared revised farm development
plans whose credit component, to be financed by public financial
institutions, will be significantly higher than originally estimated,
although still low in comparison to other settlement projects.
Administrative delays in the release of public funds for farm
credit, road construction and COLONE working capital requirements
and difficulties in recruiting project staff delayed the start
of project execution. COLONE continues to be hampered by lack of
assured financing, and this problem is compounded by cost overruns
presently amounting to about 240%.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Construction of the earth-fill dam was delayed by about
nine months due to very heavy rains. However, construction of the
concrete dam and power house is ahead of schedule. FURNAS expects
to complete the power plant in December 1981, about four months
behind schedule. The present cost estimate is about 88% over the
appraisal cost estimate, 13% of which is due to the need for
increased physical quantities due to geological problems. The rest
of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size of the
transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil works.
However, the project remains economically justified.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were
made during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance
with the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by
the Government, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3
million. Commitments under this loan are almost at a standstill as
a result of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a general
slow-down in industrial investments. However, disbursements are
expected to improve in 1979, as the Government now plans to restrict
the availability of subsidized credit at the end of 1978. The
Government has indicated it will request a postponement of the
Closing Date.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. A postponement of the Closing Date will be required.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1979. Difficulties in subproject preparation, which are now resolved,
caused disbursements to fall behind schedule. The loan is now fully
committed to 41 subprojects of which 10 are under construction and
31 completed. The 10 subprojects under construction are expected to
be completed in early 1979.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because
of delays by the government in providing counterpart financing.
Project implementation units have been established in all eight
project states and these, together with the main project unit,
PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment studies in the
Northeast, financed under the loan, have been completed and have
yielded useful information for future sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17. 1975;
Effective Date: June 17. 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
program. The Government has decided to deregulate most freight
tariffs and is expected beginning in 1979 to make payments to the
railways to meet deficits on uneconomic services which it requires
to remain in operation. These actions should significantly improve
the borrower's financial position.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are now completed. Implementa-
tion of the road maintenance component is making progress.



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. At the request of the Bank, a thorough review of the
project was made. Substantial changes were made resulting in better
management and control of the project. The project is now progress-
ing satisfactorily in line with the revised cost estimate and
schedule, and remains economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. The project is about two years behind schedule. The
cold mill has been deleted from the project to reflect changes in
forecast demand. The Bank has recently agreed to three additional
changes in the project's scope as follows: construction of a con-
veyor belt system to deliver iron ore to the raw materials yard
(in lieu of a second rail line), an additional reheating furnace for
the hot strip mill, and changes in the port layout. COSIPA is pre-
paring for Bank review a comprehensive report on Stage III including
revised project capital cost, implementation time schedule and
financial projections. Due to a shortfall in the government's
equity contributions, COSIPA is experiencing some financial dif-
ficulties in spite of its improved operations.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979. CODEVASF made only limited progress on construc-
tion for this project during 1977 and 1978 because of heavy rains in
the project area. Physical completion of the project will probably
extend to 1981, and postponement of the closing date will be required.
Current cost estimates show an 80% increase over the appraisal
estimate of US$56.5 million. These increases have resulted from
design changes, rapid increases in the costs of civil works and
equipment, and in the cost of land expropriation. Modifications in
the design of emergency and irrigation works are being studied by
CODEVASF and its consultants with a view to limiting further cost
increases. Project implementation had encountered certain opposi-
tion from the population of the project area, which disagreed with
the principles and procedures for land expropriation, settlement,
future land tenure and the structure of the proposed cooperative
system. The implementing agency CODEVASF has revised the social
strategy to be followed under the project and is improving communi-
cations and relations with the area population.



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport
Master Plan Study for Sao Paulo is presently under way and the first
results are expected shortly. The technical assistance program
which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations, marketing and data
processing systems is showing results. FEPASA's financial position
is not satisfactory. The Government recently deregulated most
freight tariffs and is starting to make payments to the railways to
meet deficits on uneconomic services which it requires to remain in
operation. These actions should assist in improving FEPASA's
financial position. However, the need for a significant redimen-
sioning of FEPASA's operation is becoming apparent.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1,1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. Progress is being adversely affected by funding
delays and marketing problems in the principal project crop, peren-
nial cotton. Means of resolving the problem are under discussion.
Implementation of the research and credit components of the project
has been successful. Disbursements are behind the original appraisal
schedule, partially because of funding delays.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
Project implementation is behind schedule. The major reasons are:
(i) an initial delay in the commitment of funds under this project
because of differences between the relending terms of the agencies
concerned and those required under the Loan Agreement. These
differences are now partly resolved; (ii) a leveling off of the
industry's demand for investment financing; and (iii) resource
constraints of the National Development Bank (BNDE). To accelerate
commitment of the loan, the Bank agreed to amend the Loan Agreement
so as to finance the full foreign exchange cost of subprojects.
However, commitment of the loan is progressing slowly because of
the existence of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a
general slow-down in investments.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Five sub-loans totalling US$101 million have
been committed with a total Bank contribution of US$23.5 million.
Prospects are good that the full amount of the loan will be com-
mitted by the end of 1978 or in early 1979.



-37-
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date:  September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1981. The project is progressing well and in some
areas ahead of schedule. Implementation of the civil works program
is actively in progress at 10 of the 21 research stations included
in the project, and is expected to be accelerated during 1979.
Facilities and research programs at seven experiment stations in the
three priority regions (North, Northeast and Central-West) are
proceeding in accordance with project goals. Staffing is in advance
of project goals, but technical assistance being provided by consul-
tants and the training program are somewhat behind schedule.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19. 1976;
Effective Date:  July 20, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1980.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
which is US$49 million over the appraisal estimate of US$272 million.
All the increase is in local currency and with the planned increases
in local loans and equity commitment the project has no financing
gap.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Prolect:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is on schedule and about 60% completed.
Disbursements are behind appraisal forecast, mainly because of delays
in procurement of major subtransmission equipment. The Borrower is
updating its 1976-79 distribution expansion program, and the adjusted
program should bring disbursements closer to the original schedule
by year-end 1978.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1980. Project implementation is about 12 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition
regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is
now progressing satisfactorily.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30. 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
The INAN project unit is seriously under-staffed which is adversely
affecting the progress of the project. The nutrition delivery
system's field tests are proceeding reasonably well. Disbursements
under the industrial credit components are behind schedule because
of competitive programs at subsidized rates. Measures to deal with
these problems are under study.



-38-
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. The loan is now fully committed
to 65 subprojects in cities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, 38
subprojects in cities of between 5,000 and 20,000 inhabitants and
water supply and sewerage subprojects in Greater Belo Horizonte.
Execution of the project is progressing satisfactorily.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
have not started.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. The project is about 30% complete and about 60% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed under
the loan have been awarded; the remainder are expected to be awarded
by mid-1979. With the exception of a relatively minor component,
project execution is on schedule. The shortfall (25%) in loan
disbursements, caused by delays in the procurement process, is
expected to be reduced to 10% by mid-1979 and eliminated by the end
of that year.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Organization of this project is progressing
satisfactorily after initial delays. The credit component is
expected to gather momentum in the near future. Mainly as a result
of administrative difficulties, participation in this project by
landless producers is significantly lower than originally envisaged,
but concerted efforts by the State Government and the participating
banks have improved this situation recently.  Both the health and
education components have advanced significantly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31. 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about nine
months.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
May 31, 1980. The project has been progressing satisfactorily
within the original budget estimate, and the plant start-up will
experience only a minor delay. The reorganization of VALEFERTIL
in December 1977 should improve the efficiency of project execution.
Personnel recruitment and training are underway.



-39-
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977, Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Construction of training centers and procurement of equipment are
proceeding according to schedule. With one exception (FUNDACENTRO),
the technical assistance program is underway at the training centers.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17. 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The implementation of the project has proceeded
satisfactorily after initial local funding delays. Agricultural
extension and experimentation services, agricultural credit, input
supply, marketing and storage services are making good progress
while the parts of the project relating to land purchase credit,
agricultural mechanization and cooperative societies organization
are progressing at a slower than expected rate.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. The project is proceeding
according to schedule.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30.
1983. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan of
May 1, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Initial disbursements have been delayed by about
six months due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market; however, it is
not certain that project completion will also be delayed.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8. 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982. The
project is proceeding according to schedule.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.



-40-
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: Approximately 1 year
(b) Project prepared by: State water companies with assistance of
consultants
(c) First presentation to the Bank: July, 1977
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: April, 1978
(e) Completion of Negotiation: January 4, 1979
(f) Planned Deadline for Effectiveness: May, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) BNH to exchange views with Bank on the management and regulations
of the PLANASA program (para. 45);
(b) EMBASA, CAGECE and COMPESA to establish a revised system of accounts
(para. 48);
(c)  EMBASA, CAGECE and COMPESA to establish an internal audit office
(para. 48);
(d) BNH to cause SATECIA to continue strengthening financial planning
and managerial systems of EMBASA, CAGECE and COMPESA (para. 48);
(e) EMBASA, CAGECE and COMPESA to obtain established rates of return
on investment in any single year (para. 49);
(f)  Government and BNH to enable EMBASA, CAGECE and COMPESA to attain
determined rates of return (para. 49);
(g) EMBASA, CAGECE and COMPESA to prepare and carry out financial
recovery programs (para. 49);



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(h) EMBASA, CAGECE and COMPESA to carry out studies on metering
policies and water supply and sewage tariffs and put into effect
the recommendations of these studies (para. 50);
(i) State and Federal Governments to provide any additional financing
that may be needed for the project (para. 52);
(j) BNH to approve subprojects under US$2.0 million subject to ex-post-
facto review by the Bank (para. 54);
(k) BNH, EMBASA, CAGECE and COMPESA to propose for Bank financing only
subprojects selected in accordance with established criteria
(para. 55);
(1) Bank to have the right to cancel from loan account amount equivalent
to cost of subprojects incorrectly approved by BNH (para. 55); and
(m) Bank disbursements to finance BNH subloans (para. 57).






K   I~~~m 
_    _        _                i  t                   _       _      _      _       _      _       _      _       _      _                          _       _       _       _       _       _       _       _       _       _       _       _       _       __                          J
vy~~ V   ,A  !: < -+Xrf/S-¢
A D ---, - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~; g (/ v \ X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K






*;  WJ'~~~~'  4~~~"'°4                                            ii~~  R A  Z  I L                                              FUF   MRC          7 
.,gt 2 -.0c t;' ;,, ~WATER  SUPPLY  AND  SEWERAGE PROJECT , ,9ECor  
~~~~~~~~~--7*                                                                                               THE   NORTHEAST   REGION f 9aLL
.     s    d           o                              R~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAINFALL  AND    PROBABILITY    OF   DROUGHT                               i     l
PARA                                                                       )vDrG 
P
__        2                       \   X.<.\                                ° 8, cc,                         _     81 ~~~~~~~~~ 00%~
t4EDE2AL9                                      SX                                   *>                                    19                             6      0V
\       TRC  AS |^                                                                       W11.^    E'.t 4                                                          0
5-- 4        ~           ~            _9 M ARANH                                                                                                           2- 4a0
,9        0> M    NAS                                                  ERA     S>                               :i       .                                     Io    0-o                                        S
2.3.;70Civr
Q  ur                                                                                                                 NrBeet eoont unV  
G 0 ? >> 1 A                                                   I I   
~~19    /    9    ffi   z   E   S   P  I  R  I  TO w ' o/sw=6 .......... w*Wws .. rz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   .... ...
49o   1'  </$  1                t46                              oIf ¢   S~~~AN0      >v                                  9                            ss






IBRD 13718
4  00.                                                                      F                             S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPTEMBER 1978
f* ~, g i            B                                                              \                             ( /9 l)/OCFA 
CANDEIAS
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
BRAZILI                                                                                                                           ' 0\ </ 
B R AZ I L
S9U TH
2D ii '.n.nOs'|gg tE R I C A  ,/                                                                                                             \ , t X - X /CAMACARI
t ;i U i i 0m.;; °~'gioXisi=eih > t '' . J t \ A ( SIMOES FILHO 
40~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~                                                                                     DO~~~~~~~~~0 JOANES
N) A 5 _ , i; . JA 1 i   g   / t / j./:  )  >  t                    \   \                                    /   >  <~IRITAIVGA 
?F55R VOIR ~ ~  ~     ~     ELWOA
0                     2          3 2
B BOMETB                                                                                                                        LAROD
TODOS 0S SANTOS
BA Y                                                             CAAER
/4 t r 0 :  :     ; 0Q              ALVADTOR                         WATER \SUJPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
City of Salvador
Treatment    Water
Water Maino           Plats   SToroge Ton \s
- :   fMain ABss Roadst                          Proposed                 a .
-ISecondr Aces4 Roads, ,                        Future '
Railroads                              IExisting     U 
Built-up Areas                 - - -  Under Construction






IBRD 13719
SEPTEMAER 197
\ ,  e    '  a 'K   :   0SS   \:   f  2  ':  dii  )EV  0   0  Vi '    4  '  0  \fu'\t ' 0  Ce'  f"  A  SEff U    D
Go OD       ~
N`~~~~~~~~~~~~~>
KR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Rx< *\    \  \ 0 q 9  <   0   i 0 zE 2 Q '  Q >    0 f: f k : :0 : D:   f A  0  g 0  \;  t  2    g f   r
I,                                                                  ''        0
:N
X ; gO~7 -aw1"0gw                                                                                                                           i






I BR 13720
'5-              A
-5'~~~~~~~~-
S-? - n j:X               ~~~~1$..- pt                    W               n                                                    -                       
R-10 N ~      0           RLREII
L/                                                                         :  0 / i *; 47 \/ \ U .. -  -  'Water Supply ond Sewerage Project
CASTELAO                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CITY OF FORTALEZA
WATER SUPPLY.
Tron--ssorm- n
°e                                                                                                                       Wt.peeereplt  A,w-t ,1-t t-t.Wm nt
O Water treatment plant
Storage tanks
Mai roads
Bailwaysre
0  R ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Rvt
_________                                                                                                                                                                   Enilt-  p  u1up areas
/Dlworz  /  N  W  An-r !                t        o         r        ;        5        .e,',,sSv| nt,v in,
o_rb -vrd v;  Mlen
"A-- R.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I teta



