CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1656 BR
Loan Agreement
(Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITA'AO
and
EMPRESA BAIANA DE AGUAS E SANEAMENTO S.A. - EMBASA
and
COMPANHIA DE AGUA E ESGOTO DO CEARA - CAGECE
and
COMPANHIA PERNAMBUCANA DE SANEAMENTO - COMPESA
and
STATE OF BAHIA
and
STATE OF CEARA
and
STATE OF PERNAMBUCO
Dated February 8, 1979


﻿4
LOAN NUMBER 1656 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 8, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITAgAO (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and EMPRESA BAIANA DE AGUAS E SANEAMENTO S.A. - EMBASA (herein-
after called EMBASA) and COMPANHIA DE AGUA E ESGOTO DO CEARA -
CAGECE (hereinafter called CAGECE) and COMPANHIA PERNAMBUCANA DE
SANEAMENTO - COMPESA (hereinafter called COMPESA) and STATE OF
BAHIA and STATE OF CEARA and STATE OF PERNAMBUCO.
WHEREAS (A) Plano Nacional de Saneamento (hereinafter called
PLANASA) constitutes a water supply and sewerage program for
Brazil which has been established under the direction of the
Borrower, and which, in the opinion of the Bank, forms an accept-
able basis for a specific financing operation of the Bank in
Brazil;
(B) The Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
will be carried out and financed as part of PLANASA;
(C) The Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called
the Guarantor), the State of Bahia, the State of Cear&, the State
of Pernambuco and the Borrower have requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project by making the Loan to the Borrower
as hereinafter provided;
(D) Parts A, B and C of the Project will be carried out by
EMBASA, CAGECE and COMPESA, respectively, with the assistance of
the Borrower and also with the assistance, with resources other
than the proceeds of the Loan, of the State of Bahia, the State of
Ceara and the State of Pernambuco, respectively, and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available the proceeds of
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
0
(E) Part D of the Project will be carried out by the Bor-
rower with the assistance, with resources other than the proceeds
of the Loan, of the State of Bahia, the State of Ceara and the
State of Pernambuco;
(F) EMBASA, CAGECE and COMPESA have agreed to undertake
certain obligations towards the Bank in respect of the Project
being financed hereby as hereinafter in this Agreement set forth;
(G) The State of Bahia, the State of Ceara and the State of
Pernambuco have agreed to undertake certain obligations towards


﻿- 2 -
the Bank (including the provision of funds) in respect of the
Project being financed hereby as hereinafter in this Agreement set
forth;
(R) The State of Bahia, the State of Ceara and the State of
Pernambuco each warrants and represents that it is authorized to
undertake its respective obligations in this Agreement set forth;
(I) The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter, and in the Guarantee
Agreement, of even date herewith, between the Guarantor and the
Bank;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "State" means any of the following States of the Guar-
antor: State of Bahia, State of Ceara and State of Pernambuco,
such States hereinafter sometimes collectively called the "Project
States".
(b)  "Company" means any of the following water supply and
sewerage companies: (i) Empresa Baiana de Aguas e Saneamento S.A. -
EMBASA, a mixed economy water supply and sewerage corporation
incorporated on December 31, 1974 in Salvador, Bahia in accordance
with the decision of the extraordinary meeting of its share-
holders held on November 12, 1974 (hereinafter called EMBASA) and


﻿- 3 -
"Estatutos Sociais" means, in respect of EMBASA, its statutes as
published in the Diario Oficial of the State of Bahia on May 13
and 14, 1978; (ii) Companhia de Agua e Esgoto do Ceara-CAGECE
(hereinafter called CAGECE) a mixed economy water supply and
sewerage corporation, created by Law No. 9,499 of the State of
Ceara, dated July 20, 1971, and "Estatutos Sociais" means, in
respect of CAGECE, its statutes as approved by the extraor-
dinary meeting of its shareholders held on December 9, 1977 and
published in the Diario Oficial of the State of Ceara on Janu-
ary 12, 1978; and (iii) Companhia Pernambucana de Saneameato-
COMPESA (hereinafter called COMPESA) a mixed economy water supply
and sewerage corporation created by Law No. 6,307 of the State of
Pernambuco, dated July 29, 1971, and "Estatutos Sociais' means, in
respect of COMPESA, its statutes as approved by the extraordinary
meeting of its shareholders held on February 13, 1978 and pub-
lished in the Diario Oficial of the State of Pernambuco on
April 13, 1978, as amended by the extraordinary meeting of its
shareholders held on May 15, 1978 and published in such Diario
Oficial on August 12, 1978; such companies hereinafter sometimes
collectively called the "Project Companies".
(c) "State Bank" means any of the following commercial
banks: (i) Banco do Estado da Bahia S.A. a bank of which the State
of Bahia is the majority shareholder; (ii) Banco do Estado do
Ceara - BEC a bank of which the State of Ceara is the majority
shareholder; and (iii) Banco do Estado do Pernambuco S.A. -
BANDEPE a bank of which the State of Pernambuco is the majority
shareholder; such banks hereinafter sometimes collectively called
the "Project State Banks".
(d) "Sub-project" means a project included in PLANASA
consisting in the provision of water supply or sewage collection
and disposal, or both, which will be carried out by a Company in
any of the Project States and which the Borrower and such State
have financed, or propose to finance, out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
(e) "free-limit Sub-project" means a Sub-project, as so
defined, which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-project pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(f) "Approved Sub-project" means a Sub-project, as so
defined, which the Bank has approved or a free-limit Sub-project
as so defined, for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from
the Loan Account, and which are consistent with the criteria set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿(g) "BNH loans" means the loans from the Borrower to a State
Bank referred to in Section 3.03 (ii) (A) of this Agreement.
(h) "FINEST II" means a credit program established by the
Borrower's Resolution No. 49/76 (particularly Articles 1.1 (b)
and 3 thereof) under which a State receives financial assistance
for purposes of financing the carrying out of water supply and
sewerage projects within such State, and which can be substan-
tially described as follows: (i) the Borrower makes loans to its
financial agent (normally a State Bank controlled by such State)
which in turn relends the proceeds of such loans to such State;
(ii) the amount of such loans does not exceed the equivalent of
the aggregate of funds that such State has made, or proposes to
make, available to the Company operating in such State for pur-
poses of the carrying out of the above mentioned projects in Small
Communities within such State; (iii) such State deposits the pro-
ceeds of such loans in the water supply and sewerage financing
fund referred to in the Applicable PLANASA Agreement (as such term
is defined below); and (iv) such Company retains a determined
percentage of the funds referred to in (ii) above as an equity
contribution from such State while it pays the balance of such
funds within a certain period into the above mentioned fund;
"FINEST II Sub-project" means a Sub-project, as so defined, which
is financed under FINEST II; and "Approved FINEST II Sub-project"
means an Approved Sub-project as so defined, which is financed
under FINEST II.
(i) "FINEST III" means a credit program established by the
Borrower's Rcsolution No. 49/76 (particularly Articles 1.1 (c) and
4 thereof) under which a Company receives financial assistance for
purposes of carrying out water supply and sewerage projects for
Small Communities within the State in which such Company operates,
and which can be substantially described as follows: (i) the
Borrower makes loans to a financial agent (normally the State Bank
controlled by such State) which in turn relends the proceeds of
such loans to such State; (ii) such State undertakes to make
available such proceeds together with an equivalent amount of
funds of such State (originated other than in loans from the
Borrower) to such Company for purposes of the carrying out of the
above mentioned projects; and (iii) a determined percentage of the
aggregate of the proceeds and the funds referred to in (ii) above
is retained by such Company as an equity contribution from such
State while the balance is paid back by such Company to such State
within a certain period; "FINEST III Sub-project" means a Sub-
project, as so defined, which is financed under FINEST III; and


﻿- 5 -
Approved FINEST III Sub-project means an Approved Sub-project, as
so defined, which is financed under FINEST III.
(j) "Applicable PLANASA Agreement" means any of the follow-
ing agreements: (i) in the case of Sub-projects for purposes of
Part A of the Project, the agreement between, inter alia, the
Borrower and the State of Bahia and Banco do Estado da Bahia S.A.
and EMBASA, dated July 2, 1971, as such agreement has been renewed
to encompass all operations of EMBASA in respect of PLANASA, and
the term includes each financing contract covering specific
Sub-projects entered or to be entered into by the same parties to
such agreement pursuant to paragraph 3 of clause 3 thereof (each
such financing contract hereinafter called CTN-Bahia); (ii) in the
case of Sub-projects for purposes of Part B of the Project, the
agreement between, inter alia, the Borrower and the State of
Ceara and the Banco do Estado do Ceara and CAGECE dated
November 30, 1971, as such agreement has been renewed to encompass
all operations of CAGECE in respect of PLANASA, and the term
includes each financing contract covering specific Sub-projects,
entered or to be entered into by the same parties to such agree-
ment pursuant to paragraph 3 of clause 3 thereof (each such
financing contract hereinafter called CTN-Ceara); and (iii)
in the case of Sub-projects for purposes of Part C of the Project,
the agreement between the Borrower and the State of Pernambuco and
Banco do Estado do Pernambuco and COMPESA dated September 22,
1971, as such agreement has been renewed to encompass all
operations of COMPESA in respect of PLANASA, and the term includes
each financing contract covering specific Sub-projects, entered or
to be entered into by the same parties to such agreement pursuant
to paragraph 3 of clause 3 thereof (each such financing contract
hereinafter called CTN-Pernambuco).
(k) "CTN" means, as applicable, each CTN-Bahia or each CTN-
Ceara or each CTN-Pernambuco.
(1)  "Superintendencia" means Superintendencia do Sistema
Financeiro de Saneamento, a superintend^ncia of the Borrower
entrusted with the Borrower's financing and technical functions
concerning sanitation of urban areas in Brazil, or any successor
thereto.
(m) "Small Community" means a community within a State
which, in accordance with the Guarantor's census applicable at the
date of appraisal of a Sub-project, has an urban population of not
more than 5,000 inhabitants.


﻿- 6 -
(n) "SATECIA" means Programa de Assistencia Tecnica para o
Desenvolvimento Institucional das Empresas Estaduais de Sanea-
mento, a program of technical assistance to water supply and
sewerage companies which is being carried out by the Borrower
under the auspices of the Pan-American Health Organization.
(o) "Law" means the Guarantor's Law No. 6528, published in
the Guarantor's Diario Oficial on May 12, 1978, and "Decree"
means the Guarantor's Decree No. 82587 published in the Guaran-
tor's Diario Oficial on November 7, 1978, which regulates the
Law, the Law and the Decree hereinafter sometimes called the
Legislation.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
om the Loan Account for:
(i) 58% of the amounts disbursed, after the date of
this Agreement, by the Borrower under BNH loans in
respect of reasonable expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) by a Company for
goods or civil works or services (or any combina-
tion thereof) required for carrying out Sub-
projects;
(ii) 29% of the amounts disbursed, after the date
of this Agreement, by the Borrower in respect of
loans made to a State according to Section 3.03
(ii) (B) of this Agreement in respect of reasonable
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) by a Company for goods or civil works
or services (or any combination thereof) required
for carrying out FINEST II Sub-projects; and
(iii) 58% of the amounts disbursed, after the date
of this Agreement, by the Borrower in respect of
loans made to a State according to Section 3.03


﻿(ii) (C) of this Agreement in respect of reasonable
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) by a Company for goods or civil works
or services (or any combination thereof) required
for carrying out FINEST III Sub-projects;
provided, however, that no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan
Account in respect of a Sub-project unless (A) the Sub-project
shall have been approved by the Bank, or (B) the Sub-project shall
be a free-limit Sub-project for which the Bank shall have author-
ized withdrawals from the Loan Account; and being further provided
that, in the case the amounts disbursed by the Borrower may
qualify for withdrawals from the Loan Account under sub-paragraphs
(ii) and (iii) of paragraph (a) above, withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall be made, at the Borrower's choice,, under any of such
sub-paragraphs but not under both.
(b) A free-limit Sub-project shall be a Sub-project the
estimated total investment cost of which shall not exceed the
sum of $2,000,000 equivalent, which has been previously approved
by the Borrower and which will be located in a medium size town or
Small Community for which no Approved Sub-project has been or is
being carried out.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the aggregate amount of payments made out of the proceeds
of the Loan for purposes of: (i) Part A of the Project, shall not
exceed the equivalent of $38,000,000; (ii) Part B of the Project,
shall not exceed the equivalent of $16,000,000; (iii) Part C of
the Projact shall not exceed the equivalent of $26,000,000; and
(iv) Part D of the Project shall not exceed the equivalent of
$600,000; provided, however, that, should the Bank and the Bor-
rower agree on a different allocation of the proceeds of the Loan,
Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall, if so required, be changed
accordingly.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of:
(i) expenditures made by a Company before the date
of this Agreement;
(ii) expenditures made by a Company other than the one
taken into account for purposes of Section 8.01 (a)
of this Agreement, unless evidence satisfactory to


﻿-8-
the Bank shall have been furnished to the Bank that
the execution and delivery of this Agreement on
behalf of such Company and on behalf of the State
where such Company operates have been duly autho-
rized or ratified by all necessary corporate
or governmental action. As part of such evidence,
the Bank shall be furnished an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to
the Bank showing: (A) that this Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, such Company and such State
and is legally binding upon such Company and such
State in accordance with its terms; and (B) that
all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Guarantor and by such
State, by their political subdivisions (other than
such State) or agencies, by any agency of any such
political subdivisions, or otherwise to be per-
formed or given in order to authorize the carrying
out of each Part of the Project related to such
State and to enable such State, the Borrower and
the Company operating in such State to perform all
of the obligations of each of them contained in
this Agreement (including the obligations thereof
relating to procurement) together with all neces-
sary powers and rights in connection therewith,
including the full power and authority of such
Company to construct and operate the Sub-projects,
have been performed or given;
(iii) disbursements made by the Borrower to finance
expenditures incurred (other than expenditures
in respect of construction) by a Company in respect
of a Sub-project subject to the Bank's approval if
such expenditures shall have been made more than
one hundred twenty days prior to the date on
which the Bank shall have received in respect of
such Sub-project the application and information
required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or,
in respect of a free-limit Sub-project, more than
one hundred twenty days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received in respect of such
free-limit Sub-project the request and information
required by Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement;
and


﻿-9-
(iv) disbursements made by the Borrower to finance
expenditures incurred by EMBASA in respect of
sewerage works under Part A.1 of the Project unless
the Bank has been furnished with a plan, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, providing solutions to the
financial and technical difficulties involved in
house connections to the sewerage network of the
city of Salvador.
(e) If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that
the: (A) procurement of any item is inconsistent with the proce-
dures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, or (B) selection
and approval by the Borrower of a Sub-project, or the manner in
which an Approved Sub-project is being carried out, are not
consistent with the criteria set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item or for such Sub-project,
or Approved Sub-project, as the case may be, shall be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-project (other than
a free-limit Sub-project) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory
to the Bank, together with (i) an appraisal (including economic
and financial analysis) of tn1. Sub-project including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan; (ii) the proposed financial terms and conditions for
such Sub-project, including the CTN or CTNs covering such Sub-
project; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-prc ject shall contain: (i) a summary description of the
Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the financial
terms and conditions for such Sub-project, including the CTN or
CTNs covering such Sub-project; and (iii) such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 10 -
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to
the Bank on or before December 31, 1982.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven per cent (7.00%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. EMBASA shall carry out Part A of the Project,
CAGECE shall carry out Part B of the Project, COMPESA shall carry
out Part C of the Project, and the Borrower shall carry out Part D
of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, ecological
and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and each of the Project States
shall provide the Company in question with such funds (additional


﻿- 11 -
to the proceeds of the Loan), facilities, services and other
resources as shall be necessary or appropriate to enable such
Company to carry out the Approved Sub-projects which such Company
shall carry out under the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) relend the proceeds of the Loan,
as and when needed for purposes of the Project, to the State Bank
controlled by the State where each Approved Sub-project will be
located; (ii) cause such State Bank to relend such proceeds for
purposes of each such Approved Sub-project to (A) the Company
operating in such State, if such Approved Sub-project is financed
under a BNH loan, or (B) to such State for the purposes of (1)
replenishing a fund designated by such State in the Applicable
PLANASA Agreement to finance water supply and sewerage projects,
in the case of an Approved FINEST II Sub-project, or (2) mak-
ing such proceeds available to such Company, in the case of an
Approved FINEST III Sub-project, all in a manner consistent
with the Applicable PLANASA Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall, in addition to its obligations under
paragraph (a) above, provide such funds, facilities, services and
other resources as shall be necessary or appropriate for the
carrying out of Part D of the Project.
(d) The obligations of the Borrower and of the Project
States under Section 3.02 (a) shall be: (i) several; and (ii)
subject to Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of this Agreement, respectively.
Section 3.03. The Borrower, with due diligence and efficiency
and for the purposes of complying with its obligations under
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, shall: (i) assist each Company
in the preparation and appraisal of each Sub-project; and (ii)
make (A) loans to each State Bank in respect of a Sub-project in
an amount equal to one-half of the amount of the loan or loans
made (or to be made) by such State Bank to such Company for
purposes of such Sub-project; or (B) loans to the State Bank
controlled by the State where such Company operates in an amount
equivalent to thie amounts made available by such State to such
Company for the financing of FINEST II Sub-projects, and cause
such State Bank to relend the proceeds of such loans to such
State; or (C) loans to the State Bank owned by the State where
such Company operates in an amount equivalent to one-half of
the amounts made available by such State to such Company for the
financing of a FINEST III Sub-project, and cause such State Bank
to relend the proceeds of such loans to such State, all in a


﻿- 12 -
manner consistent with the obligations of such Company under
Section 5.07 of this Agreement and of such Company and the Bor-
rower under the Applicable PLANASA Agreement.
Section 3.04. Each State shall, for the purposes of complying
with its obligations under Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement,
make available to the Company operating in such State, partly as
loans and partly as equity contributions into such Company's
equity: (i) amounts equivalent to the loans referred to in Section
3.03 (ii) (B) and (C) of this Agreement; (ii) the proceeds of the
loans referred to in Section 3.03 (ii) (C) of this Agreement; and
(iii) cause the State Bank controlled by such State to make to the
Company operating in such State, the loans refer-red to in Section
3.03 (ii) (A) of this Agreement, all in a manner consistent with
the obligations of such Company under Section 5.07 of this Agree-
ment and of such Company and such State under the Applicable
PLANASA Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications and experience, as well as the
terms and conditions of the contract under which the services of
such consultants shall be performed, shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b) EMBASA, CAGECE and COMPESA shall take all such action
as shall be necessary on their part for purposes of the carrying
out of Part D (1), (2) and (3) of the Project, respectively.
Section 3.06. (a) Each Company undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by such Company to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, such Company
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for Approved Sub-projects.
Section 3.07. (a) Each Company shall furnish to the Bank
and the Borrower, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documen,s and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank or
the Borrower shall reasonably request.


﻿- 13 -
(b) Each Company: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project and of
each Approved Sub-project carried out thereunder by each such
Company (including their cost and the benefits to be derived from
them), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in each Approved
Sub-project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
each such Approved Sub-project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents in respect of each such Approved Sub-project; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals of not more than
three months all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project and each such Approved Sub-project,
their cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
them, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare (on the basis of a
report that each Company shall furnish to the Borrower on the
execution and initial operation of the Part of the Project that
shall be carried out by each such Company) and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shail
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by the Borrower, each Company, each State
and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower and each Company shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of the Borrower or of
each such Company and, in respect of each Approved Sub-project,
any relevant records and documents.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall not furnish to the Bank,
either for approval thereof or for authorizations to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account therefor, a Sub-project which has
not been previously approved by the Borrower, nor shall it approve
a Sub-project which is not consistent with the criteria set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
(b) Each Company shall select each Sub-project being fur-
nished by each such Company to the Borrower for approval in a
manner consistent with the criteria referred to in (a) above and
shall ensure that such criteria are being consistently applied by
each such Company in the carrying out of each Approved Sub-project
which each such Company is carrying out under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Covenants of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall conduct its operations and
affairs in respect of the Project in accordance with sound finan-
cial and administrative standards and practices, with qualified
management and personnel, and in accordance with Laws No. 4,380
of August 21, 1964; No. 5,762 of December 14, 1971; and Decree
No. 75,512 of July 23, 1973.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reason-
able opportunity to exchange views, from time to time, on the
Superintendencia's organization, and on the guidelines and rules
established or to be established for purposes of PLANASA; such
exchange of views to cover, among others, such matters as: (i)
Superintendencia's structure, coordination among various areas
of responsibility, and decision making process; and (ii) criteria
for the preparation, approval, execution, and operation of water
supply and sewerage projects to be financed by the Borrower.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition in
respect of PLANASA and the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such
accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 15 -
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost
to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on
any assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, before December 31, 1979 or
on such other date as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree,
introduce the necessary changes in the uniform system of accounts
prepared by the Borrower in January 1976 under the auspices of
SATECIA to allow such system to provide for appropriate statements
of cash sources and utilization.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary or advisable to enable each of the Companies
and the Guarantor, as the case may be, to comply with their
respective obligations under Section 5.07 of this Agreement and
Section 3.02 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Additional Covenants of the Project Companies
Section 5.01. Each Company shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and conduct its business and undertaking, all in accordance
with sound business, financial and public utility practices, and
under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by adequate and competent staff.


﻿- 16 -
Section 5.02. Each Company shall:
(a) at all times take all necessary steps to maintain its
existence and its right to carry on operations, and to acquire and
retain all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are
necessary or useful for the purpose of complying with its obliga-
tions under this Agreement or for the efficient conduct of its
business and undertaking;
(b) at all times operate and maintain the plants, machinery,
equipment and other property owned or operated by it and promptly
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering and public utility practices; and
(c) not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
the property or assets owned or operated by it which are necessary
or useful for the efficient conduct of its business and under-
taking.
Section 5.03. Each Company shall make provision satisfactory
to the Bank for insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with sound public utility practices.
Section 5.04. Each Company shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.05. Each Company shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of such financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of each such Company and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. In
addition, each such Company shall, not later than March 31 in each
year until the Closing Date, furnish to the Bank three-year
financial projections prepared on the basis of the aforementioned
documentation in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 17 -
Section 5.06. Each Company shall correct the monetary value
of its fixed assets in service at the end of each fiscal year in
accordance with the provisions of Article 185 of the Guarantor's
Law No, 6404.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
each of the Companies shall take all such action (including action
with respect to the filing, as soon as possible as the Legislation
shall permit, of appropriate applications with respect to the
setting or adjustment of the Company's rates for its water supply
and sewerage services) as shall be necessary or advisable to cause
the Company's rates for such services to be set and maintained at
such levels as will produce revenues, as permitted by the Legis-
lation, which shall be sufficient, after covering the Company's
operating costs and depreciation charges in accordance with sound
water supply and sewerage utility and financial practices, as
required by the Legislation, to enable the Company to earn an
annual return at a rate of not more than twelve per cent (taxa de
remunerarao autorizada) on permissible investment (investimento
reconhecido), as such terms are defined in the Legislation, such
taxa to be set or increased gradually every year to the satis-
faction of the Bank, so that, by 1983, the taxa applicable for
that year and all years thereafter shall be not less than seven
per cent in the case of EMBASA and COMPESA and six per cent in the
case of CAGECE.
The term "operating costs and depreciation charges" includes,
as provided in the Legislation: (i) operating costs (despesas
de exploragao); (ii) provision for bad debts (provisao para
devedores); (iii) straight-line depreciation of assets based
on the useful lives of depreciable assets in operation (quotas de
depreciagao); and (iv) amortization of capitalized operating
costs, such as interest during construction (amortizagoes de
despesas).
Section 5.08. Each Company shall, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1980: (a) update fixed assets inventories and have the
values properly recorded in the books of accounts; and (b) put
into effect the uniform system of accounts prepared by the
Borrower in January 1976 under the auspices of SATECIA including
the changes referred to in Section 4.06 of this Agreement.
Section 5.09. Each Company shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to ensure that, by December 31, 1980 and
thereafter, its internal audit office is adequately functioning


﻿- 18 -
under experienced and competent managers assisted by competent
staff.
Section 5.10. Each Company shall, in order that it shall
be in position to meet its obligations under Section 5.07 of
this Agreement:
(a) carry out studies under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank on the fields of metering policies and rates for
water supply and for sewage collections and disposal;
(b) as and when required, employ consultants for purposes of
(a) above;
(c) furnish to the Bank, not later than October 31, 1979,
the findings and conclusions of such studies;
(d) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
such findings and conclusions; and
(e) put into effect such of the findings and conclusions
of the studies as shall be agreed between the Bank, the Borrower
and each such Company.
Section 5.11. Each Company shall:
(a) not later than October 31, 1979, furnish to the Bank for
comment specific financial recovery plans (including objectives
and a schedule for the attainment thereof) for each such Company,
encompassing the following actions:
(i) increasing metering of existing connections,
particularly in high income or consumption areas;
(ii) increasing water supply by means of upgrading,
wherever applicable, the capacity of existing
treatment plants;
(iii) increasing consumer connections to existing water
distribution system and sewerage networks;
(iv) improving control of operating expenses; and
(v) reduction in the levels of unaccounted for water.


﻿- 19 -
(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
such plans before the commencement of the execution thereof and
execute such plans in accordance with the schedules referred
to in (a) above, all as modified in accordance with Bank comments.
Section 5.12. EMBASA shall, not later than December 31,
1979 or on such other date as the Bank, the Borrower and EMBASA
shall agree, prepare: (i) alternative technological solutions
satisfactory to the Bank (including an execution schedule for
each such alternative) for sewage collection and disposal in
those areas of such city where current sewerage practices are
very expensive or technologically inappropriate or both; and (ii)
standards for consumer connections to EMBASA's sewerage system
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Additional Covenants of States
of Bahia, Ceara and Pernambuco
Section 6.01. Each State covenants and warrants that the
Project is of paramount importance to its economic development
and the social welfare of its inhabitants, and that it will
fully support the Project by cooperating with the Company operat-
ing in each such State in the execution of the Project and by
providing, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources on its part required for the operation and
maintenance of the facilities and services included in the Proj-
ect.
Section 6.02. Each State shall take or cause its agencies or
instrumentalities to take all such action as shall be required to
assist the Company operating in each such State in the performance
of the obligations of such Company under this Agreement, particu-
larly the obligations of such Company specified in Sections 3.01,
3.05 (b), 5.07, 5.08, 5.10 and 5.11 of this Agreement.
Section 6.03. The State of Bahia covenants not to change,
suspend or repeal its Law No. 2490 dated November 27, 1967 if
by doing so the execution of Part A of the Project or the opera-
tions or financial position of EMBASA are materially and adversely
affected.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Borrower or any of the Project Companies or of the
Project States or of the Project State Banks shall have failed to
perform any of its respective obligations under the Applicable
PLANASA Agreement or, in respect of any of the Project States or
Project Companies, under this Agreement;
(b) Any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the
Project Companies or for the suspension of its operations;
(c) Any of the Estatutos Sociais referred to in Section 1.02
(b) of this Agreement shall have been amended so as to materially
and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the
operations or financial condition of the Company in question;
(d) A change shall have been made in the legislation
referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement which will mate-
rially and adversely affect PLANASA or the carrying out of the
Project or the financial condition or operations of the Borrower;
(e) A change shall have been made in any of the Applicable
PLANASA Agreements which will materially and adversely affect the
carrying out of any Approved Sub-project, the operations of the
Company or of the State Bank which are parties to such Applicable
PLANASA Agreement or which will result in a substantive modifi-
cation of the financial conditions under which Approved Sub-
projects are financed;
(f) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that any of the Project Companies or
Project States will be able to perform its respective obligations
under this Agreement or exercise its respective rights under the
Applicable PLANASA Agreement; and
(g) A change in the legal framework of the Guarantor or the
Project States in effect on the date of this Agreement shall have
occurred, which shall materially and adversely affect the carry-


﻿- 21 -
ing on of the business of, or the setting or adjustment of the
rates charged by, any of the Project Companies for its services.
For the purposes of this paragraph, the term "change in the
legal framework of the Guarantor or the Project States" means
any change in the Law, the Decree or any other legal provision
of the Guarantor or the Project States relating to the carrying on
of the business of any of the Project Companies and the deter-
mination and adjustment of the rates charged by any such Company
for its services.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d)
or (g) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (e) of
Section 7.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower, to the State in question and to the
Company operating in such State.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the execution and delivery of this Agreement
on behalf of one of the Project States and of the Company operat-
ing in such State have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental and corporate action; and
(b) that this Agreement has been duly registered by the
Banco Central do Brasil.
Section 3.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinions to be furnished to
the Bank:


﻿- 22 -
(a) that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the State taken into
account for purposes of Section 8.01 (a) of this Agreement and of
the Project Company operating in such State, and is legally
binding upon them in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to
be performed or given by the Guarantor and by the State referred
to in paragraph (a) above, by their political subdivisions (other
than such State) or agencies, by any agency of any such political
subdivisions, or otherwise to be performed or given in order to
authorize the carrying out of each Part of the Project related to
such State and to enable such State, the Borrower and the Company
operating in such State to perform all of the obligations of each
of them contained in this Agreement (including the obligations
thereof relating to procurement) together with all necessary
powers and rights in connection therewith, including the full
power and authority of such Company to construct and operate the
Sub-projects, have been performed or given.
Section 8.03. The date May 8, 1979 is hereby specified for
the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 23 -
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional da Habitação
Av. Republica do Chile 230
20000 Rio de Janeiro, R.J.
Brazil
Cable address:                      Telex:
HABITAÇÃ0                           2122062 B-HAB-BR
Rio
For EMBASA:
Empresa Baiana de Aguas e Saneamento
Centro Administrativo da Bahia,
ED. Secretaria do Saneamento e
Desenvolvimento Urbano
40000 Salvador, Bahia
Brazil
Telex:
071-1062/115
For CAGECE:
Companhia de Agua e Esgoto do Ceará
rua Dr. Lauro Chaves 1030
60000 Fortaleza, Ceará
Brazil
For COMPESA:
Companhia Pernambucana de Saneamento
Avenida Cruz Cabuga 1387, Santo Amaro
50000 Recife, Pernambuco
Brazil
Telex:
811631


﻿- 24 -
For the State of Bahia:
Exmo. Sr. Governador do Estado
Palacio Rio Branco
Praga Thome de Souza
40000 Salvador, Bahia
Brazil
Telex:
071-1062/115
For the State of Ceara:
Exmo. Sr. Governador do Estado
Palacio da Aboliggo
Avenida Bargo de Studart. 505
60000 Fortaleza, Ceara
Brazil
For the State of Pernambuco:
Exmo. Sr. Governador do Estado
Palacio Campo das Princesas
Praga da Republica
50000 Recife, Pernambuco
Brazil
Telex:
0818196
Section 9.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of one of the Project States may be taken
or executed by the Governor of such State or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing, and such State shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 9.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of one of the Project Companies may be
taken or executed by its President or such other person or persons


﻿- 25 -
as he shall designate in writing, and such Company shall furnish
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 9.04. Whenever the Bank, one of the Project States or
one of the Project Companies shall, for purposes of the Project,
write to each other or take any action or give any notice, as re-
quired or permitted as the case may be, they shall simultaneously
furnish to the Borrower copies of all correspondence or documents
or other information in respect thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Eugenio Lari
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITAgAO
By /s/ Mauricio Schulman
Authorized Representative
By /s/ Luis Sande
Authorized Representative


﻿- 26 -
STATE OF BAHIA
By Is/ Walter Rodenburg Ribeiro Sanches
Authorized Representative
STATE OF CEARA
By Is/ Roberto Gerson Gradvohl
Authorized Representative
STATE OF PERNAMBUCO
By Is! Carlos Frederico De Almeida
Authorized Representative
EMPRESA BAIANA DE AGUAS E SANEAMENTO S.A. -
EMBASA
By Is/ Jose Edson Vasconcelos Fontenelle
Authorized Representative
By /s/ Josemar Martins
Authorized Representative


﻿- 27 -
COMPANHIA DE AGUAS E ESGOTO DO CEARA - CAGECE
By Is/ Roberto Gerson Gradvohl
Authorized Representative
By /s/ Roberto Gerson Gradvohl
Authorized Representative
COMPANHIA PERNAMBUCANA DE SANEAMENTO - COMPESA
By /s/ Carlos Frederico De Almeida
Authorized Representative
By /s/ Carlos Frederico De Almeida
Authorized Representative


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project comprises Sub-projects included or to be included
in PLANASA and technical assistance to the Project Companies to
enhance their present and future role in the carrying out of
PLANASA. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Execution of Approved Sub-projects in the
State of Bahia
1.   Approved Sub-projects for the city of Salvador.
2.   Approved Sub-projects for about 15 medium-sized towns
and about 140 Small Communities within the State of
Bahia.
Part B:   Execution of Approved Sub-projects in the
State of Ceara
1.   Approved Sub-projects for the city of Fortaleza.
2.   Approved Sub-projects for about 60 Small Communities
within the State of Ceara, where water systems will be
constructed or expanded.
Part C:   Execution of Approved Sub-projects in the
State of Pernambuco
1.   Approved Sub-projects for the city of Recife.
2.   Approved Sub-projects in about 38 medium-sized towns and
about 85 Small Communities within the State of Pernam-
buco.
Part D:    Strengthening of the financial planning and managerial
capabilities of EMBASA, CAGECE and COMPESA by means
of provision thereto of about 100 man-months, in the
aggregate, of technical assistance services, inter alia,
in the following fields:


﻿- 29 -
1.   EMBASA:   Financial Management
Accounting
Systems Operations
Information Systems
2.   CAGECE:   Financial Management
Project Management
Systems Operation
Commercialization
3.   COMPESA: Financial Management
Supplies and Materials Control
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1982
through   September 1, 1993                   4,165,000
On March 1, 1994                                    4,205,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 31 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.40%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.80%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.15%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen years
before maturity                             6.05%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                             7.00%


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, each Company shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender made by each such Company or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. Each such Company shall provide
the necessary information to update such notice annually so long
as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   Identical or similar equipment and materials shall be grouped
together for purposes of bidding, such groups to be of a size
satisfactory to the Bank, the Borrower and the Company in ques-
tion.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Company in question of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place ot their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 33 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following two groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Brazil if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
such goods contain components manufactured in
Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of
the complete goods.
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes (including merchant fleet renewal and port improvement
taxes) on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group B bid, for the purpose of
this further comparison only, an amount equal to: (A) the amount
of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of the goods
offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such


﻿-34 -
price; and (ii) to the evaluated bid price of the domestically
supplied goods offered in each group B bid an amount equal to (A)
the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be
levied on such goods if they originated from the same foreign
country as the goods involved in a group B bid which enjoy the
lowest customs duties and other import taxes or (B) 15% of the
ex-factory price of such goods if said customs duties and taxes
exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group B which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $400,000 and contracts for civil works estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $1,200,000 shall be procured in
accordance with locally advertised bidding procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. Each Company shall, before
qualification is invited by each such Company, inform the Bank in
detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such
modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by each
such Company to the Bank for its comments before the applicants
are notified of the Boriower's decision, and each such Company
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in,
the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $2,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited by a Company, such Company
shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising proce-
dures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifi-
cations in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding


﻿- 35 -
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, such
Company shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform such Company and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, each Company shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform each Company and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 36 -
SCHEDULE 4
Preparation, Eligibility and Execution Criteria
for Sub-projects
(a) For each Sub-project:
(i) When preparing appraisals (including relatorios and
projetos t&cicos) for Sub-projects, each Company
will follow the Borrower's guidelines in effect as
of November 1, 1978, as the same may be amended
from time to time. The relatorio and the projeto
t&cnico for each Sub-project will include construc-
tion schedule, cost estimates, investment schedule
and costs and revenues projections prepared in
accordance with methods satisfactory to the Bank
and the Borrower.
(ii) It will be designed in conformity with sound
engineering practices.
(iii) The scope and schedule for execution of the works
to be carried out therei-,der will be determined
after taking into account, _n a manner satisfactory
to the Bank, the financial, technical and adminis-
trative capabilities of the Company which will
carry out such Sub-project. Within such parameters
the least-cost solution will be selected as the
one with the lowest present value of incremental
capital investments and operating, maintenance and
administrative expenses during the design period,
discounted at *a rate of 11%.
(b) (i) For each Sub-project which will be carried out in
a town having, at the time such Sub-project is
appraised, a population ranging from 5,000 to
50,000 inhabitants, in addition to the criteria
referred to in (a) above, the appraisal of such
Sub-project will have to show a positive internal
financial rate of return.
(ii) Notwithstanding the aforesaid, if such Sub-project
does not meet the aforesaid additional criterion,
such Sub-project will have to be redesigned in
accordance with lower acceptable standards in


﻿- 37 -
order to fulfill such criterion; provided, however,
that if such criterion cannot be fulfilled even
with such lower standards, such Sub-project will
be presented to the Borrower for approval only if
(A) beginning in the fourth year after completion
of the works under such Sub-project, the revenues
generated from the carrying out of such Sub-project
are sufficient to cover not less than the operat-
ing, administrative and maintenance costs of the
system constructed thereunder, and (B) the Borrower
and the Bank are furnished with economic and social
justification satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank for the carrying out of such Sub-Project.
(c) For each Sub-project which will be carried out in a town
having, at the time such Sub-project is appraised, a population
of more than 50,000 inhabitants, in addition to the criteria
referred to in (a) above, the appraisal of such Sub-project
will have to show an internal financial rate of return of not less
than 5%.
(d) For purposes of paragraphs (b) and (c) above, "financial
internal rate of return" means a discount rate calculated by
equalizing the value of incremental revenues estimated to be
generated by the Sub-project during the life of such Sub-project
and the value of capital invested in, plus the value of incremen-
tal operating, maintenance and administrative costs of, such
Sub-project, both in the same period referred to above; such
incremental revenues and costs to be projected in real prices,
and in accordance with methods satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower. Costs and revenues should be computed free from taxes
but including subsidies.
(e) For each Sub-project which will be carried out in a
Small Community, in addition to the criteria referred to in (a)
above:
(i)  Such Sub-project will have to be able to generate,
beginning in the fourth year after completion of
works thereunder, sufficient revenues to cover not
less than the operating, administrative and mainte-
nance costs of the system constructed thereunder;


﻿- 38 -
(ii) The construction costs of such Sub-project divided
by the number of inhabitants of the Small Community
where such Sub-project will be carried out are less
than the equivalent of $100;
(iii) Such Sub-project will be in conformity with the
Borrower's standard technical designs for Small
Communities; and
(iv) The actual population of the Small Community at the
date of the appraisal of a Sub-project to be
carried out in such Small Community will not
substantially exceed 5,000 inhabitants.
(f) Whenever the accounts of a Company show the operating,
administrative and maintenance costs of water supply or sewerage
(or both) systems in a regionalized or statewide fashion, such
costs will be, for purposes of this Schedule, allocated to each
individual water supply or sewerage (or both) system maintaining
the same proportion that the aggregate revenues of such regional
or state systems, as the case may be, bear to the revenues of each
such individual system.


﻿- 39 -
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of General Conditions
'For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraphs (a) and (b) of such Section shall have been
received by the Bank in respect of any portion of the Loan,
or having been so received, shall have been denied, or (c)
after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07
with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
(2) Section 9.01 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 9.01. Cooperation and Information. (a) The
Bank, the Borrower, the States of Bahia, Ceara and Pernam-
buco, EMBASA, CAGECE, COMPESA and the Guarantor shall coop-
erate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be
accomplished. To that end, the Bank, the Borrower the States
of Bahia, Ceara and Pernambuco, EMBASA, CAGECE, COMPESA and
the Guarantor shall from time to time, at the request of any
one of them:
(i) exchange views through their representatives
with regard to the progress of the Project,
the benefits derived therefrom and the
performance of their respective obligations


﻿- 40 -
under the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee
Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan; and
(ii) furnish to the other party all such informa-
tion as it shall reasonably request with
regard to the progress of the Project, the
benefits derived therefrom and the general
status of the Loan.
(b) The Bank, the Borrower, the States of Bahia, Ceard
and Pernambuco, EMBASA, CAGECE, COMPESA and the Guarantor
shall promptly inform each other of any condition which
interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof or the perfor-
mance by any one of them of its obligations under the Loan
Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement, as the case may be.
(c) The Guarantor and the States of Bahia, Ceara and
Pernambuco shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Bank to visit any part of
its respective territories for purposes related to the
Loan."
(3) The words "EMBASA, CAGECE, COMPESA, each of the Project
States" are added between the words "Borrower" and "and" in the
second line of Section 10.01.
(4) The words "and the parties to the Loan Agreement other
than the Bank and the Borrower" are added after the word "Guaran-
tor" in paragraph (b), in the third line of paragraph (c) and in
the fifth line of paragraph (i), all of Section 10.04.


