Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7500 DJI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED FISCAL CONSOLIDATION CREDIT OF
SDR 7.85 MILLION (US$10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
NOVEMBER 20,2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of November 200 1)
Currency Unit = Djibouti Franc (DF)           DF 100.0 =US$ 0.56
UD$ 1.0 = DF 177.72                           DF 100.0 = FF 3.95
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB:         African Development Bank      IMF:      International Monetary Fund
ADETIP:      Public Works Agency           IMSC:    Inter-Ministerial Committee for
AID:         Djibouti International                  Reforms
Airport                       MEFPP:  Ministry of Economy, Finance,
CAS:         Country Assistance Strategy             Planning and Privatizations
CMR:         Pension Fund, Military        MENA:   Middle East and North Africa
Personnel                               Region
CNR:         Pension Fund, Civil Service   MESN:   Ministry of Employment and
DINAS:       National Statistics Office              National Solidarity
DF:          Djibouti Franc                ONED:   National Water Authority
Djib-Telecom: Telecom Company              OPS:      Pension Fund, Private Sector
EDAM 1:    First Household Budget and                Employees
Consumption Survey, 1996      PAID:    Djibouti International Airport
EDD:         Electricity Company           PATARE: Technical Assistance Project for
EU:          European Union                          Economic Reforms (IDA)
FCC:         Fiscal Consolidation Credit   PRGF:    Poverty Reduction and Growth
GDP:         Gross Domestic Product                  Facility (IMF)
GNA:         Groupement National           PRSC:    Poverty Reduction Support
Autochtone                              Credit
GNP:         Gross National Product        PRSP:    Poverty Reduction Strategy
IDA:         International Development               Paper
Association                   SBA:      Standby Arrangement (IMF)
IFS:         International Financial       UNDP:   United Nations Development
Statistics (IMF)                        Program
Vice President:                 Jean-Louis Sarbib
Chief Economist and Director:   Mustapha Nabli
Country Director:               Mahmood Ayub
Sector Manager:                 Pedro Alba
Team Leader:                    Ide Gnandou



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED FISCAL CONSOLIDATION CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
Table of Contents
I. INTRODUCTION ..............                                                          I
II. BACKGROUND ..............                                                           2
A. COUNTRY CONTEXT ................              ,                            .............2
B. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS ...................................................4
C. ECONOMIC PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS ................................................................ 5
III. DJIBOUTI'S REFORM  AGENDA ..............................................           6
A.  KE' CHALLENGES .................................................................6
B.  THE GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL CONSOLIDATION PROGRAM ................................................................I I
IV. THE PROPOSED FISCAL CONSOLIDATION CREDIT ............... 16
A. CREDIT RATIONALE ...............    .      ................................................. 16
B. CREDIT AMOUNT AND CONDITIONS OF TRANCHE RELEASE ............................................................... 17
C. DISBURSEMENTS. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND AUDITING . .     ............................................................ 18
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS ..                 . ............................................................. 19
E. BENEFITS AND  RISKS ............................................................... ..  19
F. IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND SUPERVISION            .    .    .     ......................... 19
G. COORDINATION WITH OTHER DONORS ...................................... .          20
VI. RECOMMENDATION .................................                                   20
TABLES
TABLE 1. INTERNATIONAL COMPARISON OF SOME SOCIAL INDICATORS
TABLE 2. DJIBOUTI: MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS: KEY ECONONIIC INDICATORS
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
(OFFICIAL FRENCH VERSION - ENGLISH VERSION AVAILABLE ON FILE)
ANNEX 2: NOTE ON DJIBOUTI'S PENSION FUNDS REFORM
ANNEX 3: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS AND STATUS OF IDA OPERATIONS
MAP IBRD 29358
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
FISCAL CONSOLIDATION CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Djibouti
Amount:           SDR 7.85 million (US$10 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard IDA terms with 40-year maturity
Credit Objectives:  The proposed IDA Credit, the first policy based operation in
Djibouti, will support and strengthen Djibouti's efforts to achieve
fiscal sustainability through structural and institutional reforms in
areas that will have a large positive medium-term impact on public
finances. The Credit is fully consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy approved by the Board on December 19, 2000.
Conditional on the successful implementation of the proposed
operation, future IDA support to Djibouti's growth and reform
agenda currently being laid down in the PRSP will be channeled
through PRSCs.
Program Description: The proposed Credit will support the Government's efforts to
consolidate and reinforce progress in fiscal sustainability
undertaken with IMF support under the on-going PRGF approved
in October 1999. To this end, the Government's reform program
includes actions to: (i) improve budgetary management, in
particular, clearing domestic payment arrears, (ii) contain the
public sector wage bill, (iii) implement a parametric reform to
improve the viability of the existing pay as you go pension system,
and (iv) strengthen financial management of the key public
enterprises providing infrastructure services and begin a process
leading to sector liberalization and privatization.



Benefits:          The policy package supported by the Credit will strengthen
budgetary institutions and contain contingent and implicit
liabilities that threaten fiscal sustainability.  In addition, a
successful reform of public finances and of public enterprises will
strengthen the credibility of the authorities among investors, as
well as among the population more generally, and build
momentum for future reforms. The Credit will also help finance
short-term costs associated with the containment of the wage bill.
Finally, the consolidation of public finances is a pre-requisite for
the macroeconomic and structural reforms needed to address
Djibouti's longer-term competitiveness and poverty challenges.
Risks:             The main risks are: (i) weak institutional and implementation
capacity; (ii) resistance by interest groups, and (iii) slippages in the
macroeconomic program supported by the IMF. To mitigate the
risk of low domestic capacity, the Credit focuses on a few key
reforms, and IDA will provide technical assistance through the
ongoing PATARE Credit. Other donors, including the IMF, are
also providing technical assistance. To mitigate potential
opposition to the pension reform, perhaps the most controversial
area supported by the Credit, the authorities are implementing the
reform in collaboration with interested parties, including workers
and employers. The authorities have also instituted a minimum
pension to ensure that no pensioners fall below the poverty line.
Regarding the possible slippage in macroeconomic stabilization,
the Credit is designed to complement the policy actions supported
by the IMF, and hence help the authorities meet these targets.
Financing Plan:    The proposed credit amount of US$10 million is consistent with
IDA's allocation of resources to Djibouti over the 2000-03 period.
This level of budgetary support will partially meet the financing
gap of US$13 million on cash basis in 2001. In addition, the
European Union and the African Development Bank have
indicated assistance for US$3.6 million and US$1.8 million,
respectively, in support of the proposed operation.
Disbursement:      The Credit would be disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche
will be disbursed upon effectiveness, and the second tranche is
scheduled to be disbursed when a few selected conditions are
satisfied (see paragraph 48).
- 11 -



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED FISCAL CONSOLIDATION CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
1.    I submit for your approval a proposed Credit to the Republic of Djibouti for
SDR7.85 million (US$10 million equivalent) in support of its Fiscal Consolidation
program. The proposed Credit will support the Government's efforts to consolidate and
reinforce progress in fiscal sustainability undertaken with IMF support under the on-
going PRGF approved in October 1999. To this end, the Government's reform program
includes actions to: (i) improve budgetary management, in particular, clearing domestic
payment arrears, (ii) contain the public sector wage bill, (iii) implement a parametric
reform to improve the viability of the existing pay as you go pension system, and (iv)
strengthen financial management of the key public enterprises providing infrastructure
services and begin a process leading to sector liberalization and privatization.
1. INTRODUCTION
2.    The Government of Djibouti has requested IDA support to help reverse the
current trend of declining per capita income and consequently rising poverty. In response
to this request, the proposed Fiscal Consolidation Credit (FCC) would support the
Government's efforts to consolidate and reinforce progress in fiscal  sustainability
undertaken with IMF support under the ongoing PRGF approved in October 1999. The
reforms include actions to: (i) improve budgetary management and contain the public
sector wage bill, (ii) improve the viability of the pension system, and (iii) strengthen the
management of the key public enterprises providing infrastructure services. These
reforms are essential steps to lay the foundation for sustainable growth and poverty
reduction in the future.
3.    The proposed Credit should be viewed as a means to help consolidate the
Government's reform fiscal efforts while the authorities prepare their PRSP and tackle
medium-term constraints to poverty reduction and growth. Fresh analytical work is
required to underpin the PRSP as well as potential future IDA policy support. The most
recent poverty assessment and household consumption survey are dated and incomplete,
as is analytical work on public expenditures, private sector development and the financial
sector. Similarly, basic national accounts data, while improving, are considered still
incomplete and unreliable. More importantly, there is yet no consensus on how to
address the main constraints to sustainable growth in incomes and welfare, in particular
how to strengthen Djibouti's competitiveness.1 The policy dialogue that will accompany
fresh analytical work, as well as the implementation and monitoring of the proposed
Credit and the IMF's PRGF, should help forge this consensus.
4.    The proposed Credit builds upon the reform efforts already underway and is fully
consistent with the Government's current reform strategy. The Credit is part of the
Djibouti's currency is pegged to the US dollar through a currency board arrangement instituted in 1949.



Bank's efforts to work closely with the IMF to support the Government in designing and
implementing structural and institutional reforms. The Credit is based on the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed at the Board on December 19, 2000
(IDA/SecM2001-0130), and is consistent with the main themes of the recently completed
I-PRSP. Board presentation of the I-PRSP is scheduled for November 27, 2001
(IDA/SecM2001-0654). A full PRSP is planned to be finalized during the latter half of
2002.
II. BACKGROUND
A. COUNTRY CONTEXT
5.    Based on the last census, undertaken in 1983, Djibouti's population is estimated at
620,000, 80 percent of which live in urban areas, particularly in Djibouti city. The
country's rural areas are sparsely populated and the rural population is mainly nomadic.
Djibouti's main economic assets are its strategic location in the Horn of Africa, its port
and related transport assets such the Djibouti-Addis Ababa road and railroad corridor.
However, Djibouti's location is also a source of problems. Djibouti attracts people from
neighboring countries because it offers relative peace and stability, as well as
employment opportunities with relatively high salaries paid in hard currency. As a result,
immigrants and refugees from neighboring countries cause pressure on already weak
social services. Based on a very limited survey, the number of refugees was estimated at
120,000 in 1996, some 20 percent of the population.
6.    Political background. Following independence from France in 1977, key event
in Djibouti's post-colonial political history was the civil war during 1991-94, with
catastrophic human and economic consequences. The recruitment of many thousands of
troops swelled the government payroll, and in one year the number of armed forces was
multiplied by 4, from 4,000 to 16,000. A single party dominated the political scene until
the establishment of multi-party democracy in 1999.  Despite these events, with
consolidation of domestic peace, Djibouti has emerged in recent years as an island of
stability in the Horn of Africa. The signing, in May 2001, of a peace agreement with the
last armed opposition front will consolidate the country's political stability. Moreover,
Djibouti has played an important role in reducing tensions in the region. For example,
Djibouti hosted the reconciliation conference between warring factions in Somalia which
was concluded in August 2000, and the Djibouti Government played an active role in the
mediation of the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea.
7.    Growth challenges. Djibouti has very limited natural resources and human
capital, which severely constrains the prospects for growth and diversification in the
short and medium term. Due to soil infertility and poor rainfall, there is hardly any
agriculture (arable land is 0.4 percent of total area). Fisheries offer an interesting but
untapped potential, due to lack of domestic demand and non-competitive labor and
pricing policies. Mining resources consist mainly of salt deposits. There are also
substantial and yet-untapped geothermal energy resources. Overuse and saline intrusion
of ground water, desertification and soil impoverishment are the main environmental
-2 -



issues. They threaten the survival of several communities and the country's ecosystem in
general.
8.     Human development: Poverty, Gender and HIV/AIDS.  Regarding human
capital, Djibouti lags behind its regional and income group comparators in Africa (see
Table 1 below).  Less than 40 percent of Djibouti's children attend school; life
expectancy is approximately 50 years of age; the infant mortality rate 114 per 100,000.
Depending on whether nomads and refugees are taken into account, it is estimated that
between 45 and 70 percent of the population live below the poverty line defined on the
basis of recommended food energy intake of 2,100 calories/day per adult (i.e. about
$3/day)2. The poverty incidence depends on whether nomads and refugees are counted3.
Table 1: International Comparisons of Selected Social Indicators
Indicators       Literacy Rate (aged    Female    Infant Mortality (per  Life
15 or more, in %)   Literacy (in  1000 live births)  Expectancy (in
%)                              years)
Djibouti a/                    54             42              113               49
Ethiopia b/                    62            N/A              117               48
Yemen b/                       38             26              117               51
Sub-Saharan Africa b/          50             48               93               52
Lower Middle Income b/   8_     1            N/A              39                67
Source: EDAM and Social Indicators of Development (World Ba nk. 1995).
a/ EDAM, 1996.
b/ Most recent estimate for 1988-93.
9.     Women represent a very vulnerable segment of the Djiboutian population.
Maternal mortality is 740 per 100,000, one of the highest rates in the world, and many
women have been subjected to female circumcision, which tends to exacerbate other
health problenms. Gender gaps in literacy and access to education are narrowing but still
significant. There are about 80 girls for every 100 boys attending primary and middle
school, and 70 for every 100 boys in secondary school. Female illiteracy is twice as high
as that for men in the 20-40 age group.
10.   Djibouti's report on "Human Development 2000" published by the UNDP
indicates that since 1986 some 9,800 people have tested HIV positive, of which 2,048
presented symptoms related to AIDS. The economic and social impacts of the rapid
progression of HIV infection could be dramatic because prevalence is higher among the
most productive segment of the population. In fact, the most vulnerable group is
composed of men aged 20 to 39 who also suffer from sexually transmitted diseases at the
estimated rate of 18 percent in 1995. Furthermore, the growing economic difficulties in
recent years in a port and city-state such as Djibouti has encouraged prostitution and the
spread of HIV among teenage girls. Most recent statistics based on a random sample of
2 This poverty threshold is very high in the context of Sub-Saharan Africa. However, it should be viewed
in a context of the high cost of living in Djibouti.
3The most recent figures for estimating poverty levels may be found in "Djibouti - Crossroads of the Horn
of Africa - Poverty Assessment," World Bank, 1996. This study is based on the genera] population census
conducted in 1983.
-3 -



11,420 individuals show that 689 people were tested I-IIV positive or had AIDS in 1999,
which would correspond to a prevalence rate of 6 percent. Calculations by UJNAIDS,
however, suggest a prevalence rate of 12 percent.
B. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
11.   Economic performance. Since its independence in 1977, Djibouti's economic
performance has been poor. Between 1977 and 1998, the average rate of real GDP
growth was below 1 percent. Coupled with a natural population growth rate of 2.5
percent annually, this resulted in a steady decline in real per-capita income, which fell
from US$1,505 (in 1993 prices) in 1978 to US$618 in 1998, a 59 percent decline.
Djibouti's poor economic performance is also reflected in its external balances. The
country's overall balance of payments was in deficit seven times between 1990 and 1999.
12.   The economy depends essentially on the port and associated services (the tertiary
sector accounts for 70 percent of GDP), as well as on the French military presence and
the financial assistance and services attached to it. French assistance represented nearly
two thirds of official grants in 1998/1999 although France's military and financial
assistance is declining. External grants to the budget accounted for 8 percent of GDP in
1991, but only about 6 percent in 1998. The progressive decline in France's military
presence and financial assistance, the expansion of competing regional ports, and the
1991-94 civil war represented severe shocks to the economy and introduced a great deal
of macroeconomic instability. In 1995, for example, economic activity declined by 4
percent, the budget deficit was 8.1 percent of GDP and external current account stood at
15.9 percent of GDP before grants.
13.  In response to these mounting fiscal difficulties, the authorities of Djibouti
adopted an economic stabilization program supported by IMF through a Stand-By
Arrangement (SBA) during 1996-98. The program focused on the reduction of the wage
bill (which was at 24 percent of GDP in 1994), the simplification of tax collection, and
improvement of the management and supervision of public enterprises. In response, the
fiscal deficit moved from 8.1 percent of GDP in 1995 to a small surplus in 1998 owing to
a large extent to the cuts in the wage bill and partial demobilization of military and
security personnel. In addition, a revenue windfall resulting from Ethiopia's decision to
switch transshipments from Assab in Eritrea to Djibouti in mid-1998 due to the armed
conflict with Eritrea helped improve Djibouti's fiscal position. Unfortunately, this
progress was not sustained because of budget management problems and the decline in
the revenue base. As a result, there has been a large buildup of domestic budgetary
arrears since 1994.
14.   Recent developments. In 1999, the IMF approved a PRGF to Djibouti as a
follow up to the SBA, but performance under the program has until recently been
unsatisfactory. In July 2000, the first review of the PRGF concluded that Djibouti's
budget situation deteriorated in 1999: the deficit was over 2 percent of GDP, compared to
a programmed deficit of 0.4 percent and budget arrears increased by 1.3 percent of GDP
rather than declining as planned. As a result, the aggregate stock of arrears increased to
- 4 -



an estimated 25 percent of GDP.4   This slippage partly reflected  stronger-than-expected
expenditures on materials and supplies on account of the Presidential elections and the
Reconciliation Conference on Somalia financed by the Government of Djibouti. The first
review of the PRGF was concluded on the basis of new commitments to improve
performance based on a supplementary budget, a reform of port tariffs, and further
military demobilization.
15.   Performance under the IMF's PRGF program in 2000-2001 has continued to be
mixed. Fiscal targets were not achieved (at end-2000, the budget deficit was estimated at
1.8 percent of GDP, instead of a projected slight surplus to reduce arrears) and new
arrears  have  accumulated.   In  addition, new   financial  control  and  fiduciary  issues
emerged. These included, for example, extra-budgetary exceptional spending which did
not follow established budgetary procedures, and the reliance on "compensatory
payments" in taxation that strain the liquidity of the budget and lead to further overruns.
In the context  of recent IMF missions. however, the Government identified and
implemented corrective measures.  As a result, budget management and financial
discipline are now improving, and new arrears accumulations are contained and the
second PRGF review was concluded in November 2001.
C. ECONOMIC PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
16.   Base             case
prospects.              The                                   Table 2. Djibouti: Meduim-Term Prospects, 1999-2004
Key Economic Indicators
medium                 term                                    Actual    Est.             Projections
macroeconomic                                                   1999     2000    2001       2002      2003    2004
framework    assumes               Growth and Prices:
RealGDPatmp                     22       0.7      1.6        1.6      21      3.1
full    implementation             Real GDP per-capita             -0 3     -1.8    -0 9        -0 9     -0.4     0.6
of      the        reforms         Rate of inflation                2 0      2 4      2.5        2.0     2.0      2.0
supported        by      the       Fiscal Accounts:                    (in percent of GDP)
Bank   and   the   IMF             Revenues and grants            31.2      31 0    298         30.9    30.9    31.2
Bmk   and    the    IMF   ~Of which: grants               7.5      6.6      5.4        6 9      6.9     7.1
under   the   proposed             Recurrent expenditures          30 3     30.1    28 0        27 9    27 0    26 4
Of which. wage bill               15.4    14.9    14 6         12.7    11.9    11 0
FCC       and       PRGF.          Current deficit (-)/surplus (+)  0 9      0 9      1 8        3.0     3.9      4.8
Under this a scenario,             Investment expenditure           3.1      2 7      2 6        5.3      4.0     4.4
Overall fiscal balance         -2.2    -1 8      -0.8       -2.3    -0. 1     0.4
it  is   assumed   that            External Accounts:                  (in percent of GDP)
additional foreign aid
addiiona  f g    a Current account balance  -0.6     -7.2    -5 2        -5 0     -3 9    -3.3
to    finance    critical            Merchandise exports           12 9     13.6    13 2        12 9     12 6    13 5
items  of  the  reform              Merchandise imports           47 0      48 9    45.8        44.6    43 6    43.6
Services (net)                19 5     15 6     16.0       15.8    15.7    15.5
package              would          Income (net)                    2.3      2 9      2.2        2 0     2.8      2.4
Unrequited transfers (net)    11.7      9.6     9.2         8 9      8.7     8.9
resume.         Economic           Capital account                 -0.2      5.6      5 2        4 4     4 3      3 5
growth is expected to              Private capital, errors & om     2 3     -1.6      1.4       -0.6     0.0      0.0
Overall balance (deficit = -)   1.5     -3 3      1 4       -1 2      0.5     0.2
recover          gr-adually        Memorandum items:
over   the  roection        GDP at m p (billions of DF)   95.3     98 3    102 3      106.0   110.4   116.1
over   the projectioP                Exchange rate (DF/JS$)       177.2    1772    177.2       177.2   177.2   177.2
period of 2001-04.
Sources: Official data from the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank of Djibouti;
Though    the    short-            Bank and IMF Staff estimates and prolections.
4 In parallel. Djibouti's current account deficit widened to 3.5 percent of GDP in 1999.
-5-



term growth prospects under the base case outlook are rather modest, they appear
realistic. The average rate of real GDP growth of 1.8 percent over the 2000-04 period is
broadly in line with recent growth performance (see Table 2).  However, real
consumption per capita may decline because of the high population growth. The
recovery in the overall level of domestic investment will depend upon additional
domestic savings, particularly fiscal savings. In light of the expected fiscal restraint,
particularly in regard to the wage bill, the overall fiscal deficit will improve gradually,
averaging less than one percent of GDP over the projection period. More importantly,
such fiscal savings would permit Djibouti to reach the objectives of increasing both
recurrent and capital expenditures on social programs while reducing budgetary arrears
over time. The external balance is expected to remain fragile. The current account
deficit, which will average about 6-7 percent of GDP during 2000-01, will likely remain
high in 2002 due to increasing import needs before declining to around 3 percent by
2004.
17.   Medium-Term Scenario. Under the assumption that Djibouti is successful in
stabilizing its economy and implementing broad structural reforms, there would be a
modest increase in per-capita income as well as private consumption in the medium term.
Though Djibouti is severely handicapped both in terms of human capital and natural
resources, it also has important economic assets such as its port at a strategic location, as
well as its relative stability in a region suffering from frequent armed conflicts.
Furthermore, Djibouti has some untapped resources such as fisheries and port-related
services on which a long term vision for economic development, based on Djibouti's
generally liberal economic policies, can be built.
III. DJIBOUTI'S REFORM AGENDA
A. KEY CHALLENGES
18.   As developed in the Country Assistance Strategy approved by the Board in
December 2000, Djibouti's main development challenge is to reverse the trend of
declining living standards of the population. Five key structural and policy factors
constrain Djibouti's social and economic development: (i) weak data and analytical base;
(ii) low level of human capital and attendant low productivity; (iii) an unsustainable fiscal
position; (iv) a fragile external balance and low level of external competitiveness; (v)
constraints to the development of the private sector; and (vi) a weak social safety net
system.
19.   Weak data base and institutions. Despite recent improvements, Djibouti's
statistical base and institutions are very weak and data are of dubious quality. For
example, the quality of fiscal, balance of payments and national accounts data remains
poor. As noted above, population data are dated and do not accurately take into account
the large refugee population. Social and poverty data are also weak and dated; the last
household survey was conducted in 1996 and also did not adequately include refugees.
-6 -



Overall, the lack of good quality data constitutes a serious impediment to the preparation
of the authorities' PRSP and the assistance programs of external partners. In addition, a
review of the country's environmental laws and regulations revealed that they are weak
and mostly outdated. A better inter-agency coordination is also needed in that area.
20.   Weak human development and low productivity. For a country like Djibouti
with few natural resources and relying on its services sector, human capital is the key
productive asset for development.  Achieving real growth in income per capita will
critically depend on the ability of workers efficiently to exploit the country's comparative
advantages (e.g., strategic location, liberal economic regime). Djibouti also needs to
develop its human resource base to improve the income generation and remittance
potential of the increasing number of Djiboutians who are emigrating overseas.
21.   To improve its human capital, Djibouti will need both to increase investment in
social sectors and to improve substantially the efficiency of public expenditures. The low
rates of school enrollment, high adult illiteracy and weak health coverage are, in part, the
result of ineffective and inadequate social sector budgets. Between 1995 and 1998,
budget allocations to general administration and defense were over three times higher
than allocations to education and health. Close to 25 percent of civil servants are
employed by the Ministry of the Interior while those of National Education account for
only 17 percent. Given the existing strains on public finances, the only way to increase
budgetary allocations in basic education and primary health sector is through savings in
other budgetary categories. Beyond the country's fiscal constraint to enhancing its weak
human capital, Djibouti will also need to deal forcefully with its inadequate education
and health systems. In the area of education, Djibouti needs to improve quality at the
primary and lower secondary school levels, and adapt better the higher education
curriculum to the labor market. In the area of health care, the present system is too
centralized and focused on expensive curative care which, in turn, leads to excess
demand and lack of both access and equity.
22.   Djibouti needs also to tackle several social issues that undermine workers'
productivity. Chief among them is the considerable amount of time and resources
devoted to chewing qat, an amphetamine-related stimulant leaf imported mainly from
Ethiopia and Yemen. Many adult males in Djibouti chew qat in all-male gatherings for
up to 5-6 hours a day, taking time from work and family life and adversely affecting
labor productivity. Even the poorest families spend a considerable share of their budget
on qat. Moreover, sustained use of qat has been shown in other countries to be associated
with mouth cancer and other health problems, including child malnutrition and mortality.
23.   Unsustainable fiscal policy. Djibouti's public finances are characterized by an
excessive weight of public sector wages, a burden of accumulated arrears and poor
budget management and control systems. The excessive weight of the wage bill is a key
constraint for a sustainable fiscal stabilization in Djibouti. The share of GDP devoted to
public sector wages and salaries is much higher for Djibouti than regional comparators
(20.6 percent against 6.5 percent in Ethiopia and 10.5 percent in Yemen in 1996, the year
of the latest internationally comparable data). The Djibouti public sector wage bill
- 7 -



accounts for as much as 45 percent of total expenditures, and 49 percent of domestically
financed expenditures (which is one the highest percentages in the world). In 1999, the
public sector payroll represented 72 percent of Djibouti's tax revenue while investment
expenditure accounted for only 14 percent.
24.   After the implementation of the corrective measures contained in the SBA, further
fiscal adjustment appears uncertain. The authorities are still struggling with how to
stabilize their budgetary position in the face of declining revenues as growth remains
weak. Increases in the revenue effort appear limited and further compressions in
development expenditures could jeopardize Djibouti's development agenda, particularly
in the social sectors. While some additional mobilization of external support (partly
replacing the declining French assistance) appears possible, a reduction in the wage bill,
in particular through cuts in real wages, is the most apparent means of stabilizing the
budget. A related reduction in private sector real wages is also necessary to improve
competitiveness and external balances.  However, cuts in real wages could entail
significant social costs, which in turn would require a stronger social safety net.
25.   Despite the ongoing stabilization program which has been supported by the SBA
and the PRGF, arrears have continued to accumulate until recently, reaching an estimated
25 percent of GDP at the end of 2000. The composition of these arrears is roughly as
follows: contributions to the pension funds (36 percent), payment of salaries (33 percent),
payment to private suppliers (17 percent), and payment to public sector enterprises (14
percent). The accumulation of domestic arrears has undermined the credibility of the
Government, undermined civil service morale, and hampered the Government's
stabilization efforts.
26.   Weak budget management and control systems have also undermined fiscal
sustainability. Until January 2001, government financial management was based on a
legal framework adopted in 1968.  Multiple legal sources led to a number of
inconsistencies and weaknesses in budget management such as allowing budgetary
commitments and payments to be authorized based on the previous finance law during
the first 3 months of a fiscal year, and uncertainties regarding the authorizing officer
(ordonnateur unique) for the budget. As a result, many expenditure slippages were
caused by advanced payments without prior authorization.  In addition, extensive
exemptions as well as compensatory payments in lieu of cash tax payments were
authorized. In addition to the inconsistent legal arrangements, among other weaknesses,
the authorities did not prepare a macroeconomic framework to underpin the draft budget
law. The process of budget preparation, management, and control applied until January
2001 is clearly a major cause of the current pressures on public finances. The new
budget law adopted in January 2001 goes a long way in addressing past weaknesses.
However, much remains to be done to ensure a sound budgetary process and to secure
fiscal sustainability.
27.   Fragile external balance and weak external competitiveness. Djibouti's
exchange rate regime and the downward inflexibility in domestic wages and prices have
- 8 -



undermined external competitiveness and weakened external balances. Djibouti has had
a Currency Board since 1949 with the Djibouti Franc pegged to the US dollar.5
Notwithstanding the budgetary arrears that have arisen during the 1990s as a result of
lapses in fiscal management, the Currency Board arrangement has arguably been
instrumental in forestalling the kind of dire macroeconomic instability that characterized
many of the neighboring countries. At the same time, the Currency Board has made it
difficult for Djibouti to adjust to the decline in its equilibrium real effective exchange rate
following losses in budgetary assistance and port sector competitiveness.6
28.   High  unit labor costs  are  another manifestation  of Djibouti's  weak
competitiveness. Wages, particularly in the formal sector, are very high by comparison
to neighboring and comparator countries. The average civil service monthly wage is
estimated at about $600, which is several times the average civil service wage in other
lower income countries, for example in Ethiopia ($100) and Yemen ($150). Wages in
public enterprises and the private sector are also higher than in neighboring countries. At
the same time, labor productivity is believed to be very low in Djibouti. Low educational
achievement combined with fragile health indicators and the consumption of qat (see
paragraph 21) are key factors behind the low productivity of the work force.
29.   Djibouti's weak competitiveness undermines the sustainability of its external
balance. The medium term balance of payments outlook remains fragile. After
averaging 3 percent of GDP during the previous four years, the current account deficit
deteriorated sharply last year to over 7 percent. This deterioration reflects an increase in
imports of intermediate and capital goods required by the upgrading of port facilities after
the transfer of port management to the Dubai Port Authority. The current account deficit
is projected to remain above 6 percent through 2002, before declining. These projections
also assume that a projected 19 percent decline in service receipts during 1999-2002
owing to the French military retrenchment will be offset by an increase in earnings from
provision of transport and other services. Finally, the overall deficit of the balance of
payments is projected to be moderate at about 2.5 percent of GDP on account of (perhaps
rather optimistic) projections of capital inflows, in particular, concessional assistance.
The projected higher capital inflows also reflect an increase in foreign direct investment
in response to the reform program.
30.   Regaining external competitiveness and improving the prospects for external
balances is critical. Low productivity and very high domestic wages expressed in foreign
currencies indicate a serious over-valuation of the real exchange rate that Djibouti will
have to deal with sooner rather than later. An adjustment in the real exchange rate would
not only to reduce the structural deficit of the current account, but as noted above, also
reduce real wages and help correct the difficult fiscal situation. However, despite
discussions with the IMF, the authorities have yet to reach a consensus on how to restore
competitiveness.
5At present, the exchange rate is FDJ 177.7 per US$1.
6 The IMF IFS does not report the real effective exchange rate index for Djibouti.
-9-



31.   Constraints to Private Sector Development. The private sector's potential in
Djibouti is significantly underutilized.  Djibouti has traditionally been friendly to
business in comparison to neighboring countries, and has maintained a relatively liberal
trade and foreign exchange regime. Since independence, however, Djibouti has not
upgraded and modernized its business environment -- especially its legal regime -- and
administrative barriers are deemed high by private investors. The financial sector is more
oriented to serving as a transfer mechanism to send savings overseas rather than grant
credit to SMEs. Analytical work on these issues is yet to be done. Another key
constraint to private sector growth is the weakness of the public enterprise sector as these
public enterprises affect the efficiency of private businesses by supplying them with
(non-tradable) goods and services of poor quality and high prices.
32.    Poor and overpriced services from the public enterprises largely stem from poor
management. Basic indicators show a very significant deterioration of the financial
position of public enterprises. Between 1992 and 1999, the five principal enterprises
(EDD, PAD, AID, OPT-STID, and ONED7) experienced an overall decline in turnover
(11 percent), added value (24 percent), and self-financing capacity (45 percent). In
addition, cross-arrears between the budget and the enterprises (7.7 percent of GDP) as
well as between the enterprises themselves aggravate fiscal imbalances.
33.   In order to increase efficiency and ensure optimum  service delivery, it is
necessary to accelerate reforms that encourage competition, private investment and
private provision of utility services. On the fiscal side, the aim would be to improve
financial relations with economic agents by clearing arrears and cross debts; preventing
offset transactions, thereby facilitating cash tax receipts; and, finally, ensuring that the
government pays its public utility bills on a timely basis. Successful privatization also
depends on the quality of the privatization process, which should be open, transparent,
and as competitive as possible.
34.   The Safety Net System. Djibouti's safety net system is very weak. There is no
public program that provides minimum services and income to the chronically poor.
Neither is there a program to supplement incomes of those falling temporarily below the
poverty line.  Refugees, especially those living outside camps, require the most
assistance.
35.   Although in need of reform, the only working safety net is the pension system.
The pension system was set up before independence according to the French pay-as-you-
go model. It comprises three pension funds: i) the Caisse Nationale de Retraite (CNR)
which covers civil servants, police, ministers and parliamentarians, and the retirees of the
former post-colonial militia; ii) the Organisme de Protection Sociale (OPS) which
covers private sector employees, non-regular civil servants, and employees of public
enterprises; and iii) the Caisse Militaire de Retraite (CMR) designed for military
7Electricite de Djibouti (EDD); the Port Autonome International de Djibouti (PAD); the Aeroport
International de Djibouti (AID); the Office des Postes et Telecommunications (OPT), the Societe de
Te1lcommunication Internationale de Djibouti (STID); and the Office Nationale des Eaux de Djibouti
(ONED).
- 10 -



personnel. The funds are financed through contributions from workers and employers.
Coverage is limited to 15 percent of the labor force and benefits are received by less than
11 percent of the population over 50.
36.   The pension system is currently facing a severe financial crisis. All three funds
have depleted reserves, and in the case of OPS, new liquidations are blocked. The overall
deficit of the systems amounts to US$2.7 million (0.5% of GDP) and is expected to
triplicate within the next 15 years. In the case of OPS and CNR, and in the absence of
policy reforms, the present value of accumulated deficits for the period 2001-2015 could
reach US$31 million (5.6% of GDP) and US$23 million (4% of GDP), respectively.
37.   The current crisis can be attributed to three major factors: i) weak institutional
capacity that impedes efficient management and generates high administrative costs; ii)
the government moratorium which has resulted in the accumulation of arrears of about 8
percent of GDP; and iii) ) an overgenerous system where benefits are not in proportion to
contributions. In the long run, the aging of the population is also expected to contribute
to the deterioration of the funds' financial position.
B. THE GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL CONSOLIDATION PROGRAM
38.   Given these constraints, the Govermment is well aware that lasting improvements
in welfare require a medium- to long term program of macroeconomic, structural and
institutional reforms. In this regard, the Government, in collaboration with civil society
and development partners, is undertaking analytical work to prepare the PRSP. This
includes studies on vulnerable groups, such as street children and refugees, and
implementing the first household survey since 1996. The survey, conducted with the
assistance of IDA and other donors, is expected to be completed by June 2002. The
PRSP, to be completed by the autumn of 2002, should include an integrated growth
strategy that addresses how to strengthen Djibouti's competitiveness. The Government is
also undertaking longer-term actions to strengthen institutional capacity, including in
statistics and safety nets. The IMF, for example, will conduct in March 2002 a technical
assistance mission to help strengthen the national statistical office, while IDA staff will
help prepare a poverty profile in collaboration with the same office as soon as the
household survey is completed. More generally, the authorities are formulating action
plans to implement the civil service reform strategy adopted by the Government in
February 2001. Finally, the Government is channeling significant external financial
resources to strengthen human resources, including an IDA-financed education project.
39.   While awaiting the results of these initiatives, the Government's reform efforts
are currently focused on consolidating recent improvements in public finance and
budgetary management. These reforms are key to ensuring financial sustainability in the
future, both by reducing existing imbalances and by strengthening fiscal and financial
institutions and reducing contingent liabilities. Regarding public finances, the authorities
have completed several initiatives to improve budgetary institutions and are now
addressing the issue of the large stock of arrears. With regard to contingent liabilities, the
authorities are implementing an ambitious reform of the pension system. Finally, the
- 11 -



authorities are taking the first steps in a medium-term program to improve efficiency in
key infrastructure sectors through better financial management and, eventually,
privatization of the largest public enterprises. In more detail, the Government's main
reform initiatives in public finance are as follows:
40.   STRENGTHENING BUDGETARY MANAGMENT. The Government has completed
and is implementing various initiatives to restore the credibility of the public finances and
to strengthen budgetary management. The most important are:
* Adopting a global arrears settlement plan. Large domestic arrears owed by the
budget to domestic suppliers, the pension funds, and public enterprises threaten
the public's basic trust in Government and the normal delivery of public services.
In addition, the arrears and cross-arrears related to public enterprises must also be
cleared to prepare for privatization. Finally, by preventing the retirement of
eligible public employees, the arrears to the pension funds are an important
obstacle to reducing the wage bill. To clear the large stock of public domestic
arrears over the mid-term, the Government will prepare and implement a global
settlement plan with the following steps: (i) the inventory and audit of all public
arrears and cross-arrears, (ii) the definition of transparent eligibility criteria based
on the legal, budgetary and financial procedures for expenditures (i.e.,
commitment, payment authorization, and payment), (iii) the classification of all
arrears according to these criteria; and (iv) the definition of the modalities and
priorities for the settlement of these arrears. The Government has set up a
Technical Committee in charge of the implementation of this arrears settlement
plan. The Government has already partially completed the audit of arrears to the
private sector and has started the audit of those to public enterprises, pensions
funds, and civil servants.
- Avoiding new arrears accumulation. Government's efforts to rehabilitate
public finances will not be successful unless they are accompanied by concrete
measures to avoid new arrears. To this end, the Government adopted a treasury
cash management system based on real time information of actual budgetary
receipts. The Government also created a Treasury committee in April 2001 to
manage this system. In addition, the Government will strengthen institutional and
technical arrangements to control government consumption of goods and services
produced by public utility companies. To this end, a review of the beneficiaries
list and a technical verification of meters have been carried out. New meters are
being installed in schools and other public institutions. Finally, the authorities are
also committed to include in the 2002 Budget Law sufficient allocations for utility
consumption.
* Reducing the Wage Bill . The authorities are implementing several measures to
control and reduce the public wage bill. First, they plan to complete and unify
the various databases (Fichier unique) of civil servants, a key step to modernizing
the management and control of the public sector wage bill. To this end, the
- 12-



authorities adopted and started to implement in October 2001 an action plan to
merge the civil service and payroll databases on the basis of a census of
employees, ministry by ministry.   Second, by regularizing government
contributions to the pension funds, the authorities will be able to remove from the
civil service payroll 773 employees that are already eligible to retire up to 2001.
Finally, in accordance with their long standing program, the authorities intend to
demobilize at least 1000 soldiers in 2002, in part financed through funds provided
by the European Union as well as this proposed Credit.
* Reinforcing budget discipline and restoring financial orthodoxy. The
Government has eliminated all procedures that undermine budgetary discipline
and are inconsistent with best practice in budgetary management. To this end
payments for expenditures that have not been budgeted for or suffer from other
procedural irregularities have stopped, as well as tax compensations with
enterprises in arrears. A system of "Caisses d'avance" has been introduced to
take into account urgent and exceptional expenditures. The Government also
decided, through the recently adopted revision to the public finance law (see
below), to shorten the "supplementary fiscal period" to 60 days and to strictly
enforce deadlines for closing expenditure commitments. It will review the current
tax exemptions in order to reduce their number and scope.
%-- Modernizing budget management.  In order to improve public finance
management, the Government adopted: (i) a new legal framework by reviewing
and updating the organic Public Finance Law passed in 1968; (ii) a new calendar
for budget preparation to be implemented in preparation for the 2002 budget, and
(iii) a modern budgetary nomenclature based on a functional and economic
classification. The Government also will prepare a basic macroeconomic
framework for the first time for the 2002 budget. However, to implement these
reforms, the Ministry of Finance (particularly its macroeconomic unit) as well as
line ministries will need to be strengthened.
41.   The Reform  of the Pension System.  The Government is committed to
reforming the pension system. To this end, a pension reform strategy note has been
prepared with IDA assistance. The strategy proposes a two-stage reform program. The
first stage would concentrate on institutional and parametric reforms necessary to
consolidate a modest pay-as-you go system. The second phase would focus on the
merger of OPS and CNR and the design and implementation of mechanisms to promote
the development of contractual savings. The following key actions will be implemented
during the first phase: i) institutional reforms to improve governance and management; ii)
normalizing government contributions and covering short term deficits; and iii) gradually
introducing parametric changes to improve the medium term financial situation.
* Improving governance and coordinating reforms. The Government has
adopted a decree creating the National Council of Social Security (CNSS) that
would in the future manage the pension system (merging OPS and CNR),
replacing current governance arrangements. The CNSS will currently be in
- 13 -



charge of fine-tuning policy recommendations and coordinating institutional
reforms across pension funds, as a way to preparing their future merger. The
CNSS, by including representatives of Government, private sector, workers and
retirees, has facilitated building consensus for reform. It has allowed a constant
dialogue between the different stakeholders to create awareness about the
problems of the system, and explain the pros and cons of alternative reform
proposals.
*. Institutional and management reforms. The goal is to update and audit current
databases on contributors and beneficiaries, while streamlining and computerizing
registration, liquidation, payments, and collection processes, as well as upgrading
the current accounting and audit systems. An actuarial projection system will also
be implemented in-house at the OPS to allow fund managers periodically to
monitor the performance of the pension funds for cash management purposes.
Finally, the authorities plan to implement a study on how to ensure the efficient
management of any accumulated reserves and on the appropriate regulatory and
prudential framework.
*. Normalizing government contributions to OPS and covering short term
deficits. To achieve this objective, the government has normalized its payments to
OPS during 2001 by including them in the weekly treasury plan. Second, the
Government has agreed with OPS on a refinancing plan of arrears that will
generate sufficient cash flows to cover short term deficits. The refinancing plan
does not attempt to cover the full amount of past due contributions, but simply
aims to generate resources to cover short-term financial needs and to be able to
retire currently eligible public employees. In particular, the Government will
transfer to OPS approximately US$3 million upon disbursement of the first
tranche of the proposed Credit. Part of these funds (US$1 million) will be used to
cover the deficits in 2002 and the remainder (US$2 million) will be invested in
term deposits at a local branch of a strong foreign bank until an appropriate
regulatory and prudential framework (see above) is in place. The authorities have
agreed to stop the current arrangements that require OPS to finance the deficit of
CMR and have opted instead to fund this deficit from the budget starting in 2002
with resources generated from a new tax on pension income.
* Gradually introducing parametric changes. A gradual adjustment of the
current configuration of contributions and benefits is a condition for medium-term
financial sustainability. To this end, the approved reform will include an increase
in the vesting period (from 15 to 25 years) and in the retirement age (from 50 to
55 years) and a reduction of the marginal replacement rate to 1.2%. All these
changes will be implemented gradually over a period of ten to twelve years. In
the case of CNR, the reform also introduces a maximum pension, while
eliminating the practice of accumulating benefits in more than one regime (this
practice is such that replacement rates can be above 100 percent). Parametric
reforms will not affect acquired rights. Finally, the Government will also
implement a minimum pension to protect low-income groups.
- 14-



42.    Strengthening  Public  Enterprises.   Given  their   poor performance, the
Government has decided to restructure and thereafter privatize the infrastructure service
companies, which together represent the mainstay of Djibouti's service-based economy
and account for almost the entire public enterprise sector (airport, port,
telecommunications, electricity and water). The authorities have already made progress
to this end. First, concerning the port, the Government signed in 2000 a twenty-year
management contract with Dubai International Port, a subsidiary of the Dubai Port
Authority, which also manages the Jeddah and Beirut ports. Second, the Government has
restructured the telecommunications sector by separating domestic telecommunications
from postal activities and merging the former with the international telecommunications
company. Third, on the institutional side, the authorities have: (i) prepared a privatization
strategy, (ii) constituted a high level Privatization Committee with representatives of
concerned ministries to implement this strategy, and (iii) set up a privatization unit at the
Ministry of Finance to support the Committee.8   The unit is hiring a full time
privatization eKpert to strengthen its capacity.
43.    In the immediate future, the priorities of the Government are establishing a clear
picture of the financial situation of the four major public enterprises, and making progress
on reforming the legal and regulatory framework of the telecommunications sector. In
more detail, the authorities' plans during the first half of 2002 are as follows:
*. Financial audits. The authorities plan to have independent financial audits
carried out for the four public enterprises. These audits, together with the arrears
consolidation work discussed above, are essential to be able to clean the balance
sheets of these enterprises.
*. Telecommunications Regulatory Study. As a first step in the privatization
process, the authorities plan to carry out a study on the reform of the regulatory
and legal framework in the telecommunications sector.
8 The strategy includes a description of the privatization process that the authorities plan to follow. Based
on international best practice, for each transaction, the authorities will establish an appropriate legal and
regulatory framework, identify an appropriate privatization path, ensure competition, if possible, in the
procurement of private partners, and manage the process in a transparent manner with due consideration to
social impacts. Moreover, the Government is committed to identify and tackle environmental liability
issues during the privatization process.
- 15 -



IV. THE PROPOSED FISCAL CONSOLIDATION CREDIT
A. CREDIT RATIONALE
44.   The proposed Credit aims at helping the Government consolidate public finances,
including strengthening budgetary institutions and containing contingent and implicit
liabilities that are threatening fiscal sustainability. The consolidation of public finances
is a prerequisite for the macroeconomic and structural reforms needed to address
Djibouti's longer-term competitiveness and poverty challenges. A successful reform of
public finances will strengthen the credibility of the authorities among investors, and
among the population more generally as the capacity of the authorities to deliver public
goods and services improves. The improvement in financial management of public
enterprises and the setting-up of an efficient and transparent privatization process will
have a similar impact on credibility. Finally, the Credit will also help finance short-term
costs associated with reforms, in particular the retirement of public employees and
demobilization.
45.   While necessary conditions, the measures supported by the proposed Credit are
not sufficient to address Djibouti's daunting medium-term development problems-poor
growth and poverty prospects linked to weak competitiveness and human development.
Addressing these constraints will require implementing an integrated growth and poverty
reduction strategy that the Government is preparing with its partners and civil society. In
this regard, the Credit supports key analytical inputs into the PRSP process, in particular
the household survey. The proposed Credit also supports the adoption of a strong safety
net system that is critical to be put in place as soon as possible, in particular in view of
the need to cut real wages and restore competitiveness. However, given the importance of
the competitiveness issue, future IDA adjustment support to Djibouti will take into
account both the implementation of the measures agreed with the Government under the
proposed Credit, as well as progress on preparing and implementing a consistent program
to improve competitiveness.
46.   The proposed Credit is fully consistent with the CAS whose key goal is to help
the authorities prepare and implement their Poverty Reduction Strategy. As already
noted above, the reforms supported by the Credit are necessary conditions to set the stage
for more growth-oriented macroeconomic policies over the medium term. In addition, in
the context of the proposed Credit, the authorities have indicated their intention to
complete critical poverty and safety net studies that will feed into the PRSP. Finally, the
proposed Credit complements IDA projects and sector work focusing on improving
human resources, including the ongoing education and planned health projects.
- 16-



B. CREDIT AMOUNT AND CONDITIONS OF TRANCHE RELEASE
47.   The Credit amount is $US 10 million to be disbursed in two tranches. The first
tranche of $US5 million will be released upon credit effectiveness, subject to standard
effectiveness conditions.  Prior to Board presentation, the Government has made
significant progress in several areas of the program. Among the actions implemented, the
most noteworthy are:
*  Macroeconomic framework.  Implementation of a viable macroeconomic
framework, supported by the IMF's PRGF, necessary to lay the foundation for
higher private investment and economic growth.9 The improvements in fiscal
management have allowed the authorities to avoid any recent accumulation of
arrears.
* Containing the Wage Bill. Preparation and adoption by the Government of an
action plan for the integration of the civil servants database and payroll files with
the aim of linking personnel management decisions directly to payroll.
^- Public Enterprises. Adoption of a privatization strategy by the cabinet, that
includes the definition of a transparent and competitive process and the adoption
of a plan and calendar for privatizing the four main public utilities (water,
electricity, telephone, and airport).
-' Pensions reform. Implementation by the authorities of a parametric reform of the
pension system. In this regard, the Government has approved and submitted to
Parliament all new legal texts and amendments to existing ones that are required
to implement the reform. It has also created the National Council of Social
Security.
48.   The second tranche of US$5 million would be released subject to continuing
satisfactory macroeconomic performance as evidenced by the successful completion of
PRGF reviews, and satisfactory general implementation of the reform program, including
the following specific conditions:
* Budgetary Management. Completion of the audit of all domestic public arrears
and cross arrears and adoption of a plan for their orderly settlement.
* Containing the Public Wage Bill: (i) Retirement of 773 eligible civil servants; (ii)
demobilization of at least 1000 soldiers; and (iii) full integration of the civil
service and payroll files.
*. Pension Reform: (i) Implementing gradually the parametric reform and the
operational effectiveness of the CNSS-. (ii) Updating and auditing of OPS files on
9 The second review of the PRGF was discussed by the IMF Board on November 28, 2001.
- 17-



contributors and beneficiaries; (iii) on the basis of a study, implementation of an
action plan to ensure prudent management of fund reserves; and (iv) deposit at
term of at least US$2 million of OPS reserves at a strong private bank.
*: Public Enterprises: (i) Completion of the financial audits of the four main public
enterprises (EDD, ONED, Djibouti Telecom and Airport); and (ii) on the basis of
a study, preparation of an action plan to reform the regulatory and legal
framework of the telecommunications sector.
C. DISBURSEMENTS, FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND AUDITING.
49.   The disbursement of funds under the Credit will follow the Bank's simplified
disbursement procedures for adjustment operations. The proceeds in the amount of
US$10 million will be disbursed in a first tranche of US$5 million and a second tranche
of US$5 million against satisfactory implementation of the fiscal consolidation program
in specific areas. In accordance with the Operational Directive on the Simplification of
Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Credits
(February 8, 1996), disbursement will not be linked to any specific purchases or
procurement requirements. Upon notification by the Bank of the effectiveness of the
Credit, IDA will deposit the proceeds of the first tranche in a Deposit Account opened at
the Central Bank of Djibouti (BND) at the request of the Borrower to receive the
proceeds of the Credit. The second tranche will be deposited in the same account once
the agreed conditions aTe met. If, after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the Credit
are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the Credit Agreement, the Bank will require
the Borrower either to return the amount to the account for future use for eligible
purposes, or refund the amount directly to IDA, in which case the Bank will cancel an
equivalent amount from the Credit.
50.   The administration of the Credit will be the responsibility of the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, which will ensure that all withdrawals from the Deposit Account
are for budgeted expenditures and not for purposes such as military expenditures or for
other items on the Bank's negative list.  The BND will maintain records of all
transactions under the Credit in accordance with generally accepted accounting practices.
The Borrower will be required to submit to the Bank quarterly reports on withdrawal of
funds in local currency from the Deposit Account with evidence that each payment was
into a treasury account used to fund budgetary expenditures.
51.   The borrower will also appoint independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank to
carry out the Credit audits. The audits will be conducted at the end of a six-month period
following the disbursement of the first tranche, and one month after the closing date of
the Credit. The audits shall be carried out in accordance with terms of reference agreed
between the Bank and the Borrower. The audit will certify that funds disbursed have
been received by the BND and are subject to its normal policies and controls, and that the
local currency equivalent of these proceeds has been paid into an account subject to
- 18-



normal budgetary policies, procedures and controls. The closing date of the proposed
Credit will be December 31. 2002.
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQuJ1REXIEN,> X
52.   The authorities will need significant technical assistance and advisory inputs
during the implementation of the institutional and lpolicy reforms to be supported under
the proposed Credit. In addition, there is a need to prepare a social impact analysis
(SIA). The Government plans to use the on-going IDA-financed TA project for
economic reforms (PATARE) as the main vehicle for procuring technical assistance.
IDA has already supported the Government through a number of analytical and advisory
activities: privatization strategy, pension reform strategy, and technical assistance to
prepare a poverty reduction strategy paper. In the immediate future, IDA will complete a
poverty update and a mini-PER. As noted before, the Governrnent is likely to continue to
receive technical. assistance from France, the European Union, and the IMF.
E. BENEFITS AND RISKS
53.   Benefits. The policy package supported by the Credit will strengthen budgetary
institutions and contain contingent and implicit liabilities that are threatening fiscal
sustainability. A successful reform of public iinances and of public enterprises will
strengthen the credibility of the authorities among investors, and among the population
more generally. The Credit will also hielp finance short-term costs associated with the
containment of the wage bill.  Finally, the consolidation of public finances is a
prerequisite for the macroeconomic and structutral reforms needed to address Djibouti's
longer-term competitiveness and poverty challenges.
54.   Risks. The main risks are weak institutional structure and low implementation
capacity, and possible opposition by groups whose interests may potentially be hurt by
some aspects of' the reform program, in particular the pension reform. To mitigate the
risk of low domestic capacity. the program-ii h,:is foicused on a few key areas which the
Government can implement. The Government will also be able to seek technical
assistance quickly as required from an already existing project. With regard to opposition
from  vested interests, the authorities are implementing the pension reform  in
collaboration with affected parties, including workcrs and employers.
F. IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING ANOI) SU PE.RVISION.
55.   Implementation of the Credit will he under an Inter-Ministerial Steering
Committee (IMSC) composed of senilor minlisters and chaired by the Prime Minister.
The IMSC will be advised and supported by a 'I'echnical Committee for economic
reform, which is composed of senior technocrats and chaired by the Director of Cabinet
of the Prime Minister. The Technical Committee xvill act as the secretariat of IMSC and
will coordinate and monitor the implemiientationi of' the different components of the
reform program.
- 19-



56.   The overall reform effort will be reviewed by regular Bank missions in close
coordination with the IMF. Resident advisors financed under the PATARE project will
assist implementing agencies in tracking and reporting on implementation progress and
possible lags.
G. COORDINATION WITH OTHER DONORS
57.   The reform program covered by the proposed Credit is coordinated closely with
the IMF's ongoing PRGF program. While both programs aim at fiscal sustainability and
consolidation of public finances, the program supported by the proposed Credit is more
focused on the management of contingent and implicit liabilities, in particular public
enterprises and pension system reform. The clearing of arrears to the pension system and
the retirement of eligible public employees is essential for the authorities to be able to
meet the fiscal targets of the PRGF. The European Union and the African Development
Bank have expressed their intention to participate in the financing of the fiscal
consolidation program.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
58.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
November 20, 2001
Washington, DC
- 20 -



Annex I
REPUELIQUE DE DJIBOUJT
Unde - Eg2ria-z
LE MINISTRE DE L'E`CONOMZE                                            zi W
DES FINANCES -i n>- _Lk PI XIcTo 
CHARGE DE LA PRIVATMSA . 1O[ 
NC
A                   Djibouti, le    ? if
Monsieur James WOLFENSHON
President du Groupe de la Banque Mondiale
WASHINGTON D.C.
LETTRE DE POLITIQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU GOUVERNEMENT
2001 - 2003
1.   INTRODUCTION
1.    La politique economique du Gouvernement s'inspire essentiellement des lignes
directrices definies dans le Document-Cadre de Politique Econornique elabore en octobre
1999 par les autorites djiboutiennes dans le cadre de la Facilite pour la Reduction de la
Pauvrete et la Croissance (FRPC), en accord avec les institutions financieres internationales et
dans le cadre du Document Interimaire de Strategie de Reduction de la Pauvrete (DSRP). Ce
document a et actualise pour tenir compte des resultats de la mise en ceuvre du programme
en 2000 et 2001et des perspectives pour 2002.
Evolution politique
2.    La Republique de Djibouti est situee sur la pointe Est de la Corne de l'Afrique et A
l'entree de la Mer Rouge. Le revenu par habitant, de l'ordre de 618 US$, est l'un des plus
eleves de la region et les indicateurs sociaux sont en dessous des normes des pays en
developpement a revenu faible. Cependant, Djibouti possede un systeme economique liberal
avec une politique commerciale et de change libre, une monnaie convertible, un systeme
bancaire performant, des infrastructures portuaires et de telecommunications modernes, et
une position geographique strategique. Ces potentialites constituent un atout pour le Pays
pour amorcer son developpement economique et social sur la base d'une gestion rigoureuse
des ressources budgetaires et des reformes structurelles de lYkconon-e.
3.    Depuis son independance, le 27 juin 1977, Djibouti a vecu au rythme des conflits de la
sous-region, la secheresse, la famine, et l'afflux de refugies. Jouissant d'une stabifite
exceptionnelle, le Pays a du subir directement et indirectement les contrecoups de ces
drames et calamites qui ont serieusement perturbe son developpement economique et social.



4.    En effet, Djibouti n'a cesse d'accueillir un nombre important de refugies ethiopiens et
somaliens (environ 120 000 personnes, soit 20% de la population) ayant fui les combats dans
leurs pays. Le poids de cette charge se ressent au niveau de l'Etat, notamment en matiere
d'infrastructures sanitaires (70% des patients viennent des pays limitrophes),
d'environnement urbain, de securite et d'impact sur Ia stabilite sociale.
5.    De 1991 a 1994, le pays a connu une guerre civile declenchee par l'eclatement des
hostilites au nord du territoire. Consequence de ces troubles, la Republique de Djibouti s'est
engagee dans un processus de democratisation marque par l'adoption d'une Constitution en
septembre 1992 autorisant un multipartisme limite a quatre partis, la creation d'un conseil
constitutionnel et l'organisation des premieres elections pluralistes (legislatives en 1992, et
presidentielles en 1993).
6.    En decembre 1994, les autorites signerent des accords de paix avec le mouvement
arme du FRUD (Front pour la Restauration de l'Unite et de la Democratie) qui se sont
traduits par la legalisation du FRUD comme parti politique. Afin de consolider la paix, les
autorites politiques ont entrepris un programme de demobilisation et de reinsertion des ex-
combattants avec l'appui de plusieurs partenaires au developpement.
7.    La democratisation des institutions s'est poursuivie avec les elections presidentielles
pluralistes d'avril 1999 qui ont vu un nouveau President acceder a la magistrature supreme.
Evolution economique et sociale
8.    L'economie djiboutienne a connu de severes chocs internes et externes, dont une
guerre civile au cours de laquelle la taille des forces armees est passee de 4.000 a 16.000 en
tne seule annee, des afflux de refugies en provenance des pays limitrophes, la persistance de
conflits regionaux (le plus recent etant entre l'Ethiopie et l'Erythree) et un net declin de
l'assistance exterieure.
9.    Apres l'independance, on a constate une forte croissance de la taille et du r6le de
l'Etat qui s'est embarque dans un vaste programme d'investissements publics finance par
des credits exterieurs devenant ainsi le premier employeur du pays. Cette situation a e  a
l'origine d'une augmentation substantielle de l'emploi public avec des salaires et
remunerations absorbant jusqu'a 68% du PIB depuis le debut des annees 80
10.   L'aggravation de la situation budgetaire a egalement ete accompagnee d'une
deterioration au niveau du contr6le et de la gestion des depenses publiques. Le stock
croissant des arrieres interieurs a eu pour consequence une perte de la credibilite de l'Etat.
En outre, il s'est instaure des procedures exceptionnelles dans la chaine de la depense
publique, telles que les paiements anticipes et incontroles. En outre, ces procedures ont
reduit la transparence et la responsabilisation dans l'execution du budget.
11.   Devant une situation budgetaire devenue intenable en 1995, le Gouvernement a
conclu un accord de confirmation (Stand-by) avec le FMI en avril 1996, qui s'est etale sur 36
mois en raison de difficultes de realisation. N6arumoins, ce programne a permis de retablir la
croissance 6conomique; de r6duire les desequilibres macro-economiques; de diminuer
l'inflation a 2% (contre 5% en 1995); de renforcer la position budgetaire de l'Etat passant
d'un deficit de 5% en 1995 a une situation d'equilibre en 1998; de controler rigoureusement
les depenses publiques ; de compresser la masse salariale par une triple action: reduction de



20% de l'effectif, baisse de 20% des salaires de l'Etat et amorce de la demobilisation du
personnel de securite (police et armee) ; d' ameliorer la politique fiscale.
12.   Dans le cadre de ce programme, les autorites ont adopte, en 1997, une loi de
Privatisation permettant d'ouvrir au secteur prive des activites economiques ger&es par le
secteur public. C'est sur la base de cette loi que l'H6tel Sheraton et la Pharmacie de
l'Independance onit et privatises (respectivement en 1997 et 1999). Par ailleurs, 3 societes
d'Etat (Societe des Aliments de Betail, Societe des Eaux de Tadjourah, Laiterie) ont ete
liquidees en 1999. En matiere de restructuration des entreprises publiques, le Gouvernement
a adopte au cours de l'annee 1998 trois nouvelles lois: la loi du 21 janvier portant sur la
definition et la gestion des Etablissements Publics, la loi N12 du 11 mars portant reforme
des Societes d'Etat, des Societes d'Econornie mixte et des Etablissements Publics A caractere
Industriel et Commercial et enfin la loi n13 du 11 mars portant sur la reforme du Secteur des
Postes et Telecommunications. Cette reforme juridique devrait renforcer la gestion des
entreprises publiques dans un sens plus proche du mode de gestion privee.
13.   Pour mobiliser des ressources additionnelles necessaires a l'execution du programme
conclu avec les institutions de Bretton Woods, le Gouvernement a organise avec l'appui du
PNUD une Table Ronde des bailleurs de fonds A Geneve, en mai 1997. Le programme
presente comprenait 3 volets: (i) la stabilisation et I'assainissement des finances publiques;
(ii) la reforme des structures de production economique et le renforcement de l'appareil de
Y'Etat; (iii) la consolidation de la paix civile et sociale. L'Union Europeenne et la France ont
contribue au financement du programme de demobilisation tandis que la Banque Mondiale
et la BAD axaient leurs interventions sur des programmes sociaux en faveur des groupes
vulnerables (respectivement I'ADETIP et le Fonds Social de D6veloppement).
14.   Afin de renforcer les efforts de stabilisation et poser les bases d'une croissance
durable, le Gouvernement a lance un programme d'ajustement structurel A moyen terme
(1999-2002) par le biais d'une Facilite de Reduction de la Pauvrete et la Croissance (F.R.P.C.)
appuyee par le FMI. Au cours du dernier trimestre de l'exercice 2000, le Gouvernement a
sgalement sollicite l'appui de la Banque mondiale pour son programme de stabilisation et
d'ajustement structurel, ainsi que d'autres bailleurs de fonds. Les principaux objectifs du
programme consistent A: (i) renforcer les finances publiques, contenir le deficit budgetaire et
arriver A la stabilite macro-economique; (ii) reduire les depenses et reaffecter les ressources A
des domaines prioritaires tels que l'education, la sante, l'emploi et la protection sociale; et
(iii) entreprendre une serie de reformes structurelles visant a eliminer les obstacles a la
promotion du secteur prive.
15.   L'objectif de reduction de la pauvrete, pierre angulaire de la politique de
developpement economique et social de Djibouti, ne peut etre materialise que dans le
contexte d'une croissance economique qui garantisse un meilleur acces des pauvres au
services sociaux de base. Toutefois, la politique de croissance economique est conditionn6e
par 1'assainissement du cadre macro-econornique a travers la poursuite du programme de
stabilisation budgetaire et sera egalement basee sur le role moteur que devra jouer le secteur
prive.
II.    MESURES ADOPTEES EN 2000-2001 ET RESULTATS
16.   En 2000, l'economie de Djibouti a enregistre un taux de croissance du FIB reel estime
A environ 1 %. La croissance a continue d'etre soutenue par une activite importante du Port



dont le tonnage a progresse d'environ 4 % entre decembre 1999 et decembre 2000, et une
production d'electricite en hausse de 514 %. L'indice des prix A la consommation fait ressortir
une augmentation des prix de 2,4 % entre d;cembre 1999 et la fin 2000, en hausse d'un derni-
point de pourcentage par rapport a l'ann6e precedente. La hausse des prix des transports
causee par l'augmentation des prix du petrole pendant la deuxieme moitie de l'ann6e
explique en grande partie cette legere acceleration de l'inflation.
17.   Le deficit budgetaire s'est etabli A 1,8 % du PIB en 2000 (sur base ordonnancement),
compare A une situation d'equilibre retenue dans le programme. Ce derapage reflete des
manques A gagner en matiere de recettes, des decaissements de dons inferieurs aux
projections et des depassements au niveau des depenses courantes. L'ecart a pour origine
des recouvrements plus faibles que prevus en matiere d'imp6t direct, notamment de l'impot
foncier et des patentes ainsi que de l'exoneration de la surtaxe sur les produits petroliers
accordee A 1'EDD, et la non-integration dans le budget de la surtaxe de solidarite sur le khat,
les tabacs et les alcools, percue pour financer les depenses occasionnees par la Conference
d'Arta pour la paix en Somalie.
18.   Au niveau des depenses courantes, l'objectif du programme de 1,3 % du PIB a ete
depass& Ce depassement a principalement eu pour origine des facteurs a caractere
exceptionnel, lies notamment A l'organisation de la Conference de Paix sur la Somalie,
1'apparition d'e-pidemies et la secheresse sevissant dans la region. La Conference de Paix
financee sur les ressources propres de l'Etat traduit les efforts deployes pour l'instauration
d'une paix durable en Somalie et dont les effets auront un impact positif sur 1'6conomie
djiboutienne. Le depassement des depenses traduit egalement des faiblesses au niveau de la
gestion de la depense publique, avec le recours A des operations de compensation et des
paiements de depenses sans ordonnancement prealable. Certains retards dans la realisation
de projets, mais egalement des difficultes A conclure la deuxieme revue du programme,
expliquent Ia faiblesse des deboursements exterieurs. La deterioration de la situation
budgetaire a entraine l'accumulation de nouveaux arri&ers de paiements interieurs (0.9 % du
PIB) alors que le programme prevoyait un apurement equivalent A 3,3 % du PIB.
Politique budgetaire
19.   Dans le cadre du budget pour 2001, l'objectif des autorites etait de ramener le deficit
budgetaire sur base ordonnancement (dons inclus) A 0,6 % du PIB par rapport a un deficit de
1,8 % du PIB en 2000, et d'atteindre un excedent budgetaire interieur de 1,4 % du PIB. Les
recettes et dons devaient atteindre 31,9 % du PIB, soit 0,9 % de plus qu'en 2000, alors que les
depenses totales devaient etre limitees A 32,5 % du PIB, soit 0,3 % de moins qu'en 2000.
L'amelioration des recettes par rapport A l'annee precedente se situait essentiellement au
niveau des imp6ts directs (+0,8 % du PIB). Pour ce qui est des depenses, le budget initial
prevoyait une baisse des depenses courantes de 2,0 % du PIB alors que les depenses
d'investissement devaient s'accroitre de 1,7 % du PIB par rapport A 2000. La loi de finances
pour 2001 n'incluait cependant pas de credits pour financer des programmes sociaux
additionnels.
20.   En matiere de recettes fiscales, le budget initial pour 2001 a incorpore deux mesures-
cles: l'introduction d'une taxe sur certaines prestations de service, et le transfert de la sous-
direction de recouvrement de la direction du Tresor A la direction des recettes et des
domaines afin d'etablir une meilleure coordination et complementarite entre la fonction
d'emission et celle de recouvrement.
4



21.   En ce qui concerne les depenses, le budget initial pour 2001 a: i) reconduit le gel des
effectifs de la fonction publique, a 1'exception des secteurs de 1' ducation, de la sante et de la
justice et ii) recherche la maitrise des depenses de bourses en assurant la formation
des etudiants djiboutiens sur place avec l'ouverture d'un p6le universitaire a Djibouti ou
l'envoi dans des centres universitaires moins couateux, localises en Afrique et au Maghreb.
22. ' Pour assurer la realisation des objectifs retenus dans le budget 2001, un plan de
tresorerie a ete mis en place par decret en avril 2001, accompagne d'une reorganisation du
circuit de la depense et d'une amelioration de l'administration et du recouvrement des
impots direc.ts et indirects. Des financements exterieurs supplementaires ont ete egalement
identifies afin d'accroitre les depenses dans le cadre du programmne d'investissements
publics et les depenses courantes pour les secteurs sociaux. L'objectif de cette loi de finances
rectificative est de contenir le deficit sur base ordonnancement a 0,6 % du PIB.
23.   Afin de renforcer et moderniser la gestion de la depense publique et enrayer les
derapages constates en 2000, le Gouvernement a adopte en Rvrier 2001 une nouvelle loi
organique sur les finances publiques en remplacement de la loi datant de 1968. les
operations de compensation ont ete eliminees et le nouveau reglement de la comptabilite
publique adopte par decret au debut de 2001 limite les paiements des depenses sans
ordonnancement prealable aux seules operations sur le service de la dette exterieure et aux
regies d'avance. En outre, les conditions de fonctionnement des regies et caisses d'avance
font desormais l'objet d'une reglementation stricte.
Politique monetaire et bancaire
24.   Dans un contexte de faible croissance &onomique et d'accumulation d'arrieres de
paiement interieurs, les dep6ts bancaires n'ont augmente que de 1,6 % entre decembre 1999
et decembre 2000. La balance des paiements a degage un solde global deficitaire estime a
32 millions de dollars EU, compare a un deficit de 23 millions de dollars EU pretvu dans le
programme. Ceci reflete un deficit de la balance courante (y compris les dons) representant
5,1 % du PIB, en nette augmentation par rapport au niveau de 0,4 % du PIB en 1999. Les
dons, notamment au titre de l'aide budgetaire, ont et6 plus faibles que prevus.
25.   Dans le but de promouvoir l'integrite et l1efficacit6 du secteur bancaire a Djibouti, un
projet de reforme des statuts de la Banque Centrale de Djibouti (BCD) a et adopte en 2000.
En coherence avec le systeme de caisse d'emission (currency board) a Djibouti, la BCD
continuera, en effet, a slabstenir de financer les projets du secteur non financier, poursuivra
ses efforts pour renforcer sa capacite de supervision bancaire. La BCD s'attachera a veiller a
ce que toutes les institutions financieres de la place se conforment a la reglementation en
vigueur, sous peine de retrait de l'agrement le cas ech6ant. Afin de renforcer les mecanismes
d'audit de la BCE), outre le controle exerce par le censeur, des auditeurs externes seront
recrutes par une procedure d'appels d'offres afin de realiser l'audit des comptes 1999, 2000 et
2001 en se conformant aux standards internationaux d'audit.
26.   Marquant sa volonte de se conformer 6 la resolution 1373 du Conseil de Securite des
Nations Unies visant a renforcer le cadre juridique dans la lutte contre les operations de
blanchiment d'argent, le Gouvernement a cre en octobre 2001 un Comite dont le Ministre
des Finances et le Gouverneur de la BCD sont membres.
5



Refonnes structurelles
27.   Afin d'ameliorer la performance de I'administration publique, le Gouvernement
djiboutien a adopte en fevrier 2001 une strategie portant sur la reforme de l'administration
publique. Cette strategie prevoit i) au niveau de la gestioni des ressources hurniaines, les reformes
consistant a doter I'administration de systeme de dotation des emplois et de selection du
personnel, d'un fichier d'identification unique du personnel de la fonction publique, d'un
plan de formation des cadres de l'administration; ii) en ce qui concerne la gestion des ressources
financieres, des mesures visant a renforcer la transparence et la rigueur dans la gestion des
deniers publics a travers la mise en place effective de mecanismes de controle dans
l'execution budg6taire ; iii) dans la gestion des ressources materielles de l'Etat, l1'laboration et la
mise en ceuvre d'un cadre de gestion concernant les biens publics; enfin, iv) au niveau de la
gestion des ressources inforniationnelles, l'elaboration de la politique de comrmunication
gouvernementale permettant de favoriser la diffusion et la circulation de l'information
gouvernementale.
28.   Poursuivant son desengagement de la gestion directe des actifs des entreprises
publiques, le Gouvemernment a signe, en juin 2000, un accord avec les representants du Port
de Dubai (DPI) pour un contrat de concession du Port de Djibouti (PAID) d'une duree de 20
ans.
111.    OBJECTIFS ET PERSPECTIVES DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Les potentialites de Djibouti
29.   Malgre des ressources naturelles limitees, la republique de Djibouti ne manque pas
d'atouts importants pour s'engager sur le chemin de la croissance economique. Ainsi, le pays
beneficie d'un systeme economnique liberal se traduisant par la liberte de commerce, la libre
convertibilite du franc Djibouti a parite fixe avec le dollar US, un systeme bancaire moderne,
le libre transfert des capitaux et la liberte d'etablissement pour tout investisseur sans
obligation de parrainage. Le Pays est dote egalement d'infrastructures de transports et de
tileommunications performantes lui permettant de faire valoir sa place dans la competition
regionale.
30.   Djibouti est membre du marche commun de l'Afrique de l'Est et Australe (COMESA)
et de lautorite inter-gouvernementale pour le developpement (IGAD). Le prograrnme de
reformes aura un double impact sur l'integration de Djibouti dans ces ensembles sous-
regionaux. D'une part, l'amelioration de l'efficience de l'Ceconornie djiboutienne est positive
pour ses efforts d'integration regionale et, d'autre part, la reforme de la taxe interieure de
consommation qui est desormais etendue aux produits locaux permet a Djibouti d'etre
membre de la zone de libre echange du COMESA. Cette reforme renforce les efforts
d'integration regionale de Djibouti.
31.   Toutefois, pour tirer avantage de ces atouts, l'economie djiboutienne doit s'affranchir
des contraintes suivantes: (i) le cout excessif des salaires tant dans le secteur public que dans
le secteur prive; (ii) le prix eleve des prestations des utilites publiques (eau, electricite et
telephone) et autres infrastructures et; (iii) le faible developpement des ressources humaines
qui affecte handicape la productivite de l'economie nationale.
Les objectifs de croissance et de reduction de la pauvrete
6



32.   A court terme, la reduction de la pauvrete se traduit par la priorite accordee dans le
cadre du budget de 2001 aux secteurs sociaux de l1'ducation et de la sante, dont la part par
rapport aux depenses courantes devrait passer de 13,6 % a 14,3 %. Par ailleurs, le gel des
recrutements dans la fonction publique ne concerne pas ces deux secteurs-cles. Ainsi pour
2001, il est prevu l'embauche de 127 nouveaux fonctionnaires dans l1'ducation et la sante.
33.   A moyen terme , le gouvernement poursuivra et intensifiera son programme de
reformes de 2001- 2003 pour placer l'eonomie djiboutienne sur un sentier de croissance plus
elevee, relever le revenu par habitant, reduire le chomage, faire reculer la pauvrete et assurer
la viabilite financiere interieure. Les objectifs macroeconomiques poursuivis par le
gouvernement pour 2001-03 consistent notamment a assurer une croissance du PIB en
volume d'au moins 2,1 % et a limiter l'inflation a 2%.
34. Par ailleurs, la Republique de Djibouti a elabore, en etroite collaboration avec les
representants de la societe civile, des syndicats et des organisations non gouvernementales,
un Document Int&imaire de Strategie de Reduction de la Pauvrete (DSRP-I) axee sur les
elements suivants: i) la creation de conditions d'une croissance economique soutenue
redistributrice et ancree dans le marche regional ; ii) la creation de nouvelles activites
generatrices de revenus et d'emplois ; iii) le developpement des ressources humaines et
l'acc6s aux infrastructures sociales de base ; et iv) la modernisation de l'Etat et la bonne
gouvernance. Toutes ces politiques visant a renforcer l'efficience economique et la lutte
contre la pauvrete et l'exclusion ont un cofut financier qui d6passe de loin les possibilites
actuelles de l'Etat djiboutien.
IV.   LE PROGRAMME DE REFORMES PROPOSEES
35.   En 2001, le gouvernement a poursuivi ses efforts d'assainissement des finances
publiques. Ainsi grace a la mise en place de mesures appropriees (voir ci-dessous), la
situation des finances publiques s'ameliore. Les accumulations d' arrieres ont cesse depuis
Avril 2001. Un montant de 6.7 millions de $US d'arrieres a ete reduit entre Avril et
Septembre 2001. Pour soutenir ces progres, le gouvernement est resolu a mett-e en ceuvre de
nouvelles reformes plus hardies afin de consolider davantage les finances publiques, de
viabiliser les regimes de pension et d'assainir financierement les principales entreprises
publiques. Ces reformes renforceront le cadre macroeconomique de Djibouti. Le
gouvernement est conscient que la viabilit6 a moyen terme de ' economie djiboutienne
necessitera d' autres mesures structurelles pour stimuler la croissance. Dans ce cadre, il s'est
engage a entreprendre une profonde reflexion sur la restauration de la competitivite globale
de l' economie.
A - La consolidation des finances publiques
La iiocdernisationi de In gestioni desfi)nances puibliquies
35.   Dans le domaine de la depense, un ensemble de projets de reglements sera adopte
par le gouvernement en Deembre 2001. Ces textes permettront de simplifier et d'ameliorer
le circuit et les procedures de la depense publique. Les mesures comprennent
i) l'introduction de nouvelles nomenclatures budgetaires et comptables avec des
7



classifications fonctionnelles et economiques; i) l'integration des comptes speciaux en
annexe du budget; i) la reorganisation des structures centrales du Ministere de l'Economie et
des Finances; et ive) des dispositions permettant la repartition des charges communes et la
mise en place d'autorisations de depenses par ministere. Ces mesures entreront en
application en 2002. Ces reformes preparent le terrain a une deconcentration a court terme de
la gestion de la depense.
La imise en place d'uniie strategie d'apurenzent des arrier's
36. La reduction des arrieres interieurs de l'Etat constitue l'une des priorites majeures du
programme de reformes du gouvernement. Le gouvernement considere la mise en place d'
un plan d' apurement de 1' ensemble des arrieres de 1' Etat a moyen terme comme essentiel a
la consolidation de finances publiques. Ce plan doit etre accompagne d'une strategie durable
de non-accumulation de nouveaux arrieres en meme temps que se poursuit la modernisation
de la gestion budgetaire. Une assistance technique financee par l'Union europeenne (UE) a
permis de realiser un audit partiel du stock existant d'arrieres du secteur priv. L'audit
partiel deja realise a couvert les arrieres vis-a-vis des fournisseurs prives depuis 1996 et a
initie un inventaire des arrieres vis-a-vis des entreprises publiques.
37. Un audit complementaire sera realise dans le courant du premier trimestre 2002 avec le
concours d'experts finances par la Banque mondiale. I1 couvrira les arrieres vis-a-vis des
entreprises et organismes publics (y compris les caisses de retraites) et les arrieres de salaires
des agents de l'Etat. En outre, I'audit couvrira les arrieres portant sur la periode d'avant
1996. Le gouvernement de Djibouti poursuivra en parallele a cet audit une reflexion sur les
mecanismes d'apurement du stock des arrieres qui seraient envisages. Un plan d' apurement
de ces arrieres audites sera adopte avant Juin 2002 pour etre execute courant 2002. Certains
arrieres, notamnment vis-a-vis de fournisseurs priv6s et des entreprises publiques, devraient
faire Y'objet d'une annulation au titre de dettes croisees couvrant egalement les impayes
fiscaux de ces creanciers. Les ressources du credit d'appui a la consolidation des finances
publiques de la Banque mondiale devraient permettre d'apurer une partie des arrieres vis-a-
vis des caisses de retraite dans le cadre de la reforme de ces dernieres. A 1[exception des
arrieres de cotisations sociales du personnel conventionne de l'Etat dus a ['OPS, le
Gouvernement s'engage a ne proceder a aucun paiement d'arri&e  qui n ait pas et audite.
39.   Par ailleurs, en matiere de non accumulation d'arrieres interieurs, les autorites ont
mis en place en 2001 une strategie pour rationaliser les depenses de l'Etat en eau, eectricite
et telephone. Cette strat6gie est basee sur la mise en ceuvre d'un plan de tresorerie supporte
par un systeme de cash management et une rationalisation des consommations publiques de
ces utilites. Dans ce cadre, un recensement des compteurs pour l'administration a deja ete
effectue (des resiliations ont ete operees a la suite de ce recensement). Le Gouvernement a
procede egalement au controle des beneficiaires de la gratuite (totale ou partielle) sur la base
du decret de 1996 limitant les avantages en nature des fonctionnaires, le pointage regulier
des factures avant leur mandatement, des mesures d'economie (restriction du nombre de
lignes telephoniques, gestion rigoureuse des consommations d'electricite). Dans ce cadre,
une Cellule a et creee au sein de la direction des finances.
40.   Le  Gouvernement poursuivra  sa  politique  de  renforcement des  services
administratifs charges du recouvrement fiscal et la simplification du systeme fiscal. Par
l'adoption d'un maximum de 3 taux (8% - 20% - 33%), le gouvernement djiboutien a
8



considerablement simplifie cette fiscalite indirecte dont le rendement s'abaissait d'annee en
annee. Le gouvernement a egalement entrepris un projet d'informatisation qui permet de
mieux suivre les recettes. Ce service est appele A evoluer tant dans sa structure que dans son
mode de travail grAce a l'adhesion au COMESA. Par ailleurs, un projet d'implantation de
SYDONIA est en cours de lancement.
41.   En ce qui concerne les exonerations fiscales, au cours de l'ann&e  2001, le
gouvernement a renforce le suivi des exonerations. Les autorites ont decide de rationaliser le
recours aux exonerations, d'unifier les differents systemes et de mettre en place un veritable
systeme de gestion et de contr6le. En outre, les differents systemes preferentiels seront revus
et integres dans le code general des imp6ts avant fin juin 2002, a la suite d'une etude sur
l'impact de l'ensemble de ces systemes d'exoneration.
Rationalisation de la gestion des effectifs et de la masse salariale de l'Etat
42.   Outre la poursuite des mesures prevues dans le cadre du programme FRPC dont le
gel des recrutements dans la fonction publique exception faite des secteurs sociaux, le
gouvernement a mis en place une Cornmission Paritaire ministere de 1'Emploi et celui en
charge des Finances en septembre 2001 en vue de la realisation d' un systeme integre de
fichier unique. Un plan d'actions a ete eabore a cet effet et sa mise en ceuvre a demarre avec
le controle physique des fonctionnaires et conventionnes. Le rapprochement des deux bases
de donnees (celle des effectifs de la fonction publique et celle de la solde) doit etre finalise
avant juin 2002. Le Gouvernement procedera parallelement A une etude du systeme
informatique de la solde. La mise en ceuvre effective du fichier sera subordonnee A la
mobilisation des ressources necessaires au financement du materiel informatique indique.
43.   Le Gouvernement s'est par ailleurs engage A liquider les dossiers de retraite des 773
conventionnes qui continuent d'emarger a la solde A cause du non-paiement de leurs
cotisations sociales A l'OPS, estimees A 3 millions de $US. Enfin, le Gouvernement rattrapera
son retard en matiere de demobilisation en demobilisant 1000 personnes en 2002, le couit de
cette op&ation est de 2 millions de $US. Le gouvernement financera ces deux actions d'un
cout total de 5 millions de $US au plus tard en Juin 2002.
B -La reforme du systeme de pension
44.   Le gouvernement a rnis sur pied, en collaboration avec les services de la Banque
mondiale, un progra-mme de reforme des caisses de retraite qui constituera une composante
essentielle du Credit. La reforme des caisses de retraite dont la gestion actuelle et les
parametres de fonctionnement ne garantissent pas la viabilite A long terme devrait, A terme,
permettre la rationalisation des effectifs de la fonction publique. Les objectifs principaux de
la reforme consistent A modifier les parametres des cotisations et des pensions (instauration
d'une pension minimale de 170 000 FD, diminution des taux d'annuite, suppression du
cumul de pensions, introduction d'un impot de solidarite de 15%) afin d'assurer la viabilite
financiere du systeme de retraite djiboutien. Sur le plan institutionnel, le Gouvernement a
cree un Conseil National de la S&urite Sociale (CNSS) qui assume les fonctions de conseil
9



d'administration charge de la mise en oeuvre de la reforme et de la gestion des organismes
de retraite. Ceci est un prealable au processus de fusion des caisses. C'est dans ce cadre que
le gouvernement a adopte le projet de loi de regimes de retraites en sa seance du .... et
transmis a 1' Assemblee Nationale par le lettre ...... Le gouvernement a par ailleurs adopte
le decret N ... portant creation du CNSS. La mise en ouvre graduelle de la reforme
parametrique et le fonctionnement effectif de la CNSS interviendront avant Juin 2002. Ces
mesures accompagnees par la reprise des paiements a l'ensemble des caisses de retraite des
contributions sociales pour les agents de l'Etat permettront une normalisation des departs a
la retraite de ces agents a la date d'eligibilite.
45. Les autres mesures institutionnelles que le gouvernement s'engage a mettre en ceuvre
avant juin 2002 sont: (i) l'actualisation et l'audit des bases de donnees sur les cotisants et les
beneficiaires; et (i) la realisation d'une etude et l'adoption d'un plan d'actions sur la gestion
des reserves des caisses. Par ailleurs, 1' OPS placera sous forme de dep6t dans une banque
privee un montant de 2 millions de $US sur les 3 millions rembourses par l'Etat au titre des
arrieres de cotisations sociales des 773 conventionnes.
C. la restructuration et la privatisation du secteur des entreprises publiques
46.    En septembre 2001, les autorites ont adopte une nouvelle strategie gouvemementale
de privatisation ciblant les entreprises publiques a privatiser (EDD, ONED, Djibouti
TI'lecoms, Aeroport), le processus a suivre et le choix des modalites techniques de
privatisation. Afin de concretiser cette strategie, le Comite National de Privatisation a ete
reamenage, la Cellule de Privatisation a ete creee et son responsable designe en la personne
du Secretaire General du Ministere des Finances, en charge de la Privatisation. Le
Gouvernement procedera ensuite a la revision de la loi de privatisation de 1997 pour tenir
compte des elements enonces dans sa strategie. La loi revisee devrait etre adoptee dans le
courant du deuxieme trimestre 2003. D'ores et deja, le gouvernement considere la
liberalisation du secteur des telecommunications et la privatisation de Djibouti Telecom
comme etant prioritaires. Dans ce cadre, il realisera une etude sur le cadre reglementaire des
telecommunications avant Juin 2002.
47.   En vue de creer les meilleures conditions pour encourager les investisseurs prives, le
Gouvernement procedera egalement a un audit financier des quatre entreprises publiques
(AID, Djibouti Telecom, EDD, ONED) et a la signature de convention de reglement des
dettes et creances avec l'Etat, sur la base des conclusions de l'audit et du plan d'apurement.
Ces deux actions seront realisees avant Juin 2002. Enfin, l'Etat veillera a assurer le paiement
regulier des factures d'eau, d'electricite et de telephone.
48.   Conscient par ailleurs que l'environnement du secteur prive a Djibouti doit etre
renforce davantage, le gouvernement a adopte en juin 1999 une loi portant reglementation
du secteur des assurances et cree en janvier 2001 une Agence Nationale pour la Promotion
des Investissements (ANPI). Le gouvernement a par ailleurs engage une reflexion sur une
reforme du droit positif fondee sur les dispositions de l'OHADA en creant un Comit6 a cet
effet. Enfin, le gouvernement adoptera un nouveau projet de code du travail, en
remplacement dti code de 1952
D - Les autres reformes structurelles
Promotioni de la bonnte gouvernanice
10



49.   Dans le cadre de la promotion de la bonne gouvernance, la decentralisation sera
poursuivie notarrunent par le transfert, dans une premrne phase, de certaines des
responsabilites de l'Etat aux collectivites qui seront mises en place et l'organisation plus tard
d'elections locales. Le systeme judiciaire sera reforme afin de le rendre plus efficient et plus
proches des justiciables et de rassurer les investisseurs. Le cadre juridique des associations et
organisations de la societe civile sera ameliore dans le but de contribuer a leur
developpement. L'administration publique sera reformee dans le but d'ameliorer sa
performance et de le rapprocher des administres. Enfin, un seminaire gouvernemental de
reflexion et d' echanges critiques sur les actions gouvernementales reunira tous les acteurs
concernes, y compris les representants de la societe civile aura lieu avant la fin de l'annee.
50.   La promotion de la Gouvernance financiere concerne tout le dispositif destine a
assurer une bonne gestion par un meilleur controle des deniers publics. II s'agit en
particulier d'appliquer les principes de transparence et d'obligation de rendre compte afin de
renforcer les efforts de lutte contre la pauvrete. Le Gouvernement a cree en 1997 la Chambre
des Comptes et de Discipline Budgetaire (CCDB) devenue operationnelle depuis le debut de
l'annee 2001. L'objectif est de renforcer la transparence dans la gestion des deniers publics
grAce a l'effectivite des controles juridictionnels a posteriori sur les comptes des comptables
publics, des ordonnateurs et des administrateurs de credits et grace egalement a
l'instauration de l"obligation de rendre compte dans la gestion par les jugements qui seront
rendus par la CCDB. Le Gouvernement a prepare un texte sur la nature des pieces
constituant le compte de gestion du comptable principal de l'Etat.
Renforcement du systeme de collecte, traitement et analyse de donnees statistiques
51.   Le manque de donnees statistiques fiables constitue a Djibouti un frein a la
preparation et a la formulation de politique et strategie economiques appropriees. La priorite
doit donc etre donne  l' amelioration perenne des donnees de base et des indicateurs de
pauvrete ainsi que la mise en place d' instruments de prevision et de programmation. Ceci
figure parmi les grandes priorites du Gouvernement en la matiere. Il entend realiser au
cours de I'annee 2002 la seconde enquete budget consommation appelee EDAM-II qui fera
une mise a jour des indicateurs socio-economiques de pauvrete. En outre, sur le plan
institutionnel, le Gouvernement envisage la fusion de la DINAS et du BCR en 2002 ainsi que
le renforcement de la direction de 1' economie.
E - Autres reformes
52.   Dans les secteurs sociaux, le gouvernement a engage plusieurs reformes avec l'appui
de la Banque mondiale. Au niveau de l1'ducation, les reformes proposees visent le
renforcement de l'acces a l'enseignement primaire et la reduction des disparites entre les
sexes avec un taux brut de scolarisation vise de 97% en 2010. Un autre objectif a atteindre est
une reduction de 50% d'ici 2015 du taux d'analphabetisme estim6 (en 1991) a 61,1% pour la
population de plus de 15 ans. la Banque mondiale a accorde une assistance financiere de 10
millions de dollars US. Dans le domainc de la sante, le gouvernement elabore une Politique
et un Programme d'actions de Sante Nationale pour les dix prochaines annees (2001-2010).
53.   Au niveau des infrastructures, le gouvernement entend renforcer le rOle predominant
du Port dans lI'conomie et sa competitivite au niveau regional. Dans ce cadre, la Banque
II



mondiale a octroy6 un pret de 15 millions $US pour la rehabilitation de la route principale
conduisant a l'Ethiopie, la route Dikhil-Galafi, distante de 100 kilomrtres. Pour ce qui est du
chemin de fer, le gouvernement djiboutien en concertation avec l'Ethiopie, etudie la
possibilite de confier a un operateur prive sa gestion. Concernant l'acces a l'eau potable,
element de grande preoccupation nationale, le gouvernement etudie toutes les possibilites de
developpement des sources d'approvisionnement. Pour ce qui est de l'environnement, le
gouvernement entend mettre en ceuvre les actions dans le Plan d'Action National pour
l'Environnement (PANE) qu'il vient d' adopter.
F - Dispositif de Protection Sociale et de Lutte contre la Pauvrete
54.   Conscient de la faiblesse de son systeme de protection sociale, le gouvernement
entend realiser une etude en vue de la mise en place d'un systeme de protection sociale
appropriee en faveur des groupes vulnerables. En attendant la mise en ceuvre d'un tel
systeme, les actions en faveurs des groupes vulnerables se poursuivront avec le projet
ADETIP et le PRAC finances par la Banque mondiale et le Fonds Social de Developpement
finance par la BAD.
V.    ASPECTS FINANCIERS ET GESTION DU PROGRAMME
Besoins de financement
55.   Apres un solde excedentaire prevu pour 2001 (contre un deficit de 3.3% en 2000), le
deficit global de la balance des paiements devra se situer en 2002 a 2.3% du PIB, contre 4%
sur la periode de l'accord de confirmation (1996-1998). Pour la periode 2001-2002, dans le
cadre de leur appui au programme FRPC, les institutions financieres internationales
couvriront une partie de ce besoin exceptionnel a hauteur d'environ 30,7 millions de dollars
US (sous forme de credits), dont 12,7 millions $ par le FMI; 2.2 millions $ par le Fonds
Africain de Developpement (FAD); 10 millions $ par la Banque mondiale et 0.8 rnillions $
par le Fonds Monetaire Arabe (FMA). Pour les dons budgetaires, il est attendu 3.6 millions $
de l'Union Europeenne dans le cadre du PARE III du 8eme FED et 1.4 millions $ de la
France. Ces besoins n'incluent pas le financement des arrieres dont l'audit n'est pas encore
acheve.
Besoins en assistance technique et renforcement des capacites de gestion
56.   La mise en ceuvre du programme du Gouvernement comportera aussi la mobilisation
d'importantes ressources humaines en raison de l'expertise qui sera requise pour, d'une part,
preparer les etudes necessaires a la definition des reformes, et d'autre part, mettre en ceuvre
les reformes retenues. Les partenaires au developpement de Djibouti, dont la Banque
mondiale, assisteront le Gouvernement dans le financement de ces etudes et le renforcement
des capacites nationales pour la mise en ceuvre de leurs recommandations.
57.   Cette assistance est indispensable a l'amelioration de la base de donnees statistiques
au renforcement du cadrage macro-economique, a la mise en place d'instruments de
programmation budgetaire et l'aamlioration des indicateurs sociaux de base a travers
l'Enquete sur les Menages (EDAM 2). La coordination du programme devra egalement
beneficier d'un appui en renforcement.
12



Mecanismes de gestion et de coordination du Programme
58.   La mise en ceuvre du Programme est plac6e sous l'autorite du Ministre de
l'Economie, des Finances et de la Planification - Charge de la Privatisation et de la
responsabilite des services de l'Etat concernes. Concernant le suivi, le dispositif comprend
trois niveaux: (i) le Comite Interministeriel de Pilotage qui est le niveau de l'approbation
politique; (ii) le Comite Technique de Coordination et de Suivi des Reformes place sous
l'autorite du Ministre de l'Economie et des Finances qui est charge de la preparation et du
suivi du Programme de reformes economiques et social; (iii) ainsi que le Secretariat General
du Ministere des Finances charge de la coordination du programme et de l'elaboration des
rapports d'execution trimestriels du programme. Ces rapports, valides par le Comite
Interministeriel sont communiques a la Banque mondiale pour information.
'4-
YACIN ELMI BOUH
Ministre de 1'Economie, des Finances          /,
et de la Planification, charge de la Privatisation
13






Annexe A la lettre de Politique de Developpement
Page I / 5
DJIBOUTI
CREDIT A LA CONSOLIDATION DES FINANCES PUBLIQUES - MATRICE
DE POLITIQUE
Objectifs de                    Programme de                  Actions &              Unite
politique                         mesures                mesures prises         responsable
I. CADRE MACROECONOMIQUE ET REDUCTION DE LA PAUVRETE
*     Cadre macro- economique         - Maintien d'un cadre         Permanent               MEFP
viable                        macro-economique viable
*   P dem            darMise en place d'une stratRgie   _R6alisation de 1'enqute  Fin Juin 2002  MEFP
de protection sociale en      EDAM 11 et exploitasion     des
faveurs des groupes           EDAM11 ta   epoiaiose
vuln6rablesrsutt
- Etude en vue de la mise en                         MESN
place d'un systrme de
protection sociale approprie.
II. CONSOLIDATION BUDGETAIRE,
* Plan de r6glernent des arri6r6s   -Mise en place d' une         R6alis6                 MEFP
commission technique en
charge de la mise en ceuvre
du Plan d'apurement des
arri&res
-Inventaire et audit de      Realisation partielle de  MEFP
1'ensemble des arrieres et   I'audit du secteur
arrieres croises             prive. Mesure a
finaliser avant Juin
2001.
- Adoption par le            Avant Juin 2002         MEFP
Gouvernement d'un plan
crddible de reglement des
arrieres comprenant: (i) des
criteres d'61igibilit6 base sur
les regles et principes des
procedures, budgetaires et
financieres requises et du
code des marches publics
(ii) classification des
arrieres selon ces criteres
faveurs____ des__groupes____EDAM___11 et (iii) definition des



Annexe A la lettre de Politique de Developpement
Page 2 / 5
Objectifs de                  Programme de               Actions &              Unite
politique                       mesures              mesures prises        responsable
modalites et priorites pour la
liquidation de tous les
arrieres.
Strategie visant A eviter       -Adoption de               Adoption d'un plan de  MEFP
I'accumulation de nouveaux      reglementations budgetaires  tresorerie.
arrieres                        appropries autorisant
legalement les ajustements
aux allocations budgetaires
conformement aux recettes
reelles;
-Creation d' une cellule en    Un examen de la liste   MEFP
charge de la gestion des   des beneficiaires et
depenses et factures d' eau,   une verification
d' electricite et de telephone  technique des
compteurs ont e
realises.
- Renforcement des mesures  Decembre 2001         MEFP/ONED/
institutionnelles, techniques                     EDD/DJI-
et budgetaires de contr6le                        TELECOM
des consommations d'eau,
d'electricite et de telephone.
-Allocations de ressources  Decembre 2001         MEFP
budgetaires    appropriees
dans la loi de finances 2002
pour      couvrir     les
consommations d' eau , d'
electricite et de telephone.
*  Renforcement de la discipline    - Mettre fin aux paiements    Realise
budgetaire et de l'orthodoxie   anticipes sans autorisation
financiere                      prealable et compensations
fiscales.
- Examen des exemptions    Fin Mars 2002
fiscales actuelles afin de
reduire leur nombre et leur
portee.
*  Rationalisation de la gestion des   -Adoption d'un plan detaille  Realise          MEFP/MESN
effectifs de la Fonction publique    d' actions necessaire pour la
mise en c(uvre du fichier
unique
- Finalisation des actions  Avant juin 2002.      MEFP
contenues dans le plan d'
actions
--Mise a la retraite effective   Avant Juin 2002  MEFP
des 773 conventionnes dejA
admis a la retraite.



Annexe a la lettre de Politique de Developpement
Page 3 / 5
Objectifs de                 Programme de               Actions &            Unite
politique                      mesures              mesures prises    responsable
- Demobilisation de 1000  Avant Juin 2002       MEFP
anciens combattants
Modernisation de la gestion    - Adoption d'une loi       Realise
budgetaire                     nouvelleorganique des
finances;
- Adoption d'un nouveau   Realise
cadre juridique et d'un
nouveau calendrier de
preparation du budget;
- Adoption et mise en place   Realise
progressive d'une nouvelle
nomenclature basee sur une
classification fonctionnelle
et economique;
- Mise en place d'un      Realise
cadrage macro-economique
de base.
Objectifs de                 Programme de           Actions & mesures        Unite
politique                      mesures                  prises           responsable
III. CAISSES DE RETRAITE
*  Reforme institutionnelle et de  - Preparation d'un plan    Realise
gestion                        directeur pour la mise a jour
du systeme d'information et
gestion.
-Actualisation et audit des    Avant Juin 2002  CNSS
bases de donnees sur les
cotisants et beneficiaires .
- Informatisation des     Avant Juin 2002        CNSS
processus d'enregistrement,
liquidation, paiements, et
collecte.
- Etude et adoption d'un  Avant Juin 2002        CNSS
plan d'actions pour
ameliorer la gestion des
reserves.



Annexe a la lettre de Politique de Developpement
Page 4 / 5
Objectifs de                  Programme de           Actions & mesures         Unite
politique                       mesures                   prises           responsable
- Modernisation du systeme   Avant Juin 2002      CNSS
de comptabilite et audit
financier.
*  Normalisation des cotisations de    - Paiement des cotisations    Realise
I'Etat aux fonds de pension et  aux caisses de retraite sur
mise a jour des liquidations.   une base reguliere.
- Arret de tout transfert de    Fin Decembre 2001  MEFP/OPS /C
ressources financieres entre                      MR
l'OPS et la CMR,
notamment celles liees a la
convention au plu tard fin
decembre 2001
- Dep6t par l'OPS d'un     Avant Juin 2001        MEFP/OPS
montant minimum de 2
million dans une banque
privee.
*  Mise en place du cadre Iegal et - Adoption par le           R6alis6
reglementaire de la Reforme.        Gouvernement de la
Reforme parametrique
convenue.
- Creation du Conseil      R6alis6
National de Securite Sociale
(CNSS)
- Mise en ceuvre graduelle    Avant Juin 2001     Gouvernement
de la reforme parametrique
et fonctionnement
effectif de la CNSS
IV. ENTREPRISES PUBLIQUES
*  Cadre reglementaire et           - Adoption d'une note      Realise                MEFP
institutionnel de la privatisation    strat6gique
-Renforcement technique de la  Avant Juin 2002    MEFP
Cellule de Privatisation par le
recrutement d' un Consultant
international.
-Realisation d'une etude sur  Avant Juin 2002     MEFP/MC



Annexe A la lettre de Politique de D6veloppement
Page 5 / 5
Objectif.s de                     Programme de              Actions & mesures            Unite
politique                           mesures                      prises             responsable
le cadre reglementaire des
telecommunications pour
preparer la prochaine
liberalisation du secteur et
privatisation.
Assainissement financier des      - Realisation d' un audit     Avant Juin 2002           MEFP
quatre grandes entreprises     financier des entreprises en
publiques (EDD, ONED, Dib-     voie de privatisation.
Telecom, AMroport)
- Signature d'accord-         Avant Juin 2002           MEFP/Entrepri
programmes de reglement des   A      J 2                    PuEnirep
dettes et creances entre I' Etat                        ses Pubiques
et ces entreprises sur la base
des resultats de 1 audit et du
plan d' apurement des arricres.
- Etablissement de mecanismes   Avant Juin 2002         MEFP/Entrepri
garantissant le paiement                                ses Publiques
regulier des prestations
publiques d'eau d' delctricite et
de telephone






Annex II
Page I of 4
Note on Diibouti's Pension Funds Reform
The pension funds in Djibouti face two major problems: weak institutional capacity and
unsustainable finances. Administrative processes are inefficient and lead to the duplication of
efforts and high administrative costs. Inappropriate regulations and management practices are, in
part, responsible for the depletion of reserves. Today all funds have an operational deficit that in
the absence of reforms is expected to rapidly deteriorate.
The Pension Reform Strategy Note developed by the Bank proposes that the Fiscal Consolidation
Credit consolidate a modest pay-as-you system by supporting three major activities:
*      implementing institutional reforms to improve management and governance (through the
creation of the National Council of Social Security), and to increase efficiency (by
streamlining administrative process, better allocating human resources, strengthening
reserves management, and implementing an integrated information system).
*      addressing short-term financial needs by normalizing government contributions, defining
a plan to refinance arrears, and introducing a ceiling for the replacement rate in the
regime for parliamentarians;
*      and improving the medium-term financial situation of the pension funds by aligning
contributions and benefits while introducing a minimum pension to protect low-income
workers.
Institutional reforms
Creation of the National Council of Social Security (NCSS). In order to improve governance and
management it has been proposed to create the NCSS, a new institution with authority over OPS
and CNR. The CNSS would be responsible for developing and implementing a multi-year plan to
merge administratively and financially OPS and CNR1. The NCSS would also manage and
coordinate the other aspects of the pension reform strategy. In a period of 3 to 5 years it would
constitute the new social security system, which integrates OPS and CNR. The NCSS would be
jointly attached to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labor and National Solidarity. It
will have a Board of Directors composed by representatives from the private and public sectors.
An important innovation in the new institutional arrangement is that the Board of Directors will
have full authority to select and replace the Executive Director of CNSS on the basis of
candidates presented by the ministries of finance and labor.
Addressing short-term financial problems
Normalization of Government's contributions. The Government has been in moratoria with
OPS since 1995. As a consequence, OPS froze new retirements from the public sector and
today 773 contractual workers who meet retirement conditions remain in the payrolls. This
has important fiscal implications as the wages of these employees are considerably higher than
their pensions (see Table A2-1). As part of the reform program, the Government has
normalized contributions to all the branches of OPS (see Figure A2-1). These amount to
approximately USD  3 million (19.7%  of the wage bill).   From  these contributions,
approximately USD 1.2 million (8% of the wage bill) goes to the pension branch of OPS. This
action will contribute signif cantly to equilibrate the finances of OPS.
' Given the special functions of its population, CMR and the Police Regime within CNR will remain as an independent
systems, directly financed from the budget.



Annex II
Page 2 of 4
Table A2-1: Wages and pensions of the 773             Figure A2-1: Fiscal costs of wages
contractual workers who have delayed retirement                    and contributions
Age            Number Retire
>56             571  2001   919,222
56              84  2001   123,624                                            conlata
55              68  2001   102,865       SON                                  woers(ne(of
54              50   2002    65,957   0                 _                   Conubais
773                         1,211,668         __   ____*
Late contributions                       USD         200%  ',i -nam
Total wages per year (1995-1998)       2,785,401     1.00%   _                               d_ __  _  (dpdbe
otal wages per year (1998-2000)      2,506,862      GOO%
Total contributions              3,127,728        20   20n2 2004  Sa;  200  2010
Source: World Bank 2001. "Djibouti. Pension Reform Strategic Note
Refinancing part of Government's arrears with the pension funds. Despite the normalization of
Government's contributions, deficits would continue to be observed in OPS, in particular given
the retirement of the 773 contractual workers. The deficit of CNR would continue to expand as
well. To finance these deficits the Government is refinancing part of its arrears with the pension
funds. Initially, the Government will transfer to OPS the late contribution of the 773 contractual
workers (close to USD 3.1 million). Further payments will be conditional on an audit of the
arrears, which are currently estimated at USD 40 million (8% of PIB), and the implementation of
an appropriate investment framework (see Institutional Reforms).
Introducing a ceiling for replacement rates and taxing high pensions. To reduce pension
expenditures the Government is introducing a maximum replacement rate. In addition, the
Government is considering the possibility of introducing a tax on high pensions that would
distribute the costs of the adjustments between current contributors and high-income retirees.
Addressing medium term financial problems
Introducing a parametric reform and a minimum pension. To improve the medium-term
financial situation of the funds, the Government is introducing a parametric reform that gradually
reduces benefits and increases obligations. Specifically, over a period of 12 years, the retirement
age will increase from 50 to 55 years, the vesting period will increase from 15 to 25 years, and
the marginal replacement rate will decreases from 2% to 1.4%. To protect low-income
individuals, the Government is also introducing a minimum pension equivalent to 3 dollars a day
(the current poverty line in Djibouti), or DF 170,000. The success of the reform will also depend
on the ability of the country to resume growth and promote labor productivity growth.
Improving collection through better tracking of contributions and lower labor charges. Two
actions will be undertaken to increase the collection rate in the private sector. First, the new
information system will allow better monitoring and tracking of contributions. Second, the total
contribution rate to OPS (19.7%) will be revised downwards on the basis of an actuarial analysis
of the family assistance and health branches.



Annex II
Page 3 of 4
Financial implications of the reform
OPS and CNR. The set of measures discussed in the previous sections will be enough to solve
the problems of OPS and CNR during the next 10 to 15 years, even under pessimistic scenarios
about coverage, economic, and labor productivity growth (see Figure A2-2). In OPS, without a
tax on pensions, the present value of the accumulated deficits for the period 2000-2015 would be
below USD I I million (2% of GDP). With a 15% tax on high pensions, the present value of the
deficit could drop to USD 2 million, or even generate a surplus of 4 million in the case of a high
growth scenario (3% per year). In the case of CNR, the present value of the deficit during the
same period would reach USD I million. These deficits could be financed by repaying part of the
Govemment's arrears with the pension funds.
CMR. Given the nature of CMR, it will not operate as a regular pension fund Instead, its
expenditures will be directly financed by the budget. The goal is therefore to attempt to
control/reduce total wages and pensions expenditures. To this end, the Government is
considering alternative reform scenarios that combine parametric reforms with taxes on high
pensions, and higher contribution rates from military personnel As shown in Figure A2, with
these reforms total expenditures could be considerably reduced, stabilizing below USD 14
million per year.
Figure A2-2: OPS balance under alternative parametric reforms
OPS                               CNR
i ICOO     .---  --.-----.-.--_ _-.  -  . _ . ..     ..    ........0.0    _   l  l
40                     __ __.9
I 6oC -00 |    _  _
&.00   PebrRtrr2ltw 2 _a30_
-lDOO.D  RebmlMRRI.2Taxew-35 _  _          ,   39.0   e                -- 
-1 *-Re0  x gb,TrMRR1 2TaeMg- iR I19 b            RebrrlMRR1.2lTax                  I
2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2ao 2012 2314         2- _ 2m_ Z_ _2_8___ 2_10  212  2D14 
Note: "Low" and "High" refer to the growth scenarios. "Gov" indicates that the Govemment pays contributions to
OPS. "MRR" is the targeted marginal replacement rate (accrual rate). "Tax" indicates a 15 tax is introduced.
"Private" indicates that the collection rate of the private sector increases by 10 percentage points over a 20 year
period.



Annex II
Page 4 of 4
CMR
2, 9  --- - - -- - ---    -- - - - - ---  ---------  ------- .-    ---.. .     
Statu q~o
2,7 ;---                                                           -- Refo,3ne
|4 4 10% Cofis Sol
R, Denit., Actais
2   j3. +10% Ciots Sol + 30% inpot
2000   2002    2004   2006   2008   2010    2012   2014   2016
Statsus quo: nomeEsation des cottatiors de rEtat
Rfonne dinetonso grad telle des eux d'wantuitec   t     i 51i,
R, 30% impit: Refore - + atposlton a 30/c (base ariable)
R4, I)roits Aequis: Rdfi,rnt -- des dtr.ts acqus des ecteb 11 5 eiiRnreeji
R, +10% Cotis Sal: RZrfonne *- pawsage de I l  17% de tam coa)
Source: WolRan 01"jbo, +10% Coris Sal + 30% impot: Repa mnrrt 5%A argtxs 1 IaA
Source: World Bank 2001. "Djibouti: Pension Reformn Strategic Note". MRRrumarginal replacement rate. Average tax set at 1 5%/



Annex III
Pstge I of 6
Djibouti at a glance                                                             11/27101
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           & North   middle-
Djibouti    Africa  income      Development diamond*
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                       0.69      296      2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                     810      2,040     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      0.55       602     2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (Y)                                         2.7       2.0       10
Labor force (%)                             2.6       1.3    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~GNI                  Gross
Labor force                                 2.8       1.3    ~~~~per           -primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total popu/ation)                ..        59       42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        ..       68        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              109        44         32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                          ..      1           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)              89        80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   35         35       15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  39         95       114   ,          DJiboub
Male                                                 45        102      116               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               33        88       114    __
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                             ..    0.42       0.54      0.55
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  ..                8.9      12.9                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              .        ..      46.7      44.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                      -5.5      -5.3
Gross national savings/GDP                                       8.1       5.2
Current account balance/GDP                    ..       .       -0. 8     -7.7     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                          .       o05       0.6       0.6    savings                      Investment
Total debt`GDP                                 ..    49.2       54.4      54.7
Total debt service/exports                                       1.8
Present value of debt/GDP                                       35 3
Present value of debtexports                  ..        .       71 2
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   -      -14       2 2       0 7       2.1               Djibouti
GDP per capita                        .      -4.0     -2.9      -1.9      -0.4               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         .      2.3      -0.4      -4.3       3.2                                              1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000   . GrowthofinvestmentandGDP(%)
(% ofGDP)                                                                          0
Agriculture                                    ..      3 3       37        37
Industry                                      ..    20.0        14 3      14 2   , 50.
Manufacturing                                 .      5.3        2.7      2.7
Services                                      ..    76 6        82.0      82.1      0
95   96   97     O          00
Private consumpton                              .               79.1      80.1    -50
General government consumption                                  26.4      25 2   IGDI                          GODP
Imports of goods and services                                   61 0      62.8
(average annual growth)                  1980-90  1990-00       1999     2000      Growth of exports and imports I%)
Agriculture                                            0 9       0.2       2.0    15
Industry                                              -5 6       0.5       1.0     
Manufacturing                                       -9.8        0.6       1.0 s
Services                                              -0.5        17       1.6      c,
Private consumption                                    0.4       4 7       2.8    .5
General government consumption                        -4.3      147        -3.5    nt
Gross domestic investment                              7.2     -41.4      45.0               -Exports   - 0  Imports
Imports of goods and services                 ..       1 3      -2.5       3.2
Note: 2000 data are preltminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex III
'v=l' 2 of 6
Djibouti
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990       1999      2000      Inflation (%)
Domestic pnices
(% change)                                                                            a
Consumer prices                                          7.8        1.9       2.3      6
Implicit GDP deflator                                    4.0        2.0       2.4
Government inance                                                                      2
(% of GDP, includes current grants) o
Current revenue                                                    30.9      30.9             95   59    97    98    99    00
Current budget balance                                              0.9        1.5                  GDP deflator    >  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                    ..      -2.2       -1.8
TRADE
(USS millions)                                1980      1990       1999      2000      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                                  69        72      300
Food & live animals                                                 5         6      250
Coffee and derivatives                                    .         5          5
Manufactures                                                       46        46      200
Total imports (cif)                                                 252       272      15l
Food                                                               75        78      100
Fuel and energy                                                    11        12       50
Capital goods                                                       1        9 
Exportpriceindex(1995=100)                                 ..       119       124           94   95   03   97   98   99    o
Import price index (1995=100)                             ..        117       121                  6iExports     Elmports
Terms oftrade (1995=100)                                   ..       102       102
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1980      1990       1999      2000      CurrentaccountbalancetoGDP(%)
Exports of goods and services                                       250       247    |
Imports of goods and services                             ..        327       347      -i     
Resource balance                                                    -77      -101      -2             E
Net income                                                           1 1i      15      -
Net current transfers                             0        0         62        43      5
Current account balance                                    ..        -4       -43      --
Financing items (net)                                      ..         7        47      -
Changes in net reserves                           .        ..        -3        -5    -9I
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..       94         67        70
Conversion rate (DEC, locaYUS$)               177.7    177.7      177.7    177.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990       1999      2000
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             32      205        292       302
IBRD                                            0        0          0         0
IDA                                             0       31         52        60               F 1B6
Total debt service                                4       15          5
IBR0                                           0         0          0         0
IDA                                             0        0          1         1                                       C 5
Composdion of net resource flovws
Official grants                               30       131         43    |D36
Official creditors                              3       19          1                        ..                         30
Private creditors                               5       -1          0
Foreign direct investment                       0        0          5
Portfolio equity                                0        0          0
World Bank program
Commitments                                     0        6          0         ..     A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   0        3          4         9      B - IDA    D - Other muftilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                            0        0          1         1      C -IMF                       G - Short-term
Net tows                                        0        3          3         8    -_
Interest payments                               0        0          0         0
Net transfers                                   0        2          3         8
Development Economics                                                                                                    11/27/01



Annex III
Page 3 of 6
CAS Annex B8 - Djibouti
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As Of Date 10/29/2001
Closed Projects: 8                                                                                               Difference Between
Last PSR                                                      Expected & Actual
Supervision Rating b/           Orieinal Amount in US$ Millions      Disbursements '
Project                                     Develop- Implemen- Fiscal
IDJec           Project Name                ment      tation    Year  IBRD   IDA  Grant Cancel. Undisb.  Orig.  Frm Rev'd
Obiectives  Proaress
P056419 Ex-Combatants                            S          S       1999      0.0   2.7   0.0        0.0     1.4      0.9        0.9
P069930 International Road Corridor Rehab        S          U      2000       0.0  15.0   0.0        0.0    13.0      6.8        0.0
P044584 Public Works/Social Development          S          S       1999      0.0  14.8   0.0        0.0     8.6    -0.6         0.0
P044174 Technical Assistance (PATARE)            S          S       1997      0.0   6.5   0.0        0.0     2.9      1.4        0.6
P044585 School Access and Improvement            S          S       2001      0.0  10.0   0.0        0.0     8.6    -0.6         0.0
Result                                                 0.0  49.0   0.0       0.0    34.6       7.8        1.4
IBRD/IDA *                US$ Mil
Total Disbursed (Active)               12.10
of which has been repaid          0.00
Total Disbursed (Closed)               45.70
of which has been repaid          2.70
Total Disbursed (Active + Closed)      57.74
of which has been repaid          2.73
Total Undisbursed (Active)             34.56
Total Undisbursed (Closed)              0.00
Total Undisbursed (Active + Closed)    34.56
a. Intended disbursements to date minis actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio perfornance (ARPP), a letter-based system was introduced (HS  highly Satisfactory, S  satisfactory,
U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901),
August 23, 1994.



Annex III
Page 4 of 6
Djibouti
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(Data as of October 29, 2001)
Held (US$ mil)                   Disbursed (US$ mil)
FY Approval   Company     Loan   Equity   Quasi  Participation   Loan    Equity   Quasi Participation
0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Portfolio:      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0



Annex III
Page 5 of 6
Djibouti: Selected Economic and Social Indicators, 1998-2004
1998       1999       2000       2001       2002        2003       2004
Est.              Revised Projections
National income and prices
GDP at current prices                                      2.3        4.2        3.1        4.1         3.6        4.1        5.2
GDP at constant prices                                     0.1        2.2        0.7         1.6        1.6        2.1        3.1
Consumer prices (annual average) 1/                        2.2        2.0        2.4        2.5         2.0        2.0        2.0
(In percent of GDP)
Government finance
Total revenue and grants                                34.2       31.2       31.0       29.8        30.9       30.9       31.2
Revenue                                               25.4       23.7       24.4        24.4       24.0       24.0       24.1
Grants                                                 8.9        7.5        6.6         5.4        6.9        6.9        7.1
Total expenditure                                       33.4       33.4       32.8       30.5        33.2       31.0       30.8
Current expenditure                                   26.7       30.3       30.1        28.0       27.9       27.0       26.4
Capital expenditure                                    6.7        3.1        2.7         2.6        5.3        4.0        4.4
Overall balance (payment order basis)                    0.9       -2.2       -1.8       -0.7        -2.3        0.0        0.4
Change in arrears (decrease-)                           -0.8        1.3        0.5       -2.8       -18.6        0.0        0.0
Overall balance (cash basis)                             0.1       -0.8       -1.3       -3.5       -20.9        0.0        0.4
Financing                                                 -0.1        0.8        1.3        3.5        20.9        0.0       -0.4
External                                                 0.7        0.5        0.6         2.7        4.0        2.3        2.2
Domestic                                                -0.9        0.3        0.7         0.9       16.9       -2.3       -2.6
Banks                                                 -0.8        0.3        0.7         0.9        1.8        -0.3        0.0
Nonbank                                                0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       15.2       -2.0        -2.6
Government domestic arrears (stock) 2/                   20.2        21.8       22.1        19.3        0.0        0.0        0.0
Excluding arrears to public eriterprises               19.3        18.6       19.2       16.3         ...        ...        ...
Government domestic debt 2/                              17.6        17.0                    ... ...    ...        ...
(Change from preceding December; in percent of broad money)
Money and credit
Money and quasi money                                    8.2        5.2        1.1        4.1         4.1        4.1        5.2
Net foreign assets                                      -2.4        5.7       -7.3         6.6        0.4        2.9        2.1
Net domestic assets                                     10.6       -0.5        8.4        -2.4        3.7        1.2        3.0
Claims on the central government (net)                -1.1       -0.2        1.2         1.7        3.4       -0.5         0.0
Claims on nongovermment sector                        11.0        2.7        5.2        -3.1        0.3        2.3         2.9
Interest rates (in percent)
Lending rates                                     7.0-14.7    7.0-14.0  12.1-14.1        ...        ...         ...        ...
Deposit rates                                      2.5-5.1     2.5-5.1    3.8-5.0        ...        ...         ...        ...
(In millions of U.S. dollars, unless othervise indicated)
External Sector
Current account                                         -3.3       -3.0      -39.7       -30.0      -29.9      -24.1      -21.8
Exports                                                59.1        69.2       75.4       75.8        77.0       78.0       88.2
Imports                                               239.5       251.7      270.3      263.8       265.9      271.1      285.0
Services (net)                                         97.6       104.5       86.2       92.2        94.3       97.5      101.0
Income (net)                                            10.6       12.2       15.8       12.8        11.7       17.5       16.0
Transfers (net)                                        68.9        62.7       53.1       52.9        53.0       54.0       58.0
Capital account                                        22.5        -1.2       30.7       30.0        26.5       27.0       23.0
Errors and omissions (incl. pnv. capital)              -26.7       12.1       -9.1        7.8        -3.7        0.0        0.0
Overall balance                                         -7.5        7.9      -18.1        7.9        -7.1        2.9         1.2
Financing                                                 7.5        -7.9       18.1       -7.9         7.1       -2.9       -1.2
Monetary movements (increase-)                           6.4      -15.8       21.3       -24.8      -13.9       -9.4       -7.2
Exceptional Financing                                    1.1        7.9       -3.2       16.9        21.0        6.5        6.0



Annex III
Page 6 of 6
Djibouti: Selected Economic and Social Indicators, 1998-2004
1998       1999       2000               Revised Projections
Est.      2001       2002        2003       2004
Memorandum items:
Currency board gross foreign assets (end-period)
In millionsofU.S. dollars                                64.4       70.4        67.6       69.9       72.0        73.9        77.1
MonetaryandLOLRcover(inpercent)                         111.8      112.0       114.9      119.4       118.8      118.2       117.3
As a ratio to currency issue                              1.2        1.3         1.2        1.2         1.2        1.2         1.2
In percent of GDP
Current account                                          -0.6       -0.6        -7.2       -5.2        -5.0       -3.9        -3.3
Overall balance                                          -1.4        1.5        -3.3        1.4        -1.2        0.5         0.2
Official extemal debt 51
Before rescheduling (in millions of U.S. dollars)       337.0      336.9       369.9      400.7      426.4       448.3       466.6
Debt service ratio
To exports of goods and services 6/
Obligations basis before rescheduling                   5.5        6.3         7.9        4.7         6.0        6.J         4.7
Obligations basis after rescheduling                    4.9        5.4         4.8         1.5        5.1        6.1         4.7
Public sector overdue obligations
In millions of U.S. dollars                               5.4       10.9         7.7        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Exchange rate
Exchange rate (DF/US$) end-of-period                    177.7      177.7       177.7      177.7       177.7      177.7       177.7
Real effective exchange rate 71
(End-year change in percent; depreciation-)            -6.4        4.1         8.0         ...
Sources: Djibouti authorities.
I/ For 1995-98 computed using Djibouti consumption weights applied to selected sub-indices from the French
expatriate CPI. Data for 1999 and projections for 2001-2004 are based on the official CPI introduced in April 1999.
2/ Arrears data from 1999 include wage arrears, arrears to private and public suppliers for goods and services, preliminary
estimates of arrears to the pension funds, and the arrears of the liquidated public agency that formerly controlled the grain
trade. Debt data include debt to public enterprises and to the domestic banking system only.
3/ Beginning 1998 data include only three operating banks and exclude two closed banks which are being liquidated.
5/ Public and publicly-guaranteed debt of the central govemment and the public enterprise sector.
6/ Exports of locally-produced goods and nonfactor services.
7/ The REER is calculated using the CPI proxy as noted in footnote I.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 29358
A)                                                  N YEMEN                                                                                        43.00'YEMN
~~~~~~~~Rod~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI4-0                                                                                                                                   REPUBLIC
REKJBUC                                                                                                                 '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OF
R.ERITREA iOF                                   N                                                                                               .YEMEN
\EN                           K t ,  \ERYTHREE                                                                                                                        , Bob El Mobodo
DJUBOUTI  Glgo  w-\    
ErHIOPIA      /  Di  OUTI \atst
Ad-,
220                                                                                                                                                    12'30'
Sept Farm.ls
SOMALLA                                                                                                                                                      o )
This mop mos prepared      42Yb0'
by the Aop Uni of
tWorld Bank.                                                                                                                                              OBOCK
The boundaries, colors,
denominatbons ond ony
other information shown
on this mop  do  not
imply, on tie port of
The World  Bonk Group,
any judgment on the legal
Status of any territory,/
or any endorsement
           ~~~~~ETHIOPIE                                                                                                                                                                              12  7  
or's> acceptanc ofsc
1A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UF  OF
Mo.6oliLd~~            ADEN
V.a.psarpal.
C/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X' RN7 
|t D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JIBOUITI
Goat.hon 1,000                                                                              o d arn
> . rr ~~ETHIOPIA                                              _          800 1000                                                                      +   Znlo
ETHIOPIE                           600. 8 00                    o        ed.dVilln  ornd TUor                  +      r*d rJw  rsr
400.600                      (3    0irtnc ,t Cnib
u.nr4cER!fO        10          25        30          40         so                    V.
S s S S | 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~200.-400                                                @                NassCpo.*r'.  Ssnol Bre,,b lWodi,l
05105 0               10                00                30                     n       0-200                               Gamukt Bonodoria.                   Sal ioltr
sl2t7a   Spct tE,,,otro in htAnbn  _.-        Inlrnt mrJnol Roondarta.            Ornbnki Wotar
43W                                                          43q0'
IANUARh   1998



