Report No. PID3133
Project Name                     Djibouti-Fiscal Consolidation Credit 
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Project ID                       DJPE65790
Implementing Agency              The Ministry of Economy, Finance
and Privatization
Date of this PID:                          September 27, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         October 2001
Projected Board Date             November 29, 2001
Background
From the late 1995, Djibouti embarked on an economic reform program aimed at
reversing the trend of unsustainable fiscal position, stagnant economic
growth and declining living standards of its people. In 1995, economic
activities declined by 3.6
percent, budget deficit ran at 10.1 percent and external current account
stood at 15.9 percent before grant.
In the context of this reform agenda, Djibouti adopted an economic
stabilization program
supported by IMF through a Stand-By Arrangement in 1996. The program focused
on the reduction of the wage bill that amounted to 24 percent of GDP in 1994,
the simplification of tax collection and improvement of the management and
supervision of public enterprises. Progress was made with the fiscal deficit
moving from 8 percent of GDP in 1995 to a small surplus in 1998 owing to a
large extent to the cuts in the wage bill and the demobilization of military
and security personnel.
In addition, a positive revenue windfall resulted from Ethiopia's decision
to switch transshipments from the port of Assab to Djibouti in mid-1998 due
to the armed conflict with Eritrea; this helped improve Djibouti's fiscal
position. Unfortunately, this progress could not be sustained because of
budget management problems and the decline in the revenue base. As a result,
there has been a large build-up of domestic budgetary arrears.
In October 1999, the IMF approved a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
(PRGF) for Djibouti as a follow up to the Stand By Arrangement. The second
step of the reforms are focused on: completion of the demobilization program,
adoption of a retirement program,and civil service reform which together will
ensure a further lowering of the wage bill;tax, revenue administration, and
budget management reforms; pension fund reforms; a restructuring of budget
expenditures in order to improve the quality of spending; a significant
privatization program which will address the ownership/management of the six
major public enterprises and related legal reforms; deregulation and other
legal reforms-including reforms of the Labor and Commercial Codes and the
establishment of commercial courts; banking reform systems; and the further
upgrading of bank supervision.
The first review of the PRGF was concluded in July 2000 and the second is
not concluded yet because of poor performance. Fiscal targets were not
achieved (at end-2000, the budget deficit was estimated at 1.8 percent of GDP,
instead of a projected slight surplus to reduce arrears) and arrears have



continued to accumulate, reaching 25 percent of GDP at the end of 2000.
These arrears constitute increasingly an impediment to the normal functioning
of the government and its solvency, and, in the case of the arrears to
pension funds, are an obstacle in the path of the Government ability to
undertake corrective measures in the area of wage bill, and limit its ability
to ask employees in age of retirement to leave the civil service and,more
generally to initiate a much needed civil service reform. In addition, new
financial control and fiduciary issues have emerged.
They include, for example, extra-budgetary exceptional spending which did
not follow established budgetary procedures. This slippage partly reflected
stronger-than-expected expenditures on materials and supplies on account of
the Presidential elections and the Reconciliation Conference on Somalia
financed by the Government of Djibouti.Furthermore, Djibouti's current
account deficit widened to 6.5 percent of GDP in 1999.Program and Credit
Objectives Given the lack of basic data as well as analytical work on
Djibouti's growth and poverty agenda, the proposed credit should be
considered as designed primarily to restore the preconditions of sustainable
growth. To this end, the proposed IDA credit will support Djibouti's efforts
to achieve fiscal sustainability. As the first policy-based credit to
Djibouti, it focuses on a few key reforms (given Djibouti's weak
institutional capacity).
Future support to the growth and reform agenda would be channeled through a
PRSC,conditional on a successful. The proposed Fiscal Consolidation Credit
focuses on helping the Government address areas of immediate distress
These selected areas are highly inter-related and are considered as triggers
to medium-term reforms needed to address Djibouti's main economic and social
challenges. On the macroeconomic stabilization front, the Fiscal
Consolidation Credit will focus on strengthening the progress that has been
made with IMF support in stabilizing the fiscal situation. In particular,
the proposed Fiscal Consolidation Credit will focus on the problem of large
domestic arrears of the budget to domestic suppliers and to the pension funds.
These arrears threaten the public's basic trust in Government, and the normal
delivery of public services and government functions. The large size of
arrears also generates an increase of fiscal compensation payments. In the
context of the privatization, the arrears and cross-arrears related to public
enterprises must also be cleared.
In the case of arrears to pension funds, they constitute an impediment to the
capacity of the Government to undertake measures to contain the wage bill
and,therefore, to end further accumulation of arrears. More importantly,
the pension funds are structurally unsustainable and contribute to the wage
ill and to the budget burden.
The Fiscal Consolidation Credit will address the reform of the pension funds
to restore their viability through changes and other reforms to ensure that
the system is financially sustainable and able to accommodate new retirees.
Finally, the proposed Fiscal Consolidation Credit aims at assisting the
Government in taking full advantage of the privatization of the major public
enterprises that unless reformed, may quickly become an important burden on
the budget. The proposed operation will focus on implementing a transparent
and efficient privatization framework through the adoption of a new
privatization law.
Program Description
-2-



Given Djibouti's weak institutional capacity, the credit focus on few key
actions which will be considered as Board conditions.
These are: Macroeconomic framework. The implementation and development of a
viable macroeconomic framework, supported by the Fund's PRGF, which is
necessary for the pursuit of the Government's reform program.
Civil service reform. The definition and adoption by the Government of a
plan and calendar for the integration of the civil servants database and
payroll files with the aim of linking personnel management decisions directly
to payroll.
Arrears settlement plan. The definition and adoption by the Government of
a credible medium-term plan for the settlement of all eligible domestic
arrears. A key step will be the completion of the inventory and audit.
Pensions system reform. The definition and adoption by the Government of a
plan for gradually adjusting the main parameters of the three pension funds
on the basis of the agreed scenario of the parametric reform.
Privatization. The Cabinet approval and adoption of a privatization law,
that includes the definition of a transparent and competitive process and
the adoption of a plan and calendar for privatizing the four main public
utilities (water,electricity, telephone, and airport).
Project Implementation
Various line ministries and agencies would be involved in the implementation
of the reform supported by the credit. The key counterparts to monitor the
program would be the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Privatization and the
office of the Prime Minister
Program Financing
In line with IDA's allocation of resources to Djibouti over the 2000-03
period, an amount of US$10 million is expected to be provided under the
proposed IDA credit. The amount will be disbursed in one first tranche
upon effectiveness and a second floating tranche upon satisfactory of
performance criteria.
Environmental Aspects
The credit does not have explicit environmental components or effects and
has therefore
been classified as Category C.
Poverty Category
By improving fiscal consolidation and public finances management, the credit
will contribute to increase access to basic preventive health and education
services nationwide, which will have impact on poverty reduction.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:(202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Task Team Leader
Ide Gnandou
Tel:   (202) 473-1175
Fax: (202) 477-0432
-3-



This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October 5, 2001.
Lucy Njuguna
L:\050ctOl\pO65790.doc
September 26, 2001 2:57 PM
-1-
-4 -



