                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 29088-DJI




                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-35930)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.85 MILLION (US$ 10 MILLION)

                                         TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                                DJIBOUTI

                                                 FOR A

                                  FISCAL CONSOLIDATION CREDIT




                                              June 22, 2004




Social and Economic Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

    (Exchange Rate Effective May 2004)

        Currency Unit = Djibouti Francs (DJF)
          DJF 100.00 = US$ 0.57
            US$ 1.00 = DJF 175.00



      WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
              Metric Sytem


             FISCAL YEAR
        January 1     December 31


  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AID      =        Aéroport International de Djibouti
CMR      =        Pension Fund, Military Personnel
CNR      =        Pension Fund, Civil Service
CNSS     =        Conseil National de la Sécurité Sociale
DJF      =        Djibouti Franc
EDAM     =        Household Budget and Consumption Survey
EDD      =        Electricité de Djibouti
FCC      =        Fiscal Consolidation Credit
GDP      =        Gross Domestic Product
ICR      =        Implementation Completion Report
IDA      =        International Development Association
IMF      =        International Monetary Fund
MESN     =        Ministry of Employment and National Solidarity
ONED     =        Office National des Eaux de Djibouti
OPS      =        Organisme de Protection Sociale
PATARE   =        Technical Assistance Project for Economic Reforms
PRGF     =        Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (IMF)




      Vice President:      Christiaan Poortman
    Country Director:      Mahmood Ayub
     Sector Manager:       Carlos Silva-Jauregui
   Task Team Leader:       Paloma Anós Casero
  Team Leader at ICR:      Giulio de Tommaso

                                                                         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                               DJIBOUTI
                                 FISCAL CONSOLIDATION CREDIT


                                              CONTENTS




                                                                                       Page No.
     1. Project Data                                                                        1
     2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
     3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
     4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                5
     5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  8
     6. Sustainability                                                                      9
     7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       9
     8. Lessons Learned                                                                   11
     9. Partner Comments                                                                  13
     10. Additional Information                                                           22
     Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 23
     Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 24
     Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 25
     Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 26
     Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 27
     Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    28
     Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                29




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

Project ID: P065790                                                  Project Name: DJ FISCAL CONSOLIDATION
                                                                     CREDIT
Team Leader: Paloma Anos Casero                                      TL Unit: MNSED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 22, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: DJ FISCAL CONSOLIDATION CREDIT                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-35930
   Country/Department: DJIBOUTI                                                           Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (36%); Compulsory pension and
                            unemployment insurance (25%); Telecommunications (13%); Power
                            (13%); General industry and trade sector (13%)
                  Theme: Administrative and civil service reform (P); Other public sector
                            governance (P); Standards and financial reporting (P); State
                            enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (S); Macroeconomic
                            management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/14/2000                                     Effective: 03/01/2002                03/01/2002
     Appraisal: 11/07/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/20/2001                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 10/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT
                      Other Partners:      European Union and African Development Bank

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Mahmood A. Ayub                                Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:                 Carlos Silva-Jauregui                          Pedro Alba
Team Leader at ICR:             Giulio De Tommaso                              Ide Gnandou
ICR Primary Author:             Giulio De Tommaso


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background

A small country of around 650,000 people, mainly living in the urban areas, Djibouti possesses limited
natural and human resources which limits its ability to generate economic revenue. Its main economic
assets are its strategic location in the Horn of Africa - which has long been the home base of the French
Military - and its port. Its tax collection has tended to be weak and difficult and a large parts of its revenues
come from French assistance, and from its port related activities. On the other hand, Djibouti, has tended to
have proportionately large government expenditures. Its main expenditures consist of wages and salaries
which are considered high compared to per capita GDP in Djibouti, and high on the aggregate (averaging
over 24 percent of GDP in 1994).

Djibouti's economic performance progressively worsened until the late 1990s - leading to declining per
capita GDP and grant revenue from France and increasing competition in port activities from other regional
ports. This situation has induced the Government of Djibouti to take steps to redress the situation. To
address these difficulties, the authorities adopted an economic stabilization plan, supported by the IMF
through a stand-by arrangement and subsequently through a PRGF.

The IMF program focused on on the reduction of the wage bill, the simplification of tax collection, and
improvement of the management and supervision of public enterprises. As a result, the fiscal deficit moved
from 8.1 percent of GDP in 1995 to a small surplus in 1998. However due to continued budget
management problems and the decline of revenue base, this progress was not sustained. In 1999, the IMF
approved a PRGF as a follow to SBA. The performance under PRGF did not improve and as early as
2000, the deficit was over 2 percent of GDP compared to programmed deficit of 0.4 percent. The budget
arrears also increased during the same period.

Faced with continued problems with public finances characterized by an excessive weight of public sector
wages, a burden of accumulated arrears and poor budget management, the government of Djibouti
approached IDA to help finance its initiative to strenghten budget management.

The FCC - the credit under evaluation in the present document - is a two tranche policy based adjustment
operation in the amount of US$10 million equivalent, approved by the Board on November 20, 2001. It is
the first such operation to be undertaken in Djibouti. Its objectives closely reflected the program of the
government, complemented the IMF program and was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy
approved by the Bank in December 2000. Specifically, the government was committed to avoid
accumulating new arrears, to complete and unitfy the various databases on public employees (Fichier
unique), implement parametric reform of the pension system and improve its management of public
enterprises.

The development objectives of the credit were to assist the Government in the achievement of fiscal
sustainability by supporting structural and institutional reforms in areas with large impact on public
finances in the middle term in essentially four areas: (i) clearing domestic arrears, (ii) containing the public
sector wage bill, (iii) implementing parametric reform to improve the viability of the existing pension
system and (iv) strengthening the financial management of the largest infrastructure service providing
public enterprises so as to pave the way for an eventual liberalization and privatization. The reforms
supported by the Credit were necessary conditions to set the stage fro more growth-oriented



                                                       - 2 -

macroeconomic policies over the medium term. The authorities also indicated their intention to complete
critical poverty and safety net studies that will feed into the PRSP.

An IDA financed Technical Assistance operation, PATARE provided technical Assistance to the
government in undertaking the above mentioned reforms. The two operations were tightly related as
adjustment operations and technical assistance operations are usually linked in the traditional assistance
model used by the Bank in countries where capacity is considered low, and domestic resources are not
easily found. However, PATARE was approved almost four years prior to FCC, and its scope is much
broader than that of FCC.


3.2 Revised Objective:

There was no change to the operation's development objectives over its life. However the project was
extended from its initial December 31, 2002 closing date, to June 30, 2003 and then again to December 31,
2003. The technical difficulties, not anticipated during the preparation, and associated with the
implementation of the pension reform and reconciliation of human resources database required the two
extensions.

3.3 Original Components:

The FCC was a two tranche adjustment operation, pending satisfactory performance on selected conditions.
The first tranche was disbursed upon effectiveness, on March 1, 2002. The second tranche of US$ 5
million was dependent upon the satisfaction of specific tranche release conditions on the part of the
Djiboutian authorities.

Work undertaken under the loan were focussed on mainly complementary areas considered critical for
fiscal consolidation and improved fiscal management. They are:

l Implementation of a viable economic framework supported by IMF's PRGF.                    These measures
     consisted on carrying out the audit of all domestic arrears and cross arrears and the adoption of a plan
     for their settlement.

l Containing the wage bill:            These measures consisted in the preparation and adoption by the
     Government of an action plan for the integration of the civil servant's database and payroll files with
     the aim of linking personnel management decisions directly to payroll. Specifically, the borrower was
     expected to complete a program of retirement of at least 773 civil servants, (b) completed the program
     of separation of at least 1000 ex-combatants; and (c) completed the integration of the civil service and
     payroll filed database.

l Public Enterprises: These measures focused on the adoption of a privatization strategy which defines a
     transparent and competitive process and the adoption of a plan and calendar for privatizing four main
     public utilities (water, electricity, telephone and airport). Specifically the program requested that
     audits be undertaken for the electricity company (EDD), water (ONED), telecommunication
     (DJIBOUTI TELECOMM) and Airport (AID) and (b) that based on the conclusions of a study, with
     terms of reference acceptable to the Association, an action plan to reform the regulatory and legal
     framework of the telecomm sector be undertaken.

l Pension Reform: Measures in this area aimed at reducing the burden of the pension system on the



                                                       - 3 -

    budget of the state through the implementation by the authorities of a parametric reform of the pension
    system. Under purview of the program, the government was to approve and submit to Parliament all
    new legal texts and amendments to existing ones that are required to implement the reform. It should
    create a new National Council of Social Security (CNSS) to encompass all existing Social Security
    agencies.   It was also meant to take all necessary measures to update and audit files on OPS
    contributors and beneficiaries; on the basis of a study, implement an action plan to ensure prudent
    management of fund reserves; (c) deposit at least two million dollars of OPS reserves in a private bank
    satisfactory to IDA, and implement gradually a parametric reform of the pension system as agreed with
    IDA and finally furnish evidence of effectiveness of the new CNSS.

The program was heavily front loaded with the majority of conditions required for the release of the first
tranche.

3.4 Revised Components:

Components remained unchanged during the life of the project. One condition for approval of the second
tranche, relating to the retrenchment of old combatants was waived.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Satisfactory

The ICR concludes that Quality at Entry was satisfactory, for the following reasons: (i) choice of
instrument; and (ii) realistic program design.

Choice and Appropriateness of the instrument:

At the time of preparation, Djibouti's track record in terms of effective policy dialogue with the Bank, and
other multilateral lenders was inconsistent.    Several operations in the portfolio had been prejudiced by
policy reversals on the part of the government, and the ability of the government to carry out long term
policy reform had yet to be tested. Finally, the capacity of the Djiboutian public sector to carry out
complex policy reform was appropriately highlighted as a potential risk for the operation.

The team appropriately identified important aspects of fiscal consolidation which could be adequately
addressed by the client and additionally adequately identified the potential risks and attempted to mitigate
them, first by front loading conditionalities of the reform program to the disbursement of the first tranche,
and secondly attempting to maintain dialogue through the identification of a second tranche. In so doing,
the project finally was able to more successfully take advantage of the synergies with the PATARE TA
Loan, and make significant strides forward on some of the aspects of the reform.

Appropriate design: There are indications throughout the President's Report that implementation capacity
in Djibouti is weak, and that the complex institutional set up, in a state with recovering institutions will
preclude the ability to swiftly conduct broad based multisectoral policy. It is therefore appropriate to
consider narrowly focused reforms such as the ones undertaken by FCC aimed at laying the foundations for
more fundamental reforms at later stages.

The choice of a two tranche operation, is an attempt on the bank team to forge dialogue on sole already
agreed topics that goes beyond a one shot operation, and therefore in terms of fledging a coherent policy
dialogue is commendable and noteworthy. Nonetheless, in this context, given the lack of capacity and the



                                                      - 4 -

difficult policy dialogue history with Djibouti, the ICR team would argue that the choice of a two tranche
operation as the first policy operation undertaken by the Bank in this country probably exposed the Bank to
risks that could probably have been avoided.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Satisfactory

The objective of the project was to provide fiscal relief for the government of Djibouti, through targeted
and realistic actions implementable within the period of implementation of the loan.

The implementation of parametric pension reform, which reduced benefits increasing contributions and
enabling the medium and longer term solvency of the pension system had a significant long-term impact on
the fiscal situation of Djibouti. Conversely, the settlement of the long standing and perilous situation with
government arrears has a similar positive impact on the fiscal stance of Djibouti.

The program under consideration also addressed the issue of privatization. In this instance, the ICR
determined that the program that has been undertaken by the government differs significantly from what
had been agreed in the preparation of this program. While the program supported production of high
quality audits significantly moving forward the regulation of the telecom sector, the process undertaken to
privatize the Djibouti port and airport generally lacked transparency. It is also undeniable, however, that
the privatization of these entitities provided some fiscal relief to Djibouti.

Finally, the program touched on the issue of public sector wages. The objective of this component was not
to address the public sector wage bill problem, but rather to set up infrastructure which could--in the long
run--to do so efficiently. The infrastructure currently in place supports a comprehensive database linking
the payroll with the human resource data. Pending adequate technical support, the government can
effectively proceed with the reform agenda.

The ICR concludes that while the outcome of the operation is mixed, the achievements on the whole
outweigh the failures and as such warrant a satisfactory rating.

The principal achievements of the project are successes in the taking control of the arrears problem,
computerization of the payroll and great strides in pension reform. These are noteworthy, because while
the program under review only prepares the ground for fundamental reform of public expenditures in
Djibouti, these three items do impact the most significantly on fiscal consolidation in Djibouti, and would
have precluded tackling the issues associated with the wage bill in the near future.

It succeeded in providing important technical assistance in the process in public expenditure management,
and debt management. Finally parametric pension reform, in such method and scope - which reduces
nominal as well as real benefits to the pensioner - has seldom been achieved in developing country.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Macroeconomic Framework and Settlement of Arrears:

Satisfactory



                                                      - 5 -

An audit of the arrears was undertaken, and the amounts of domestic arrears was quantified. An estimated
total amount of arrears US $163 million is being settled by the government through a ten-year plan. The
plan envisions annual repayment to private to private creditors, government employees, pension funds and
public enterprises. Private creditors represented by the smaller supplier firms and government contractors
represent first order priority for the government. Supporting and regenerating smaller smaller and
medium-sized firms represents the government's commitment to find new sources of growth outside of
traditional areas dominated by large public enterprises.

Effective measures to limit accumulation of new arrears were put in place and are now being implemented.
Additionally, significant capacity building on issues of debt management and public expenditure
management has taken place within the Ministry of Finance, along with institutional development such as
strengthening the directorate of debt management and foreign aid and the directorate of economy. These
departments received technical assistance in basic issues of public debt management.

Overall given the magnitude of the arrears problem in Djibouti prior to FCC, the ICR concludes that
important steps in this program have taken place and the outcome of this component is satisfactory.

Pension Fund Reform:

Satisfactory

The ICR concludes that this component on the whole should be considered satisfactory because parametric
pension reform, is a difficult endeavor, which requires political commitment and follow through, and is an
achievement of significant proportion. However, the institutional framework created to sustain the reform
is cause for concern.

A parametric reform incrementally reducing the benefits of pensionable employees was passed through
Parliament and there is evidence that the implementation of this reform is ongoing.         Reducing nominal
benefits of existing employees is an extremely difficult reform to undertake in political terms and only a few
countries, independently of level of development have succeeded in such an endeavor. Given this fact, the
ICR must conclude that the outcome of this component is successful.

The audit of OPS and CNR databases revealed that significant number of employees were not registered
and there were significant inconsistencies regarding the list of contributors and retirees. In this regard, the
government sought to merge the two agencies into a third, called the National Council of Social Security
(CNSS) which merged the databases of OPS and CNR. The new board of CNSS is now responsible for
leading the reform of retirement funds with a specific goal to improve coordination between the pension
funds.

While this may be a good idea in theory, this institutional framework is muddled by redundancies, political
infighting and poor design. Indeed, the intention of the reform was to merge two major funds into a third
which would be created and would be devoid of institutional flaws and tensions which plague the current
existing funds. The creation of an additional institution without dissolving the existing institutions is not
good institutional practice, and at the moment its implementation remains plagued by difficulties.

It appears that these difficulties are being resolved through some new thinking about the pension funds and
their management. One such idea - which is theoretically more sound and has some practical successes in
other countries - is to migrate the incoming workers away from one pension fund into the other, and


                                                      - 6 -

continue managing the former until it has cared for the workers in it. Recent cabinet discussions and
legislative activity purporting to establish an institutional framework for future management of reserves
indicatate that the pension reform program is on the right track.

Strengthening the Financial Management of Key Public Enterprises:

Unsatisfactory

The objective of the component was to conduct audits of the public enterprises and adopt a privatization
strategy which defines a transparent and competitive process. The results of this component are mixed:
while the bulk of the audit work has been undertaken and it's high quality, the actions of the government in
the privatization of some agencies have precluded the inaguration of a transparent and competitive process.
The ICR judges therefore that this component should be considered unsatisfactory.

There were originally four public enterprises under consideration for this operation. One, AID was
privatized before an adequate audit of its assets, its fair market value or the general repercussions of its
privatization could be ascertained. This generally hampered the process, more than it helped it, removing
the most prized asset of the State from consideration, before it could appropriately be appraised. The
management of the port of Djibouti was granted to Dubai International, also without the completion of
formal audit or establishment of a transparent legal framework.

Djibouti Telecom was audited resulting in the creation of a more transparent legal framework surrounding
the governance and regulation of the telecommunications sector. Following the audit, the government
prepared a new law liberalizing the telecommunications market permitting outside operators to offer
services in places where Djibouti Telecom is not currently operating. The law calls for the eventual
abolition of Djibouti Telecom's monopoly position in the market by 2005. Finally, following an improved
financial performance, the government should be expected to move towards privatization.

There has been little progress on water and electricity. While audits for these sectors have been conducted,
there appears to be little follow up on the part of the government or the management of these enterprises.

Containing the Public Sector Wage bill:

Satisfactory

The component supported a civil service census. Starting with 2002, all employees had to fill out
identificaltion cards distributed by the Ministry of Employment. These human resource data was reconciled
with the Ministry of Finance
payroll database. Some ghost employees were removed as a result. The transfer of the 773 employees over
the retirement age was undertaken yet the removal of 1000 ex- combatants did not take place as planned.

In addition to solidifying the database on employment and pay, the Ministry of Finance improved its
capacity to manage public sector pay through computerization of the payroll. These are important first
steps and confirms what had been expected of the reform - the true impact of this component will be truly
ascertained when and if the technical connection between the two databases is in place and the system is
adequately used by all agencies of government which require this data. The government is prepared to
continue funding the technical aspect of this reform through funding of databases management software
and IT equipment.




                                                      - 7 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:


N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Modest

Reform of the pension authority has been conducted, and the management of the pension system has been
somewhat strengthened. However, the impact of the new pension system will depend upon clarification of
the relationship between the new pension authority and the existing pension funds and other agencies.
Several new directorates created in the Ministry of Finance support a better management of government
debt and arrears. Institutional checks on the accumulation of new arrears through the development and
implementation of a re-payment plan is currently being implemented. The development impact of the
clarified employment database requires an update of existing technical capacities.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The overall context in which the project was implemented was beyond government control. The war
between Ethiopia and Eritrea, the continued instability in Somalia, which increased the flow of refugees to
Djibouti did not facilitate the task of reintegrating Djibouti's own ex- combatants.

In addition, general military uncertainty in the Red Sea region with attendant concerns about terrorism has
affected revenue flows in Djibouti, has not been conducive to stability and growth and in turn has not
facilitated the task of ensuring fiscal consolidation.

On the other hand, the geo-political situation in the region afforded Djibouti with new revenue
opportunities. A more aggressive economic reform effort especially in the area of public sector reform and
containing the wage bill could have entailed additional economic opportunities and improved foreign donor
confidence in the Djiboutian economy.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The government exhibited a chronic inability for ongoing inter-agency cooperation, which resulted being
very important in precluding a successful implementation of the program under review.            Improving
intra-governmental cooperation is an issue which is likely to impact on most economic and institutional
reform actions of the government.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Overall, the implementing agency performed well. It maintained good financial accounts and accurate (if
not extensive) data on project outputs.




                                                      - 8 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

The credit was US$ 10 million disbursed in two tranches, one upon board approval on November 20, 2001
and the second on October 30, 2003. The totality of the credit was disbursed.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely

The sustainability of the reform is likely in two specific areas of the program:

The work undertaken in the context of pension reform is being implemented. The institutional development
work undertaken within the context of sectoral work is impressive and indicates that - at least in the largest
pension fund - work will be continuing in earnest.

Similar positive outcomes are apparent in terms of the management of arrears. The government began
extending payments for wage arrears and government debts to private sector. Settlement of arrears to
public enterprises and public agencies is still pending.

There are many question marks associated with the sustainability of reform in the other components. In
terms of the work associated with the linkage of the databases, the reform will be sustained and could lead
to positive outcomes only if the technical computerized linkage takes place, of the new Human resource
management system with the database system is conducted and actual field visits are conducted to ascertain
that the information is accurate.      It is therefore too soon at this stage to express an opinion about the
sustainability of this work.

Work in terms of audits of public enterprises, will have marginal chance of being sustainable outside the
boundaries of a transparent and trustworthy privatization scheme.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The Government has instituted a directorate to follow the debt and the arrears. A 10 year plan to
Furthermore, it is mainstreaming pension reform.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory

There are two phases in the preparation of this project. The first lasting approximately 24 months, was
focussed on the development of a full fledged adjustment operation, and attempted to prepared a broader
program, which mirrors that of PATARE the technical assistance loan.

This broad program, encompassing wide spectrum of reforms in a limited amount of time. Many of which



                                                       - 9 -

were not endorsed by government. This period of preparation cannot be considered successful. The design
of the proposed operation sought to address many broad based reform inititiatives in parallel, in a limited
amount of time. The repercussions of this would have been to spread very thin an already lacking
institutional capacity within government., which could have resulted in a failure of the proposed operation.

The second phase took approximately twelve months, starting in the year 2000. This coincided with the
transfer of Djibouti to the MENA Region, and a renewed interest on the part of the government for
structural reform. This renewed and positive environment, provided a feasible framework for action.

The choice of instrument is subject to mixed reviews. On the one hand an adjustment operation, connected
to a donor backed reform program and frontloaded, provides a good framework in which to obtain results
in Djibouti in a constructive environment. On the other hand, given the difficult historical track record for
policy dialogue with the Djiboutian authorities, a two tranche operation was a risky endeavor. However,
because the operation was frontloaded, significant amount of work was undertaken prior to the presentation
to the Board, and this work provided for the developmental success of the Fiscal Consolidation Credit.

On the basis of the work undertaken in the second phase, which resulted on the development of FCC, the
ICR team judges preparation to be successful.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory

The Bank team was able to provide generally helpful and focussed interventions which assisted in resolving
many bottlenecks which arose during the course of project implementation. The government requested and
promptly received a waiver for noncompliance regarding the process of demobilization of ex-combatants.
The PMU also supported government's request to simplify procurement guidelines and to speed up
implementation of certain components. The relatively good cooperation of the government and the Bank
during the period of implementation was able to cement the successful actions which actually did take place
during this project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory

This operation is the first programmatic operation undertaken in Djibouti: It had a difficult preparation,
which narrowed the focus and scope of it, but overall achieved its results. The overall satisfactory rating in
this instance is motivated by the ability of the team to adequately assess the country context, understand the
risks and work to mitigate them. The operation did not achieve all that it sought to achieve, but certainly
has had an important impact on the country, and provided continued government commitment could
represent an important stepping stone for additional progress towards stabilization, poverty reduction and
growth.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The government prepared a policy matrix which adequately begins to address the problems of fiscal
consolidation in Djibouti. It passed a very courageous parametric reform of the pension system, and began
to make progress on the evaluation of arrears and stopping the expenditures which produced them. Finally



                                                     - 10 -

it proceeded to make some efforts in going through auditing the public enterprises which are under
evaluation of the ICR.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory

The government made important progress in achieving results and meeting first tranche results. It was
considerably less successful in meeting second tranche conditions. Indeed, while all of the conditions for
disbursement of the second tranche were eventually met, two extensions had to be granted to ensure that
some of the actions under review from the program would be undertaken.

The overall satisfactory rating, while it must be tempered stems from the continued progress in the area of
parametric reform, and the absorption of the arrears problem, which represent the more fundamental
components of the FCC program. The public wage component is less successful because the system that is
currently in place is less comprehensive than what had been anticipated, however the impact of
implementation of this measure on the fiscal situation of Djibouti would have been negligible.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Unsatisfactory

The implementing agency did an adequate job in maintaining records and keeping track of inputs of
technical assistance. It was considerably less successful as a catalyst for intra-governmental coordination
and as an entry point for technical assistance and knowledge for other agencies involved in the reform
program. This had a very direct effect in prejudicing the successful outcome of the operation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory

The Government for the first time, demonstrated willingness and ability to confront difficult problems
which required medium term solutions. It developed an action plan and should be credited for pursuing
some complicated and politically difficult aspects of the reform agenda. This aspect justifies a satisfactory
rating.

This judgement however must be tempered, as the Government resulted less successful in sustaining
multi-sectoral cooperation and implement a broad based multi-disciplinary program. This is not only the
result of lack of effective capacity on the ground, but more importantly from an inability to overcome
internal strife, even to take advantage of opportunities for technical assistance, training and capacity
building.

8. Lessons Learned


Choice of Instrument:

There is a strong link between the use of technical knowledge and expertise in the preparation and the
success in enacting the program. This correlation has enormous impact on the design, effectiveness and
evaluation of the operations undertaken. Firstly, adjustment operations - especially in areas where capacity


                                                    - 11 -

is weak - should be combined with parallel operations which provide Technical Assistance. Indeed, the
enactment of laws, the reform of policies, and the restructuring of institutions define the necessary
framework for reforms. The implementation and success of reforms depend, however, on the effective
application of technical knowledge, skills, and procedures. Resources for technical assistance and training
are need to be available in parallel to adjustment lending support to make the latter effective and they need
to be used effectively.

It is therefore useful that the evaluation of structural adjustment operations and their parallel TA loan be
undertaken jointly and that government and the Bank be made responsible for both the achievement of
results and the effective use of Technical Assistance.

There are environments in which our traditional instruments, are not adequate. Neither a traditional
adjustment operation, nor a traditional investment operation is likely to be adequate instruments to conduct
programmatic work in Djibouti or similar complex environment. The potential appropriate instrument in
this instance is one which definitely commits the government to implement reforms over the long term, and
provides them incentives to persevere.

Project Preparation:

Evaluating the internal institutional context and the internal decision-making process is a
sine-qua-non condition to mitigate the likelihood of failure.           This entails undertaking a candid
assessment of the existing internal processes and how the polity is addressing unrest and/or disagreements,
reach consensus, including the quality of the national dialogue and reconciliation efforts, should be
undertaken. This is especially important in countries which are only beginning to put civil strife behind
them, and where there is a pronounced tribal or ethnic differentiation within the population. This allows for
adequate identification of the institutional focus for an eventual operation, identification of potential
champions or opponents to reform, and -finally - the adequate implementation of coordination and
monitoring mechanisms.

Adjustment credits in capacity poor environments demand Monitoring and Evaluations mechanisms
which are even more thorough than those of traditional adjustment operations. This entails setting up
intermediate monitoring indicators, encouraging the client to develop focussed by systematic evaluation
capacity, and discuss project implementation, not just in terms of actions implemented, but in terms of
specific indicators which are developed to monitor likelihood of outcome success.

Project Supervision:

There is a clear correlation between the capacity on the ground and the closeness of supervision to be
provided. The weaker the capacity on the ground, the closer the Bank needs to be to the client during the
period of implementation. Frequent and focussed Bank mission tend to be beneficial in creating and
achieving consensus and in maintaining focus and generating the necessary energy to pursue reform. In
this type of situations, field based supervision assignments tend to be more effective in terms of result and -
in the end - more cost efficient for the Bank.




                                                     - 12 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


                                         Translated from French

                              FISCAL CONSOLIDATION CREDIT (FCC)
                                      IMPLEMENTATION REPORT


Under the Poverty Alleviation and Growth Facility (PAGF) concluded in October 1999 with the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank has provided assistance to the government in
implementing macroeconomic and structural reforms through the Fiscal Consolidation Credit (US $10
million) approved in December 2001. The objectives of this credit are to improve budget management with
the goal of non-accumulation of new arrears, to strengthen the financial viability of retirement funds and to
restructure privatizable public enterprises. These reforms are a prerequisite of a sustainable economic
growth and poverty reduction policy.

In its letter of economic and social policy, the government has undertaken a commitment to pursue the
program of macroeconomic stabilization, perform an audit of government arrears and develop a plan for
settling these arrears; to adopt the parametric retirement scheme reform and the reform of the institutional
framework, leading to a consolidation of the funds; to pursue demobilization of the armed forces, the
retirement of government agents and development of a single file covering all government employees; to
adopt a strategy for the privatization of public enterprises (Djibouti Telecom, EDD, ONED) and perform a
financial audit of these enterprises. Based on the disbursement conditions met for the first installment, the
government received a payment of US $5 million in February 2000, of which $3 million was then
transferred to OPS to permit 850 government agents to enter retirement.

Since then, the government has continued its efforts to carry out the actions set forth in the credit agreement
and, in particular, the actions required for disbursement of the second installment of the credit. In addition
to ongoing actions, such as continuing the program of macroeconomic stabilization and non-accumulation
of new arrears, these measures focus on (i) performing the audit of government arrears and adopting a
settlement plan; (ii) developing the single file of all government employees; (iii) setting up CNSS, auditing
the data base of contributors and carrying out a study and developing an action plan on the management of
retirement fund reserves; (iv) performing a financial audit of privatizable public enterprises.

The government is aware of the fact that these reforms will only bear fruit as part of an ongoing program
of macroeconomic stabilization, and thus, in May 2003, the government began discussions with the IMF to
conclude a second PAGF agreement (the first PAGF program ended in January of that year), the objective
of which would be to create the conditions for sustainable economic growth, a critical prerequisite of the
poverty reduction strategy.

This report describes the status of the actions mentioned above, the progress made and the difficulties
encountered by the authorities in executing this credit.

I.       DOMESTIC ARREARS SETTLEMENT PLAN

The task of auditing government arrears has been completed and the total amount of validated arrears is
DJF 29 billion (approximately US $163 million). Following discussions with IMF and Bank departments,



                                                      - 13 -

the government has adopted a plan to settle these arrears. The plan is spread over a ten-year period, with
an annual repayment on the order of DJF 2.2 billion in accordance with the following order of priority:

1.       private creditors (private suppliers and rent arrears)
2.       government employees
3.       social public agencies (CMR, CNR, OPS)
4.       public enterprises that have an impact on poverty reduction (EDD, ONED)
5.       all other public enterprises (Port, SID, Djibouti Telecom)

In view of the specific character of the country's economic and social context, the government, by
establishing this hierarchy of creditors, has sought to promote the principle of fairness, notwithstanding
difference, and to address the economic woes created by the years of conflict and the ensuing management
problems. The objective of this policy is in fact to give priority to creditors representing interests that
reflect social and economic fragility (private suppliers, rent recipients, government employees, social funds,
public institutions that play a major role in poverty reduction). The proposed settlement schedule thus
addresses two concerns: to provide priority support to the most vulnerable categories of creditors and those
facing an emergency situation, on the one hand, and to reconcile the constraints of government resources
and funds with these imperatives, on the other.

Indeed, in the case of private creditors, the government's objective is to give new life to these economic
operators by settling their claims within a relatively short time frame (four years overall), with special
treatment for small suppliers to whom the government could settle its debt within the first year. The
authorities are convinced, and the results of the latest surveys on the poverty profile confirm, that these
actions are likely to contribute to poverty reduction.

Public sector employees are also one of the target categories, because it is clear that implementation of the
process of settling arrears will have positive social and economic effects (by improving the living conditions
of families and reinjecting cash into economic channels), while also generating an impact on the motivation
of government employees and thereby improving the productivity of public services in Djibouti.

Among public enterprises, the proposed schedule draws a distinction between, on the one hand, social
agencies (with the exception of the military retirement fund) for which no settlement is planned during the
first three years because the reforms undertaken in 2002 and regular payment by the government of its
contributions will enable them to maintain sufficient cash flow to meet their needs, and, on the other hand,
enterprises providing useful public services (EDD, ONED) that face serious cash flow problems and all
other public enterprises, for which repayment will be spread over the entire ten-year period.

Aware of the critical weight of contributions by donors and external partners in settling the domestic debt,
the government is committed to conducting the process in total transparency and in close collaboration with
its donors and partners. To that end, the planned institutional mechanism for designing and implementing
the settlement scheme (the technical committee) was strengthened by expanding the composition of the
committee to include donor and private sector representatives and by clearly defining its terms of reference
and prerogatives.

Implementation has begun with the payment of two months of wage arrears, using the additional external
resources that were obtained. Payment of wage arrears above and beyond the projected figures clearly
reflects the stated flexibility of this settlement scheme, which hinges on the level of mobilization of
additional financial resources and the refocusing of government policy as regards its poverty reduction
strategy pursuant to the results of the EDAM-2 survey in a country where the government is the leading


                                                      - 14 -

employer and the Djibouti civil servant constitutes a key link in the redistribution of income within the
family unit in the broad sense of the term.

Also, settlement of government arrears to the private sector is pending and will be undertaken during the
third and fourth quarters of 2003 with the expected additional financial resources (European Union under
PARE III, disbursements by France and the United States).

In the case of public enterprises, it seemed more prudent to await total completion of the audits and have in
hand a full and reliable set of accounts before proceeding with settlements. However, such prudence in no
way justifies the accumulation of new arrears in relation to public enterprises, and the arrears noted during
the first quarter of 2003 for the reasons mentioned (late disbursement of the 2002 French SAS, late
issuance of invoices by Djibouti Telecom) have now been settled.

II.      SINGLE FILE COVERING ALL GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES

The efforts made by the government are very substantial because the starting point was a situation in which
there was no centralized data base of government employees that could be used to rebuild, based on
physical or documentary controls, all the files of government employees in ministry departments throughout
the country (the problem doesn't arise for civil servants because the civil service already manages the files).
It is important to emphasize that the first commission, created in 2001, did indeed conduct physical checks
of government employees based on the list of wage statements in each agency. And, in 2002, the Ministry
of Employment had all the departments fill out identification sheets for their employees, accompanied by
documentary evidence (identification card, hiring decision). This new data base, linked to payroll data
(Ministry of Finance), is now entered into the computer (Access software).

Following the recommendations of the expert (Mr. Simon Sukumar) recruited in May 2002, MESN has
undertaken efforts to rebuild and enter into the computer (with registration numbers) the files of civil
servants and employees, with the logistic support of PATARE (micro-computers, data entry staff, local
computer consultant).       Parallel to this development, the Ministry of Finance has undertaken
computerization of the payroll, permitting better monitoring in terms of payroll management, and the
objective will be to integrate the two data bases (payroll management and personnel management) to
develop a central file.

Within this context, the two entities have proposed a model file containing data on employees (both data
pertaining to their administrative status and data pertaining to payroll) and the planned channel of
information.    The existing channel of information is simplified insofar as regulatory power (to sign
decisions about hiring, retirement and dismissal) resides with the President of the Republic.

With the assistance of a computer consultant, the two entities have also presented the specifications for
computerizing the central file.        Based on this computerization plan, the next step is to make
computerization of the single file truly operational by funding the computer equipment (server, PC stations,
management software, wiring) from the government's own budget resources.

The Bank's last mission looked into the census that was taken and the ensuing results, the study of the
computer system in the new configuration, the breakdown of responsibilities among the main actors
involved in the system, and the procedures for regularly updating the system. In response to the mission's
questions, the technical departments in charge of civil service and payroll prepared an explanatory report.

This approach falls within government policy as set forth in the presidential decree issued at the meeting of


                                                     - 15 -

the Council of Ministers on November 29, 2001 and, to make it official, on October 7, 2003 the Minister of
Finance and the Minister of Employment jointly signed a circular that provides guidelines and defines the
operational procedures for the single file covering all government employees.

III.    RETIREMENT SCHEME REFORM

The government took an important and courageous step in November 2001 by adopting parametric reforms
that carry considerable impact within a very difficult social context. This action reflects the determination
of the political authorities to carry through with the reforms. The second component of the reform includes
setting up the institutional framework (CNSS), auditing the data bases and developing an action plan for
managing retirement fund reserves.

        Creation of CNSS

The head of CNSS was appointed in August 2002 and the members of CNSS were appointed by decree at
a meeting of the Council of Ministers. The responsibilities of CNSS, as defined by law 151/AN/02/4th L,
are to steer the reform of retirement schemes and funds, particularly at the technical and policy levels; to
inform the government about the reform's progress; and to ensure by all possible means the consistency
and coordination of funds and schemes. In particular, CNSS was created with the specific goal of boosting
coordination and reconciliation among the funds, as required for improved management, by concentrating
scarce resources.

The first meeting of CNSS was held on September 13, 2003, and a private sector representative was
elected as its president. CNSS will thus begin to carry out the work program entrusted to it.

        Audit of the data bases

The firm ACTUARIA conducted a preliminary audit of the data bases for the three funds, which raised
several issues:

l With respect to OPS, the file of contributors was the most problematic because the collection
    department did not have the full list of contributors. A significant proportion of the contributors had no
    registration card. For retirees, the problem was more limited insofar as only certain information
    appears to be missing (each retiree has a registration number). Decisions have been made concerning a
    number of corrective measures to be taken, with the goal of jointly updating employer files and
    registration files. A report on the audit of the OPS data base was delivered to the World Bank in May
    2003. Since July 2003, after the resumption of cooperation between this fund and the consultant, the
    task of cleaning up the data bases has been reviewed and finalized. This represents real progress and
    demonstrates that this criterion has been met under satisfactory conditions.

l With respect to CNR, a data entry procedure was undertaken to update the file of pensioners and
    eligible parties. Processing of the employee file ran into the problem of the single file. A special
    application was first performed. CNR completed entry of the data base, which was audited and
    validated by consultants from the firm ACTUARIA. The audit report was also submitted to Bank
    departments.




                                                     - 16 -

         Study and action plan for managing retirement fund reserves

An important part of the current problems of retirement funds in Djibouti stems from mismanagement of
accumulated reserves in the past. This final component should help, if not to accumulate new reserves, at
least to avoid creating new needs for liquid assets. This new configuration was strengthened by injecting
roughly US $3 million into OPS accounts in 2002 (first installment of the FCC). In this context, the matter
of the framework under which reserves are managed assumes its full importance.

At the government's request, ACTUARIA worked on developing a draft decree to frame management of
the reserves so as to guarantee that retirement fund reserves are managed in the best interest of current and
future retirees. This draft was the subject of discussions in November 2002 between the Minister of
Employment, the Minister of Finance, the Director of the Prime Minister's Cabinet and the Director of
CNSS. These discussions led to a statute that represents a major advance.

Based on the information gathered from the retirement funds, the consultant submitted a study on the
management of fund reserves which will provide a clearer vision of the future situation of these funds and
their potential in terms of mobilizing resources, while taking into account the specific features of the
Djibouti financial system. In addition, the decree establishing what should be the management instrument
of these reserves, the investment committee, was the subject of discussions and was adopted by the
government.

IV.      PRIVATIZATION OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES

From a legal standpoint, the credit agreement targeted four public enterprises (Airport, Djibouti Telecom,
EDD and ONED) but, concerned about the ongoing deterioration of the Djibouti Airport's financial
situation (wage arrears, suspension of external debt payments to donors, etc.), the government decided to
conclude a management contract with the Dubai authorities (DPI) in June 2002. The objective is to quickly
succeed in rehabilitating the organization's financial situation (from the perspective of the results displayed
by DPI at the Port of Djibouti) and make the transport chain the axis of development in Djibouti within a
regional framework.

In addition, the public enterprise privatization program had run into delays because there was a serious
problem of technical capacity, which the government lacked. To address these difficulties in the short term,
in July 2002 the government hired a consulting firm (MENAA Finance).

         Financial audit of public enterprises

Analysis of the accounting and financial statements of the three enterprises (EDD, DT, ONED) revealed
that they have major deficiencies in this area. None of the three has a clear and reliable, or even credible,
set of accounts. Yet no real progress in the privatization process is possible so long as there is no credible
set of accounts. Accordingly, this is the major issue at this stage. To address the problem, we developed,
in close collaboration with our advisors, specific terms of reference that are not so much the terms of
reference for an audit (impossible to perform in the context described above) as for a mission to draw up
the accounts themselves.

1.       At the first stage the idea is to transform the accounts audit and rehabilitation mission, as initially
planned, into a mission to provide assistance in drawing up reliable 2002 financial statements within a
short time frame. Bidders were asked to pay special attention to clarifying the reciprocal financial relations
between the government and public enterprises, on the one hand, and among public enterprises themselves,



                                                      - 17 -

on the other. It is also useful to provide additional assistance in conducting a physical inventory of assets
intended to be evaluated at a later date. The stated objective was to complete these tasks by the end of June
2003.

    Accordingly, in December 2002 the government issued a request for bids for the purpose of recruiting
    an international auditing firm to accomplish the various objectives stated above, and the firm Ernst &
    Young was selected by the government of Djibouti after reviewing the bids. The firm began its mission
    in April 2003.

    As planned, the first phase of the financial audit of the enterprises performed by the firm Ernst &
    Young was completed by June 15, 2003. This very substantial effort focused, specifically for Djibouti
    Telecom, on drawing up the 2000 opening balance sheet and, for all three enterprises, on straightening
    out the 2000 and 2001 accounts, assistance in closing the 2002 accounts and the inventory of assets.
    In addition, this mission also resulted in an audit of the financial relations between the government and
    public enterprises and among public enterprises themselves. The auditors' work concluded with a
    wrap-up workshop that brought together for three days the representatives of public enterprises and the
    Ministry of Finance (Treasury, Finance Inspectorate, Finance Directorate, Directorate of the
    Economy). This participatory approach is very fruitful, particularly insofar as it served to establish a
    relationship of trust among different actors and a shared awareness of the stakes represented by these
    public enterprises and the privatization process.

2.      At the second stage, a mission to audit and certify the 2002 accounts, along with validation of key
2000 and 2001 figures, will need to be performed; this should be accompanied by an evaluation of assets
based on the above-mentioned inventory and a technical audit. The decision to distinguish between the two
missions presents the advantage of avoiding any criticism about potential incompatibility between two
missions that are clearly complementary within the framework of the current privatization process, but that
must nevertheless remain independent. The method that was adopted calls for drawing up requests for
proposal, obtaining the World Bank's no-objection, developing the selection criteria and calculating the
costs.

    A request for expressions of interest was published at both the international (Business Development)
    and national (La Nation) levels, with a deadline of May 1, 2003. Several firms responded to this
    request, and the following stage consisted of reviewing the firms' profiles and, on this basis, compiling
    a short list of firms, and then preparing a request for proposal which was sent to these firms with a
    maximum deadline of 30 days for submission. Previously, these actions received an opinion of
    no-objection from World Bank departments.

    The process of international competitive bidding was launched and the deadline for submissions was
    set for Thursday, July 17, 2003. The bids were then opened and evaluated before the National
    Commission on Contracts, meeting on July 17, 2003. The World Bank, which was involved in all
    stages of the process (request for expressions of interest, selection of the short list, opening of bids,
    evaluation of technical bids, evaluation of financial bids and final award), signaled its final opinion of
    no-objection on August 15, 2003. The firm SALUSTRO was selected. Based on the full work
    completed during the first phase, it can be asserted that the financial audit criterion has been addressed.

3.      In addition, convinced of the vital necessity of having clear and complete information on these
enterprises, it was deemed appropriate to undertake a social audit mission targeting these same enterprises.
The objective of this audit, which in fact amounts to a skills audit, an organizational audit, a wage bill
audit and an audit of the human resources function, is to assess the skills of the technical and administrative


                                                    - 18 -

staff of these enterprises, identify the enterprises' real organizational structure (which may be different
from the official structure reflected in the organizational chart), audit their wage bill and, lastly, audit their
human resources function through an inventory of allocated resources and tools (human resources,
computer tools for personnel management, payroll management tools, etc.).

    This social audit mission is not a criterion for disbursement of the FCC credit but is nevertheless
    important within the framework of the privatization program and reflects the government's political
    commitment to rehabilitate the parastatal sector beyond the limits of the FCC. However, this mission
    could not be carried out for lack of financing.

         Adoption of a regulatory framework for the telecommunications sector

The Republic of Djibouti is characterized by the existence of a single telecommunications operator (the
historic operator), which holds a monopoly over all telecommunications services (fixed telephone, mobile
telephone and Internet). Aware of how important the information and communication technologies are to
the country's economic and social development, the Ministry of Communications, Culture, Postal Services
and Telecommunications undertook a process of broad national consultation, involving all elements of
Djibouti society (public and private sectors and civil society), in order to propose a draft reform of the
information and communication technologies sector and create a Djibouti initiative to promote a society of
information.

To achieve the above-mentioned objectives and equip itself with the means to implement its policy, the
government of Djibouti prepared a bill called the "law to reform the information and communication
technologies sector." The legal framework of this law is consistent with that of most of the countries of
COMESA, of which the Republic of Djibouti is a member, and meets the expectations of the great majority
of foreign investors interested in this country's information and communication technologies sector. As
stated in Article 6 of the law, this statute "governs all activities related to regulation and facilitation of
information and communication technologies, whether originating in, or bound for, the territory of the
Republic of Djibouti, including telecommunications."

As set forth in Article 5, the objectives of the law are to:

l create an environment conducive to the entry of private investors into the telecommunications sector;
l promote the transition to a liberalized and competitive market;
l increase the level of competitiveness and competition in the sector;
l establish a Djibouti Agency for the Regulation of Information and Communication Technologies
    (ADRT);
l promote universal access to services for all inhabitants of the Republic of Djibouti;
l define how the rules of competition applicable to the sector are to be enforced;
l guarantee the transparency of the sector's regulatory processes;
l provide interconnection guarantees;
l promote the sustainable development of a society of information;
l facilitate the process of convergence among information and communication technologies, as well as
    the development and use of the Internet and the development of electronic transactions.

Furthermore, the above-mentioned law calls for Djibouti Telecom's exclusive arrangement to end in
January 2005. It permits new operators to offer services that Djibouti Telecom does not yet offer, and to
occupy markets that Djibouti Telecom does not serve. It also calls for the establishment of a Djibouti
Agency for the Regulation of Information and Communication Technologies, which will be an autonomous


                                                      - 19 -

body charged with arbitrating disputes between different operators and between operators and their
customers. The decree to establish this body has also been finalized. To that end, the Ministry has issued
an action plan on reforming the regulatory framework of the telecommunications sector.

Lastly, the government of Djibouti has recently issued an international request for applicants for three
management positions at Djibouti Telecom: Managing Director, Administrative and Financial Director,
and Technical Director. The three persons selected for these positions will have the task of rehabilitating
the company's management, administration and finances and improving the technical management of
available infrastructure. They will be given a period of two years to fulfill their mission. The objective of
this restructuring is, of course, to prepare for the privatization of Djibouti Telecom.

V.       DEMOBILIZATION PROGRAM

In 1994, right after the peace accords, the government undertook a vast program of demobilization of
fighters recruited to meet the needs of the war effort. The demobilization of Army (AND) and Police
(FNP) forces was initially financed by the country's own budget resources, then by contributions from
France and the European Union.

The total number of demobilized forces was roughly 10,000 men, including FRUD fighters.                   The
operations unfolded peacefully, despite a precarious socioeconomic context in which rehabilitation
opportunities for demobilized troops remain limited. It should be recalled, in this regard, that the ex-fighter
rehabilitation project (PRAC) financed by the Bank, and now closed, benefited only some 3,000
demobilized forces and created considerable frustration within this target category.

And yet, in 2001 the peace and civil rest accords between the government and the armed FRUD called for
integrating 700 FRUD fighters into the police and armed forces while, at the same time, staff officers were
being asked to submit the list of demobilized forces. And this situation also coincided with adoption of a
decree calling for a downward revision of the AND and FNP wage scales.

To preserve social harmony and stability in the face of substantial risks, as illustrated by the incipient
rebellion of late 2001 and the demonstrations by demobilized troops during the same year, the government
decided that it was more prudent to defer the demobilization process.

Demobilization will now move forward with the financial support of the European Union under PARE III
in the amount of 1.6 million euros (roughly 800 men). This relentless pursuit of efforts to meet the
conditions for disbursement of these funds and implement the recommendations of the program's auditors
(mission of March 2003) clearly and unambiguously reflects the government's determination to continue
demobilization despite the real risks that this entails for stability and social harmony.

The government has accordingly requested a waiver for noncompliance with the criterion regarding
demobilization of 1000 men, which is one of the conditions for disbursement of the second installment of
the FCC Credit.


10/13/2003




                                                      - 20 -

                                                              ANNEX

                                             FISCAL CONSOLIDATION CREDIT:
                           ASSESSMENT OF PROGRESS MADE TOWARD SATISFYING
                                    THE CONDITIONS OF THE SECOND INSTALLMENT


                Second installment conditions                             Progress made to date (October 2003)


I.       Macroeconomic framework

(i)      Permanent maintenance of a viable macroeconomic       (i)    Periodic discussions and reviews in collaboration with
framework                                                      Bretton Woods institutions, particularly the IMF, regarding a
                                                               second PAGF program
(ii)     Non-accumulation of payment arrears for water,        (ii)   Done
power, telephone

II.      Audit of arrears

(i)      Audit of all government arrears                       (i)    Done
(ii)     Adoption of a credible plan for settling government   (ii)   Plan adopted by the government (see decree)
arrears

III.     Civil service reform

(i)      Actual settlement of the retirement files of 773      (i)    Done
employees
(ii)     Demobilization of 1000 ex-fighters                    (ii)   Projected to be done with EU funding
(iii)    Single file covering all employees                    (iii)  The government has officially validated, by ministerial
                                                               circular, an appropriate plan of information flow intended to
                                                               lead to operational consolidation of the two data bases.

IV.      Retirement fund reform

(i)      Gradual implementation of parametric reforms          (i)    Done
(ii)     Regular payment of contributions to retirement funds (ii)    Done
(iii)    A functional National Social Security Council (CNSS) (iii)   The managing director and the members of the board
                                                               of directors have been appointed. CNSS met on 9/13/03,
                                                               elected a president and adopted a work program.
(iv)     Audit and updating of the data bases on the funds'    (iv)   Done
contributors and beneficiaries
(v)      Completion of a study and adoption of an action plan (v)     A decree to safeguard existing reserves was adopted
on the management of retirement fund reserves                  and the prior study was completed.
(vi)     Deposit by OPS in a private bank in the amount of US (vi)    Done
$2 million out of the $3 million repaid by the government as
arrears on social contributions for 773 employees




                                                        - 21 -

          Second installment conditions                       Progress made to date (October 2003)


V.       Public enterprise reform

(i)      A financial audit of the four public            (i)     In view of the deficiencies observed in the
enterprises (Airport, Djibouti Telecom, EDD,             accounts, the mission was divided into two phases:
ONED)                                                    Phase 1: With the assistance of the firm Ernst &
                                                         Young, the following items have been available
                                                         since June 2003:      adjusted accounts, physical
                                                         inventory of the assets of these public enterprises,
                                                         audit of the financial relations between the
                                                         government and public enterprises and among
                                                         public enterprises themselves.
                                                         Phase 2: Certification of 2002 accounts, technical
                                                         audit and evaluation of assets. Firm selected and
                                                         mission begun in October 2003.
(ii)     Study of the regulatory framework for the       (ii)    Statute on the regulation of information
telecommunications sector                                and communication technologies adopted by the
                                                         government and action plan sent to the World
                                                         Bank.



(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                   - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                         1
                Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Improvement of budgetary management and Satisfactory                          Satisfactory
in particular clearing domestic arrears
Contain the public Sector Wage Bill       Satisfactory                        Satisfactory
Implement the Pension Fund Reform         Satisfactory                        Satisfactory
Strengthen financial Management of key    Satisfactory                        Unsatisfactory
public enterprises


Output Indicators:
                                                                         1
                Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                           - 23 -

  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                            Estimate         Estimate         Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million       US$ million
                                                              10.00              10.00


  Total Baseline Cost                                         10.00              10.00
                          Total Project Costs                 10.00
                    Total Financing Required                  10.00              10.00




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
     Component                Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                          IDA       Govt.       CoF.      IDA       Govt.      CoF.     IDA    Govt.   CoF.
                          10.00                          10.00                          100.0




                                                  - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


N/A




                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

               05/2/2001

 Appraisal/Negotiation

               10/24/2001

 Supervision

               07/14/2002                 2    Sr. Economist (1); Country           S               U
                                               Manager (1)
               10/26/2002                 3    Sr. Economist (1); Economist         S               U
                                               (1); ACS staff (1)
               05/28/2003                 2    Sr. Economist (1); Country           S               S
                                               Program Coordinator (1)


 ICR
               04/18/2004                2     Public Sector Specialist (1),        S               S
                                               Consultant (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                100
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                      50
  Supervision                                 40                            160
  ICR                                          5                             20
  Total                                                                     330




                                               - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Project Information Document
President's Report, Republic of Djibouti, November 20, 2001
Project Development Credit Agreement, December 27, 2001
Back to Office Reports, including Mission Aide-Mémoires and Project Status Reports
Project Progress Reports




                                                - 29 -

- 30 -

