F     t      C<     0Y                to f?t EPO,?
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report-No. P-1337a-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
FOR THE
LOWER ADIABO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 21, 1974
I Thus report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
.responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00                        = 2.07 Ethiopia Dollars (Eth.$)
Eth.$ 1.00                      = us$ o.48
Eth.$ 1 million                 = US$ 480,000
Government of Ethiopia
Fiscal Year
July 8 - July 7



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPILENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMIENDATION OF THiE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE E1VIRE OF ETHIOPIA FOR A
LOWER ADIABO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Empire of Ethiopia for the equivalent of US$9.5
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a project for agricultural
development. Part of the proceeds of the credit (US$3.2 million) would be
relent to the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank for 15 years
including 5 years of grace with interest at 7-1/4 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, "Recent Economic Performance and Future Prospects in
Ethiopia," Report No. 9-ET, (R73-162) was circulated on June 15, 1973. An
economic updating mission was carried out in December 1973. A basic economic
mission is scheduled for FY1975. Annex I contains country data.
3.        Ethiopia is classified by the UN as one of the 25 least developed
countries of the world. The per capita income was only US$80 in 1971 and
income has been growing slowly in recent years. The population is pre-
dominantly rural and depends on agriculture for its income. The agriculture
sector has contributed 50 to 60 percent of GDP and over 90 percent of exports
in recent years. The leading exports are coffee, which accounts for over 50
percent of the total, hides and skins, pulses and oilseeds. Manufacturing,
including handicrafts and small industries, contributes only 10 percent of
GDP, and the output of the mining sector is negligible.
4.        Lying between the heart of Africa and the Red Sea, Ethiopia has a
total land area of slightly more than 1.2 million km2, almost twice the size
of Kenya. The country consists of a central highland mass with rugged moun-
tains and precipitous ravines surrounded by lowlands, some of which are barren
deserts. The extremely difficult topography which in former times provided
a natural barrier to invasion is today an obstacle to internal transportation,
communication and economic development.
5.        An estimated 85 to 90 percent of the people are subsistence farmers
living in isolated rural villages. Although some large commercial farms do
exist, most farming units are small. A recent survey in one province showed
that 92 percent of the cultivated holdings were of less than one hectare.



- 2 -
Agricultural productivity is in general very low. Methods of cultivation
used by most farmers have changed little over many centuries, the soils in
many highland areas are seriously depleted from prolonged overgrazing and
overcropping, and the prevailing systems of land tenure generally do not
provide adequate incentives for investments which would raise farmers' pro-
ductivity. As a consequence, there has been little or no improvement in rural
living standards in recent years. The development of agriculture is also in-
hibited by the lack of transportation. There are few secondary and rural
feeder roads and perhaps three-fourths of Ethiopia's farms are more than one-
half day's walking distance from a road. This means that transport costs are
often too high to make it profitable for subsistence farmers to expand pro-
duction for the market. Difficult though the development of agriculture
may be, the lack of other resources per force means that progress in devel-
oping the Ethiopian economy rests almost entirely on developing agriculture.
6.        The Ethiopian population of approximately 26.5 million (mid-1973
estimate) is heavily concentrated in the youngest age groups, with 45 percent
under the age of 15. As a result of this age distribution, the proportion
of the population which is economically active is relatively low and the
dependency ratio is correspondingly high. Average life expectancy at birth
is only 39. The urban population presently comprises less than 10 percent of
the total, but it is growing at an estimated rate of 6.5 percent per annum.
At this rate the urban population will rise from 2.3 million in 1970 to almost
6 million by 1985. While there are no available data on employment, it is
evident that opportunities in the towns have not kept pace with the supply of
workers with the result that urban unemployment is growing. There is also
significant underemployment in both the rural and urban areas. Fragmentary
evidence suggests that maldistribution of income has increased in recent years.
Although data on wages are scanty, they suggest that the incomes of agricul-
tural laborers and unskilled workers in general have been virtually stagnant
at a low level. The slow growth of agriculture where the majority of the
people are engaged, the unchanging rural wage, and rising unemployment are
indications of a worsening of income distribution.
7.        While enrollment in government primary schools has risen at an
average rate of 11 percent per annum over the last 15 years, only about 20
percent of primary school age children (ages 7-12) were enrolled in 1973-74.
Only about 5 percent of the secondary school age population attends school,
and the adult literacy rate is estimated to be only 7 percent. Inequality
of educational opportunities between rural and urban areas remains a serious
problem, and achievements in the special adult literacy program lag substan-
tially behind targets. Thus, despite creditable efforts on the part of the
government, overall educational attainment remains low in comparison with
the rest of Africa and the developing world in general. Hopes for more
rapid and far-reaching development in education are based on the 1972 Educa-
tion Sector Review that was carried out by the Ethiopian Government with
Bank support. This report calls for a departure from the present academic,
urban-oriented pattern of education to one that will emphasize education for
rural development, and thus be more relevant to the socio-economic needs of
the country.



- 3 -
8.        Ethiopia's First and Second Development Plans gave priority to
the development of infrastructure and to the establishment of manufacturing
industries (mainly government financed) based on import substitution. The
Third Five Year Plan (FY 1969-73) emphasized more balanced development of
agriculture and industry, and the Fourth Five Year Plan (FY 1975-79) is ex-
pected to give increased attention to agriculture, rural education, and to
other activities such as feeder roads which will directly support agricultural
development. During the past two decades, the government has made efforts to
accelerate the pace of development by controlling expenditures on defense,
increasing expenditures on education, introducing some new taxes, including
an agricultural income tax, and improving the effectiveness of the public
service. However, these efforts are only a beginning and progress to date
has generally fallen short of objectives. Institutions are changing slowly,
and the modest pace of institutional change has inhibited economic growth.
Additional constraining factors have been the balance of payments (slow growth
of export earnings and limited foreign capital inflows), inadequate levels of
domestic savings, and low absorptive capacity.
9.        During the period 1961-1971, the GDP grew at an average rate of
4.7 percent per year in real terms. However, during the first four years
of the Third Five Year Plan (FY 1969-72), the average rate of growth was
only 4.1 percent, well below the target of 6 percent. With population
growing at an estimated 2.4 percent per year, growth in per caDita incomes
has been low, varying from 2.5 percent per year in the early 1960's to 2
percent or less in recent years (as compared to the Third Plan target of
3.5 percent). It was against this background of sluggish growth that the
Government decided in 1971 to extend the Third Plan by one year to July
1974 and to reduce the target rate of growth to 5.5 percent.
10.       A principal cause of slow growth in GDP during the first four years
of the Third Plan was the slow expansion of agricultural production and ex-
port earnings, particulary from coffee. During 1968-71, export earnings in-
creased by only 5.6 percent per year compared to the Plan target of 8 percent.
lJith export prices rising at 3.7 percent per year, export volume was growing
at a disappointing rate of less than 2 percent. In 1972 and 1973 the picture
was brighter clue to ihigher prices for Ethiopia's traditional exports of coffee,
hidles ancd sliins, oilseeds and pulses, and to a lesser extent, uue to increases
in the volume of goods exported. Total exports of goods and non-factor serv-
ices inicreased from ~190 million in 1971 to $247 millioni ini 1972 and to $347
million itt 1973, while imports rose more slowly (from $232 million in 1971
to b'37 iillion in 1972 and to *278 million in 1973) due to the sluggislhness
of tile donestic economy.  Largely because of these trade surpluses, net for-
eign exchange reserves increased from $51 million at the end of 1971 to
slightly over $200 million at the endl of 1973.  The medium range balance of
payments forecast was favorable until the recenit increases in petroleum
prices and tine attendant increases in the cost of fertilizers, chemicals,
andi othier initermediate goods.  While it appears that E thiopia will be able
to fleet the added cost of petroleum imports in the short run, despite an
increase from about *16 million in 1971 and 1972 to an estimated $50-60
nillion in 1974, the longer ruii picture is uncertaiu.  Tlhc latest conmodity



- 4 -
price forecasts imply that Ethiopia's export prices will rise by 116 percent
between 1973 and 1985 while her import prices will rise by 176 percent. This
substantial deterioration in the terms of trade could lead to a reversal of
recent current account surpluses. On the other hand, supply response to con-
tinued high levels of export prices could result in a sustained growth in the
value of total exports. In this regard, the agricultural sector survey report,
No. PA - 143a (R73-77) of January 15, 1973, concluded that Ethiopia's potential
to increase such agricultural exports as meat products, hides and skins,
pulses and oilseeds is favorable. There are also possibilities for exports
of selected manufactures if adequate incentives are created.
11.       Another reason for the disappointing growth performance of the
Ethiopian economy during the Third Plan has been the failure to reach in-
vestment goals for both the public and private sectors. The investment rate
increased from 12 percent in 1961 to 14.5 percent in 1968, but has since
fallen slightly. Similarly, the share of domestic savings in GDP increased
from 11 percent in 1961 to 12.5 percent in 1968, but has fallen belowX 12 per-
cent in more recent years. Central government capital expenditures averaged
only Eth$ 105 million over the first five years of the plan, as compared with
an initial plan objective of Eth$ 190 million a year. Despite this shortfall,
the government has made a commendable effort to increase its investment
budget, which has risen from Eth$ 65 million in FY69 to Eth$ 129 million in
FY73.
12.       The public investment program has been expanding somewhat faster
than budget savings, which rose from Eth$ 35 million in FY69 to Eth$ 86
million in FY73. As a result the proportion of capital expenditures fi-
nanced by th,is source iias fallen slightly, aind the dependence of th,e centrzil
government on foreign borrowing iias heen increasiTVI.  'iet foreign loans and
credlits accounted for 35 percent of capital expen(iitiirets in FY71 and FY/2,
and! were expectedl to finanace approximately :50 percei;t u  t'ule capital buciget
in FY74.  The sources of public capital inflows to Ethliopia during the past
decadie are shiown on page 4 of Annex I.  These data slhow that the Bank/Ii)A
share of this flow hias increased from about 25 percenTt ill 1962-65 to aobout
35 percent in 1966-69 and to about 40 percent in 1 970-73.   To assist Ltiiiopiz
in obtaininlg additional externial assistance., tiie nank 1h1as sponsored a Con-
sultative Group of ai(l donors.  The seconcd neetin.g of tlhe Group, un-ler tLhe
Banlk's hilairriansnip, was iheld in Julv 1973.
13.       Although Ethiopia has not reached its economic targets during the
current development plan period, economic performance has been relatively
good considering the constraints which the country faces. Particularly
noteworthy have been the increased levels of budgetarv savings and of devel-
opmental expenditures which have been attained despite the slow growth of
GDP. At the same time Ethiopia needs and deserves as much external finan-
cial support as can be provided. The country has attracted only modest
amounts of private capital, and therefore depends heavily on public capital
inflows. Unlike many other African countries which were formerly dependent,
Ethiopia has no traditionaL source of technical and financial help. Annual
gross public capital inflows have been only about US$1.32 per capita over



- 5 -
the past five years. Very few developing countries receive so little aid
on a per capita basis. For this reason, a relatively high level of per capita
assistance from the Bank Group is justified. Because of Ethiopia's poverty,
it is desirable that future inflows should be provided to the greatest extent
possible on concessionary terms. Furthermore, because Ethiopia's domestic
resources fall far short of the amounts needed to ensure reasonable growth,
it is appropriate that those who provide external resources should cover a
large proportion of the cost of the projects, including local costs. The
Bank Group is presently financing an average of 75 percent of project costs
in Ethiopia.
14.       A serious drought during the last three years culminated in famine
conditions in large areas of the country in 1973. To date, it has not been
possible to quantify the economic impact. The effects are, however, unques-
tionably grave. With adequate rainfall and a maximum effort, it wil- take
perhaps as long as three to five years for agriculture to reach pre-drcughl
levels of production.
15.       Early in 1974 riots over the rising cost of living, with strikes
by teachers, taxi drivers and others took place in Addis Ababa. Following
the riots, the armed forces demanded pay increases and the dismissal of cer-
tain of its superior officers, and more progressive elements within the
military called for fundamental social and economic reforms. This military
revolt precipitated the resignation of the cabinet on February 27.
16.       A new cabinet was formed and a committee was appointed to draft
a new constitution. A commission of enquiry was also established to inves-
tigate the prior activities of former ministers and officials. In an
atmosphere of continued strikes and civil unrest, the new cabinet issued
in April a major policy statement committing itself to a program of basic re-
forms, including land reform, accelerated economic development, more equal
distribution of incomes and a more democratic political system. Shortly,
thereafter, at the insistence of the armed forces, some twenty former mini-
sters and senior officials were arrested.    Although economic activity and
the day to day activities of the Government then returned more or less to
normal, there was little concrete progress toward reform. By July the armed
forces, apparently convinced that conservative forces were blocking reform,
moved to arrest additional high military and police officers, government
officials, members of parliament and other influential leaders, including
close advisors to the Emperor.   The Prime Minister was obliged to resig) and
was subsequently arrested. The Emperor appointed a new Prime Minister con-
sidered acceptable to the armed forces, which apparently began to monitor
closely the actions of the Government. The arrests, which were now estimated
to number more than 150, continued. On August 16 elite units of the armed
forces marched through the streets of Addis Ababa in a display of solidarity.
On the same day the Armed Forces Committee broadcast the abolition of the
Emperor's Crown Council, his Military Committee and Court of Justice,
thereby effectively further reducing the Emperor§ power. While the military
did not take power at that time, indications were that they were about to do so.



The progressive elements in the armed forces have for the moment achieved
the upper hand and are confronting the traditionally powerful, conservative
forces in the country.
17.       It remains to be seen whether progressive elements will succeed
in guiding the country to fundamental reforms without major disruption, or
whether the confrontation between progressive and conservative forces will
lead to much greater upheaval than has occurred so far. Another uncertainty
is the possible response of the peasants, who comprise the overwhelming mass
of the people, but who are not organized and have not articulated political
demands. It must also be recognized that the new Government's ability to
enact reforms and to accelerate development is constrained by Ethiopia's
limited resources, some of which are being diverted to meet the pay increases
and other concessions which the Government was forced to grant to the armed
forces, teachers and other Government workers, and by the conservative nature
of the society. Nevertheless, it does seem fair to say that there may be
emerging a situation more conducive to economic and social progress than has
prevailed heretofore.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
18.       From 1950 to the present, Bank Group lending in Ethiopia has total-
led $289 million, comprised of seventeen IDA credits totalling $180 million
and twelve Bank loans totalling $109 million. Additionally, the IFC has made
five commitments in Ethiopia totalling $15.8 million. One-half of the amount
of lending ($144 million) was committed in the last three years. In addition
to the substantial increase in the size of its operations in the last three
years, the Bank Group has softened its terms to Ethiopia; all but $10.8 mil-
lion of FY 72's $49.5 million program and all of FY 73's $53 million and FY
74's $43.4 million programs were IDA credits.
19.       Through 1969, our help concentrated primarily on assisting the con-
struction of trunk roads, power and telecommunication facilities. In the late
1960's, our program shifted in emphasis to agriculture and education, and in
the past five years we have made ten credits for agricultural development
totalling $82.3 million and two credits for education totalling $19.5 million.
In addition, in 1972 we made a $17 million credit for transportation with
emphasis on the construction of agricultural feeder roads. This program
reflects the increased opportunity for agricultural lending brought about
by improved sectoral knowledge, and the heavier emphasis on agriculture and
education in the Government's priorities. This shift has been greatly
assisted by the Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (MEA), which has
played a major role in project identification and preparation in the agri-
cultural sector.



- 7 -
20.       While the necessity for Parliamentary ratification tends to cause
delays in meeting the conditions of effectiveness, implementation is gen-
erally good and there are no major implementation problems. Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as
of June 30, 1974, and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
21.       In addition to its lending program, the Bank is pursuing a number
of activities to support the Government's development strategy. As already
mentioned, a mission visited Ethiopia to make a comprehensive study of the
agricultural sector. The Ethiopian Government, with IDA assistance, undertook
a fundamental review of the education sector to enable it to design a new
strategy for educational development. The Bank is executing agency for the
LUNDP project which is providing a team of experts to help the Government in
improving its planning, and the Bank has supplied advisors in project identi-
fication and preparation to the Planning Commission and the Mlinistry of
Agriculture.
22.       Because Ethiopia has no traditional sources of development assis-
tance, a relatively high level of per capita assistance from the Bank Group
is justified. Lending to Ethiopia increased during FY72-74 and further ex-
pansion of the lending program is planned for the future. Since the economy
is essentially agricultural, and because agriculture offers the greatest op-
portunities for development and for achieving improved income distribution
and employment, the main thrust of our lending program will be in that sector.
A second sector of priority is the education sector where, as a result of the
IDA assisted sector review, the Government is planning major investment as
part of a program to change the structure of the system to make education
more relevant to development and more equitably available. Given the inade-
quate infrastructure of the country, and the low level of foreign and domestic
capital available for investment, we shall also continue to provide some as-
sistance to the development of other sectors, and to investment in the infra-
structure which is necessary to support development. In order to relieve the
constraint caused by Ethiopia's limited capacity to prepare and implement
projects, especially in education and agriculture, we intend to continue pro-
viding technical assistance to beneficiary institutions so that they will be
able to utilize larger inflows of assistance. In our lending for infrastruc-
ture we plan to continue lending to such institutions as the Imperial Highway
Authority (IHA), the Imperial Board of Telecommunications of Ethiopia (IBTE),
and the Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority (EELPA). These are in-
stitutions with which the Bank has worked for some years and which now have
substantial capacity for channelling resources into development programs.
23.       We plan to present for your consideration in the next two years, a
sixth highway project, the second tranche of the Telecommunications V Project,
a fourth DFC project, four agricultural projects, and a tourism project.
Several of the projects will be follow-up projects and others will be breaking
new ground. Included in the first category will be the third livestock
project, the sixth highway project, follow-up credits for the Hlumera and



-8-
Coffee Processing projects amd for tne Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank (AIDB) and the second tranche of the Fifth Telecommunications Project.
Included in the second category are proposals for the grain storage and
marketing project, and an agricultural settlement project. The education
sector is another priority for Bank lending and we hope to present a fourth
education project for your consideration next year.
24.       During 1970-73, the Bank and IDA contributed 40.5 percent of gross
inflows of official loans. This share is expected to increase substantially
during the next few years as amounts disbursed under Bank loans and IDA
credits rise. As of December 31, 1973, the Bank/IDA share of total public
debt disbursed and outstanding was 40.8 percent and the Bank/IDA share of
total public debt service was 27.8 percent. Because of the relatively low
levels of assistance expected from bilateral donors, Bank Group debt out-
standing as a percent of outstanding external public debt is expected to
rise to 55-60 percent by 1980, and debt service payments to the Bank Group
will increase to approximately 40 percent of total public debt service by
the same year.  However, the IBRD share of external public debt-outstanding
and disbursed will fall from 25 to 15 percent over this period. The debt
service ratio in 1973 was less than 8 percent and is likely to remain below
10 percent in the 1980's.
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN ETHIOPIA
25.       About 90 percent of Ethiopia's people lives in rural areas and
derive their livelihood directly from agriculture. W4hile there appears to be
a rough balance between food production and domestic consumption there has
been little increase in agricultural productivity and therefore per capita
consumption has not risen.   There i.s no assurance that with the present
levels of farm management and technology, production will grow as rapidly
as population. In the past the major constraints to agricultural develop-
ment in Ethiopia have been the low level of investment in the sector, the
unsatisfactory land tenure arrangements, lack of credit for small-scale
farmers, and inadequate storage, transport and marketing facilities.    Sus-
tained economic and social progress in this sector is dependent on modifi-
cation of the land holding system whiich would give tenant farmers more secure
tenure rights, compensation for improvements and a more equitable share of
production. Legislation to reform land tenancy has been before the Parlia-
ment since 1966, hut the Parliament, which represents predominantly the
landed interests, has so far refusedl to adopt the measure. The new Govern-
ment appears committed to a more fundamental land reform as contrasted with
the earlier emphasis on tenancy reform alone.    It has indicated that holdings
in excess of a "reasonable" limit will be taken over by the government and
redistributed to those who work the land. ilowever, Parliamentary action on
this vital issue is still uncertain. We have in the past conveyed our ser-
ious concern about the unsatisfactory land tenure situation in Ethiopia while
simultaneously taking steps to press for adequate tenure arrangements within
projects assisted by us.



- 9 -
26.       Despite constraints, Ethiopian agriculture has favorable prospects.
Fortunately there are fertile lands, favorable climates and, importantly, an
apparent readiness on the part of the large farm population to accept innova-
tions in production and marketing. Unfortunately, lack of transport, insecure
land tenure, low level of investment, plus external factors, such as wide
variations in coffee prices and the closure of the Suez Canal, have prevented
the underlying potential from being realized.
27.       Ethiopia has a total land area of about 1.2 million km2 composed
of a central highland mass surrounded by lowlands. There are six basic eco-
logical regions among which topography, climate, soils, and natural vegetation
vary sharply with consequent variations in agricultural potential. While there
is no detailed map coverage or land classification information, it is estimated
that approximately 9 percent of the land is cultivated, approximately one-half
is in permanent pasture, 21 percent is barren desert or swamps, 10 percent is
rivers and lakes, and 7 percent of the land is forest.
Highland Agriculture
28.       Nearly 95 percent of the population is concentrated on small farms
in the highland region which produce the bulk of the national crop output
and maintain more than 50 percent of the cattle population. For the most
part, the highlands are densely populated, and farm sizes are small with
average cultivated areas per holding varying from 1 to 2 ha. Thus, farming
is characterized by intensive cultivation of small-scale holdings which in
many cases do not absorb the labor of the farm family. About 70 percent of
the cropped area is in cereals with the rest mainly in oilseeds and pulses.
A large cattle herd is maintained in the highlands and much of the land is
suited to livestock; however production and marketing methods are generally
inefficient and offtake is low, with cattle kept as work animals, for dairy-
ing, and as insurance or store of wealth. Whlile little agricultural research
has been completed, it appears that the highlands have the potential for
good yields for a wide variety of crops such as cereals, pulses, oilseeds,
fruit, vegetables, and livestock and dairy products. Presently, however,
yields are very low by international standards.
29.       In general, there is little unutilized land in the highlands, but
substantial potential can be realized through improving yields. Increased
crop yields are constrained by the following:
(i) cultural practice is inefficient: plowing is done by
oxen and a wooden plow, threshing is done by treading
with oxen, and planting, weeding and harvesting are done
by hand;
(ii) Outside of areas included in government-sponsored projects,
fertilizers and improved seeds are practically unknown;



- 10 -
(iii) except for cereals where good research results are available,
most plant varieties in use are poor performers;
(iv) holdings are small and in many cases fragmented;
(v) more than half of Ethiopian farm families do not hlave
title to the land they work, and a large proportion of
these do not have a leasehold on terms which provide
the necessary incentive to invest in land improvements
and undertake innovative practices;
(vi) levels of public investment in agriculture are low and
the level of public service for agriculture is inadequate;
and
(vii) the marketing infrastructure is undeveloped and fragmented
and reduces returns to the farmer and increases the cost to
the consumer.
Lowland Agriculture
30.       The lowlands surround the highlands, with the largest area in the
east, which is also the driest. At present the lowlands are used by nomadic
pastoralists on an extensive basis, dictated by the limited availability of
water and keep for livestock. Livestock mortality is high, productivity is
low, and off-take rates of 4-6 percent reflect the subsistence nature of the
activity. Where rainfall is adequate for cultivation, endemic malaria gen-
erally discourages highland farmers. While there is potential for develop-
ment in the west and southwest lowlands, where spontaneous development is
taking place as malaria is brought under control, the problemus of communica-
tions and transDort, insecure tenure and lack of basic services inhibit
development.
31.       The above observations need to be seen in historical perspective.
Progress has been made in recent years in laying the groundwork for growth
in agriculture. Twenty years ago there were only five Ethiopians working in
Ethiopia who had college degrees in agriculture.    At that time there were no
facilities for agricultural research or extension, practically no organized
farm credit, few roads, very limited markets for farm products and no distri-
bution facilities for modern inputs. In contrast, today an agricultural
college and three sub-professional agricultural institutes are in full opera-
tion. The first public effort to provide irrigation is about to be undertaken
through the Amibara project.   The experience of the ongoing comprehensive
development projects, CADU (Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit) supported
by Sweden and WADU (Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit) financed by IDA,
has already been used to design a program of minimum agricultural inputs
which seeks to capitalize on farmers' aspirations and their willingness and
capacity to improve their farming methods. During the first two plan periods



a start was also made on institutional development in agriculture. The Awash
Valley Authority (AVA) was set up, as was an animal health school; various
undertakings were begun in research, extension, cooperatives and community
development. A Grain Corporation was established, and the Ministry of Land
Reform and Administration was created.
The Project as Related to the Sector
32.       The Project is located in the western part of Tigre Province, outside
the area which was severely affected by the recent drought.    This Province
is typical except that the inherent fertility of the land is lower, the rain-
fall less plentiful and the population pressures higher. The population is
now estimated at 1.5 million, 93 percent of whom live in rural areas mainly
in the highlands.   The average size of cultivated area (including temporary
fallow) is 1.27 hectares. 45 percent of all holdings have less than 0.5
hectares of cultivated land, which is barely adequate to support a family
at sub-sistence level.
33.       Increasing population pressures and steadily deteriorating economic
conditions have forced many farmers to migrate seasonally and sometimes
permanently to the fringe areas between the highlands and the arid lowlands.
Reluctant to settle permanently due to insecurity of tenure and absence of
services such as schools, shops, and basic medical facilities, mnigrant culti-
vators descend on these areas, clear the bush, plant and harvest a crop and
then return to join their families in the highlands. Permanent settlement of
the lowlands, which have a crop and livestock potential sufficient to sustain
a family at a level of income above that now obtainable in the highlands,
would relieve some of the population pressures in the highland areas.
34.       Current patterns of settlement in the lowland areas are spontaneous
and dictated by traditional concepts of agriculture; land is allotted by vill-
age headmen, tenure is doubtful, modern inputs, and transportation and other
basic services are unavailable. The settlement results in the adaptation of
traditional agriculture to new conditions, and fails to develop the full po-
tential of land and human resources, and thus represents a marginal solution
to the land shortage in the highlands rather than a development alternative.
35.       The Government intends, therefore, by means of a comprehensive
project, to develop a pattern for settlement which would provide secure
tenure and services essential to the development of the land and human
resources, and which could be repeated in similar areas to help provide a
solution to the problem of over-population in the highlands.



- 12 -
PART IV - PROJECT
36.       A report entitled "Appraisal of Lower Adiabo Agricultural Project,
Ethiopia" No. 249-ET is being circulated separately. A credit and project
summary is provided in Annex III.
37.       The Project was appraised in the field in May/June 1973. Negotia-
tions for the proposed IDA credit were held in Washington on February 7,
through February 12, 1974. The Ethiopian delegation was led by Ato Teferra
Wolde-Semait, Acting Head of Finance, Credit and Investment Department,
Ministry of Finance.
The Project Area
38.       The Project area totalling some 450,000 ha. lies in a fringe area
between the overcrowded highlands and the lowlands, and forms part of the
Shire Awraja of Tigre Province, which is in turn sub-divided into two somewhat
ill-defined weredas (districts): Tach Adiabo and Hedekti (Map IBRD 10587).
There are 36 villages (chika) scattered over the Project area, each otten
comprising only a dozen huts. A chikasum (headman), normally elected by the
community, is responsible for each chika; his responsibilities include the
collection of taxes on behalf of the Government, land allocation, and the
maintenance of public security. The only settlements of any size are the
wereda capitals of Yrga (1,500 persons) and Sheraro (2,000 persons). Land
in the area is owned by the Government and is presently allocated to farmers
by the chickasums.
Project Description
39.       The Project would be the first five-year phase of a comprehensive
agricultural settlement and development program that over the next ten years
would provide basic services, infrastructure and institutions necessary to
settle permanently about 24,000 migrant and resident farm families on 450,000
hectares in the Lower Adiabo area of Tigre Province. Farmers would be settled
on economically sized farm units under conditions which would assure adequate
tenure and the use of cultivating practices necessary to about double present
farm production and incomes.
40.       This Project would settle permanently about 12,000 resident and
seasonally migrant farmers, presently farming in the project area, in twenty
villages, each containing about 600 farms of approximately 5 hectares. The
villages would be organized as primary cooperative societies (village cooper-
atives) which would lease land to individual farmers on behalf of the Govern-
ment, (Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement). Each village would
be provided with water supplies, a grain mill, roads, and access to communal
grazing areas where farmers' stock would be kept under improved husbandry
conditions. Roads into the area would be improved, and livestock markets



would be established.   Utilizing the village cooperatives as intermediaries,
the Project would provide the farmers with extension services and credit in
kind for fertilizer, seed, pesticides, farm implements, and livestock.
41.       A cooperative union, to be called the Tach Adiabo and Hedekti
Cooperative Union (TAHECU), would be established to support the village
cooperatives, to provide common services including crop marketing and stor-
age, maintenance of village facilities, and distribution of farm inputs,
and to act as intermediary for the repassing of term loans and seasonal
credit to village cooperatives and their member farmers (Section 3.03 of
the Credit Agreement).
42.       On the individual holdings, farmers would cultivate sorghum (1.7
ha.), sesame (1.3 ha.) and fodder (2 ha.). Settlement of these farmers and
the expansion of the areas of crops would be phased over four years as outlined
below:
Year                       1974     1975      1976     1977     1978      Total
No. of villages
established                 -        3         6        6        5         20
No. of farms developed        -     1,800    3,600    3,600    3,600     12,000
Total sorghum area (ha)       -    3,000     9,000   15,000   20,400     20,400
Total Sesame Area (ha)        -    2,300     7,000   11,700   15,600     15,600
This schedule would allow Project facilities and staff to be built up prior
to the start of project activities in Year 2 (1975). Each of the farmers
would own a number of cattle to meet work and consumption needs or for sale.
These cattle would be raised in the village grazing area, the lease for which
would be held by the cooperative and would carry conditions relating to stock-
ing rates, grazing practices and veterinary requirements.
43.       Additionally, a livestock ranch would be developed and organized
as a cooperative society (Section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement)
and would initially produce work oxen for Project farmers. After this de-
mand is met, it would produce beef for Asmara and live export markets. It
would purchase excess immature animals from both Project farmers and nomadic
cattle owners.
44.       In order to provide the above services and facilities, the Project
will contain the following components:
(i) Farm Development
Provision to Project farmers of extension services, seeds,
fertilizers, farm implements, livestock, and other inputs
as credit in kind;



- 14 -
(ii) Establishment of Village Cooperatives
Provision of technical assistance, training and administrative
support for the establishment of 20 village cooperatives, plus
for each village, a cooperative office and store, water supply,
a grain milling center, and about 6 km of village roads;
(iii) Establishment of a Cooperative Union
Technical assistance and training for the establishment of a
cooperative union. and the provision of a livestock market, a
facility for cleaning, storing and handling grain, an office,
warehouses, a workshop, and communal grazing areas;
(iv) Establishment of a Cooperative Ranch
Equipment of a 20,000 lia cattle ranch, machinery, buildings,
fences, fire breaks and the procurement of an initial herd
of approximately 5,3)0 head of cattle;
(v) Road Construction
Improvement of approximately 250 kn of dry weather tracks to
minimum standards adequate to permit access by 10 ton trucks
and construction of about 50 km of new tracks to the same
standards;
(vi) Basic Health and Education Facilities
Construction of one primary school building for each village,
construction of two dispensaries, and the purchase of two mobile
clinics;
(vii) Project Administration and Support
Provision of personnel, technical assistance, training,
equipment and vehicles and construction of Project administ-
ration facilities and living quarters to support the Project
implementation unit to be established in the Project area; and
(viii) Research, Studies, Project Preparation
A crop trials program, livestock st:udies, and preparation of
a second phase development plan for the Project.
Project Execution
45.       Overall responsibility for implemeriting the Project would lie with
the Extension and Project Implementation Department (EPID) of the 4inistry
of Agriculture, which is receiving technical assistance from the Swedish



- 15 -
International Development Authority (SIDA), and which is administering the
program for providing minimum agricultural inputs for large number of small
farms, (the so called Agricultural Minimum Package Program), for which an IDA
credit of $21 million was made in FY73. EPID would establish an implement-
ation unit to be called Tach Adiabo and Hedekti Agricultural Development Unit
(TAHADU) (Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement), which would have
overall responsibility for supervising implementation and for coordinating
the inputs of the various institutions involved in the execution of the
Project. TAHADU would organize a cooperative union and 20 village coopera-
tives. It would provide technical assistance to them and would work through
them in carrying out the Project. An important objective of the Project
would be to develop the cooperative union and the village cooperatives into
competent independent institutions.
46.       All senior positions in TAHADU including Project director, with
the exception of the post of senior land planner, financial controller, and
senior extension officer, would be filled by Ethiopian staff. Ethiopian
staff would be recruited directly by EPID or seconded by other Government
agencies which would provide technical backup services.    Appointment of tht
General Manager and Chief Engineer of TAHECU would be subject to the approval
of the Association and Government would undertake to assure recruitment and
secondment of qualified personnel to TAHADU. Appointment of TAHADU's
director and the senior cooperative officer would also be subject to the
approval of the Association and these appointments would be conditions of
effectiveness of the Credit (Sections 3.06 and 8.01 (d) of the Development
Credit Agreement). TAHADU would be supported by short term technical experts
and advisors to be provided under the Project.
47.       The Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) would act
as the Government's interm,ediary for channeling credit to the Project and
AIDB's subsidiary, the Agricultural Inputs and Marketing Service (AIMS), would
undertake the procurement of fertilizer and other bulk inputs. These same
functions are performed by AIDB/ARIS for the Minimum Package Program men-
tioned above, and other agricultural projects financed by IDA. TAHADU would
act as an agent of AIDB for appraisal of loan applications and supervision of
credit operations of the cooperatives. The Ministry of Agriculture (EPID)
will enter into an agency agreement with AIDB which will set forth its
specific obligations in carrying out the Project. The signing of this agree-
ment is a condition of effectiveness (Section 8.01 (c) of the Development
Credit Agreement).
48.       Road construction would be carried out by TAHADU utilizing force
account with the assistance of a road supervisor, plant operators, an account-
ant and equipment to be provided by the Project.
49.       A ministerial committee chaired by the Minister of Agriculture,
and already concerned with coordinating other agricultural projects, would
coordinate the technical and other support for the Project to be provided
by the various ministries and agencies of the Government. Additionally, a



- 16 -
district level project committee would coordinate local and provincial
activities related to the Project (Section 3.11 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financial Plan
50.       The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$13.5 million
with a foreign exchange component of about US$5.5 million or about 40 per-
cent. The financing of the Projezt would be shared as follows:
Farmer       Government       IDA      Total
… --------------  US $s 000…
On-farm Costs                     696            252         997       1,945
Annual Farm Credit                 92             86         340         518
Other Development Costs             -            768       3,000       3,768
Staff and Operations                             388       2,963       3,351
Contingencies                       -          1,750       2,200       3,950
Total                        788         3,244        9,500      13,532
(percent)                    (6)           (24)         (70)       (100)
Cost estimates are inclusive of taxes and duties totaling approximately
US$400,000.   A physical contingency of 10 percent has been added to all cap-
ital costs and a price contingency of 8.5 percent per annum cumulative has
been added to all local expenditure and 13.5 percent per annum cumulative to
all foreign costs to reflect anticipated increases in costs.
51.       The IDA Credit of US$9.5 million would be on standard terms to the
Government and would finance about US$5.5 million of foreign exchange costs
and about US$4 million of local costs, covering 100 percent of the foreign
exchange costs and about 50 percent of local costs, or about 70 percent of
total costs. Approximately US$6.3 million would be expended for Project
headquarters costs, equipment, vehicles and staff, construction of roads,
health and educational facilities and technical assistance. Approximately
US$3.2 million would be passed through the AIDB to the Cooperative Ranch and
to TAHECU to cover capital costs of the Cooperative Union and the primary
societies, and seasonal credit and long term loans to farmers. (See section
3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement.) Credit proceeds would be lent by
the Government to AIDB for 15 years at 7-1/4 percent with repayment beginning
in the sixth year. The Government would bear the exchange risk. AIDB would
onlend to the cooperative union (TAHECU) at rates ranging from 8-1/2 percent
for onlending to the primary cooperatives at long term, to 10-1/2 percent for
working capital for TAHECU itself. It would lend to the cooperative ranch at
9-1/2 percent long term and 10-1/2 percent short term. TAHECU would lend the
proceeds of its borrowings from AIDB to the primary cooperatives at 9 percent
for long term (15 years) and 10-1/2 percent for short term loans. The primary
societies would lend to farmers at 10 percent for long term loans (10 years
with repayment beginning in the fifth year) and 12 percent for seasonal credit.



- 17 -
Market and Prices
52.       There are ready markets for all Project produce.    Sorghum not re-
quired for subsistence needs (720 tons in Project Year 2 increasing to 16,800
tons by Year 9) would be sold by TAHECU to wholesale merchants and consumed
within the highland areas of Tigre Province, a net importer of grain. The
farm gate price is estimated to remain at Eth$ 140 per metric ton through
1980, declining thereafter to Eth$ 105 per metric ton, as some shift from
sorghum to wheat and teff is anticipated and sorghum supplies from other
sources are expected to increase. However, by virtue of its location the
Project would continue to have a comparative advantage over other producing
areas.
53.       Sesame, for which the long term world prospects are good, would be
exported through merchants in Asmara where there is a well established demand.
Prices hiave steadily risen from Eth$ 446 per metric ton FOB in 1965 to
Eth$ 655 in 1971 and has stabilized at that level. As Ethiopia contributes
only about 14 percent of world trade, the estimated peak production of 8,400
metric tons from the Project is not expected to make an appreciable impact
on the world market. This increased production would amount to a 12 percent
increase in present national sesame production. The recent sharp rise in
world prices appears to have been the result of faltering production in the
Sudan, and is likely to be a temporary phenomenon. Consequently it has been
assumed that the long term farm gate price would more likely be Eth$ 470 per
metric ton (Eth$ 563 FOB).
54.       At full development in Year 6 the Project would produce annually
about 10,000 head of cull cattle and 2,000 lhead of quality finished steers.
There is an unsatisfied domestic demand for all types of animals both for
consumption and for canning in Asmara and for live animals in the nearby
Arab countries. Based on long term world price projections it is assumed
that the producer price would be Eth$ 0.33 per kg liveweight for canning
animals (presently Eth$ 0.27-Eth$ 0.33) rising to Eth$ 0.37 per kg liveweight
in 1980. For higlher quality finished animals the price would be Eth$ 0.44
per kg liveweight, rising to Eth$ 0.50 in 1980.
Benefits and Rate of Return
55.       The main benefits of the Project would result from improved yields
on nearly 12,000 small farms. By adopting the available new inputs and cul-
tivation practices, a farmer cultivating 5 ha. could raise his annual net
cash income from sale of crops and livestock from present levels of Eth$ 100
to about Eth$ 340 once his loans are fully repaid. This cash income is in
addition to subsistence consumption which is valued at about Eth$ 165. This
takes account of an anticipated decline in the price of sorghum, as well as
payment for land rent and services provided by TAHECU and the village co-
operatives. The economic return of the Project is estimated at about 17 per-
cent. Government revenues would be derived from import duties and taxes, land



- 18 -
rent and servicing of the loans to AIDB. By completion of the Project, Gov-
ernment would be receiving annual revenues from these services slightly in
excess of Eth$ 1 million. Thus a portion of the benefits from the development
of this area would produce savings for the development of other areas. Addi-
tionally, from the financial point of view, the Project will be self-sufficient
in that the cooperative union and village cooperatives fees and charges will
be set at levels which will cover all expenses including depreciation.
Procurement
56.       Procurement of vehicles (US$711,000), mechanical plant and equipment
(US$549,000), and fertilizer (US$528,000) would be subject to international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines; orders would, as
far as possible, be bulked. Orders of less than US$50,000 would be placed
under Government's procurement procedures, which are satisfactory. Contracts
for the construction of Project buildings and other structures (US$1,400,000)
would be subject to local comnpetitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Association. Improvement of roads (US$725,000) would be carried out by
force account due to the remoteness of the area. The nature of the work and
the amount are too small to attract international contractors and qualified
local contractors are fully occupied.
Disbursement
57.       Disbursement of funds from the credit would be on the following
basis:
(a) 100 percent of the CIF value of vehicles, fertilizer,
mechanical plant and equipment if internationally procured
or 80 percent of total cost if procured domestically (about
US$1.8 million); and
(b) 80 percent of local Project costs (about US$5.5 million).
There would be an unallocated amount of US$2.2 million, to cover contingencies,
which would be transferred to the above categories as required. Any funds not
needed for contingencies would be transferable to the above categories at the
discretion of the Association. Disbursements for (a) above would be made
against import documents and for (b) above against appropriate records of
expenditure certified by the Project Manager and Chief Accountant, who would
prepare the claims. The Project area is remote and there is no existing
infrastructure.   To ensure an early start on the Project, some preliminary
work has been started and commitments made.    The amount involved is about
US$225,000 and consists of (a) US$50,000 to enable recruitment of the Project
Manager and to establish some housing in the project area; (b) US$50,000 for
employment of the Research Officer and the purchase of requisites to start
the research program; (c) US$50,000 for land planning in the Project area;
and (d) US$75,000 for a start to be made on livestock feasibility studies
and pilot stock fattening and improvement program. It is proposed that
these expenditures be retroactively financed under the Credit.



- 19 -
58.       Disbursement on account of expenditures for the establishment of the
cattle ranch, including the procurement of herds, construction of buildings
and other infrastructure, is made conditional upon the prior establishment of
the livestock ranch as a primary cooperative society and the execution of a
Project Financing Agreement satisfactory to the Association between AIDB and
the Cooperative Ranch (paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement).
59.       Disbursements on account of farm development and on account of the
establishment of Village Cooperatives and TAIECU will not be made until
TAHECU and the village cooperatives for which such disbursements are to be
made shall have been established. It is expected that TAHECU and the first
three village cooperatives will be established prior to the start of the
second year of Project execution. Such disbursements will be made in accor-
dance with a Project Financing Agreement satisfactory to the Association
(Section 2.03(a) of the Project Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The drafts of a Development Credit Agreement between the Empire of
Ethiopia and the Association and of a Project Agreement between the Associa-
tion and Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB), the Report of
the Committee provided for under Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement, and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed Development
Credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
61.       Features of the Development Credit and Project Agreements of special
interest are referred to in paragraphs 40 to 59 of this report.
62.       Conditions of effectiveness include:    (a) the execution and delivery
of (1) an agency agreement between EPID and AIDB, and (2) a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Borrower and AIDB, both to be under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, and (b) the employment by the Borrower of a
Project Director and a Senior Cooperative Officer.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 21, 1974



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
OOUNTRY DAI ATA_- mlA
AReA                                             POPULAtJON wNSITT
1,721,900 kr2                                    24L.625 3 eiIlibo (rid-1970)                           P., k.Z.f rabl land
SOCIAL INDICA7VRS
Reference Coontries
Ethiopia 197a io                     Sud n       6etr 
V~l    70                 70       190           y0
O0P PgR CAPITA VS4 (ATIAS BASIS) /                              .            80               70 L       120 Li       160 L
DEMORA?hI1C
Crud Oteth r.te (par toh-and)                                              46 /a. /                     49           4d    _
Crude death r.te (par thousand)                                            25 7i                        18           18    b
Infant wrtality rota (per thoueand live birtha)               814 /cd                                   94           55 7I
Life ,opoot..ey at birth (Years)                                           39               40          48           48 Ei^&
Oroes               t3odctio  rate /22                                                                   4           3i
Popultion groh rate                                          16           2 1               32.4             a
POPulation grovth rt. - ruban                                  5/f          S                            S             7    i
Age etrutore (percent)
0-l                                                                     5 /46                        45           48 /k
15-6h                                                                     51 i7l           52          52           48 7W
65 and over                                                               4    ,            2           3            47W
De,endency ratio P                                                        1.1 7            0.9 /c      0.9 /o        1.2 NP
Urban populatio- cc .pr.ont of totol                            6 /f         9 /f                        12 /         10 /i.k
Fanily Plenntng- N. of accptors ounolativ- (thous.) 
No. of users (S of -arried voen)
iT   bor     0fos (thousands)                              9,700      11,300 /I          1,000 /q    7,400 /e     5,100 /kp
Per entage eeployed in agriculture                           88 7;        85 7;-           80 7                     90
Percentage unenployed                                                                      20 7r
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
P-rcent of net ..l injcone recejood by highest 5%
Percent of national incoe received by highest 20%
Peroent of national income roceived by loest 20%
Percent    national inoore received by lowest 40%
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWINERSRHP
% owned by top 10r of owners
% osoed by wallent 10% of owners
HEALTH AND NUTRIT1ON
Population per physeia.                                                 74,550           21,140      15,940        7,830 /a
Population per nurjiog person                                           24,040            3,..0       1,540 /t     1,170 7;
Population per hospital bed                                 3, 000 Svv   3,030              570       1,040 77       770
Per capita calorie supply as S of r-quire-eote 5               77 /y        81               72 /s       85 /s        90
Per capita protain supply, total (gra.s p.r doyJ /o            63  y        66               57 7i       59 7i        68
Of which, aninal end puLce                                   24 7         25               27 71       24 7i        29
Death rete 1-4 years /7
EDUCATION
Adjusted /8 prioary sohool enrolbeect ratio                     8           16 /k            10          25 /k        67
Adjueted  g secoodary school eonrollant ratio                   1            4 7;             4           9 7k         9 /a
Years of echooling provided, firet cod eacond i-el            12           12               12          12-          13
Vocational enrol.ent a 9 o%f ec.  skhoo1 anrollent            20            5 /b              3ab        1 lk         2
Adult literecy rete 8                                         ..             7 737acad        5 737,*d 19 7id         30     d
hOUSINO
Average N.. of per.on. per room (urbao)                       2.7 /va   .                               2.5 /z
Percent of occupied unita witho-t piped water                  26 V.       .                             36 7-.r
Ac.ce. to eletrivity (e S of total popui1tion)                58 Vae.                                   10
Percent of -ural populati-n .o.-eOt.d to electricity
CONSUIMTION
Rndio receivers per 1000 population                             4            6               18          12 /q        48 /e.k
Paeseoner cary per 1000 population                              1/c          1/k              3/Q         2            8
gleStrie po-r conuption (kbh p.c.)                              67V         20                7          25           67
Newaprint cooa.optien p.c. kg per year                        .           0.02              0.6         0.2          O.S
Notes, Figures refer either to the latest periode or to          socont of anvironsental teaperartae, body Wights, ad
the ltteet Y.are. Latest periods remer in principle te            dietributien by age and *ex Of national popplatioe.
the year 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest ye.r. in prin-        Lf6 Protein standards (requireveeta) for .11 noantries as entab-
ciple to 1960 sod 1970.                                           liehed by USDA Eeononic ReD  rch Sor-ice provide for a rei us
a   The Per Cepita GNP estinete i. at ecrkbt prico- for           allowano. of 60 gra of total pretein per day, and 20 gvaa of
ytara otbhr than 1960,calculated by the ase nonveroion         nisal and Ples protein, of shich 10 grv a ehould be animal
tebhnique os thi 1972 World Bank Atlys,                       protein. Thae aterudardare eoeowhat loer than those of 75
Li Average vunber of daughtere per woesn of reprodcbtive          grana of total protein and 23 grasa of anieal protein aS an
age.                                                          average for tie world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
&   Pbpulation grovth rates ore for the decades ending in         Survey.
1960 end 1970.                                            /7  Sone etudies have suggested that cruds death rates of children
&   Ratio of under 15 end 65 sod over age bracket. to             ages 1 through 4  y be o.ad a. a firet apprt-ination irde" of
tho.e in labor fsome bracket of ages 15 through 64.          _ ralnutrition.
F YAO reference standards represent phy.iolglcg l re-         /8  Percentage enrolled vf corresponding popl.ati-o of enhool age
quireeent. for oor.el antivity sod health, taking             as defined for each country.
A  UN estimate;  Ab 1965-70; /e 1963;  /d EstimAts b9sed se first reound ef the National Sample S,rrey; /    siae
Urba jpupslation- definsd as -Addle Abai1-, Amara, temm. and maket center;w     Sry-ib      en;    /b Et    imate6 ;
2,00  or ons nkabtant;  ~  971;lb 169;/1 15.59 yare;  Is 60 Ye-re and over;  /n Ratio Of-$oP%Ilation onder
15 and 60 and over to total abor fomro7 /o RatI- Of pOpurlation Gdor 15 and 65 and aver age bracket, to thoos i,
15-614 age bracket;  /E Labor force in age Eracket 1.5-59; /q 1968; Ir Urban only;  Is Number 00 ike regieter; sot all
working in the country; AL ncludea midwrivee;  /u Registered  4re' 1;              -     .11;/Insdv            mteny
hoepital bsde; Ix GOvernment only;   /X96. 1961      19 46      r amL onclud;n tean       1ra 61;og /e tbtlrd level; rit
/ab  Exclude private V;,atieoal schools;   _     -63Ovr 1 yre  lad66  /"it cundooso Iecher tddie  obfb only;ir lserentag
ofdelig  witk electircal lightning;  /- 1959;  LMh 19=-71.                       AdiAbla-        ;lfPrcng
K gnYcba bees, s:el0ected ca an Objective coontry bcAuoa,a it Is A neighboring developing couetry eosavhat furtker op
the inco  ecal than Ethlopia with eiilalr acological cOnditioen.
R2   Aupust 16, 1974



FEIIT OP IA                                                  Pg      f4Pg
V'V'.I?OTC TrNTTOF30Cr ThITA                                           &O       o    gs
(Amounts in mIlliona ni U.S. dolia.r3
190 Actual                      Prg     _d            1960-   1965 -    19 70-   1975 -   160     j         98
RATmNA1. ACCO(3  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   ~18                                               19i6 1970 10    19898
)-.Year Avrewa,e at 1 367- 1969 rri ce 4;'zl?t"s            Aver-ere AnInual Growth Pates      As Percent of COY
Cr053. 1'.31o3.t1c  ro~ru..  1033.2  13:T2  1 ?.7    1,       u53      2..          .       4.5      4.4      5.0     100.0    39.4   102.3
Onin- fron Te,n. 2,fun      e      0.3     16.5       9.34               26.3    -59.9         .       .        .         .0.6                   -2.3
Os~~om~t3oncooc  113W5  T3~~~  T~~ZT~      1880.4   2026~.2   2555.       5.      4.1      4.0       4.8    1O00.    200.0   100.0
Import (irncl. ITFS)             107.4    380- 9   203.3       232.9    268.6    3.47.7     12.0     1.5      5.7       5.3     10.4    12.2     13.6
1~~eror~jjjio.o~tcajaciy)  96.2   161.4    175.9      239.1     233.6    278,1     10.9      1.7      6.3      3.        9.3    10.6    10.9
Resouxce Gap                      11.2     27.5     27.4        -6. 2    30.0     69.6      19.7              1.8      18.3      1.1      1.6     2.7
Ccr.sum-ption tPcoenditures      922.3   1208.8    1466.3     1613.1   1756.8   2233.0       5.6     3.9      3.7       6.9     69.1    88.1     87.4
7.Lve,tmnet   "'(incl. e'ock.)   126.6    163.8    225.0       261.2    299.6    392.4       5.6     6.6      5.9       5.6     12.0    13.5     15.4
DAomestic Savinga                113.3    136.2     197.6      267.3    269.5    322.8       3.8     7.3      6.4       3.7     10.9     11.9    12.6
Hatio!s. al~  &                  117.3    142.3     198.5      263.4    266.2    114.0       3.9     6.9      6.1       3.4     111.3    11.9    12.3
MEPChAnlRDIE T?RkDE                        Annual Data aLt Current Prices                                                       As Fercert. of Total.
coods        ~~~~~1967  1968     1969       1970     1971     1 972                                         1968   _1970     1972
48.6     72.9      51.7       56.9     64.0      72.7                                         42.1     33.2    38.5
lr,.t,rmedlate  os (&s-I.f.uels)  30.8   38.5     33.5        39.4     43.4      39.6                                         22.3     23.0    20.9
Fuels an.i related r.Ateri13   13.4     10.8     1.1.3       13.5     17.7      15.7                                          6.2      7. 9    8.3
or w!ich: Pe'roieu.m
Consnto            & Mi,c.      50.9      50.8     58.8       61.7     62.7     61.1                                          29.4     35.9    32.3
1ot.al Kerch. import  (n       i 43.0   1.73.0   155.3       171.6    187.8    189.1                                        i700.0   100o.0   100.0o
Exports
rrm- products (excl. fuels)     99.9    102.6     114.9      114.6    119.7     159.8                                         96.4     93.7    95.8
Fuels and rElatCd m-ate:rials      -      0.7       1.3        1.4     .2. 0      1.5                                          0.7      1.1     0.9
of Vnich:   Pet.rcleum
Mar.ufacti!ed rod                1.2       3.1      3.0        6.3      3.9       5.5                                          2.9      5.2      3.3
Tetal Merch. Exr.:-tS (fob)    101.1    106.4    119.2      322. 3    125.6    1668                                          10.     100.0    100.0o
Tourisr and bodrTrade
Averaee 1961:69  -106'
Merchandise TraLde In.i!ce-I       1960     1965      1970       1973     1975      1980      31       .       37        25
Export Price :rdex              93.6    10'9.0   126.5       I'.I.7   151.4    1if         311.             37         .
Import Price Index              93.9     92.7     102.4      125.8    172.0    223.8      -0.3     2.0     10.9       5.4
T.rn.s of Trade lr>Aex          99.9    117.7     123.6      112.6     88.0     76.5       3.3     1.0     -6.6      -2.8
Llxports Volume -Index          71.8     97.6     88.7       145.8    160.7    205.2       6.3    -1.9     12.6       5.0
VALUE ADDED BY SYICTCr            Anxr.&l Data at 1%60-61  Ethloolan $ (-illI,,             Av.re-e Annual. Growth Fste3      As Percent of Total.
1960/h "i          9b66I0-                      T=19161 - 1971/72                            1960/61   1965/66  1971/72
Agriculture                   1504.5   1608.9   1684.4    175,4.2  1833.3   1 936. 8                 2.3                      64.5     57.0     51.5
Indu3try and Milnin.g          286.6    353.9    438.8     500.9    541.1    621.0                   7.3                      12.3    14.8      16.5
Service                        541.0    684.5    832.7     944.9   1071.1   1204.1                   7.6                      2.3. 2  78.2      32.0
Total                         2332.1   2652.3   2955.9    3200.0   343. 5   3761.9                   4.4                     100.0   100.0     100.0
I9JBLIC FINAflCF                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As Percent of GI~P
PUBLIC  )'VAX?1967168             1968/69  1969/70  1970/71   1971/72  1972/73          1967/68 - 1972173              1~6          9970T~ 
kCentral G,c,ern:nen t)
Current Receipts               367.6    396.6    429.1    466.0     494.7    560.0                   8.8                       9.6      9.7     10.5
Current_EEp_e nditures         3.45.2   362.0    384.0    405.5     434.4    473.8                   6.5                       9.0     8.7       9.2
Burdgetary Savi",s              22.4     3.4.6    45.1     60.5      60.3     86.2                  30.9                       0.6     1.0        .3
Other Public Sector                    -         -   .                  -                           -        -
Public Sector Inveataont       71.5      64.7     92.0    111.5    12.5. 9   128.9                  12.A                       1.9     2.1       2.7
us $ million
uRRIIFs  gxPENi1'.u?. DETAILS        Actual        Preli..  Proj.                        DETAIL ON                             At en.d 1 69  p ad -7'
As4jota.1 Current  eXP!d   97/7    1971/72  1972/73   1973/74                     I9UBLTC SECO                       Third Pa        orTtal.
Education                        19.0     19.7     21.0     21.4                        TNVEST502rT PPOr6AM                (1968 /69   - 1971 /73)
Other Social Services             7.2      7.0      7.5      8.3                        Social Sectors                       46.6         22.3
Agriculture                      2.8       2.9      2.8      3.2                       Agriculti±re                           25.3        12.1
Other Economic Services          8.8       8.1      8.7      9.5                        Tn4rj try and Mining                  24.5        11.7
Adar.nistration and Defense      53.6     53.0     50.7     46.6                        Pover. 
Other                            8.6       9.2      9.3     11.2                        Transport and commmicationas          83.5        39.(
Total1 Current Expend.itures   100.0     100.0    100.0    100.0                        Other                              .29.3          14.0
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   T otaltal   E x e n ditt ree s2 0 9.221 0 0.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                               1960-     1965-    1970-    19?3-       FIRAkNCIIIG
(CaLlculated from 5-year~ averaged data)          1965      1970     1975    1978pulcStoSaig                                    38          42
Average ICOR                                      2.5       3. T22   3.20     3.05           Pt.cSco         aig                 384.
import Elasticity                                2.68       0.31     1.27    1.21            Program aid cou~nterpart 
W.rginal Onmestic S.ivings Rate     ~~~~~      ~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.07  0.20  0.20  0.04   Foreign Project Aid  1125.
Karginal Nation~al Savings Rakte                 0.08       0.18     0.19    0.04            Total Financing                  175.0        1063.0
IASR FOPCE A.1D                                Total Labor Force                               Value Added Per, Worker(1     -     Prices & Exc. pates)
OLrTI9Jr PER WORKER              InMllo          ~     o       To9al                      In U.S.Do1lars      Perent otlverage          19   -
19.        19..     19        19       Growvth Rate        19                    19        19        Growth Rate
Agriculture                      *           .       .          ..                           .         .
Industry                          .         .        .         .                             ..
Service.                                                      ---.                                  -             ..      -
Total
not applicable          nLi or negligible
not available        -  less than half' the
smllest unit. shown



AKME I
RiYot4      page*
EfTHIOPIA
BAIOK OP PAYKCffS, EXTUERNL ABSIS?Ai AND DM
(am0inte in miliumn  of U.s. dollars at am-rent price.)
Avg. Arnmnl
Actual                       Bstimate4                                  Project!                                    routh Rate
1970          I971        72          1973          1974       197s        176      cte   7        1978        1979        1969-1979
SU.T.U  B4AANCE O PAINITS
Esports (incl. Nm)                     177.0       180.3      190.2       246.8         327.4        379.0       385.0       410.0      435.0       465.0       520.0           11.4
Ircorts (incl. NFP )                   189.1      212.2       232.1       236.7         259.9        353.5       390.0      435.0       480.0       530.0       587.5           12.0
P.esource balance (x-N)                -12.1       -31.9      -41.9        1o.1                  2ST.S5            5        7F50         -45.0      5-65.0      -67.5           18.7
interest (net)                          -2.5        -1.5       -4.5        -6.1          -8.0         -9.0       -10.0       -11.0        2.0       -13.0       -14.0           18
Direct Investment Income                -5.6        -6.2       -7.2       -13.1          15.2        -15.0       -16.0       -17.0       -18.0       -19.0      -20.0           13.6
Wor'kers' Remittance                       -           -           -          -             -            -           -           -           -           -           -             -
O r,rent Transfers (not)                11.2         8.0        9.0        17.6          21.4         20.0        20.0        20.0        20.0       20.0        20.0            6.0
b            2           is-^e  oCrrentAccount7                             TT     8.5                  1 -3 3,0 550 -77.0                                       I              24.6
Private Direct Investm4nt                2.7         3.9        5.7         9.7          10.0         10.5        11.0        11.5        12.0        12.5       13.5           17.5
Official Capital Grants                                -          -           -             -            -           -           -           -           -           -
Pu'.lic M1LT Loans
>isbrsenents                          34.0        27.4       44.3        33.2          40.0
-Pena   nts                            13.5       -14.8      -13.1       -13.1         -14.0
ethD   ir.e.nts                        20.5        l6         31.2        20,           26.0
Other 4&LT Loans
asburserents                                                                  -           -           -                 -
.-etoaynerts---                                                                            --                                   -----
ret bisbursnement                        -           -            -           -             -                                                       --
Canital Transactions n.e.i.            -10.1        13.3         0.9      -14.6          -4.0                                      I             Actul _1       1972        1973
Change in Net Reserves                  -4.2         1.8         6.8       -23.7        -97.7       IEBT AND DEBT SRVICE
Public Debt out. & mibureed 156.4      169.2     204.9     227.2      ,73.4
r       A'' rND WAN COXMI3TMUS
O:-icial Grants & Grant-lIke            15.0        11.4         11.3      13.7          15.0          Interest an Public Debt      5.9       6.0       7.0       8.3         8.4
Repayments cn Public Debt    13.5      14.8     13.1      13.1        17.1
Public VZLT Loans                                                                                     Total Pablic Debt Service    19.4      20.8      20.1      21.4        25.5
rr~~~3.fl   .  . ~~~~27.6                  -            -       10.8             -         Other Debt Ser-vice (net)      ---- 
0DAe                                   3.5         3.1        13.9       34.3          74.4         Total Debt Service (net)     19.4      20.8      20.1      2t,4        25.5
Other                                                ----
Otner Multilateral                       -           -            -          -             -      Bardean o   port EarningE n 1)
Governments                           18.7         8.6         26.9       17.3         20.0
Surpliers                              0.4         1.3          0.7          -             -        Pablic Debt Service          11.0      11.5      10.6       8.7         7.9
Financial Institutions                 0.2         3.0          5.0          -            -         Total Debt Service           11.0      11.5      10.6       8.7         7.9
3onzLs                                         -                  -          -                      TDS+Direct Invest. Inc.      14.1      15.0      14.4      14.0        12.4
>.blic Loans n.e.i.                      -
To,.al Paolic thLT loans                50.4        16.0         46.5       62.4          94.4      ATerage Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt Gutstanding on Dec. 31.1972                    Tnt. as % Prior Yar D&D       4.4       3.8       4.1      4.1         3.7
r7.2AL MD'                                    Disburued Only              Percent                        Amort. as % Prior Tear DDhD  10.0       9.5       7.7      6.4         7.5
Wo~rld San
IDA                                              64.2                     28.3                      IMD Debt Out. & Disbursed      44.7      47.4      57.1      64.2        69.1
Other !'tltileteral                              33.2                     14.6                        n  as % Public Debt &DU       28.6      28.0     27.9      28.3        25.3
GoSJpernts                                       9                        42.2                        n  as % Public Debt Service   27.5     27.3      28.7      29.1        26.3
Supienn a rus 9iu5i .9                                                    42.2
1irancial Istitutiens                             3.6                      1.6                      IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed       19.9      22.7     26.4      33.2        42.4
Public                                           30.3                     13.3                       n as % Public Debt 00         12.7      13.4     12.9      14.6        15.5
Plublic D~bts n.e.i                                                          -                                uli    etSevc           .5       0.5       1.0      1.4         1.6
Toa< Pulblic MUET Debt                                                                                  a s , Public Debt Service     -                  .          .          .
227.2                    100.0
Other MULT Debts
Short-tsrn Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                                                a staff eatimte
...nrot alailable                                                separatdy ...................... - nil or negligible
rot araiicble in   tel                                           less than half the
but itciuded in totAl                                            smallest unit shown



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND NET PRIVATE CAPITAL INFLOW TO ETHIOPIA
Gross Public Loan Capital. Inflow by Source 1962-1973
(UT.S. $ Millions)
Total Total                        Total  Percent Percent Percent
1962 1966                          1970   1962     1966    1970
to   to                            to     to       to      to
1965 1969 1970   1971  1972 1973   1973   1965     1969    1973
IBRD            14.3 25.7  5.6   12.5  9.4  6.0    33.5   17.7     22.4    25.6
IDA              5.8 13.9 2.8     3.7 4.5   8.6    19.6    7.2     12.3    114.9
U.S.A.          43.4 36.9 5.7    15.7  9.5 10.6    41.5   53.7     32.4    31.7
Germany          3.4   2.7 1.4    3.8 3.8   3.8    12.8    4.2      2.3     9.8
Sweden           0.8  1.6 1.0     1.9 2.0   1.4     6.3    1.0      1.4     14.8
U. S. S. R.      5.9 10.3 0.1     0.3   -    -      0.4    7.3      8.6     0.3
Yugoslavia       4.0   1.2 0.1     -    -    -      0.1    4.9      0.9     -
Italy            0.7  10.4 2.0    4.3 0.7    -      7.0    0.9      9.0     5.3
Netherlands      -    10.9  -     -     -    -      -      -        9.5
Other            2.5   1.4 2.4    1.9 2.6   3.0     9.9    3.1      1.2     7.6
TOTAL          80.8 115.0 21.1   44.1 32.5 33.14  131.1  100.0    100.0   100.0
Gross Public Loan Capital Inflow by Sector 1962-1972
(U.S. $ Millions)
Commnications
and Power    59.5 65.6   8.5  26.2  21.4  ..   56.1     73.6    57.0     57.4
Industry        13.8 14.5 2.4    2.1   2 0  ..     6.5    17.1     12.6     6.7
Agriculture      0.3   0.3 0.3   8.7   4.5   *    13.5      0.4     0.3     13.8
Health           0.8  16.5  3.8  2.9   1.6  ..     8.3     1.0     14.3      8.5
Education        0.4   5.0  1.2  o.8   1.5  .-     3.5     0.5     14.3      3.6
DFC              3.0   2.6 4.3   3.2   0.5   ..    8.0     3.7      2.3     8.2
Other            3.0  10.5  0.6  0.2   1.0  ..     1.8     3.7      9.1     1.8
1/                        1/
TOTAL           80.8 115.0 21.1  44.1 32.5  ..    97.f    100.0   100.0    100.0-
Net Private Capital Inflow 1962- 1973
(U.S. $ Millions)
TOTAL           40.3 13.6  11.2  14.6 13.2  19.9   58.9
1/ 1970-1972 only.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
STATEMENT CF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
as at June 30, 1974)
Amount
Loan or                                                              (US$ Milion)
Credit                                                     (less cancellation)  Undis-
NGiiber     Year   Borrower         Purpose                     Bank     IDA     bursed
Eight loans fully disbursed                                     56.7
Two credits fully disbursed                                             20.7
523-ET     1968    Ethiopia    Fourth Highway                   13.5               1.1
111-ET     1968    Ethiopia    Fourth Highway                            7.7       0.6
596-ET     1969    EELPA /1    Power II (Finchaa)               23.1               0.9
605-ET     1969    IBTE /2     Telecommunications IV             4.5               1.3
169-ET     1969    Ethiopia    Wolamo Agriculture                        3.5       0.1
188-ET     1970    Ethiopia    Humera Agriculture                        3.1       O.4
243-ET     1971    Ethiopia    Education II                              9.5       6.o
269-ET     1971    Ethiopia    Dairy                                     4.4       3.3
818-ET     1972    AWSA /3     Addis Ababa Water
Supply & Sewerage               10.8              10.1
290-ET     1972    Ethiopia    Coffee Processing                         6.3       5.8
304-ET     1972    Ethiopia    Agricultural & Industrial
Development Bank                         11.0       6.8
332-ET     1972    Ethiopia    Fifth Highway                            17.0      16.9
365-ET     1973    Ethiopia    Second Livestock                          5.0       5.0
416-ET      1973   Ethiopia    Agric. Minimum Package                   21.0      20.5
417-ET*     1973   Ethiopia    Third Education                          10.0      10.0
418-ET*     1973   Ethiopia    Amibara Irrigation                       17.0      17.0
453-ET*     1974   Ethiopia    Telecom V                                21.4      21.4
485-ET*     1974   Ethiopia    Drought Areas
Rehabilitation                           10.0     10.0
b86-ET*    1974    Ethiopia    Wolamo Agriculture II                    12.0      12.0
Total         .           .108.6 179.6
of which has been repaid       .     .28.5                 0.2
Total. now outstanding     .       .........                l7
Amount sold .......................... 6.0           -         -
of which has been repaid .      .........0        -         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    -
(prior to exchange adjustments)
Total undisbursed                                 _11.3     135.9     149.2
* not yet effective
/1 Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority
77 Imperial Board of Telecommunications of Ethiopia
T Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.                   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as at June 30, 1974)
US$ Million
Type of                Amount
Year              Obligor                     Business       Loan    Equity    Total
1965     Cotton Company of Ethiopia I         Textiles       1.5      1.0       2.5
1966     Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.          Paper                   1.9       1.9
1968     HVA Metahara                         Sugar          5.5      3.5       9.0
1970     Cotton Company of Ethiopia II        Textiles       o.4      0.2       o.6
1973     Cotton Company of Ethiopia III       Textiles       1.5      0.2       1.7
Total gross commitments                             8.9      6.8      15.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             3.7      3.1       6.8
Total commitments now held by IFC                   5.2      3.7       8.9
Total undisbuirsed



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION - ETHiIOPIA -
Ln No. 523     Fourth Highway Project; US$13.5 million Loan and US$7.7
Cr No. 111     million Credit of January 15, 1968; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1973, postponed to June 30, 1974, and subsequently
to June_30, 1975.
The project was late in starting because initial bids were high
requiring changes in specifications and new bid invitations. Subsequent
progress has, however, been good. Of the three civil works contracts, two
have been completed - one a year ahead of schedule and the other about fifteen
months ahead of schedule; the third contract was substantially completed at
the end of 1973, about three months behind schedule, but some repair work
and clean up operations will extend into the second quarter of 1974. The
closing date has been postponed to June 30, 1975 to allow for settlement of
contractual claims.
Ln No. 596     Power II, Finchaa Hydroelectric Project; US$23.1 million
Loan of Hlay 9, 1969; Closing Date: December 31, 1973,
postponed to June 30, 1974, and subsequently postponed to
December 31, 1974.
The Project has been completed; apart from some minor outstanding
works, and all three generating units are now available for commercial opera-
tion. An analysis of overall Project costs, taking into consideration the
various currency realignments during the course of construction, shows that
costs have increased by about 7% over the original estimate, which is moderate
in the inflationary conditions which have prevailed during the construction
period. The increased costs are confined entirely to local costs. The
original Loan Closing Date of December 31, 1973 was withheld pending completion
of all outstanding items to complete contracts to specifications. The closing
date was subsequently postponed to December 31, 1974 to allow payment for some
minor corrective civil works.
Ln lio. 605    Telecommunications IV Project; US$4.5 million Loan of
June 3, 1969; Closing Date: December 31, 1973, postponed
to December 31, 1974.
SIDA is providing joint financing of $4.5 million equivalent to
finance part of the foreign exchange cost.   Overall progress has been reason-
ably on target.  However, installation of five microwave routes will not be
1/. These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
accomplishedl until the latter part of 1974.  The delays are due to difficulty
in obtaininig suitable consultants to worlk on the survey of three routes and
tne need to review thie capacity, feasibility and otlher requirements of the
other two routes to assure czonformity with the Pan-African Regional Tele-
communications Recomm.endations.
Cr No. 169     Wolamo Agriculture Development Project; US$3.5 million
Credit of November 16, 1969; Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
Overall progress is good and in advance of appraisal schedule.
Participation of farmers in the program to increase productivity through the
provision of extension services, inputs and credit is in advance of expecta-
tions as is participation in the soil conservation program. Construction
of feeder roads is behind schedule and will reach only 50 percent of target
because of a financial shortfall. However, finance for the remaining required
roads would be provided under the second Wolamo Agricultural Development Credit
(Credit 486-ET). Land settlement will achieve only about 90 percent of the
project target because of unavailability of suitable land. With respect to
the livestock component, the vaccination campaign is proceeding well.
Cr No. 188     Humera Agriculture Project; US$3.1 million Credit of
May 28, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1973,
postponed to December 31, 1974.
The project is progressing well, but is behind appraisal schedule
by about one year, due mainly to delays in procurement of heavy road con-
struction equipment and delays in installation of the Humera water system,
which had to be undertaken by force account construction due to unavailability
of contractors.  Construction of facilities on the project farm is satisfac-
tory. Consultant's study on the second phase project was submitted to the
Government in February.
Cr No. 243     Education II Project; US$9.5 million Credit of May 6, 1971;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1976.
Project implementation is about twelve months behind appraisal
schedule. However, implementation is accelerating and the project is expected
to be completed by August 1975 about two months beyond the original schedule.
The Education Sector Survey has already been completed.
Cr No. 269     Addis Ababa Dairy Development P      oject; US$4.4 million
Credit of August 30, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Credit was slow in becoming effective because of recruitment
problems. Overall progress is satisfactory but behind schedule. Project
costs have risen substantially since appraisal, and devaluation of the dollar
has reduced the value of IDA financing. An estimate of what can be accomplished
within the financial constraints must await receipt of firm quotations on
equipment for expansion of the dairy plant component.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Cr No. 290     Coffee Processing Project; US$6.3 million Credit of
Mlarch 20, 1972; Closing Date:  December 31, 1977.
There were delays in obtaining Parliamentary approval and recruiting
key staff, and the credit was declared effective only on December 15, 1972.
Ihile the project is still in the initial stages of implementation, procure-
ment of road construction and coffee processing equipment is well underway
and project implementation is gaining momentum.
Ln N4o. 818    Addis Ababa Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$10.8 mil-
lion Loan of May 1, 1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
Project implementation is running eight to twelve months behind
the appraisal schedule. A revised estimate, based on recent tenders, indi-
cates a possible project cost over-run of about 50 percent. Alternatives for
reducing project costs are being considered. The AWSA and the Ministry of
Finance are to investigate means of meeting the financing gap and submit
proposals to the Bank.
Cr No. 304     Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank Project; US$11.6
million Credit of May 10, 1972; Closing Date:   December 31, 1976.
The credit became effective on October 25, 1972. The industrial
portion of the credit has been fully committed. Authorizations for agricul-
tural projects are proceeding more slowly with $1.9 million committed to date.
The report on the agricultural credit survey is under preparation by the
consultants.
Cr No. 332     Fifth 'iiighway Project:  US$17.0 million Credit of SepteriLber 29,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The credit did not become effective until July 24, 1973 due to
delays in Parliamentary ratification and in the submission to the Association
of the required legal opinions.   The engineering consultants have been selec-
ted, contractor prequalification has been completed, and bids for civil works
are under review.   Delay up to this time (the project is 9 months to a year
beihind appraisal report estimates) is due to delays in cre(dit effectiveness
and delay in the selection of consultants, as well as the requirement for
additional site investigations to eliminate the use of expensive crushed stone
material. Bid costs were approximately 80 percent above estimates, and the
Government and the Bank are currently reviewing the course to be followed under
those circumstances. Due to the cost overruns, financing is not sufficient
to perimiit construction of the entire program.  Therefore the Government is
proceeding with four of six construction contracts.
Cr iqo. 365     "ecomid Livestock Project; USU5.0 million Credit of
April 2, 1973; Closing Date: July 15, 1977.
Senior project staff have been appointed and tender documenlts for
the 60 project iten-s to be constructed during first project year was under
preparation during last RM,14EA supervision mission in late 1973.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Cr iNo. 416    Agricultural Minimu= Package Project; US$21.0 million
Credit of July 5, 1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The credit became effective on April 15, 1974.
Cr No. 417     Tlhird Education Project; US$10.0 million Credit of
July 5, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Tue Credit is not yet effective; the terminal date for effectiveness
has been postponed to August 31, 1974 due mainly to delays in Parliamentary
ratification. Delays in the ratification were caused in large part by the
political turbulence of the past six months.
Cr No. 418     Amibara Irrigation Project; US$17.0 million Credit
of July 5, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
The credit is not yet effective; the terminal date for effectiveness
has been postponed to August 31, 1974 due to delays in Parliamentary ratifica-
tion. Delays in the ratification were caused in large part by the political
turbulence of the past six months.
Cr NIo. 453    Telecommunications V Project; US$24.4 million Credit
of January 17, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The credit is not yat effective; the terminal date for effectiveness
has been postponed to August 31, 1974 due to delays in Parliamentary ratifica-
tion. Delay., in the ratification were caused in large part by the political
turbulence of the past six months.
Cr 1No. 485    Drought Areas Rlehabilitation Project; US$10 million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The credit is not yet effective.
Cr No. 486      Second Wolamo Agricultural Development Credit; US$12 million
Credit of June 26, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 5
ETHIOPIA - LOWER ADIABO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Empire of Ethiopia.
Beneficiaries:            The Extension and Project Implementation Division
(EPID) of the Ministry of Agriculture, and the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB).
Amount:                   US$9.5 million equivalent..
Terms:                    Standard.
Relending Terms:          The Government will onlend approximately US$3.2
million to the AIDB. The funds provided by the
Government to AIDB would be lent for 15 years at
7-1/4% with repayment beginning in the sixth year.
The Government would bear the exchange risk. AIDB
would loan to cooperative societies for their own
use at the following rates:
(i) 9-1/2% for long term loans for capital
investment; and
(ii) 10-1/2% for short term loans for working
capital.
AIDB would loan funds at the rates of 8-1/2% and 10%
to cooperative societies for on-lending to project
farmers at 10% and 12% for long term loans and
seasonal credit respectively.
Project Description:      The Project would comprise the following components:
(i)  Establishment of Village Cooperatives
Technical assistance, training and administ-
rative support for the establishment of 20
village cooperatives plus the construction
and equipping of the following facilities
for each village cooperative: a cooperative
office and store, village water supply
facilities, a grain milling center, about
6 km of village roads and village grazing areas.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 5
(ii) Establishment of a Cooperative Union
Technical assistance and training for the
establishment of a cooperative union plus
the construction and equipping of a live-
stock market facility, a grain cleaning,
storage and handling facility, an office,
warehouses and workshops.
(iii) Establishment of a Cooperative Ranch
Procurement of equipment for and construc-
tion of buildings, fences, fire breaks and
other infrastructure for the establishment
of a 20,000 ha cattle ranch and the pro-
curement of an initial herd of approximately
5,300 head of cattle.
(iv) Road Construction
Improvement of approximately 250 km of dry
weather tracks to standards adequate to
permit access by 10 ton trucks and con-
struction of about 50 km of new tracks to
the same standards.
(v) Basic Health and Education Facilities
Construction of one primary school building
for each village, construction of two dis-
pensaries, and the purchase of two mobile
clinics.
(vi)  Project Adlministration and Support
Provision of personnel, technical assistance,
training, equipment, and vehicles, and con-
struction of project administration facili-
ties and living quarters to support the
project implementation unit to be established
in the project area.
(vii)  Research, Studies, Project Preparation
A crop trials program, livestock studies,
and preparation of a second phase develop-
ment plan for the project.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 5
Purpose:                  To permanently settle 12,000 farmers on 225,000 ha
of land in the Lower Adiabo area of Tigre Province
on economically sized farn units under conditions
which assure adequate tenure and the use of culti-
vation practices necessary to about double present
farm productivity and incomes.
Estimated Cost:           The total of the Project is estimated at US$13.5
million, with a foreign exchange component of about
US$5.5 million or 40 percent.
Eth$ '000                US$'000         Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
Farm Development          3,555   1,543   5,098   1,718     745   2,463     30%
Cooperative Development   1,826   1,584   3,410     882     765   1,647    4J:
Cooperative Ranch           604     119      723   .292      57     349     16%
Road Construction
and Improvement        1,248     827   2,075     602     400   1,002    40%
Health and Educa-
tion Facilities          105      75     180      51      36      87    42%
Land Planning,
Administration and
Adjudication           1,344     694   2,038     650     335     985     34%
Other Project Services    2,385   1,159    3,544  1,152     560   1,712     33%
Project Administration      806     547    1,353    390     264     654     40%
Project Preparation,
Studies and
Consultancies            707     707   1,414     342     341     683    50%
Sub-total           12,580   7,255  19,835  6,079    3,503   9,582    36%
Physical Contingency        722     478    1,200    349     231     580     40%
Price Contingency         3,349   3,627   6,976   1,618   1,752   3,370    52%
Total               16,651  11,360  28,011  8,046    5,486  13,532    40%



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 5
Cost estimates are inclusive of taxes and duties,
in the amount of approximately US$400,000. A physical
contingency of 10% has been added to all capital
costs and a price contingency of 8.5% per annum cumula-
tive has been added to all local expenditure and 13.5%
to all foreign costs to reflect anticipated increases
in costs.
Financing Plan:           The Financing of the Project would be shared in the
following amounts and proportions:
Amount
Source           US$ millions           _
Government             3.2              24
Farmers                 .8               6
IDA                    9.5              70
13.5             100
Estimated
Disbursements:            Fiscal Years        US$ millions
1975                 .4
1976               1.7
1977               1.4
1978               1.9
1979               2.4
1980               1.7
9.5
Procurement
Arrangements:             Procurement of vehicles (US$711,000), mechanical
plant and equipment (US$549,000), and fertilizer
(US$528,000) would be subject to international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guide-
lines; orders would, be as far as possible, bulked.
Orders of less than US$50,000 would be purchased
under Government's procurement procedures which are
satisfactory. Contracts for the construction of
project buildings and other structures (US$1,400,000)
would be subject to competitive bidding based on
local advertising. Improvement of roads (US$725,000)
would be carried out by force account. The nature
of the work and the amount is too small to attract
international contractors, and local contractors
are presently too occupied to undertake the work.



ANNEX III
Page 5 of 5
Kate of Return:           17 percenit.
Appraisal Report:         Report No. 249a-ET, dated July 22, 1974
Eastern Africa Projects Department
General Agricultural Division



IBRD 10546
37| 30'                                  AUGUST 1971
ETHIOPIA
LOWER     ADIABO                               -MBUKo
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTM
-   Area Suitoble for Village Grazing Areas
v'viii''i  Area  in Which Cultivation Will Be Located
.   ii  Area Tentatively Earmarked for Commerciol R.r,.:h/
Existing  Tracks
ENDS.
,  TELEAnA          ,_ 
=        Rivers                                 T
Highlands                      ,                            /  I
0      10     20     30     40
K I LOME T E RS 
l        _"~~              ~~~-~  St-ERR
L~~~Lt-
c4-'
U D A N1                                                             A        
[   t          t  S O M A L 1  <   t     =      ^,-.     6  /  |    14-00'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.iA ZE   4
,,, T)  <~~~~7,0Z  I\ Z~ E "X                              %   ,    =
BABA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 14'00'
p  A ~   ~    /-
S U DAN  1g t}              r    f   -.                                .
-  k/                         5 0s°s1   - -  A L I A 
U A Kdo/f  'N
LUOANVAI  K  N  Y/



e   - -   _   I /   -- i  s   I                           I                             IBRD 10587
36                           40                           44                            AUGLIT 1973
AFRICA                    f'                   e
ETHIOPIA
/ (  t  )     1> \      o            '.   v   LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOCATION OF PROJECT AREA
S U   D A   N                     AmrDr   m     .       e a                          Poe    rt
Ad, Ug,i                                            _ h, - 'tern etio ncl boundaries
-1Provincial boundaries
Rivers
niX   8   > \ w  _   -  htiho Adigral  )          H \   )  +- R cilroads
"N              K~~~~~~~~~me~~~~~a  dw                                        -    Main roeds
/\b)         End (   o a  Ria  1, /  ' \  X      S                Seconda r
el. 5   \  2  j   \  ' D   /jE rdu  R  L   \   8   1   ---O ther roods
/       ID  \ 9;  8 5 G t\ M &1 2 j  X   >\,  X          0          ; ', v 1 ' -l '90  310  200
,$ N\\/  DobS   )  XMoychefw                           K ILOMETERS
\ %    r       n~~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~As _keder  Kor:mL  
-12'  \   ,/ <   Go¢,  AddisZerrLen       . T  1         G u      f A d e n         121
- \                    \    Debrefeiz)  XWeldiyo                   i [lboli
1 1 t7 ° ~~JO    AM Irjinorr              <erboho9 ti
8hDo --k' < t -Menal ) k/             /   ,
(    V/L\Lj L- G A ShamboO  Slern Kererrro Debre The Detre Sma  Dire Doreea MS         M  A    I A
./  I  Sire  edo   j Awos             Tefb
/       KAFA                  Go          insaye erhon         G                          /
£ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EA'selo             l                                                            T1
\   rChench~~Agao   I        0)    t/ii . ;X\/r 
UB C     /EM4-Gof\;  I A   MesIdal'  Aselr'o\RDb
Bono0
<A,ert0                Awebro ,ob ,' h ;o_i DeDnar
Ir.rldl//rA-lllrletl/l,re  W e 4  I                          I /L A 
tIrb'mJ~~~~u~rmr,.ir'q, A,iI  0nchc              A   L                              V
/'          1    '\.       ,<(               /\       'usor.  '                                  /-(  0
It
t       a0°ts                 tJ                 X       ("s tdolfO     M  A     I A     /
K E N    Y A
U GANDA                                                                                                 0 C e a n / \  OMALOA
\ 3'                        40s                             44o g         adisc          4



