Report No. 249a-ET                                                            FILE  C
Appraisal of the
Lower Adiabo Development Project
Ethiopia
July 22, 1974
Eastern Africa Projects Department
General Agriculture Projects Divisicn
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization, The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CUlRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -   Ethiopian Dollar (Eth$)
Eth$1.00         -   US$0.483
Eth$l million    =   US$483,000
Eth$2.07         -   US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(*etric Syitem)
1 Quintal (ql)  100 kg - 0.1 ton
ABBREVIATIONS
AIDB      Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
AIMS      Agricultural Inputs and Marketing Services
EPID       Extension and Project Implementation Department
LlB       Livestock and Meat Board
TAHADU    Tach Adiabo and Hedekti Agricultural Development Unit
TAHECU     Tach Adiabo and Hedekti Cooperative Union
IMPERIAL GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPME.NT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                         i - ii
I,   INTRODUCTION ..................                                   1
II.  BACKGROUND                  .         .         ..............1
A.   General         .........................................    1
B.   The Agricultural Sector .................                    2
C.   Government Services .............3...........                3
D.   Cooperative Development .....         ....................   4
III.   THE PROJECT AREA .        . ......................                5
A.   General      ........................................        5
B.   Agricultural Potential ........            ..........        6
C.   Land Tenure .......        .............................     7
IV.   THE PROJECT           ..........................................   7
A.   General Description .....       ....................         7
B.   Project Phasing and Development .............. . . .         8
C.   Detailed Features .... ................. *   ..             10
D.   Cost Estimates . ..... ................ ......... ..        13
E.   Financing ..............  I .................. ...    14
F.   Procurement ...............  *...I..... ..       .. .**     15
G.   Disbursements .................... ..............-          15
H.   Accounts and Audit ..............           **........      16
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....         .....................    17
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FARM BENEFITS ...........       ...    19
A.   Production and Yields .....         .................... ..  19
B.   Markets and Prices .............................            20
C.   Farmer Benefits ......      ...........................    21
D.   Effects on Government Revenues ......... .........   21
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..................    22
VIII.   AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...............        ..    22



ANNEXES
1.   Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
2.   Cooperative Development
Table 1 - Village Facilities Development Costs
Table 2 - Village Facilities Recurrent Costs
Table 3 - Village Facilities Costs and Revenues
Table 4 - Village Grazing Reserves Development Costs
Table 5 - Village Grazing Reserve7; Costs and Revenues
Table 6 - Village Grazing Reserve- Recurrent Costs
Table 7 - Cooperative Union Cash 'low
Chart   - Tach Adiabo and Hedekti Cooperative Union (TAHECU)
3.   Land Planning
4.   Village Cattle Herd Composition
Table 1 - Village Cattle Herd Projection
5.   Cooperative Ranch
Table 1 - Herd Projection
Table 2 - Operating Costs
Table 3 - Revenue
Table 4 - Financial Rate of Return
5.   Road Development
7.   Research
8.   Project Costs
Table 1 - Summary of Development Costs
Table 2 - Cost of Farm Development - Resident Farmers
Table 3 - Cost of Farm Development - Migrant Farmers
Table 4 - Development Costs of Primary Cooperatives
Table 5 - Cooperative Union Development Costs
Table 6 - Cooperative Ranch Development Costs
Table 7 - Veterinary Department Capital Costs
Table 8 - Veterinary Department Operating Costs
Table 9 - Experimentation Capital Costs
Table 10- Experimentation Operating Costs
Table 11- Training Capital Costs
Table 12- Training Operating Costs
Table 13- Land Planning Capital Costs
Table 14- Land Planning Operating Costs
Table 15- Extension Services Capital Costs
Table 16- Extension Services Operating Costs



Table 17- Headquarters Capital Costs
Table 18- Headquarters Operating Costs
Table 19- Cooperative Development Department Capital Costs
Table 20- Cooperative Development Department Operating Costs
Table 21- Cooperatives' Staff and Training Costs
Table 22- Land Adjudication Capital Costs
Table 23- Land Adjudication Operating Costs
Table 24- Land Administration Capital Costs
Table 25- Land Administration Operating Costs
Table 26- EPID Evaluation and Financial Control Costs
Table 27- Road Development Costs
Table 28- Health and Education Capital Costs
9.   Schedule of Disbursement
10.   Procedures and Guidelines of Evaluation and Reporting
11.   Crop and Livestock Production.
12.   Marketing and Prices
Table 1 - Sorghum and Sesame Price Series in Asmara Market.
Table 2 - Analysis of 1973 Sorghum Price
Table 3 - Analysis of Sesame Seed Price
Table 4 - Sesame Seed: Production bv Major Producing Countries
and World Total, 1961-71
Table 5 - Sesame Seed: Exports from Specified Countries and
Estimated World Total, 1961-71
Table 6 - Sesame Seed: Imports by Selected Countries,and
Estimated World Totul, 1961-71
13.   Farm Budgets
Table 1 - Farm Budgets
Table 2 - Development Costs and Financing - Resident Farmer
Table 3 - Development Costs and Financing - Migrant Farmer
Table 4 - Cash Flow - Resident Farmer
Table 5 - Cash Flow - Migrant Farmer
14.   Government Cash Flow from the Project
15,   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 1 - Economic Return
Table 2 - Financial Rate of Return
Table 3 - Value added at Crop Stores



CHARTS
Extension and Project Implementation Department (EPID)
Tach Adiabo and Hedekti Agricultural Development Unit (TAHADU)
MAPS
Location of Project Area (IBRD 10587)
Project Area - Land Use Classification (IBRD 10546)



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
(i)       Agricultural development strategy in Ethiopia seeks to increase the
productivity and incomes of the smallholder sector through the investment of
public resources and the implementation of policies which provide incentives
to smallholder initiative. Increasing population and severe economic condit-
ions in the highlands of Tigre and Eritrea Provinces have forced many farmers
to migrate, either permanently or seasonally, to the fringe zones between the
highlands and the arid lowlands. The Project, the first phase of a compre-
hensive development program, would be located in one such area in which there
are already some 10,000 resident and 14,000 seasonally migrant farmers.
(ii)      Under the Project 12,000 farmers would be permanently settled in
twenty villages and would cultivate 5 ha holdings each leased from Government.
They would grow sesame for export, sorghum and keep livestock. The Project
.would provide credit, land planning, agricultural research, farmer and staff
training, extension, veterinary services, cooperative development, land allo-
cation and registration. Each village would be provided with water supplies,
a grain mill and a 6,000 ha grazing area where farmers' stock would be kept
under improved husbandry conditions. Roads would be improved and a commer-
cial fattening ranch established to provide work oxen and an outlet for
excess village livestock. A Cooperative Union would service village coopera-
tives and handle farm supplies, credit, crop and stock marketing and provide
crop storage and maintenance of village facilities. Health and education
facilities would be improved.
(iii)     The Project would be administered by an Agricultural Development
Unit under the direction of the Extension and Project Implementation Depart-
ment (EPID) of the Ministry of Agriculture. The credit channel would be the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) and its subsidiary, Agri-
cultural Inputs and Marketing Services (AIMS), would be responsible for the
procurement of farming inputs. The development of cooperatives would be the
responsibility of Project Management and the Cooperative Development Depart-
ment of the Mfinistry of Community Development. To speed up Project implemen-
tation it is proposed that US$225,000 be provided to retroactively finance
the early recruitment of the Project Director, and the establishment of some
Project housing, the crop research program, and livestock fattening trials.
(iv)      An IDA Credit of US$9.5 million is proposed which would cover the
foreign exchange component of the Project (US$5.5 million) and 50% of local
costs over the five year period 1974/75 - 1978/79. This would represent 70%
of total Project costs of Eth$28.0 million (US$13.5 million). Imported goods,
mostly vehicles, equipment and fertilizer, to the value of US$1.8 million
would be procured by international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA



- ii -
guidelines. Orders less than USA50,000 would be purchased following Govern-
ment procurement procedures which are satisfactory. As the Project area is
very remote and buildings would be scattered, all construction (US$1.4 million)
would be undertaken by local contractors following competitive bidding pro-
cedures. Road improvement (US$725,000) would be carried out by Project force
account because of the remoteness of the area and the nature of the work to
be undertaken. Funds to meet the credit requirements of farmers would be
on-lent to AIDB at 7-1/4% per annum which would then onlend to village co-
operatives at 10-1/2% per annum for seasonal and 9% for long term credit, and
to farmers at 12% and 10% respectively. Farmers would contribute toward farm
development by providing cash and livestock to the value of Eth$1.6 million.
(v)       Under the Project some 20,000 ha of sorghum and 16,000 ha of sesame
would be grown which, at full production, would produce annually 8,400 tons
of sesame for export valued at Eth$5.0 million (US$2.4 million), and 29,000
tons of sorghum worth Eth$3.0 million (US81.4 million) on local markets. In-
creased livestock sales would amount to Eth$250,000 (US$120,000) annually.
(vi)      The economic rate of return of the Project, based on long term
estimates of sorghum and sesame prices, would be 17%. A sensitivity
analysis of the major risks likely to affect project performance shows the
economic rate of return would be reduced to 14.5% if benefits were to fall
10% below the estimates and to 10% if costs were to rise by 30%. The Proj-
ect would provide fulltime employment for about 25,000 adults presently
engaged in subsistence farming, and give an average family income at full
development of Eth$500 (US$242). The present per capita income in the
Project area is estimated at no more than US$25 and even less in the over-
populated adjacent highland areas; this compares to the national per capita
income of about US$80. The Project would therefore benefit a very poor
section of Ethiopia's rural population.
(vii)     IDA has made ten other credits to Ethiopia for agricultural develop-
ment. Agricultural credits have been extended for coffee processing, irriga-
tion, highland farming improvement, extensive lowland farming, and the Minimum
Package Program. Two credits for livestock development were designed to
improve the milk supply to Addis Ababa and develop the marketing system for
beef cattle. One credit has been made to support the credit program of the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank. Performance under all the on-
going projects has generally been satisfactory.
(viii)    The Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$9.5 million to the
Government of Ethiopia.



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The first significant agricultural development projects were under-
taken in Ethiopia in the mid-sixties and the main emphasis was on comprehen-
sive projects designed to develop limited areas through the intensive appli-
cation of a number of inputs. Important among such projects have been the
Chilalo Agricultural Development Project (established with assistance from
the Swedish International Development Agency) and the Wolamo Agricultural
Development Project (assisted by IDA). The experience and technical exper-
tise gained from these projects have more recently been utilized under Gov-
ernment's Minimum Package Program, also supported by IDA.
1.02      These earlier projects in the Ethiopian highlands were confined
largely to areas of high agricultural potential. However, population pressures
in the highlands have resulted in a seasonal outflow of migrant farmers
seeking new and agriculturally unexploited land. The greater proportion of
this unexploited farmland lies in the fringe areas between the highlands and
the lowlands, where the fertility of the soil is lower and the rainfall less
plentiful. The proposed Project would provide for the settlement of farmers,
and through security of tenure and farming inputs would provide the inducement
necessary to ensure the more intensive development of the land.
1.03      This would be the Bank Group's eleventh lending for agricultural de-
velonment in Ethiopia since 1969.  Ten IDA assisted projects have been ap-
proved; seven in agriculture - the Wolamo (Phase I), the Humera, the Amibara
Irrigation, the Coffee Processing the Minimum Package, the Wolamo (Phase II)
and the Drought Areas Rehabilitation Projects (the last two of which were
approved in June 1974); two for livestock development - The Addis Ababa Dairy
and the Second Livestock Development Projects; and one to support agricultural
credit - the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) Project.
Although there have been delays in the start up of some of the projects, per-
formance under ongoing projects has generally been satisfactory.
1.04      The proposed Project was prepared by the Livestock and Meat Board
under the direction of a working group representing interested Departments
of the Imperial Ethiopian Government, and with assistance of the Bank's Per-
manent Mission in Eastern Africa. This report is based on the findings of
an appraisal mission which visited Ethiopia in May/June 1973 comprising
Messrs. C.P.R. Nottidge, S. Hayden, H. Malik and U. Mbanefo (IDA).



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Ethiopia, with an area of about 1.2 million km  lies in the north-
eastern horn of Africa just north of the Equator. Much of the country is
high plateau 1,500 to 3,000 meters above sea level and dissected by gorges
and broad valleys. Although there is no comprehensive land use data, it is
estimated that over 50% of the nation's land area is used as permanent pas-
ture; forests occupy about 9% and crops account for an additional 7% to 9%.
2.02      The population of about 25 million is growing at a rate of about
2.4% ner year. Over 90% of the people live in rural areas - some 85% in the
highlands - but the urban population is estimated to be growing at about 7%
per year. Total monetary and non-monetary Gross Domestic Product, estimated
at US$2.0 billion in 1971, is growing at about 4.5% per year, while per capita
income is estimated at about US$80 per year.
B. The Agricultural Sector
Main Features
2.03      The agricultural sector is distinguished by wide climatic and ecol-
ogical diversity which allows a large variety of crops to be grown. The peas-
ant farmers possess a high level of traditional agricultural skill, but they
lack an efficient marketing system, access roads, security of tenure, credit,
extension and veterinary services and improved seeds, as well as fertilizer
and other farming inputs. Thus the peasant sector, which is largely un-
touched by modern technology, is characterized by low human and resource
productivity. Although 8 of every 10 Ethiopians are peasant farmers, agri-
culture contributed only about 52% of GDP in 1972. Average total annual
family outout (at farm prices) is less than Eth$300 (USS140), and 75% of this
represents subsistence consumption. The total value of agricultural output
in 1972 was about Eth$2,200 million; cereals, coffee and other crops accounted
for 71% and livestock and livestock products for the remaining 29%.
2.04      Agricultural products have regularly made up about 90% of total ex-
ports: coffee contributes about 50%, and the other major contributors are oil-
seeds and cakes (14%), pulses (8%), hides and skins (14%), and animals, meat,
fruits and vegetables (12%). Imports of agricultural products were valued at
about Eth$33 million in 1972; 50% of these consisted of cotton and cereals,
while the remaining 50% comprised manufactured food items, notably tea and
tobacco.
2.05      The Third Five Year Development Plan will be completed in 1973/74
and a Fourth Plan is now under preparation. During the Third Plan period
agricultural output was expected to grow by 2.9% a year, but actual growth



was estimated at only 2.5% a year, at about the same as the rate of population
increase. This may be explained in part by the fact that the planned invest-
ment target for agriculture was not able to be met for several reasons; these
include the drop in coffee prices and a decline in the inflow of private cap-
ital.
The Livestock Subsector
2.06      Ethiopia's livestock includes about 26 million cattle, 12 million
sheep, 11 million goats, 1.4 million horses, 1.4 million mules, 3.8 million
donkeys and 1 million camels. In 1972, livestock products contributed about
29% of total agricultural output (beef 10%, other meat 5%, milk 8%, hides
and skins 1% and others 5%). It is estimated that total export value of
livestock and livestock products in 1972 was about Eth$67 million.
2.07      There are many constraints to livestock development: insecure land
tenure arrangements deprive the farmer of incentives to control stocking, to
plant fodder crops, improve pasture, or develop stock watering facilities.
Diseases are a further constraint; it is estimated that 1.2 million cattle
and 2 million sheep and goats (mostly young stock) are lost to disease an-
nually. Uncontrolled grazing and stock breeding have denuded vast areas of
rangelands; this, together with a shortage of drinking water, exacerbates
the problems of disease. Cattle are traditionally viewed as a supply
of work-oxen rather than as a source of money income and this attitude would
have to be considerably changed before modern livestock management could nave
a major impact among peasant farmers.
C. Government Services
2.08      Up to 1971 the extension services of the Ministry of Agriculture
were limited and there were only about 100 trained staff available. In 1971
the Extension and Project Implementation Department (EPID) was created to
provide technical and administrative supervision of agricultural development
projects. EPID has Liaison, Common Services and Extension Divisions (Chart)
with considerable administrative autonomy in personnel and fiscal management7
as of April, 1973, it employed over 250 staff. In addition it carries out
limited extension activities outside ongoing project areas, and acts as the
agent of the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) in areas
where no cooperatives exist; it also distributes farm inputs, handles credit
accounts and collects repayment from farmers. Apart from EPID staff, each
Province has a Provincial Agricultural Officer responsible for supervising
the operations of field offices of the Ministry of Agriculture and for co-
ordinating other agricultural activities within the Province.
2.09      The Veterinary Services Department of the Ministry of Agriculture,
staffed by about 50 veterinarians located throughout the country, is respon-
sible for disease control, meat inspection and quarantine services; it also
provides diagnostic and clinical facilities to farmers and is responsible



- 4 -
for animal health education. The Livestock and Meat Board (UIB), a para-
statal agency created in 1964, is charged with improving the livestock econ-
omy and with promotion of livestock production and sales.
2.10      There is no national homogeneous grain market in Ethiopia, as pro-
duction areas are widely separated and inadequate transport facilities make
the movement of grain from one location to another difficult. Other market-
ing problems include the absence of accurate market or price information out-
side the network of traders and merchants, failure to enforce standard weights
and measures and a shortage of capital to carry and store grains. A project
to help alleviate these difficulties is now under preparation.
Credit and Supply of Inputs
2.11      In the past there has been little institutional lending to small
farmers partly because of lack of cooperatives or farmers7 groups, and partly
because of inadequate institutions at the national level. Farmers generally
obtain credit from merchants, wealthier farmers or relatives and interest
rates on this borrowing can be as high as 10% a month or more. AIDB was
established in 1970 to meet the financial requirements of agricultural, in-
dustrial and commercial enterprises by providing long, medium and short-term
loans and equity investments in any commercially viable development scheme
(Annex 1). It also provides substantial agricultural finance, but as it was
set up to provide direct lending on a DFC pattern, it is difficult for it to
lend to small farmers.  Agricultural Inputs and Marketing Services (AIMS) was
established as a subsidiary of AIDB to procure and import agricultural inputs
for distribution to cooperatives, farmers and agricultural development proj-
ects. An IDA credit of USS11.0 million was provided in 1972 to help AIDB
expand its operations in industry, commerce and agriculture. At the same
time the credit was made, Government and IDA recognized the necessity for a
close study of the needs for agricultural credit and the institutional frame-
work by which these may be met. Accordingly, the credit included funds for
an agricultural credit survey to be carried out by consultants: this study
is now underway.
D.  Coperative DeveloDment
2.12      In 1966 the Cooperative Development Department was established in
the Ministry of National Community Development and Social Affairs (NNCD).
This Department is responsible for the promotion, registration, audit, in-
spection and supervision of cooperatives as well as assisting them in the
marketing of agricultural produce (Annex 2). The Department has 55 profes-
sional staff, and operates a training center for staff and cooperative mem-
bers. By June 1972, 116 cooperatives had been formed under its supervision.
These include multipurpose agricultural, thrift and credit, consumer, tractor
service, artisan, weaver, flour milling and fishing societies. The 67 multi-
purpose agricultural cooperative societies have a total membership of 14,665
persons and a share capital of Eth$1.5 million. Forty of these have been
registered and 27 are in the process of formation. Registered societies
provide marketing, credit and SUpDly services; they have an annual turnover
of Eth$7.7 million and outstanding loans amount to Eth$9.8 million.



III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. General
3.01      The Project area totalling some 450,000 ha lies in the west of Tigre
Province. It is bounded to the north by the Mehreb River and on the south by
the Tekazze River. On the east it is contained by an escarpment rising to the
highlands and on the west by the boundary between Tigre and Eritrea Provinces.
The Project area forms part of the Shire Awraja of Tigre Province, which is
in turn sub-divided into two somewhat ill-defined weredas (districts): Tach
Adiabo and Hedekti (Map IBRD 10587). There are 36 villages (chika) scattered
over the Project area, each often comprising only a dozen huts. A chikasum
(headman), normally elected by the community, is responsible for each chika;
his responsibilities include tax collection, land allocation, and the main-
tenance of public security. The only settlements of any size are the wereda
capitals of Yrga (1,500 persons) and Sheraro (2,000 persons).
3.02      The Project area is connected to the main Gondar-Asmara road at
Enda Selassie by 120 km of dry weather track. A similar track leads north-
ward across the Mehreb River and connects with the Barentu-Adi Ugri feeder
road, while a recently built track leads southward across the Tekazze River
and then westward to Setit Humera. These tracks are often impassable during
the rains. Within the Project area there is a rough network of motorable
tracks. There is a landing strip at Sheraro suitable for light aircraft.
There are no commercial telecommunications.
3.03      Tigre Province is typical of the general Ethiopian rural pattern
except that the inherent fertility of the land is lower, the rainfall less
plentiful and the population pressures higher. The population is now esti-
mated at 1.5 million, 93% of which live in rural areas mainly in the high-
lands. The Province also supports an estimated 1.12 million head of cattle,
0.36 million sheep and 0.9 million goats. The average size of cultivated
area (including temporary fallow) is 1.27 ha; 45% of all holdings have
less than 0.5 ha of cultivated land, which is barely adequate to support a
family at subsistence level. In the highlands the predominant system of land
holding is communal, a factor which imposes a major constraint on agricultural
development. The rights in land are not enjoyed exclusively by individuals
but shared collectively by reason of common descent or by kinshin with other
members of the community. Present landholders use the land by reference to
the fact of their descent but rights can also be claimed by tracing back
descent over past generations. There is little individually owned land with
its attendant problems of landlord-tenant relationships. Government owned
land is mainly located in the lowlands, and it is in this area that the
Project is located (para. 3.11).
3.04      UJndeveloped land in the highlands is virtually unobtainable, and
the hunt for land is now, of necessity, directed to those areas lying in the
fringe zones between the highlands and the arid lowlands. Reluctant to
settle permanently due to insecurity of tenure and absence of services such
as schools, shops, and basic medical facilities, migrant cultivators descend



- 6 -
on these areas, clear the bush, plant and harvest a crop and then return to
join their families in the highlands. Permanent lowland settlement would
relieve the population pressure on the fertile highland areas and would pre-
vent deterioration of the lowlands, which have a crop and livestock potential
sufficient to sustain a family at a level of income above that now obtainable
in the highlands.
B. Agricultural Potential
3.05      The Project area lies at an altitude of between 1,000 and 1,250
meters. Average annual rainfall is probably slightly in excess of 600 mm,
and almost all rain falls between June and the middle of September. During
the rains there is plenty of water collected in natural depressions and ponds.
After the rains the rivers cease their brief spates and most shallow pools
soon dry up. Dry weather water supplies usually come from shallow wells dug
in river beds. A hydrological survey has indicated that in at least one-third
of the Project area there is every likelihood of obtaining water from boreholes
and in the remainder no chance at all. However, the opportunities for
developing alternate water supplies in these areas by constructing rock and
earth dams, earth tanks and shallow wells are good.
3.06      There are four main soil types, one-third of these are black, crack-
ing clays, one-half red lateritic soils, and the remainder transitional soils
with intermediate characteristics. No detailed vegetation study has been car-
ried out, but the Project area supports various Acacia-Combretum-Terminalia
bush and woodland associations, which have been modified by cultivation,
livestock grazing and burning.
3.07      Present annual family cash incomes are low, averaging about Eth$100
(US$53).  This income is derived mainly from the sale of the two major crops,
sorghum and sesame. A farm size survey carried out in 1970 indicated that the
average holding was 4.0 ha, with 2.0 ha planted to sorghum, 1.0 ha in sesame
and 1.0 ha lying fallow. Each holding was made up on average of three par-
cels of land. Crop yields average about 2 quintals per ha for sesame and 7
quintals per ha for sorghum. The low yields can be attributed to inadequate
seed bed preparation, declining fertility, poor seed and crop varieties, and
an inability to control weeds and insect attacks. In addition to the two
major crops, a substantial amount of incense is collected from the wild in-
cense trees in the area.
3.08      The Project area supports about 65,000 head of cattle; these are
essentially kept to provide work oxen for cropping. Available data on in-
dividual herd size is not reliable, but a resident family owns about 8 head
and migratory farmers generally somewhat less. Livestock diseases are wide-
spread. Rinderpest is the most serious, and there are sporadic outbreaks of
anthrax and blackleg. Tickborn diseases are also significant. Mortality
rates are high, about 12% for adult stock and 30% for calves, and fertility
rates among cows are low. There are considerable seasonal movements of live-
stock due to grazing and water shortages. During the rains the herds are



- 7 -
widely dispersed, but by early February they are concentrated around the
more permanent watering places; this results in over-utilization of the
grazing area.
3.09      There is one agricultural extension and one cooperative worker
available in the Project area, but no veterinary or credit facilities. There
are two schools (in Yrga and Sheraro) with a capacity of 450 children on a
two shift basis. Medical facilities are limited to two temporary dispen-
saries capable of treating minor ailments only. The nearest commercial bank
is located 120 km away in Enda Selassie. Farmers do, however, acquire credit
(mostly in kind) from merchants or relatives. Annual interest rates can be
as high as 300%, and repayments are also made in kind. There is some cash
borrowing, generally to purchase food for the family, seed and draught ani-
mals.
C. Land Tenure
3.10      There are four types of residents within the Project area:  pastor-
ialists, who seasonally graze their herds throughout the area; long term
residents with permanent houses and livestock herds; migrant cultivators who
come down from highlands of Tigre or Eritrea for a few weeks each year; and
finally hired labor. It is estimated that the Project area presently supports
10,000 resident families, 14,000 migrant farmers, and 200-300 migrant herd
owners who, since settlement started, visit the area only spasmodically. No
estimate is available of hired labor, but it is not thought to be large.
3.11      All land is Government land 1, and is allocated by the chikasums
(village headmen) to farmers. This started some twenty years ago when the
land was mainly allocated to people of the Kunyama tribe. Later the highlanders
began to receive allocations. About 50% of the arable land has now been
allocated. The user's right to his land depends primarily on the payment of
land and agricultural income taxes. Sale or mortgage of agricultural land is
prohibited. All pasture is used communally and there is no privately owned
grazing - even the cultivated areas are communally grazed after harvest.
Sharecroppers and hired labor endeavor to save money in order to buy oxen and
to then apply for an allocation of land on their own behalf. Overall, the
regulations regarding land tenure are ill-defined and uncertain. As a result
of this insecurity there has been an abuse of administrative power, and a
lack of inducement for more intensive development of the area.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Project would cover the first five-year phase of a development
program ultimately designed to develop a total of about 24,000 family farms
1/   The system of land tenure in Ethiopia known as gebar.



- 8 -
on 450,000 ha in the Lower Adiabo area of Tigre Province. Security of tenure
and improved farming methods would give these settlers an income appreciably
higher than that presently obtainable in the highlands. The Project would
provide:
(a)  Development of about 12,000 farms (5,000 resident and 7,000
migratory farmers) of about 5 ha each under long term leases
granted by Government. Farmers would be settled in 20
permanent villages of about 600 families; each village would
be organized as a primary cooperative society, and provision
would be made for improved water supplies, grain milling
facilities, village access roads and a village grazing area;
(b)  A Cooperative Union to serve the cooperatives by providing
crop storage, livestock and crop marketing, workshop facil-
ities, farm inputs and administrative services;
(c)  A coimnercial fattening rancbh
(d)  Improved roads, health and education facilities;
(e)  Land planning, adjudication and administration, and facili-
ties for farmer and staff training, as well as extension and
veterinary services; and
(f)  An agricultural research and crop trials program, livestock and
pasture studies, preparation of a second phase development plan for
the Project area and short term consultancies to assist
management with Project implementation.
4.02      Project implementation would be undertaken by the Tach Adiabo and
Hedekti Agricultural Development Unit (TAHADU), which would be responsible
to the Extension and Project Implementation Division (EPID) of the Ministry
of Agriculture. The Cooperative Union would be responsible for the
marketing of sorghum and sesame.
B. Project Phasing and Development
4.03      The Project would establish about 12,000 farmers in 20 villages of
about 600 families each. The villages would be organized as cooperative
societies and all village land would initially be leased by Government to
these societies for a period of sixty years (the maximum possible under
Ethiopian law). Farm land would then be sub-leased to individual farmers.
These leases would be conditional on membership in the cooperative and would
carry development and good husbandry conditions; they would also define the
rights of inheritance to any unexpired portion of the lease. Leases would
not be sold or mortgaged for any purpose; draft land leases for both indi-
vidual farmers and cooperative societies were submitted and agreed in sub-
stance during negotiations. At the outset of the Project, village areas



- 9 -
would be demarcated and land allocated for cropping and grazing areas.
Water supplies and roads would be located and land set aside for research
and experimentation, farmer training and stockroutes (Annex 3).
4.04      On their individual holdings farmers would cultivate sorghum (1.7
ha), sesame (1.3 ha) and fodder (2.0 ha). Settlement of these farmers and
expansion of the area under crops would be phased over four years as outlined
below:
Year                       1974      1975      1976     1977      1978     TOTAL
No. of villages estab-
lished                                3        6         6         5        20
No. of farms developed       -      1,800    3,600    3,600    3,000    12,000
Total sorghum area (ha)      -      3,000    9,000   15,000   20,400    20,400
Total sesame area (ha)       -      2,300    7,000   11,700   15,600    15,600
This schedule would allow Project facilities and staff to be built up prior
to the start of major development activities in Year 2 (1975).  Each of the
farmers would own a number of cattle to meet his family and other domestic
needs. These cattle would be raised in the village grazing area, the lease
for which would be held by the cooperative and would carry conditions in re-
spect: of stocking rates, grazing practices and veterinary requirements.
4.05      Under the terms of his lease each farmer would be required to mar-
ket his production through the village cooperative. The village cooperatives
would in turn be affiliated with the Tach Adiabo and Hedekti Cooperative
Union (TAHECU), which would provide services to village cooperatives.  Through
AIDB/AIMS TAHECU would procure, store and distribute farm inputs such as fer-
tilizer, seed, insecticides and livestock requirements.
4.06      The fattening ranch would be organized as a cooperative society
and would be managed by the Livestock and Meat Board (LMB). It would
initially produce work oxen for Project farmers; after this demand is met it
would produce high quality beef for the Asmara or live-export markets. It
would purchase excess immature animals from both Project farmers and nomadic
cattle owners. Profits would be distributed both as dividends on shares and
subsequently as bonuses to those members making most use of it (i.e. selling
most immatures to the ranch). Membership would be open to LMB, large nomadic
herd owners and village cooperatives, who would contribute surplus cattle in
return for shares.
4.07      Long and short-term credit to farmers, village cooperatives, the
Cooperative Ranch and TAHECU would be made available by AIDB. AIDB/AIMS would
lend directly to TAHECU as it would not be practical to make individual loans
to the 12,000 Project farmers. The village cooperatives would appraise and
consolidate loan applications from member farmers and forward them to TAUECU;



- 10 -
after consideration and approval, TAHECU would bulk requests and forward these
to the Project Director within TAHADU, which would act as an agent of AIDB.
After appraisal, loans (generally in kind) would then be disbursed by TAHECU
to primary societies which in turn would on-lend to farmers. Loans would be
recovered from the sale of crops delivered by members. The on-lending rates
at which AIDB/AIMS would lend to farmers, primary societies, the Cooperative
Ranch and TAHECU are detailed in Annex 1. Assurances were obtained at nego-
tiations that these rates would be satisfactory to the Association. Assurances
were also obtained that TAHECU and TAHADIU would promptly exercise all remedies
to recover debts. Specimen loan agreements between AIDB and TAHECU and AIDB
and the Cooperative Ranch; TAHECU and primary societies; and primary societies
and farmers were submitted and agreed in substance at negotiations. A condition
of credit effectiveness would be the signing of an agency agreement between
AIDB and EPID.
C. Detailed Features
Farm Development
4.08      Project farmers would be provided with long term loans (10 years
with a four-year grace period on capital repayment) of about Eth$546 for the
purchase of livestock, ploughs and carts. Short term credit would be avail-
able to help meet 75% of annual expenditures on seeds, fertilizers, in-
secticides and other inputs (Annex 8, Tables 2 and 3).
Cooperative Development
4.09      Village Primary Cooperative Societies.  Village facilities would
be provided under a long term loan of about Eth$45,000 from AIDB. These
would include a cooperative office/store, a permanent village water supply,
a grain milling center and about six kilometers of village roads. All con-
struction would be undertaken by the Engineering Department of TAHECU
(para 5.05). Each family would be assessed an annual charge of about Eth$31
to cover amortization of the loan, depreciation and recurrent costs. Vil-
lagers would construct their own housing, and new residents would receive up
to Eth$150 on long term loan to assist with the purchase of materials and
resettlement.
4.10      The village grazing area of about 6,000 ha would be some distance
from the cropped lands and would be designed to improve the management,
health and commercial value of individually-owned livestock. Investments in
the village grazing areas would cover watering points, dips, cattle crushes,
perimeter fencing and the clearing of firebreaks. Stock numbers would be
controlled. (Details of stocking rates are in Annex 4.) Investment and re-
current costs would be recovered through an annual grazing fee estimated at
about Eth$12.0 per adult animal, which would be charged to villagers (Annex
8, Table 4).



- 11 -
4.11      The Tach Adiabo and liedekti Cooperative Union (TAHECU) .  Each vil-
lage cooperative would be affiliated with the Cooperative Union, which would
be responsible for: construction of village and other facilities and devel-
opment of grazing reserves; provision of credit and inputs to farmers through
the primary societies; operation of a livestock market; and construction and
maintenance of other Project facilities. Under the Project buildings, stores,
a livestock market, and engineering unit facilities would be constructed and
equipped through a long term loan from AIDB (15 years with a 5-year grace
period for capital repayment). Crop storage facilities would be constructed
at Enda Selassie which would be equipped to clean, fumigate and handle grain.
The Cooperative Union headquarters (para 4.20) would be constructed at Sheraro
(Annex 8, Table 5). A cash flow for TAiECU is at Annex 2, Table 7. Assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that an annual review would be made
of the crop storage levy and cooperative, grazing and village facility fees
to ensure that costs were being fully recovered and that the Association
would be informed of any change.
Cooperative Ranch (Annex 5)
4.12      A cooperative-type commercial ranch would be established on 20,000
ha. LMB would provide the necessary management of the ranch, and a livestock
market would be constructed and operated by the Cooperative Union. Under the
Project provision would be made for boreholes, firebreaks, crushes, build-
ings, vehicles, equipment and other ranch facilities. The Project would
also provide financing for the purchase of about 5,300 head of cattle to
establish the initial herd on the ranch (Annex 8, Table 6).
Road Construction and Improvement (Annex 6)
4.13      The Project area is connected to outside markets by 160 km of motor-
able dry weather tracks on which users pay a toll to cover the cost of main-
tenance, and is served internally by a further 85 km of comparable roads.
Under the Project, improvements would be made to these tracks and about 50 km
of new tracks would be constructed to open up areas presently inaccessible.
The Project would finance vehicles, equipment, building and labor costs; the
road improvement program would be carried out by a force account which would
be established under the Project (Annex 8, Table 27). Provision would be
made for the annual improvement of these roads during the Project period;
thereafter Government would be responsible for maintenance. Assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations.
Health and Education Facilities
4.14      The Project would provide each village with facilities for primary
level schooling which could also be adapted for use as a village community
hall. Health facilities would be improved by the construction of two perma-
nent dispensaries, and two mobile clinics would be purchased to provide some
preventative medical services to villagers (Annex 8, Table 28). Recurrent
expenditures of the facilities would be met by the Provincial Government, and
assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.



- 12 -
Land Planning, Administration and Adjudication
4.15      The Project would provide planning staff and facilities at Project
Headquarters in Sheraro 1/ (para 4.20). Provision would be made for buildings,
vehicles, equipment and operating costs of the Land Planning, Allocation and
Administration Sections of TAHADU (Annex 8, Tables 13, 14 and 22-25). The
Administration Section would be responsible for collection of the annual
land development fee and rent which would be set at Eth$5.0 and Eth$11.O per
holding respectively; these rates are in line with charges made in other
development areas. The charges would recoup Government related investment
in these operations. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
land development fee and rent would be levied at the designated levels and
that the Association would be consulted prior to any change.
Other Project Services
4.16      Research (Annex 7).  A crop trials program would be instituted under
the Project with the objective of substantially improving present levels of
productivity; the trials would be concerned with improved varieties, seed-
bed preparation, pest control and crop husbandry techniques. Investigations
would be carried out to find alternate crops, crop rotations and improved
tools. The program would be carried out under the general direction of the
Institute for Agricultural Research by a locally resident experimental of-
ficer (Annex 8, Tables 9 and 10).
4.17      Training.  Under the Project a training center would be constructed
at Sheraro to provide training for both farmers and staff. This center would
have classroom space for fifty persons and dormitory capacity for twenty
(Annex 8, Tables 11 and 12). Training of farmers would also take place at
the village level. Provision would be made for a limited amount of overseas
training for senior cooperative and TAHADU staff. Under the Project a
cooperative and an agricultural training officer would also be provided. In
addition, cooperative secretaries would be trained by the Cooperative Develop-
ment Department at their training center in Awasa.
4.18      Extension Services.  A farmer advisorv service eventually totalling
about 60 extension workers in Year 6 would be provided under the Project.
There would initially be about one extension agent for every 200 farmers,
and this ratio would decrease to 1:600 farmers by Year 6. Provision would be
made for staff salaries, vehicles, equipment etc., and cooperative staff
would be available to augment extension agents (Annex 8, Tables 15 and 16).
4.19      Veterinary Services.  A veterinary team headed by a Veterinary
Officer and assisted by Vaccinators would be established. The team would
provide advisory services to farmers and prophylactic innoculations to
village livestock (Annex 8, Tables 7 and 8).
1/   The Project area has been aerially photographed and photomosaics
prepared.



- 13 -
Project Administration
4.20      A Project administrative headquarters would be established at
Sheraro; provision would be made for an office building, staff housing, ve-
hicles, equipment, staff salaries and other operating costs (Annex 8, Tables
17 and 18). An Evaluation Unit already established within EPID would be
strengthened under the Project through the provision of additional staff
for the collection of field information. A Financial Control and Account-
ing Unit would be established under the direction of a Financial Controller,
assisted by two accountants, and an Internal Auditor (Annex 8, Table 26).
Project Preparation and Livestock Studies
4.21      Under the First and Second Livestock Development Projects, funds
were made available to finance feasibility studies and assist in the pre-
paration of future livestock development projects. Basic investigations
into the feasibility of beef and sheep fattening operations under Ethiopian
conditions have not yet been attempted, and under the Project Eth$900,000
(US$434,000) would be made available to LMB for beef and small stock fattening
and the establishment of fodder crop and pasture trials. Furthermore, a
pilot livestock improvement program would be undertaken in one or two selected
areas in the highlands. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Govern-
ment would submit proposals to IDA for approval prior to commencing these
programs. Also included are funds (Eth$100,000) for the preparation of an
application for the second phase of the Project and to provide Project manage-
ment with short term consultancies (Eth$414,000) in the area of problem
identification and solution with regard to Project evaluation and administration,
pasture management, agronomy and livestock disease control.
Environment
4.22      Past practices in the Project area have not taken into considera-
tion the need to preserve natural resources. The Project would, however,
prevent further denudation and erosion through the introduction of controlled
grazing, better distribution of water supplies, the introduction of crop rota-
tion and the rational exploitation of new land. Farm incomes are low and the
impact of crop loss from serious pest infestations would be serious; conse-
quently,, small amounts of non-persistent insecticides would be used in the
control of sorghum pests. No seed dressings are contemplated.
D. Cost Estimates (Annex 8)
4.23      Total five year Project cost is estimated at Fth$28.0 million
(US$13.5 million), of whieh about IUS$5.5 million or 407 would he foreign
exchange. Project costs are summarized below:



- 14 -
Eth$'000                US$'000          Foreign
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Exchange
Farm Development             3,555   1,543  5,098  1,718        745  2,463       30%
Cooperative Development    1,826   1,584  3,410    882          765  1,647       46%
Cooperative Ranch              604      119    723    292        57    349       16%
Road Construction and
Improvement                1,248      827  2,075    602       400  1,002       40%
Health and Education
Facilities                   105       75    180      51       36      87      42%
Land Planning, Administra-
tion and Allocation        1,344      694  2,038    650       335    985       34%
Other Project Services       2,385   1,159  3,544  1,152        560  1,712       33%
Project Administration          806     547  1,353    390       264    654       40%
Project Preparation, Studies
and Consultancies            707      707  1,414    342       341    683       50%
Sub-total              12,580   7,255 19,835  6,079   3,503  9,582          36%
Physical Contingency            722     478  1,200    349       231    580       40%
Price Contingency            3,349   3,627  6,976  1,618   1,752  3,370          52%
Total                  162651  11,360 2S,911  8,046   5,486 13,532         40%
Cost estimates, inclusive of taxes and duties, are based on recent development
experience and appraisal findings. A physical contingency of 10% has been
added to all capital costs and a price contingency equivalent to an average
of 13.5% per annum cumulative is included on all foreign costs, and 8.5%
per annum cumulative on all local costs. 1/
E. Financing
4.24      The financing of Project costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
1/   Price contingencies are based on current guidelines for specified items
and otherwise are based on best judgment (Annex 8, Table 1).



- 15 -
Farmer    Government            IDA       Total
-_________-- US$000-
On-farm Costs                      696          252             997       1,945
Annual Farm Credit                  92           86             340         518
Other Development Costs             -           768          3,000        3,768
Staff and Operations                            388          2,963        3,351
Contingencies                       -         1,750          2,200        3,950
Total              788        3,244          9,500       13,532
(Percent)           (6)          (24)          (70)        (100)
The IDA credit of US$9.5 million would be on standard terms to Government
and would finance all foreign exchange costs and 50% of local costs, or 70%
of total Project costs. Farmers would contribute, through down-payments, bX
of total cost and Government 18%. Farmers would further contribute to farm
development by providing cattle to the value of Eth$1.6 million. Funds for
farmer credit would be on-lent to AIDB at 7-1/4%, the rate at which AIDB
currently borrows from Government, for a term not exceeding 15 years. The
signing of a financing agreement between Government and AIDB would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness. Funds to meet the credit requirements of
farmers would be on-lent to cooperatives at 10-1/2% per annum for seasonal
and 9% for long term credit, and to farmers at 12% and 10% respectively.
F. Procurement
4.25      Procurement of vehicles (US$711,000), mechanical plant and equipment
(US$549,000), and fertilizer (US$528,000) would be subject to international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines; orders would,
as far as possible, be bulked. Orders of less than US$50,000 would be pur-
chased under Government's procurement procedures which are satisfactory.
Because of the remoteness of the Project area, all Project buildings and
other structures (US$1.4 million) would be subject to competitive bidding from
local contractors. All roads (US$725,000) would be improved under force
account, as due to the remoteness of the area and the nature of the work to
be undertaken, the work would not be likely to attract either local or inter-
national contractors. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the above
procedures would be followed.
G. Disbursement
4.26      Disbursement of funds from the credit would be on the following
basis:



- 16 -
(a) 100% of the cif value of vehicles, fertilizer, mechanical
plant and equipment if internationally procured or 80% of
local costs (about US$1.8 million);
(b) 80% of all other local costs of the Project (about US$5.5 million);
(c) an unallocated amount of US$2.2 million representing
contingencies on the above categories and transferable
to them as required.
Disbursement against (a) above would be made against import documents and
in respect of (b) above appropriate records of expenditure certified by the
Project Manager and Chief Accountant, who would prepare the claims. The
estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 9. Any funds remaining
on the Credit account upon completion of the Project would be used at the
Association's discretion for the continuing development of the Project area.
The Project area is remote and there is no existing infrastructure; in order
to speed up implementation it would be desirable to finance certain expenditures
retroactively to August 1, 1973. The amount involved is about US$225,000 and
consists of (a) US$50,000 to enable recruitment of the Project Manager and to
establish some housing in the Project area; (b) US$50,000 for employment of
the Research Officer and the purchase of requisites to start the research
program; (c) US$50,000 for land planning of the Project area; and (d)
US$75,000 to enable a start to be made with the fattening trials and livestock
improvement program.
H. Accounts and Audit
4.27      A Financial Control and Accounting Unit would be established within
EPID (para 4.20). This Unit would not only service this Project, but would
also design, operate and supervise uniform systems of internal control, book-
keeping and internal auditing for other projects managed by EPID (Annex 10).
4.28      EPID, AIDB and AIMS already have good accounting systems and their
accounts would continue to be audited by independent auditors. The accounts
of village cooperatives and the Cooperative Union would be governed by their
rules, and under the Cooperative Proclamation, the Registrar of Cooperative
Societies would be responsible for auditing all society accounts. The books
and accounts of the Cooperative Ranch would be audited by a private indepen-
dent firm of auditors. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
above auditing arrangements, or alternatives satisfactory to IDA, would be
made and that audited accounts of EPID, AIDB, AIMS, the Cooperative Ranch and
the Cooperative Societies and TAHECU would be submitted to IDA annually not
later than six months after the end of their financial year.



- 17 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      Overall responsibility for Project implementation would rest with
EPID, acting through the Tach Adiabo and Hedekti Agricultural Development
Unit (TAHADU) -a branch of EPID established under the Project (Charts 7819 (2R)
and 7821 (R)). TAHADU would administer and supervise all Project activities
and provide land planning, extension and veterinary services, agricultural
research, farmer and staff training, cooperative development, and land
allocation and registration with staff either directly recruited or seconded
from other institutions. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
Government would second or recruit suitably qualified persons to the Project
as required. In order to ensure coordination of all comprehensive agricultural
development projects with participating national and Provincial authorities,
a Ministerial Committee chaired by the Minister of Agriculture, and an Awraja
Coordinating Committee chaired by the Awraja Governor have been established.
Assurances that these committees would be maintained were obtained at nego-
tiations.
5.02      Institutions associated with Project implementation would be:
(a)  AIDB and its subsidiary, AIMS, would purchase and deliver
agricultural inputs and provide credit to cooperatives;
(b)  The Cooperative Development Department would supervise
and guide TAHECU and village cooperatives and train their
members and secretaries;
(c)  The Institute of Agricultural Research would assist with
the research program;
I(d)  The Soil Conservation Division of EPID would provide an
advisory service to the TAHADU Land Planning Department;
(e)  The Ministry of Land Reform and Administration would
provide guidance to the TAHADU Land Department's
Allocation and Administration Sections;
(f)  The Department of Veterinary Services in the Ministry of
Agriculture would provide technical guidance to the TAHADU
Veterinary Department; and
(g)  The Livestock and Meat Board would provide management for
the Cooperative Ranch.
Project Administration
5.03      EPID.  As head of TAHADU the Project Director would be responsible
to thie Head of EPID, a Minister of State. In order to meet the increased de-
mands of the Project, the Project Evaluation Unit already established within
EPID would be strengthened through provision of additional staff for field



- 18 -
data collection. This Unit would be responsible for monitoring and reporting
on Project progress. In addition, a Financial Control and Accounting Unit
would be established under the direction of a Financial Controller. The Con-
troller assisted by two accountants would supervise the accounting system,
act as internal auditor, and advise on cost control. The exact procedures and
guidelines to be employed were agreed with the Association at negotiations.
Proposals discussed are set out in Annex 10.
5.04      TAHADU.  The Project Director as head of TAHADU would be responsi-
ble for Project implementation. TAHADU would have five departments including
a Finance and Administration Department headed by a Finance Officer (Chart
7819 (2R)). The Extension and Veterinary Department under a Senior Extension
Officer would be responsible for crop and animal trials, the extension
services and the training center at Sheraro.   The Land Department would be
divided into three Sections. The Land Planning Section under a Senior Land
Planner would be responsible for land use planning. It would locate village
areas, water supplies, roads and stockroutes, and would demarcate land for
cropping and grazing areas. The Land Allocation Section headed by a Senior
Allocation Officer would demarcate and record existing individual cultivation
areas, settle disputes, consolidate fragmented holdings if necessary, and
finally allocate the 5 ha to be leased to each individual farmer. Priority
in land allocation would be given to existing cultivators. In order to prevent
uncontrolled settlement once Project implementation commences, the entire
Project area would be allocated during the 5 year period. The Land Administra-
tion Section headed by a Senior Administrative Officer would retain a permanent
record of all land allocated and would be responsible for recording leases
and land transfers and for collecting annual taxes and rent. The Cooperative
Development Department would be headed by a Senior Cooperative Officer and
would have education and supervision sections. A Road Construction Department
headed by a Road Engineer would be responsible for road construction and
maintenance. Ethiopian staff would fill all senior posts within the Project
organization except for the posts of Senior Land Planner and Senior Extension-
Officer; these posts would be filled by expatriates who would train local
counterparts. It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that Government
had appointed the Project Director and the Senior Cooperative Officer and
assurances were obtained that the Association would be consulted prior to
appointments to these posts.
5.05      TAHECU and Village Cooperative Societies (Chart 7820 (2R)).  The
General Manager of TAHECU would be appointed by the Executive Committee of
the Union which would be elected at a general meeting of members. He would
oversee the three operating departments. The Marketing Supply and Transport
Department would collect, transport, store and market farmer produce; through
AIDB/AIMS it would procure and distribute farm inputs. The Engineering
Department under a Chief Engineer, who is likely to be an expatriate, would
be responsible for the construction and maintenance of all village facilities
and would provide workshop facilities for road construction vehicles, equip-
ment and plant. The Finance Department would provide accounting and admin-
istrative services to member cooperatives. Assurances were obtained that
the Association would be consulted prior to appointment of the General Manager
and the Chief Engineer.



- 19 -
5.06      Both TAiECU and village cooperative societies would be established
under rules to be agreed. Each affiliated society would be represented by
one member at the general meeting of the Union. This general meeting would
elect TAIIECU's Executive Committee with the Project Director, TAHADU, as its
Chairman. Government would, initially, maintain a majority on the Executive
Committee by appointing Project officials (as provided under the Cooperative
Proclamation); this representation would decrease gradually as farmers became
more experienced in decision making. The Executive Committee would be assisted
by various sub-committees. A general meeting of each village cooperative so-
ciety, made up of farmer members, would also elect an Executive Committee to
run its affairs. Government would provide guidance to the committee through
nominated members. Each Executive Committee would have separate sub-committees
to deal with land, grazing, credit and other matters. TAHECU would provide
bookkeeping and secretarial services to these cooperatives. Village coopera-
tives would employ a Secretary/Accountant, Clerk/Storekeeper and a Miller/Pump
Supervisor to run village facilities.
5.07      Training.  Project training would be the responsibility of the Ex-
tension Department of TAHADU which would operate the Training Center at
Sheraro. Both farmers and staff would be trained at this Center; extension
agents would receive initial training (six months) at a training center to be
established in Tigre Province, and this would be followed by a six months
course at Sheraro. A limited amount of overseas training would be available
for senior coperative and TAHADU staff.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND BENEFITS
A. Production and Yields (Annex 11)
6.01      Estimates of production and yield information are based on field
observations and a crop yield and land use survey carried out in 1970.  The
cropping pattern of the individual farmer has been 1.0 ha sesame, 2.0 ha
sorghum, and 1.0 ha fallow, but under the Project this pattern would even-
tually change to 1.3 ha sesame, 1.7 ha sorghum and 2.0 ha fodder.  Estimated
farm yields with and without Project inputs as well as surplus crop sales
are given below. These estimates of improved yields take into account the
possibility of partial crop failures caused by erratic rainfall and poor
distribution, and assume that farmers would take five years to achieve them.
Yield                          Sales
(Quintals/ha)                   (Quintals)
Crop               Present      With Project       Present       With Project
Sorghum               7.0          14.0              4.0            14.0
Sesame                2.0           5.5              2.0             7.0



- 20 -
Yields are based on trials conducted (both within and outside the Project
area) under similar ecological conditions, yield observations obtained by
progressive farmers, and experience in other countries (notably Sudan) where
similar inputs have been used.
6.02      There is at present no net sale of cattle from the Project area due
to high mortality rates, low fertility and the demand for oxen. With improved
veterinary and animal husbandry services under the Project mortality rates
would decrease and fertility improve. Furthermore, with better water distribu-
tion and fencing there would be a gradual increase over eight years in the
carrying capacity of the grasslands from about 6 ha to 4 ha per head of cattle.
These improvements would not only increase milk production, which would be
consumed as subsistence, but would also produce surplus stock for sale. Farm
income from livestock is expected to increase from the present level of
Lth$50 to about Eth$170 per farmer/year.
B. Markets and Prices (Annex 12)-
6.03      Villagers would bring their marketable surplus of grain to the prim-
ary society store where it would be bulked and collected by the Marketing,
Supply and Transportation Department of TAHECU for transport to their stores
in Enda Selassie, a provincial market center supplying the grain deficient
highland areas. Sesame would be cleaned and sold directly to exporters;
sorghum would be retained for sale to local merchants whenever the market
price became attractive. Farmers would be paid cash on delivery of their
crops and the operation would be financed by TAHECU through short term fi-
nancing obtained from AIDB.
6.04      There are ready markets for all Project produce.  Sorghum not re-
quired for subsistence needs (720 tons in Project Year 2 increasing to 16,800
tons by Year 9) would be sold by TAHECU to wholesale merchants and consumed
within the highland areas of Tigre Province, a net importer of grain. The
farm gate price is estimated to remain at Eth$140 per m ton through 1980,
declining thereafter to Eth$105 per m ton, as some shift from sorghum to wheat
and teff is anticipated and sorghum supplies from other sources are expected
to increase. However, by virtue of its location the Project would continue
to have a comparative advantage over other producing areas.
6.05      Sesame, for which the long term world prospects are good, would be
exported through merchants in Asmara where there is a well established demand.
Prices have steadily risen from Eth$446 per m ton FOB in 1965 to Eth$655 in
1971 and has stabilised at that level. As Ethiopia contributes only about
14% of world trade, the estimated peak production of 8,400 m tons from the
Project is not expected to make an appreciable impact on the world market.
This increased production would amount to a 12% increase in present national



- 21 -
sesame production. The recent sharp rise in world prices appears to have been
the result of faltering production in the Sudan, and is likely to be a tem-
porary phenomenon. Consequently it has been assumed that the long term farm
gate price would more likely be Eth$470 per m ton (Eth$563 FOB).
6.06      At full development in Year 6 the Project would produce annually
about 10,000 head of cull cattle and 2,000 head of quality finished steers.
There is an unsatisfied domestic demand for all types of animals both for
consumption and for canning in Asmara and for live animals in the nearby
Arab countries. based on long term world price projections it is assumed
that the producer price would be Eth$0.33 per kg liveweight for canning
animals (presently Eth$0.27-Eth$0.33) rising to Eth$0.37 per kg liveweight
in 1980. For higher quality finished animals the price would be Eth$0.44
per kg liveweight, rising to Eth$0.50 in 1980.
C. Farmer Benefits (Annex 13)
6.07      Farm budgets are based on two models:  one for already resident
farmers and the other for migratory farmers who settle permanently as a re-
sult of the Project. Both indicate that annual net cash incomes from sale
of crops and livestock would rise from present levels of under Eth$100 to
about Eth$340 once loans are fully repaid (by Year 14). This sum is in ad-
dition to subsistence consumption which is valued at about Eth$165. The
cash income takes account of an anticipated decline in the price of sorghum,
as well as of payment in full for land rent and services provided by the
village cooperative and TAHECU. In the event that suitable alternate crops
are found as a result of the research program, farmer incomes would increase
above these levels.
D. Effects on Government Revenues (Annex 14)
6.08      The effect of the Project on Government revenues over a 15 year
period (the period of loans made to AIDB) is shown in Annex 14. After the
development phase and complete draw-down of the IDA Credit (Year 6), Govern-
ment would receive a steady annual cash surplus slightly in excess of
Eth$1.0 million until Year 15. This surplus would be derived from import
duties and taxes, land rent and servicing of loans to AIDB.



- 22 -
VII.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The main benefit from the Project would be increased annual sales
of sorghum, sesame and livestock valued, at full development in 1980, at
Eth$1.8 million (US$870,000), Eth$5.0 million (US$2.4 million), and Eth$250,000
(US$120,000) respectively, and with subsequent net foreign exchange earnings
of Eth$4.O million (US$1.93 million). By 1980 farmer incomes would be almost
trebled and to a large extent concentrated on the least favored segment of the
population whose present per capita incomes are considerably below the national
average of Eth$166 (US$80).
7.02      The Project is a bold attempt to develop a remote and harsh climatic
area lacking in all basic facilities. It would create a social and economic
environment which would provide permanent settlement and fuller employment
for people from the overcrowded highlands under conditions of secure land
title. Furthermore, the Project is so designed that farmers would be fully
self-sufficient and meet all costs of production, marketing and village develop-
ment. The Project would demonstrate to nomadic graziers the advantages of
commercial livestock production and provide them for the first time, with a
market outlet for cattle. If proven successful, the Project could set a
pattern for development which could be repeated throughout Ethiopia and
which could help solve the ever increasing problem of over-population and
land pressure within the highlands.
7.03      In the calculation of the rate of return to the economy, all foreign
exchange costs and earnings have been valued upwards by 33% to reflect more
adequately the economic value of foreign exchange to the economy of Ethiopia
(Annex 15). With these assumptions and on the basis of cost estimates and
yields given earlier, over twenty years the return to the economy from invest-
ments in the Project, including Project related transportation costs but
excluding health and education costs, would be about 17%. The major risks
facing the viability of the Project are increased costs caused by possible
variations in the value of the Ethiopian dollar and world price escalations,
and reduced benefits caused by Project farmers failing to attain anticipated
yield levels. A sensitivity analysis demonstrates that a reduction in bene-
fits by 10% would ?educe the rate of return to 14.5%, and increases in
costs of 15% and 30% would reduce the economic rate of return to 14% and 10%
respectively. A reduction in benefits by 10% and an increase in costs of 30%
would result in a rate of return of 7% (Annex 15).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      At negotiations Government provided for discussion with the Associa-
tion (i) draft land leases to be given both to individual farmers and coopera- I
tives (para 4.03); (ii) specimen loan agreements between AIDB and TAHECU, and
AIDB and the Cooperative Ranch; between TAHECU and the village cooperatives;
and between primary societies and farmers (para 4.07); (iii) procedures and
guidelines of evaluation and reporting (para 5.03); and (iv) draft model rules



- 23 -
for primary village cooperatives and TAHECU (para 5.06). Agreement was
reached on the format and content of all documents discussed.
8.02      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) Interest rates on loans made by AIDB to Project participants
would be satisfactory to the Association (para 4.07);
(b) The Government of Tigre Province would meet the recurrent
expenditure of any health and education facilities constructed
under the Project (para 4.14);
(c) LMB would submit to the Association for approval all proposals
for livestock fattening, fodder crop and pasture improvement
trials, as well as for the livestock improvement program
prior to commencement (para 4.21); and
(d)  The Association would be consulted prior to the appointments
in TAHADU of the Project Director and Senior Cooperative
Officer and the appointment within TAHECU of the General
Manager and the Chief Engineer (paras 5.04 and 5.05).
8.03      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(a) Signing of an agency agreement between AIDB and EPID (para
4.07);
(b) Signing of a financing agreement between Government and AIDB
(para 4.24);
(c) Appointment of the Project Director and Senior Cooperative
Officer (para 5.04).
8.04      The proposed Project is suitable for a Credit of US$9.5 million
to the Government of Ethiopia.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB)
Background
1.        AIDB was established in 1970 with an authorized share capital of
Eth$100 million to help meet the financial requirements of agricultural, in-
dustrial and commercial enterprises. In December 1970 AIDB took over part of
the loan and equity portfolios of Development Bank of Ethiopia, Ethiopian
Investment Corporation and the Government. Its initial paid up capital of
Eth$50,000 was raised to Eth$35 million in May 19.71. Government and its
nominees are the sole shareholders. AIDB is run by a Board of Directors
with the Minister of Finance as its Chairman. The Board includes: the
Ministers of Agriculture, Commerce, Industry and Tourism; the Governor and
Vice-Governor of the National Bank of Ethiopia; the Commissioner of the Plan-
ning Commission and the Managing Director who holds the rank of a Minister.
The importance Government attaches to the AIDB is indicated by the membership
of the Board. To allow the Bank to function without too much limitation, the
Managing Director has been authorized to sanction loans up (o Eth$500,000.
There are four main operational departments:  Agriculture (the largest),
Industrial (small and relying mostly on consultants), Finance and Banking,
and Evaluation and Research.
2.        AIDB is required to operate commercially and to charge interest
rates adequate to meet operational costs, provide for reserves, and yield
a profit margin; it must also maintain a sound balance between the maturities
of its own obligations and those of the loans it finances. Its debt/equity
ratio limit is set at 3:1. AIDB provides long, medium and short-term loans
and equity investments. During FY72 1/, the first full year of its operations,
AIDB approved long and medium-term loans of Eth$5.7 million for agriculture;
during the first six months of FY73 it approved Eth$0.9 million for the same
sector. During FY72 AIDB made short-term loans of Eth$20.5 million, and loans
of Eth$10 million were extended in first six months of FY73. Short-term lend-
ing is mostly for the purchase of fertilizers (Eth$7.5 million in the first
six months of FY73) and to cooperatives to finance members' short-term credit.
In 1972 AIDB established a subsidiary - Agricultural Inputs and Marketing
Services (AIMS) - to procure, import, distribute and hall agrhuCiLural inputs
for agricultural development.
3.        AIDB would be the lending agency for the Project.  AIMS would import
agricultural inputs for sale (on cash/credit) to farmers. Prices of agricul-
tural inputs - fertilizers, equipment, insecticide, etc. - would be set jointly
1/   AIDB Fiscal year is from July-June.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
by AIDB/AIMS and EPID and would be inclusive of all costs including transpor-
tation. AIMS would establish a branch in Asmara to meet the needs of the
Project and of Tigre Province. As it would be difficult to lend directly to
the 12,000 Project farmers, AIDB/AIMS would deal directly with TAHECU, which-
would on-lend to farmers through village cooperatives. The Cooperative Ranch
would obtain its loan requirement directly from AIDB. The appraisal of short-
term and long-term requirements of borrowers would be the responsibility of
TAHADU, who would act as an agent of AIDB.
Legal Arrangements
4.        An agreement would be drawn up between AIDB and TAHADU constituting
TAHADU an agent of AIDB for appraisal of loan applications and supervision of
credit operations. The agreement would detail the conditions for long, medium
and short-term loans granted by AIDB, including security required, interest
rates, procedures of disbursement, repayment, etc. Government would stand 95%
guarantee for repayment of all loans provided the farmers bear 25% of the costs
of their loan requirement. Provisions would also be made to indemnify AIDB
for any loss occurring due to mismanagement by TAHADU. Legal agreements would
be drawn up between AIDB and TAHECU; AIDB and the Cooperative Ranch; TAHADU
and the village cooperatives, and village cooperatives and farmers.  AIDB
would not extend loans to societies failing to repay loans or to comply with
TAHADU's development program. Farmers consistently failing to repay loans
could have their leases rescinded, and there would be a lien on all crops
for funds borrowed.
5.        On approval of the loan request the following disbursement and col-
lection procedure would be followed:
Disbursement/Collection Agent
Borrower            Short-term         Medium-term        Long-term
Coop. Union         AIDB Asmara        AIDB Asmara         AIDB Asmara
Branch            Branch              Branch
Village Coops.      Coop. Union                            Coop. Union
Farmers             Primary Coop.                          Primary Coop.
Cooperative         AIDB Asmara        AIDB Asmara         AIDB Asmara
Ranch                Branch             Branch              Branch



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Terms of Credit
6.        The interest rates for the Project would be:
Repayment
period (in-    Grace period
Borrower             Purpose        cluding any    for repayment  Interest  Source
grace period)  of principal   Rate
(years)        (years)         % p.a.
I Farmers         (a) Long-term             10              4           10%     Village
loans                                                     Coop.
(b) Seasonal               0.8             -          12%     Village
credit                                                    Coop.
II Village       (a) Long-term              15              5           9 %     Coop.Union
Cooperative       loans
(b) Working                1               -         10%      Coop. Union-
capital/short-
term loans
III Cooperative  (a) Long-term              15              5           810.    AIDB
Union            loans to
Village co-
operatives/
farmers
(b) Long-term             15              5           90     AIDB
loans for Coop.
Unioils own use
(c) Medium-tem             -                          9'-    AIDB
loans for
Coops.own use
(d) Short-term             1                        10       AIDB
credit/working
capital loanrs
for village
Coops. and
farmers
(e) Short-term             1              -          1 0S     AIDB
credit/
working
capital loans
for Coops.
own use
IV Cooperative   (a) Long-term loan         15              5           9'S     AIDB
Ranch         (b) Short-term
credit                1               -          10lg     AIDB
August 31, 1973






ANNEX 2
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cooperative Development
A. Cooperative Development Department
1.        The Cooperative Development Department of the IMinistry of National
Community Development and Social Affairs (MNCD) is responsible for the promo-
tion, registration, audit, inspection and supervision of cooperatives and for
assisting and advising them in the marketing of agricultural produce. The
Department has 55 professional staff with two cooperative training centers.  In
1971. the Awassa Community Development Training and Demonstration Center
started a one-year training course for cooperative staff in addition to a
two-year training course for community development workers. In 1973, in-
service training of Cooperative Department staff began at Chilalo Agricultur-
al Development Unit. During 1973 a comprehensive program of instruction for
cooperative society members was introduced together with training courses
for cooperative employees. The Department's Budget allocation is shown below:
1970     1971      1972     1973
--------Eth$ '000-----------
Recurrent                 246.6   223.5    253.5    293.1
Capital                    63.0    96.0      54.0      16.7
B.  Tach Adiabo and Hedekti Agricultural Development Unit (TAHADU)
2.        TAHADU would be responsible for promotion, establishment, guidance,
and supervision of the cooperative societies to be set up under the Project;
it would also train secretaries and members of primary cooperatives. For
this purpose it would have a Cooperative Development Department with a depart-
ment head (Cooperative Officer), a Cooperative Education Officer, assistant
cooperative education officers, supervisors and inspectors. Farmers would
receive training in cooperative organization and management as well as market-
ing techniques.
3.        To give impetus to this development and to provide management as-
sistance, the cooperatives would be sponsored and controlled by Government.
In the Union increased responsibility and control would gradually be given
to members as they become more experienced; in primary societies farmer
members would participate in administration and decision-making from the



ANNEX 2
Page 2
beginning. The Cooperative Proclamation envisages this type of guided devel-
opment and Article 14 of Proclamation No. 241 of 1966 permits a Ministry,
Chartered Government Agency or other public authority to become members of
a society.
C. Project Cooperatives
Village Cooperatives
4.        The Project area is remote from markets and services and it is
important that farmers become self-sufficient as quickly as possible in run-
ning and maintaining all services necessary for their welfare, crop production
and marketing.  Project farmers as members of village cooperatives (primary
cooperative societies) would participate in the operations required to sup-
port the supply of credit and inputs, marketing and maintenance of village
facilities.
5.        Only as members of village cooperatives would they be eligible to
lease arable land and to graze their livestock (under control) on village
grazing areas. Government would lease all land to cooperatives for a period
of sixty years; the cooperatives would then sublease the arable land to their.
members. Each village would have a cooperative office/store, village water
supply, a grain milling center and about six km of village roads providing
access to main Project roads. Cost of facilities in each village would be
about Eth$45,572, and these would be constructed mainly through a long-term
loan from AIDB (Table 1).
6.        Capital repayments and recurrent costs (Table 2) of village facili-
ties would be recovered through annual charges of Eth$31.30 paid by each family
(Table 3).  These would include Eth$9.90 for an office/store and salaries of
cooperative society staff; Eth$15.57 for water supply and dips; Eth$3.60 for
the grain mill; and Eth$2.23 for village roads. A long-term loan from AIDB
would be made for improvement of livestock facilities including watering
points and fire control on the village grazing area (Table 4). To cover
capital repayment (Table 5) and recurrent costs (Table 6) an annual grazing
fee of Eth$12.00 would be charged for each adult animal.
7.        Long-term loans for livestock, implements, carts and grain storage
would be available to each farmer; in addition, new settlers would be eligible
for a loan for resettlement and house construction. Each resident farmer would
invest about Eth$793, of which Eth$546 would be provided on credit; a new
settler would invest about Eth$943, of which Eth$681 would be provided on
credit. Loans would be repaid over a ten year period, with a grace period of
four years for repayment of capital. Annual short-term credit of 75% of the
cost of fertilizer, insecticides and seed would be available to each farmer.
This credit would be repayable in 12 months.
8.        Village societies would have the following functions:



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(a) allocate crop lands and execute lease agreements; assess and
collect land rents from its members on behalf of Government;
ensure adherence to land-use regulations; calculate compensation
payable to members as a result of land reallocation.
(b)  operate common facilities, which would be maintained by TAHECU
(water supplies, dips, crushes, and fencing of village grazing
areas); ensure that the grazing area is used by permit holders
and all animals are vaccinated and dipped;
(c) obtain from TAHECU and supply (for cash or credit) farm inputs
to members; collect repayment of loans;
(d)  collect marketable crops from members and market these through
TAHECU; and
(e) construct and maintain village access roads.
Each Esociety would have a trained secretary/bookkeeper (paid for by the Proj-
ect for a period of three years, after which the wages would be paid by the
society). To operate village facilities each cooperative would also employ a
clerk/store keeper, a miller/pump supervisor, a foreman, a pump/dip supervisor
and some casual labor. Wherever possible common services such as boundary
fencing and boreholes and the cost of a pump/dip supervisor would be shared
between adjoining societies.
9.        Each society would elect an executive committee with sub-committees
for land, grazing and credit. The rules of the society would allow Govern-
ment nominees to become members and to sit on sub-committees In order to pro-
vide guidance and assistance during the formative period of development. The
societies would also be closely supervised by the Project Cooperative Develop-
ment Department. Standard rules for all Project societies are being prepared
by Government. Any member violating the provisions would be liable to loss
of his membership, and thereby leases to crop and grazing lands.
D.  Tach Adiabo and Hedekti Cooperative Union (TAHECU)
10.       All village cooperatives and a number of Government nominees would be
members of TAHECU. The Union would be responsible for the construction of
village and other facilities, and development of grazing reserves; provision
of credit and inputs to farmers through the village cooperative; operation of a
livestock market; and construction and maintenance of other Project facilities.
Buildings, stores, livestock market and engineering unit facilities would be
constructed and equipped through a long-term loan from AIDB. Costs would be
met by operating charges, i.e., a crop storage levy of Eth$0.77 per quintal,
receipts from marketing operations, livestock market charges of Eth$1.50 per
head, an annual cooperative union fee of Eth$12 per member of a village co-
operative, shiare subscription from Government and a margin from lending oper-
ations (Table 7).



ANNEX 2
Page 4
11.       The Union would have a General Manager, a Chief Engineer, and Heads
of the Finance and the Marketing, Supply and Transport Departments (Chart).
The Project would also provide the cost of training of secretaries to be
assigned to the Project cooperative societies. The Union would essentially
be controlled by the Government during its formation and a few years thereafter.
The Project Director would be ex-officio chairman of the Union and Government
would (through TAHECU rules) have a majority on the Executive Committee during
the first five years of the Project; after this the number of Government members
would gradually decrease. The Union would have an elected Executive Committee,
and would have separate sub-committees for credit and loans. works, etc.
Appropriate rules are under preparation by Government.
Staff and Training
12.       The appointment of competent staff is vital to the Project.  A pro-
perly trained secretary/bookkeeper would be appointed to each primary society
and provision is included in the Project for the training of staff at all
levels.
August 31, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPfENT PROJECT
Village Facilities - Development Cost (one villiage)
(Eth$)
Foreign Exchange
Total Cost         Foreign
Office Building                      3,904             1,172              30
Office Equipment                     1,290               903              70
Water Supply                        22,000            11,000               50
Dips, Troughs & Pipes                7,500             2,250               30
Village Milling Center               5,878             4,115              70
Village Fb ads                       5,000              -                   -
45,572           19,9440
Financing
Long term loan                      42,572
I/
Village contribution                 3,000
45,572
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/50% of subscription of Eth$10 per farmer to
primary societies.
JulY 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWEP ADIABO DE`EOP?~ENT PROJECT
Village Facilities Recurrent Costs (one village)
(Eth$)
Unit          Year 1            Year 2               Year 3         Year  20
Items                 Unit        Cost       No.     Cost      No.       Cost      No.     Cost      No.      Cost
Staff
Secretary/Accountant-        Month        150       6        _        12         _       12        _        12       1800
Clerk/Store Keeper             "           80       6        480      12         960     12        960      12        960
Miller/Pump Supervisor         "           50       6        300      12         600     12        600      12        600
Assistant Supervisor           "           30        6       180      12         360      12       360      12        360
Day Labor                     Day           1     300        300    600          600    600        600    600         600
Sub-total Staff Cost                                        1260                2520              2520               4320
Office-Store
Building Maintenancel-        Year        390                -         1         390      1        390       1        390
Stationery                   Month         30       6        180      12         360     12        360      12        360
Sub-total                                                    180                 750              .750                750
Tilling Center
Building Maintenance-/        Year         60                -         1          60      1         60       1         60
Equipment Maintenance2/       Year        530                -         1         530      1        530       1        530
Fuel Oil3/                    Year        590      0.5       295       1         590       1       590       1        590
Sub-total                                                    295                1180              1180               118O
Water Supply/DiDs
Mlaintenance, fuel, oil                                     2000                2000              2400               2800
Dipping, chemicals             LU           .90      -       -       692         623    927        834   1800        1620
Sub-total                                                   2000                2623              3234               4420
2/
Road Maintenance-2              Year        500        -        -        1         500       1       500       1        500
Total                                                      3735                7573              8184              11170
1/  Provided by TAHADU free of cost for first three years.                                                                               Irx
2/  At 10% per annum of capital cost.
3/  About 1350 liters of diesel fuel.                                                                                                       N)
July 13, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Facilities Costs and Revenues (at full development)
(Eth$?
Years 4 - 20
Cost of Village Components(One Village)                       Cost Per Annum                 Cost Per Family
Office/Store/Staff
Recurrent costs                                                  5,070
Repayment of capital (over 15 years)                               347
Interest 10% on capital                                            519
5;36                  ~~~~~9.90
Water Supply/Dips
Recurrent costs                                                  4,420
Repayment of capital (over 15 years)                             1,967
Interest 10% on capital                                          2 950
9,337                         15.57
Milling Center
Recurrent costs                                                  1,180
Repayment of capital (over 15 years)                               392
Interest 10% on capital                                            588
2,160                          3.60
Roads
Recurrent costs                                                     500
Repayment of capital (over 15 years)                                334
Interest 10% on capital                                            500
l1,334                         2.23
Revenue                Per Family     No. of Families       Year 1        Year 2       Year 3       Years 4-20
1/       ~~2/
Primary Coop Fee         31.30              600             4,74          9,390-       18,780        18,780
!/At Eth$7.9 for a family. 2/At Eth$15.65 for a family.
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Grazing Reserves - Development Cost
4 Reserves of 6 000 ha per ReserveYJ
(Eth$)
Unit         No. of          Total   Foreign Exchange   Foreign Exchange
Unit        Cost           Units          Cost            _                Amount
Fencing (Common    2/
boundaries )          m.           .80        102,000 m.      81,600          60                48,960
Water Supply                  No         22,000            4            88,000         50                 44,oo0
Fire Breaks                   Km             40          102 km          4,080          -
Dips                          No          6,000            2            12,000         30                  3,600
Rustic Gates                  No             20           15               300          -
Castration Equipment          No              8           30               240       .
Total Development Cost
for 4 Reserves                                                         186,220         52%                96,560
Total Development Cost      At 25% of total
of one Reserve              of 4 Reserves                               46.555         52%                24,i4o
/ Fencing and water supplies are jointly owned in groups of four reserves,                                         9 
thereby minimising costs per reserve.
2/Dimension of each reserve would be about 5km x 12km.
Half of the boundary of 34km is shared with another
village.
July7, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPWENT PROJECT
Village Grazing Reserves - Cost and Revenue (at full development)
(Eth$)
Costs (3 to 20 years)              4 Reserves 1/          Per Reserve        Per Livestock Unit
Recurrent Costs                       33,560                8,390                   5.99
Repayment of Capital
(Over 15 Years)                    12,l415                3,104                 2.22
Interest on Capital
(at 10%)                         18,622                 4,656                  3.-33
Total Annual Cost                    64,597                16,150                  11.54
Revenue (one reserve)
Unit        Year 1              Year 2              Years 3-20
Unit    Revenue    No.     Revenue      No.     Revenue     No.      Revenue
Grazing Reserve Herd  Livestock 11.54       600      7,200     1,200      14,400     1,400    16,800
Unit   (12)
1/ Carrying capacity 5,600 Livestock units.
5/ Carrying capacity 1,400 Livestock units.                                 M
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOW.   ADIABO DEVEL0M  ENT Dr:0JECT
Village Grazing Reserve - Recurrent Costs (4 units of 6000 ha. each)
(Eth$)
Unit             Year 1                Year 2             Year 3-20
Items                  Unit        Cost        No.       Cost         No.        Cost        No.       Cost
Labor
Foreman                           Year         900        4         3600          4         3600         4       3600
Casual Labor                      Year         300        4         1200          4         1200         4       1200
Pump/Dip Supervisor               Year        1200        1         1200          1         1200        1        1200
Sub-total                                                           6000                    6000                 6000
Operation and Maintenance
FencingZ/                         Year        8160        1         8160          1         8160         1       8160
Water Supply                      Year                     4        8000          4         9600         4      11200
Firebreaksi/                      Year         200        1          200          1          200         1        200
Dips2/                            Year                    1         1200          1        1200         1        1200
Dip Chemicals-/                    LU             .90  2400         2160       4800         4320     56oo        5040
Veterinary Cogps                   LU             .25  2400          600       4800         1200     56oo        1400
Hyena Control_/                   Year         360        1          360          1          360         1        360
Sub-total                                                          2068002oL40
Total Cost of 4 Reserves                                             26680                   31040                33560
Cost of One Reserve                                                   6670                    7760                 830
1/ At 5% of capital cost.
2/ At 10% of capital cost.
3/ Number of livestock units shown here are for four reserves and exclude the livestock to be taken care of under
village facilities.
4/  Chemicals and labor.
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cooperative Union Cash Flow A
Eth$'000
Year                                          1         2        3         4        .5        6        7         8         9       10        11       12        13
Cash Inflow
Balance brought forward                      -         -        -         -      113       110       51         _        _
Loans from AID9 for own
development/                             286      244       342      527       170        -         -         -        -         -         -        -         _
Revenue:_Crop store LI                       -         -      353       568      749       897    1,026    1,363    1,363    1,363    1,363    1,363    1,363
-Livestock market                    -        4        6        11        15       19        22       29        29       29        29        29        29
-Headquarters L                      -        5        21       54        95      126       144      1414      144       144      144       144      144
Recovery of Engineering Unit
development costs from ranch
village cooperative and TAHADU /5          -       65        65       65        65         -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -
Working gapital borrowed from
AIOBPL                                    62       93         1        -         -         _      120       237      365       507      664       838    1,030
Total Cash Inflow                          348       411      788    1,225    1,207    1,152    1,363    1,773    1,901    2,043    2,200    2,374    2,566
Cash Outflow
Development cost                           286      244       342       527      170         _ -                -         -        -         -         -        -
Recurrent costs Li
-Crop store                         -        4       180      350       668      648       910    1,187    1,187    1,187    1,187    1,187    1,187
-Livestock market                   -        -         1        1         1        1         1        1         1         1        1         1         1
-Rea4guarters                      35       45        79      100       103      113       113      113       113       113      113       113       113
Loan service L                              27        50       83       133      149       339      339       339       339      339       339       339      339
Interest on working capital  9               -         6       10         -       _-         -        -        13        24       38        53        70       88
Repayment of working capital                 _        62       93         1         -        -         _      120       237      365       507       664      838
Cash balance carried forward                           -        -       113      110        51                  -         -                  -         - 
Total Cash Outflow                         348       411      788    1,225    1,207    1,152    1,363    1,773    1,901    2,043    2,200    2,374    2,566
/2  Funds received only to be passed on to third parties are not reflected in this statement.  This is purely a "post office" function by the Union on which it
earns an interest margin which more than covers the expenses involved.
2  Annex 8 , Table 1.
D ags,transport, commission and handling,.
Cooperative Union fee of Eth$12 per family designed to recover all the Union's recurrent costs (excluding the Engineering Unit).
It is assumed here that the total development costs (vehicles, equipment, buildings and furniture) of the Engineering Unit over the 5 years project
period (Eth$259,606) will be charged ouit at 25% p.a. starting from year 2.
/6 The rising short-term borrowings from year 7 on reflects a rising level of activities and rising costs not recovered from Village Cooperatives. The
Cooperative Union can raise its annual fee above Eth$12 per family/year to the extent required to recover all costs in full.                                               63A
/7  All recurrent costs of the Engineering Unit would be recovered directly from its clients (the ranch, primary cooperatives and TAHADU).  They are                            - w
therefore omitted from this statement.                                                                                                                                       x
/A  9 1/2% per annum interest for 15 years including 5 years of grace.
/9 10 1/2% per annum.






ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TACH ADIABO AND HEDEKTI COOPERATIVE UNION (TAHECU)
Executive Committee l
TAHECU
Executive Chairman
Project Director
TAHADU
General Manager
Executive                                                                                                       Executive
Credit and                                                                                                 Works Committee 2/
Loans Committee Z/
|    Loan Activities                                                                                   l    Chief Engineer
-  _ g      H~~ead of Finance
Departme_    Engineering Unit
-    -   1              r  ~~~~~Marketi gSupply|
Finance Department                      and Transport
Department
Section Head
|Crop Store Keer                                                                        Union Transport
Supply Storekeeper
|  Crop    |                   m         rCrop  Crop       l                                  1
.    Store   L   |      Store                   Store      l                Supply Store    J
11  Elected ty Union meibers at General Meeting of members.
2/ Elected frorn member of Executive Committee
World Bank-7820(3R)






ANNEX 3
ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Planning
1.        Land planning would be undertaken in order to demarcate village
areas, set the boundaries of the commercial ranch, and define the areas set
aside for general public or Government use. Much of the land planning tould
be done on the basis of aerial photographs and photomosaics already prepared.
Preliminary identification of land suitable for cropping, village grazing
areas and the commercial ranch has already been carried out on the basis of
a sample aerial survey.
2.        The total Project Area of 450,000 hectares would, in the first stage
of development, be allocated on the basis outlined below:
Hectares
(a)  20 villages (600 farmers each, 5 ha of cropping
land per farmer)                                          60,000
(b)  20 village grazing areas, (6,000 ha each)                120,000
(c) Land required for public use (roads, towns,
Government Research Stations, stockroutes, etc.)          10,000
(d)  Rough grazing near cropping areas                         20,000
(e)  One commercial ranch                                      20,000
(f)  Land not developed but allocated in the first phase   220,000
TOTAL PROJECT AREA            450O000
August 31, 1973



ANNEX 4
ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Herd Composition
A model of the composition of a village herd is shown in the Table
below. This herd is made up of individually owned herds, the makeup of which
will not be the same in every case. At the start of the Project, on average
a resident farmer would own about seven head of cattle of all ages and a
migratory farmer, one work ox; the village herd would comprise between 1,600
and 1,900 head of cattle. By the tenth year each farmer would own 9 head of
cattle, giving a village herd of some 5,000 to 5,400 head. The theoretical
composition of the herd is given below:
Model                            Model
Migrant Farmer                   Resident Farmer
10th Year                           10th Year
Pre-Project   of Project        Pre-Project        of Project
AveragAveverage                 Average           Average
Cows                      0             1.89              2.00             1.89
Heifers 3-4                0            0.47              0.53             0.47
Heifers 2-3                0            0.62              0.30             0.62
Heifers 1-2                0            0.65              0.38             0.65
Heifer Calves              0            0.77              0.43             0.77
Work-oxen               0.86            2.01              2.00             2.01
Steers 3-4                0            0.50               0.26             0.50
Steers 2-3                0            0.53               0.29             0.53
Steers 1-2                0            0.56               0.33             0.56
Bull Calves               0            0.77               0.43             0.77
Total Animals           0.86            8.77              6.95             8.77
August 31, 1973



ANtNEX 4
lable 1
ETHIOP [A
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
'Jillags  Cattle herd Projectior. 1/
Primary Cooperative Year
ISef ore
'.)evelopment    1         2          3          4         5          6          7       8-20
I9h2CtO'0SST)I'OSIl(N 3/
:-ows                               ' 4O6      420       6063       909      1,013      1,077      1,150      i,i43      1,138
Reifers 3-4 years in calf           132        276        50         335        323        350        283        283        282
Y eiferc .-3 years                    75         87        91        125        280        464        376        371        371
Ge1fers 1-2 years                    94         99        132        295        488        394        391        391        391
Heifer Calves                        107       144        210        364        415        441        472        464        463
Work Oxen                           785        913      1,001      1,188      1,193      1,191      1,200      1,210      1,205
.ieers 3-4 years 2/                  64         66         70         86        119        181        314        301        301
Steers 2-3 years                     72         76         91        125        190        329        316        317        317
Steers 1-2 years                     83         99        132        200        346        333        334        334        335
Pull Calves                         107        L44        210        364        1415       441        472        464        463
Totel Animals Il/               1,925      2,324      30,o6      3,991      4,782      5,201      5,308      5,278     5,266
Total Livestock Units           1,386      1,658      2,075      2,556      2,889      3,093      3,171      3,163      3,142
BIRTHS
Heifers Calves                       159       192        262        428        461        490        524        516        515
Bull Calves                         159        192        262        428        461        490        524        516        515
Total                             318        384        524        856        922        980     1,048       1,032     1,030
PUSRCHASES
I-leifers 3-4 years                  100        300       600        350        300        180
ileifers 1-2 years                   -          -          -         100        150        -
Work Oxen                            176        300       300        400        220        180        129
MORTALITY
Covs                                  64         43        56         53         64         67         72         72         71
lleifers 3-4 years                    20         30        55         22         21         23         23         19         19
Hleifers 2-3 years                     3          7          8         7         15         24         18         20         20
Heifers 1-2 years                      2          8        12         16         26         21         22         24         23
lleifer Calves                        52         48        52         64         46         49         52         52         52
Work Oxen                            102         92       110         74         75         75         75         76         76
Steers 3-4 yeais                       3         6          6          5          6          9         16         15         16
Steers 2-3 years                      6          7          8          7         10         17         17         17         17
Steers 1-2 years                      13         8         12         10         18         21         22         24         23
Bull Calves                          52         48         52         64         46         49         52         52         52
SALES
Cull Cows                             58        75         77        107        169        192        205        218        217
Barren Heifers                        11        69        126         84         81         87         88         71         70
Heifers 3-4 years                    -                    -          -          -          -           70          3        -
Work Oxen                            138        144       168        209        226        226        226        228        230
Steers 1-2 years                    -          -          -          -          -           61         85        114        106
Heifers 1-2 years                    -         -          -          -          -          -           28         57         50
PRODUICTION DATA
Mortality - Adults                    12%         8%        8%         5%         5%         5%         5%         5%         5%
Celves                   33%       25%        20%        15%        10%        10%        lO%        10%        10%
Culling Rate, Barren                 20%        20%        20%        20%        20%        20%        20%        20%        20%
Conception Rate                       56%       70        70%        70*        70%        70%        70%        70%        70%
1/ Total of cattle individually owned by village members
U / Uncastrated steers serve as bulls to herd.
3/ End of year.
/ Livestock units (L.U.s.) in this table are calculated on the following basis
Adult cows ard other 3-4 years old = 0.75 L.U.
1-3 years old * 0.4. L.T.
Calves z 0.1 LU.0
Tune 28, 1973






ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cooperative Ranch - Herd Projection
(Eth$)
Years                              1           2          3          4                    6          7          8         9           10          11       12-20
I.  Herd Numbers (end-year)
1. Cows                           2,501      1,826      1,573      1,554      1,942     1,476        -          -          -           -          -
2. Heifer Calves                    795        700        595        660        814       699        -          -          -           -          -
3. Steers 2-3 years                  -         -          695        625        542     1,181      1,873      1,902      1,991       1,991      1,991       1,991
4. Steers 1-2 years                 -          739        658        565      1,230     1,951      2,415      2,074      2,074       2,074      2,074       2,074
5. Bull Calves                       795       700        595        660        814       699        -          -          -           -          -           -
6. Bulls                             92         86         81         77         74         71       -          -          -           -          -           -
7. Total Animals                  4,183      4,051      4,197     14,41      5,416      6,077      4,288      3,976      4,065       A,065      4,065       4,065
1/ 8. Total Livestock Units          2,593      2,651      3,007      2,814      3,788     4,679      4,288      3,976      4,065       4,065      4,065       4,065
II. Births
1. Heifer Calves                  I,190        875        744        777        958       777        -          -          _           _          _
2. Bull Calves                    L. 90        875        744        777        958       777        -          -          -           -          -
3. Total                          2.380      1.750      1.488      1.554      1.916     1.554         -         -          -           -          -
III.P,rch,,P.s
1. Cows                           1,700        -          300        500        100        -         -          _          _           _          _
2. Heifers 3-4 years              1,700        -          -          -          -         -           -         -          -            -         -           -
3. Steers 1-2 years                  -         -          -          -          621     1,218      2,063      2,160      2,160       2,160      2,160       2,160
4. Bulls                             100        --                                         -          -          -          -           -          -          -
IV. Mortality
1. Cows                             136        175        128        104        102         78        -          -         -            _          _          _
2. Heifers 3-4 years                136        -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -
3. Calves                            790       350        298        234        287        155        -          -          _           _          _
4. Steers 2-3 years                  -         -           44         33         23         49         78         97         79          83         83         83
5. Steers 1-2 years                  -          58         42         30         51         81        101         82         86          86         86         86
6. Bulls                               8          6         5          4          3          3        -          _          _           _          _          _
V.  Sales
1. Cull Cows                         627       500        425        415        510        388     1,476         -          -           -          -          -
2. Steers 3 years                    -         -          -          695        625        542     1,181      1,873      1,902       1,991       1,991      1,991
3. Heifers 1-2 years                 -         795        700        595        660        814        699        -          -           -          -          -
4. Bulls                               8          6          5       -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -
VI. Production Date
1. Mortality - Adults                  8          7         6          5          4          4          4          4           4          4         4         4
- Calves               33         20         20         15         15         10        -          -         -            -        -            -
2. Culling Rate - Barren
Heifers, Cows, Bulls            20         20         20         20         20         20        -          -          -           -        -
3. Conception Rate                    70         70        70         75         75         80        -          -          -           -         -            -
4. Stocking Rate Ha/Lu (Max)           8          7          6          5         4          4          4          4          4           4         4            4
1/ A livestock unit is any bovine over the age of I year
July 17, 1973
a Z



1~~313 1.31913.   11~ 3,0    Um  991311tc                                                         4
1  3&X1                                                    1~~~~~0o311v~1.13      022a391   Oo*13.$I                     )61 
LI   H-a-                                72D1441~                              2-        14I)            3         21 0. 01o  1960 o                          'o.                    '911                   213.1'          ' 3           21 3          0613       2i3
si.ff                     &W~9139                 .19991       13        901309.                    MOO           I'S1 1.     9131     1            N39. ~               Z.911  9.  .009                        6.        1399           9        310
31.  13~~~~~o6-~~~            *         929          9         9.9.9.9    3~~~37L,1     9.9.9.9        9           10            9          910           9        991.          .        9311          ,        609           9        29996
9.    .lr tl9  IC'9 391131                         19.909Ir-  5   2          .1                     29.29           9.        529..                      11 0 I9                                       229.'                                9        9.9.19        2           90
9.  919.,or P11~~~o9201  99.132?              9.~?139    I. 99                                M  J260       I.        3909            9.        219.0          1)      9909           9        39199        10        293.0        91        29.209        99         91
%. 111111   91111                                         399.                   19199.                   I9909          9         994909          13        9131          13        9.13I9                  1999                                         11 9.9         1         19.0
l.0.61,1119 ia09                                           9.029      loco13                      I         92139.         9          9,9..9.9       9          9911          I         11199.        .        1190t1o99,.I low                                                      9099
.   911313-k1                                   ' t     92139                                  I 9         7213.         I           7213.         9           2990         9         7213.         .       90  1 'O              939.           .          72139.       .         9,131
0.  fth-      o(1113                                        99           .          -             9         9.9             9         9919                       99                      99           9.       99.939                99380          9        99.9          13         9.380
13,  139g3119&3139.c9o  *       11311         .          .             9         99.~~~ ~ ~~ ~            ~       ~~~~~190  .    .    .            .                      .         -           -          . _ _.                 .            -           -l
9.911"-11999                                                 131      -18           -s           9i          9911"      "9.          91319.         93          9109~      51 961309              57          I 9139195   92          3130        9?         9130(1     90,          913390
09                                  noLI.. 910                             Cm                    35939.                       W)          20          5M            , 9.99.909.920  969.3          9.1399                  319                   199.30                  919.2
13&   6...,9131                             '9.19   ,,      99.29       29          90           90         99             32          199.39.       0           3911          9        9909     0             139.9       21          9.3(1       39        9            29.1
V9,11111113'713                                             3.09       9w            399       9o             3190       9DO           3110           9          309           9         399D         2.         909w       9.        35            00                     9.3W        394
o.  13,,31--1113  21 10.1-913                                920         I           3090                     390           9.          .1            1           20                     209          I.         3913       9.         300                    900c         9.           200!v
(A31   3                                                     265-0199.3621939.9                                                           2119135                923139                   9                    293913                  2?990                   1129.13
3/  131311t 13391121, 6,.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6~~~313g 9.19 93313013 913  13133'. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~             ~             ~            ~            ~             11M                     .0620LE 35
9993. 1?, 1393



E THIO ?IA
WoWER ALA80   VXW'22T OSOJECT
Cooperative Ranch - Revanue
(Ith.t)
_______                                                                                                                             Years~~~~~~~~~~~~- 7 .r - - 7   r3Y a     4- - - T -
Unit        Year 1          Year 2                                                                year 3  Year 4  Year  =  fear  Year 7  Y rT             Year           ''Year 1 =         a-. -
Unit   PriceL/ No.    Total   No.    Total    No.    Total    No.    Total     No.    Total    to            Totali             No. Tota   _.              Tota   __           o.    To.al    No.    Ort
I. Sale of Anirrale
A.  Celi Cons                        head   83-106  627    52041   50C    L1500    1J25    35275    415    34h45    510    i233c1   388    11123   1176   156566
P.  Bulls                                     106                                                                                                             71      7526
C.  Heifers 1-2 yrs.                           50                     795    30760    700    35000    595    2S750    660    33000    814    40700    700    3500C
D.  Steers 3-1 -vrs.                       176-200                                                      6'95   122320    625   110000    S12   108400   1181   2362C0    1873    37460C    1,2   36.UOC   1,71   3922) l&C                   36822,
Sob-total Sale 00 Animals                                       92011           81250             70275           l8f,515           185330           190228            403182              : ,600             303104            33820       _
II.  Sale of Hides/                       car-       6     L1o      TOO   118        590    109      565       85       425      8'      445 1   10S       525      89       116      89         aaS       02      '1       6 a,     425      9        422
ITI.  Total I t rI                                                  52271           8184C            70820            186980           185775            190753            4353'7              3'i615            36381C            395620            30862?
-V.  3ess Surchase of Sese                        S0-60                                                                         621    31050   1218    73080   1817   109020    2063    123780    2160   12Yf.OC   21bC   12Y60C   216C   12960C
1-2 veas                                                                                                                                                                                                                              _
V. Net Revenue                                                   52741            81810            70820            186940           656726            117673           326607              224265             251210            26,9020           269020
1/  When twq prices are gives, the first applies up to and including oneperative ranrh year 5 and the second applies thereafter.
2/  S0% of adult anim,als dying at $5 each.
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVEL .DSNT PROJECT
Cooperative Ranch - Financial Rate of Return
(Eth$)
Years
Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year Year    Year    Year    Year    YeTar    Years    Year
1       2        3        4       5        6        7       8        9        10      11      12-19      20
IN-0W
I.  Revenuel/       2/                      52.7    81.8    70.8   186.9   154.7   117.7   326.6   224.3   251.2   269.0   269.0   269.0 269.269.0
II.  Stock Valuation-                          -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -      647.1
III.  Total Inflow I + II                     52.7    81.8    70.8   186.9   154.7   117.7    326.6  224.3   251.2   26i.0   269.0   269. o            91OXT
OUTFLOW
IV.  Davelopment CoP3/                      617.6       -     29.7    49.5    99.0        -                         -        -        -        -         -
V. Recurrent Cost-V                         69.3    85.2    98.5    96.2   109.5   120.3    110.8  106.5   107.1   107.1   107.1   107.1    107.1
VI. Replacement of Vehicles &
-quipment/  _   _   _       _        _   51.0      -        -        -        -     55.5    l0.7_/   10.7
VII.  Total Outflow IV to VI                 686.9    85.2   128.2   145.7   208.5   171.3   110.8   106.5   107.1   107.1   162.6   117.8    117.8
VIII.  Balance III minus VII                 (634.2)   (3.4)  (57.4)  41.2   (53.8)  (53.6)  215.8   117.8   144.l   161.9   106.4   151.2    798.2
Financial Rate of Return is 11% over 20 years.
1/  From Annex 5, Table 3.
2/  Prom Annex 5, Table 1:  a)  1991  3-yr. olds  at $200 = 398200
b)  2074  2-yr. olds  at $120 = 248880
c)  Total                       = '7;0r0
;$ From Annex 8, Table 6 including contingencies.
From Annex 5, Table 2.
Replacements are:  a)  Diesel generator every         10 years
b)  Submersible pump every        5 years
c)  Bick-Up every                 5 years
d)  Tractor every                 5 years
e)  Scales every                  5 years                                                                                                  >
f)  Radio every                   5 years
g)  Miscellaneous every           5 years
6/  Averaged.
July 13, 1973



ANNEX 6
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Development
Introduction
1.        Farm-to-market transport is a major item of expenditure for the
Ethiopian farmer. Until the Tigrean Development Organization (TDO) constructed
a dry-weather track, the majority of produce leaving the Project area was trans-
ported by camel. Camels are still used extensively, especially for transport
of incense. However, the availability of truck transport has made it possible
to move produce with substantial savings.
2.        The Project would improve and extend the roads in the Project area:
(a) Improvement
(i)  120 kms - Enda Selassie to Sheraro
(ii)  44 kms - Sheraro to Yrga
(iii)  40 kms - Yrga to the junction with Barentu-Adi
Ugri Feeder Road
(iv) 40 kms - Sheraro-Tekazze
(b) Construction
(i) 50 kms - Sheraro - Western Project Area
and other localities presently not served.
(c) Maintenance
(i) Annual maintenance of all roads for the first
five years of operation.
Design Standards
3.        The standard of roads to be constructed and the improvements to be
made to existing roads would provide good access to the Project area during
the dry season and minimum access during wet weather. 10-ton trucks are
likely to be used for crop extraction and delivery of farming inputs, as these
operations are carried out in the dry season after harvest and no problems of
passage are envisaged. The roads should also be passable for extension, veter-
inary and other Project staff using four-wheel drive vehicles in all but the
wettest conditions. This would entail roads of about 4.5 meters clearing



ANNEX 6
Page 2
width. In practice, this would mean a bulldozed or graded track following the
ground profile with the central crown raised by using material excavated from
the drainage ditches. Only the poorest stretches would be gravelled.
Construction Techniques
4.        Roads of this nature do not require sophisticated engineering, con-
struction techniques or structures. Roads would follow watersheds or - in the
case of hilly terrain - the contour, thus reducing the need for excavation to
a minimum. Construction would be supervised by an experienced construction
engineer. It is anticipated that little fill material would be required and
that all basic work would be accomplished by hand labor, bulldozers or motor
graders assisted by a front-end loader and dump trucks. Drainage would largely
consist of paved fords. The labor content of construction would be as high as
possible in order to help alleviate unemployment in the highlands of Tigre
Province. The cost of improvement and construction of new tracks would be
about Eth$6,500 (US$3,140) per km.   Improvement work would be labor intensive,
costing about Eth$325 (US$160) per km.
Execution
5.        The Road Department of TAHADU would execute the road improvement and
maintenance program. Estimated manpower and equipment requirements are shown
in Annex 8, Table 27. Housing would be provided and the unit would be resident
in the Project area. The road-making unit would also be used for the construc-
tion of water supplies for villages and village grazing areas.
August 31, 1973



ANNEX 7
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research
1.        The crop trial program would be designed to substantially improve
present levels of productivity. A doubling of existing yields should not be
difficult. The program, which would last for five years, would concentrate
on the following:
(a) improved varieties, planting dates, seed bed preparation,
pest control, weed control, fertilization and crop-
husbandry techniques for sorghum and sesame;
(b) adaptation trials for other crops;
(c) crop rotation;
(d) production, and utilization trials with fodder crops (including
fattening trials);
(e) economic research on optimum farm nanagement patterns; and
(f) testing of improved tools.
Gradually over time there is likely to be a switch from sorghum to other
grains and alternative crops. As a consequence, the value of average per
hectare output should rise considerably.
2.        The results from the trials would be passed to farmers by extension
staff; these would eventually comprise one field worker to about 600 farmers
(one worker per village-level cooperative). During the first two years of
operation of each cooperative, the ratio would be one field extension worker
per 200 fanners.
3.        Livestock trials would be concerned with:
(a) determining appropriate range management techniques;
(b) determining maximum sustainable stocking rates in differ-
ent management systems;
(c) cross breeding of local Barka cattle with Borana bulls; and
(d) cattle fattening trials.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
These trials would be largely carried out on the Cooperative Ranch. The
Program, including a meteorological station, would be directed by the
Institute for Agricultural Research along lines agreed annually with the
Project's management. One professional (i.e. university-graduate) research
staff member would be located in the Project area. Details of cost of
experimentation are given in Annex 8, Tables 9 and 10.
October 3, 1973



AllX 8
Table 1
ET7IOPIA
tOWER ADIAB10 D          5VEt! lT  ROJECTr
ssry of Development Costs
(Eth.$'00)
Foe-ign          Foreign
Exochange,       Exchasnge
PROJECT YEAR                                                     1              2              3               4               5               Total            7%             Amlount
roost CentoFarPens                                            -              8154                           580             5149           1,510              25                378
tsetFarmers                                                            -70             335             too           -1,28-9           o t2                                  2
SOb-Total                                    -             80             489           1,320           2,137             4,o26             25               1,007
Credit Sued for Aronual Ispuot
tesident Farmoer                                               -            38             lOo              i45             i65               454             50                227
Migrant Farmers                                                -514                        1146             003             013               it              50                 309
Sub-Totasl                                   -             92             254             348              378            1,072              50                536
,illagce Coropratives
Copital Cost Qu                                                            324              645             645             227             1,841             48                 880
C-ooro-ti-e Union
Capitol Coost                                                286           244              342             527             170             1,569             44                 704
Coupeousivo Roosth
Caspitol Costo                                               561            -                27              45              90               723             -                 119
'aoh-M- abo &   rdedkti Agrinultarsl
*sveium le_t  uit CTAEADS I
Capital toots - Veterioary
vepxtrotst                                                    89             -                6              43              -                138             49                  67
Tsp-vleo-tatian                                             117           53                4              22               4               200             44                  8t
TCraiing                                                   129              2               2              55               2               180             55                  99
Ltod planning                                              191              5               5              -                -               201             55                 lln
Ext-nsion sorviceo                                         111              6              87              87              15               306             48                 147
lieas.dqrte-o                                              148              I               -              19              -                i68             48                  81
Cooperative development                                    i49              4               7              74                4              238             51                 121
Sub-Tutal Capital Costs                             924            71             111             300               25            1,431             50                 714
op.erat:ng 00sts - irterinary
Departoent                                                     30            33              35              47              47               t92             14                  5':
Experimentation                                              43           61               6i              61              61               207             ia                 52
parinettg                                                    31           lo-             1ii              71               32              386             i6                 13
tod planning                                               197           2o6              105               -               -               50o             46                232
Extension service                                           110           130             222             212             210               8.84            23                 203
Headquarters                                                 99           109             114              14              114              550             16                  89
Cooperative dovolopoent                                      43            63              63              63               39              271              8                  22
Cooperative trotning                                          4            ..             103               .             Ql               4f6           .a                   070
Sub-Total Operatiog Costs                           687           795             804             66o              594            3,540              27                958
tond Atjndicatios -
Cavital Costa                                               164            90              32              62               62              410             56                 228
Operating Costs                                              72           113             139             139              139              602               9                 55
Ltod Administrstion
Capital COsts                                                71             6              16               18              -               i11             42                  47
Opeoatiog Costs                                              25           .33              48               50              50              206              10                 21
EPIT Evaluation and Financiiat Control Unit
Capital Costs                                                28            -               -                28              -                56             6o                  33
Operating CostE                                             120           112             112              122             113              579              59                344
Roads
Capita1 Costs                                               486             1               3               89               3              582             65                 379
Operattsg Costs                                             353           353             329             229              229            1,493              30                 414
tealtb and Education
Capital Costs                                               14            65              25              20               25              180              42                 75
1ivestock   Studies. Project P-rpation  and
C.onultacies                                                     0 80         280             280              280             294            i,41               50                 7
Project Costs  ,ithout coottageaoieo                          4,C97         2,6t59          j,6,56           4,887           4,936           19,835              36              7,255
Cost.ige.nvies
Shayica1'/                                                  256            97             194              341             312            1,200              40                478
Price                                                       674           727           1,277            2,10B           2,190            6,976              52              3,67
Project Costs  En1lutiag Coatiogenotec                        5,027         3,480            5,017            .336           7,0E8            28.011            _4f
1./ t0t flat rate an all capital costs.
/ no fonsign oscsaga . nosts - for equipoont, fuel/ I.b,isant: 207. it Year 1, 147. in YTam  2, 11% in Year 3 mad
7.5% io Years4 *od 5. Pan Civil Works: 24% in Year 1, 182. in Year 2, 157, in Year 3 snd 127. ito Yeasr4 ad 5.
no Ion,1 .. nn..y  oasis: 1 in Y-ara I sod 2 sad 7 5% thanoaftir.
May 1, 1974



E1HIOPIA                                                 ANNEX a
FTHIOPIA                                 ~~~~~~~~~Table 2
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COST OF FARM DEVELOPMENT - RESIDENT FARMERS
(Eth, '0 0l0 )
Project Year                                     l       2        3         4        5    Total    Foreign   Foreign
in this  Exchange  Exchange
Project     %      Amount
____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ _   _ ___   __ Period .
Resident farmers joining project (No)            -       750    1,500    1,500    1,250    5,000
Development expenditure per farmeA'              -       140      185       276      192      793
lat year - no farmers                         -          -        -         -        -         -
750 farmers joining in year 2                 -        105      139      207       144      595
1,500 farmers joining in year 3               -          -      210       278      414      902
1,500 farmers joining in year L                                   -      210       278      488
1,?5n farmers Joining in year 5               --                  -         -      175      175
Develooment costs - Resident farmers          _        105      349      695    1,oll    2,160
Deduct: Livestock contributed by
farmers                             -        97       195      195       163      650
Cash costs of farm development                 -    ~           154       500    -F        1,510       25      378
FARMERS' CONTRIBUTION TO DEVELOPMENT - RESIDENT FARERS
Contribution per farmer (E$)_ Cash only          -        10       27        40       40       117
1st year - no farmers                         -          -        -         -        -         -
750 farmers joining in year 2                 -          8       20        30       30        88
1,500 farmers joining in year 3               -          -        15       40       60       115
1,500 farmers joining in year 4               -          -        -        15       40       55
1,250 farmers joining in year                  -         -        -         -       13        13
Development financed by Resident farmers      -          8       35        85      143       271
REVOLVING FUND FOR ANNUAL INPUTS - RESIDENT FARMERS
Short-term  credit required per farmer ($)?!    -         32       52        52       52       188
lst year - no farmers                         -          -        -         -        -         -
750 farmers joining in year 2                 -         24       39       39        39      141
1,500 farmers joining in year 3               -          -       48       78        78      2o4
1,500 farmers joining in year 4               -          -        -       48        78      126
1,250 fanmers joining in year                 -              -              -       48       48
Sub-total                                     -         24       87      165       243      519
Incremental credit requirement                   -        24       63        78       78      243
Add:- Short recovery, say, 25% of
annual credit                             -          6       22        41       61      130
Farmers' contribution to inputs:
1/3 of credit                                  -         8       21        26       26        81
Total revolving fund for inputs                  -        38      106       145      165       454       50      227
1/ Annex 13, Table 2.
2/ Annex 13, Table 4.



ANNEX 8
ETHIOPIA                                                   Table 3
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COST OF FARM DEVEIOPMENT - MIGRANT  kAHRtSn
(Eth$'000)
Pro,iect Year                                    l       2         3        4         5     Total    Foreign   Foreign
in this Exchange Exchange
Project     %       Amount
Period
Migrant farmers joining scheme                  -     1.050    2,100    2,100    1,750    7,000
Development Expenditure per farmer ($)                    290      185       276      192       943
1st year - no farmers                                    -                  -        -         -
1,050 farmers joining in year 2               -        306      194       290      202       992
2,100 farmers joining in year 3               -          -      609       389      580    1,578
2,100 farmers joining in year 4               -                   -       609      389       998
1,750 farmers joining in year 5               -          -        -         -      508       508
Development costs - Migrant farmers                    3 306    803    1,2       1,679    4,o76
Deduct: Livestock contributed by
farmers                             -       234      468       468       390    1,560
Cash costs for farm development               _         72      335       820    1,289    2 516        25       629
FARMERS' CONTRIBUTION TO DEVELOPMENT - MIGRANT FARMERS
Contribution per farmer (E$)                     -         25       27        4o       4o       262
1st year - no farmers                          -         -         -        -         -        -
1,050 farmers joining in year 2               -         26       28        42        42      275
2,100 farmers joining in year 3               -          -       53        57        84      467
2,100 farmers joining in year 1               -          -         -       53       57       383
1,750 farmers joining in year 5                -         -         -        -        44       44
i)eveiopment linanced by Migrant farmers      -         26       81       152      227    1,169
REVOLVING FUND FOR ANNUAL INPUTS
Short-term cred-t required per farmer            -         32       52        52       52       188
1st year - no farmers                                    -         -        -         -        -
1,05i 'ar,nirs joining in year 2              -         34       55        55        55      199
2,100 farmers Joining in year 3               -          -       67       109      109       285
2,1.3J farmers joining in year 4              -     -             -        67      109       176
1,750 farmers .joininr in year 5              -          -         -                 5 56
Sub-total                                     -         34      122       231      329       716
Incremental credit requirement                   -         34       88       109       98       329
Add:- Short recovery, say, 25%  of
annual credit                              -         9        31       58        82      180
Farmers' contribution to inputs:
1/3 of credit                                  -         11       29        36       33       109
Sub-total                                        -         54      148       203      213       618       50       309
July 18, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADLABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Cost of Primary (Village) Co-operative Societies
Prolect Years                                                   1              2                                          5            Total         F.E. (7b)        Amount
Annual Rate of Village
Establishment                                                     -              3             6              6              5
I.   Village Grazing Area
(water, fencing, dips,
castration equipment - developed
in groups - 4 villages per group)                                 -            186           372            372              -            930             52             484
II.   Village Facilities Buildings
Office Eth$3,904 in village Year 1                              -             12            23             23            20              78             33              26
Village troughs Eth$7,500 in village Year 1                     -             23            45             45             37            150             33              50
Village Milling Center Eth$5,878 in village Year 1              -             18            35             35             29            117             70              82
-             53           103            103             86            345                            158
Equipment
Office equipment Eth$1,290 in Village Year 1                      -              4             8              8              6              26            70              18
Village Roads
Road construction Eth$500 in village Year 1                       -              15           30             30             25             100             -               -
Village Water Supply
Each village Eth$22,000 in village Year I                         -             66           132            132            110            440             50             220
TOTAL CAPITAL COST                                                -            324           645            645            227           1,841_           48             880
Note: All operating costs are recovered from farmers and are
not included in development costs.
July 17, 1973
o xz
jzc



EHIOPIA                                                                    ANN00 8
LOfJBR ADI0O DEV1800.I0dT PROJECT
_/
C29o,srtlv7e sla7Ct '- Oe,loreootuLtoet
Ye.o  I           Year 2             Yroo 3             ve   4             Yeo S
No.     Cost      No,      COst      No.      Cost      N.      Cost       No        ost       Total Cost         F.8  (3          h50qot
7 too ioory                           1     33,064                                             1     33,864                           67,728
H.000 Dto Vethi.lo                          1     36,414                                            1     36,414                            72,828
Piok-op                                 2     34.700                                             2     34,700                            69,400
4 W0.!)                                 1     20,300                                             1     20,300                            40,800
10 too lorry                            1     31.000                                             1     51,000                           102.000
176,278                                                 176.278                           352,556             60           211.224
11, Suildings
Li-otook Market Offioe                      1        235                                                                                       235
To-der', Sholtor                         1        162                                                                                       162
Clerk's Shelter                         1         100                                                                                       100
Eog  flp. S.tff H.oso                      1      22,000                                                                                    22,000
Ooodq-arters Offio  Blook                50I2    3,7350     1502  11,250                                                                   15,000
Orodq-ortro D6opert=ret 000-i00             1     12,000             12,000                                                                 12,000
M.oaro  Dporrt'-t H-0.108                                                                                                                   12,000
Maiat-epnor Shop Boildiog                  1       9.000                                                                                     9,00
Crop St-r580 (2,503 t.os io bags>                             1    126.000       2    252,000       2    252,000       1      126,000      756,000
Sopply ptore-trkets                              _         1       3,000                                                                  3,000
47,247           152,250            252,000            252,000             126,000       829,497             30            248,849
III   Other Coostructoon
Lire-rook Market                           1       4,000                                                                                     4,000             60              2,400
Coosh Spray R..o                            1      1,300                                                                                     13550             40                520
5,300                                                                                     5,300                             2,920
00.  Eqlo pnorso t-
logo                                                    25,000   37,500    50,000  75,000   50,000   75,000    25,000   37,500          225,000             60            135,000
Soolos                                                     5       1'002      10     2,000      10      2,000       5       1,000         6,000             60              3.600
-ooor-" EqoipFret                                                 1,500              3,000              3,000               1,500         9,000             70              6,370
45 OP Trotoors sod HBrrow                   1     14,000                                            1     14,000                            28,000             60             16,800
hond Tools                             Sot      3.000                                                                                     3,000             70              2,100
Oslrteostono Shop Eqoip-tono              S.t                        17,300                500               500                 500        19,000             70             13,300
Y'.boll ltretoso   Tools                  S0t      5,000              1,000             1,000              1,000               1,000         9,000             70              6.300
0.d EqUipo.ot
Drbils Unit Tools                         6st                         2,500             2,500              2,500               2,500        10,000             70              7,000
Tils.br TtprsOoolon EquipFent              1      15,700                                                                                    15,700             70             10,990
OirghiOr  torte                                               I      1,100                                                                   1,100             70                770
Li-tes-tk Clesotog Equipsnnt                                  I        100                                             1         180           200             70                140
Power Ge-rator                             1       9.000                                                                                     9,000             70              6,300
0s-d Clor-r                                                   1     23,000                                                                  25.000             70             17.500
46,700            87,200             84,000             98,000              44,100       3s0,000                          226.100
V. Ftrit-rr sod Offico  Eeoliesst
LIvrotoc.ek tskt                                                        100                                                                    100
CreP Storo                                                            1,000                                                                  1,000
Ooppp SOroro                                                            200                                                                    200
Enoi-Oorieg Dep.ortreso                                               2,350                200               200                 200         2,950
loodq-orte-s Dsportksot                            8,000                                                                                     8,000
Fintooo  Oorsrtesr                                 2,350                850              3,600                500                            7,300
Markoting sd Trsprst Dopootossnt                                       -                 1,860                                    -          1860
10.350             4,500              5,660                700                 200        21,410             70             14,907
Totl                285,875           243,950            J41,660            526,978             170,300    1,568,763                           704,390
nlT1 1C73
July 17, 1973



R FIDO ITA
LONER ADTABO DE70L_P'4ENT -CO3ECY
Coouerative Ranch - Develonrent Costs
( reth. )
UTnit       Year 1                                                              Year 2  Year 3  _     Year   Total Years 1-o
Iterl                        Unit      COt      NO.      Total      NO.      Total      No.    _otal       No.      Total      No.      Total       No.        Total
I.  Fencing Perimeter (L0 strand)          km       800     60       48000                                         _     _     __                 __            60 c.8000
II.  Boreholes
A.  Set "ip                          hol]e      350      3        1050                                                                                       3          1050
L.  Drilling-6                          m      17,5    150       26250                                                                                     150         26275
C. Casing-6"                            m        L0     75        3000                                                                                      75          3000
D.  -ump Test (24 hrs.)              hole     1000       3        3000                                                                                       3          3000
E.  Subhersible Pump-6"                no       850      3        2550                                                                                       3          2550
F.  Diesel Cenerator 2kw
unit                            no      1500      3        4500                                                                                       3          L8U0
G.  Pursp Shed                         no       500      3        1000                                                                                       3          1500
H.  Troughs & Pipes                   set     1000       3        3000                                                                                       3          3000
T.  Storage Tank $5000 It.             no     2000       6       12000                                                                                       6         12000
J.  Sub-total (A to 1                                                056850
ITT.  Facilities
A.  "irebreaks                         km       120    120       14100
B. Access Road                         km       833     15       12500                                                                                      15         12500
C.  Gates Rustic                       no        20     20         400                                                                                      20           400
D. Crushes                             no     1600       3        4800                                                                                       3          4800
E. Loading Famp                        uo       300      1         300                                                                                       1           300
F.  Night Paddocks                     no       100     10        1000                                  _        __                          __             10          1000
G. Sub-total (A to F)                                            33500                            _                                                                    3340C
IV.  Buildings
A.  Senior House                       no    12000       1       12000                                                                                       1         12000
B.  Junior House                       no      5000      1        5000                                                                                       1          5000
C.  Subordinate Hoiue                  no       600      3        1800                                                                                       3          1800
D. Store, Machinery Shed,               2                                                                                                                   60  69396
Office                          m         60      66       3960360
E. Dips                                no     6000       3       18000                                                                                       3         18000
F.  Sub-total (A to E)                                            0760
V.  Vehicles &          pment
A.4 W,D. Pick TUp                      no    16000       1       16000                                                                                       1         16000
B.  Tractor 60 HP                      no    13400       1       13400                                                                                       1         13400
C. Scales                              no     1700       2        3400                                                                                       2          3L00
D. Radios                              no      2800      2        5600                                                                                       2          5600
E.  Miscellaneous Equi2ment            -     10050       _       10050                                                                                       -         10050
G. Sub-totalT(A_to_E)                                            48450                                                                                                 48__  _ __  $50
VI.  Livestock
A.  Cows                             head        90   1700      153000                         300       27000    500       4500C   1000        90000    3500         315000
B.  Bolls                            head       150    100       15000                                                                                     100         15000
C.  In-Calf Heifers                  head        90   1700      153000                                                                                    1700        153000
D.  Mules                            head       200      5        1000                                                                                       5          1000
E.  Sub-total (A to D)                                          322000                                   27000              1500                9()(C00               48U000
-II.  Compensation for Cultivation                                                                                                                                            10l0
Displaced                            ha        30   0C        120CC                                    _                   _                   _200                              a 
VIII.  Total (I to VT)                                                  3615j6C                                  27C00              $5000               90000                 7235,60
July 17, 1973



MTHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Veterinary        artment
Year 1           Year 2          Year 3            Year 4         Year 5          TOTAL      F.E.      AMOUiIT
No.    Cost     No.    Cost      No.    Cost      No.    Cost     No.    Cost         -
CAPITAL COSTS
I.   Vehicles
4 Wheel Drive                        1      20,800    -       -        -       -        2    41,600     -       -        62,400      60        37,440
Bicycles                              3        540    -       -        1        180     2       360     -      -          1,080      60           648
Sub-total               -     21,340    -        _        -       180     -   41,960       -      -        63,480       -        38,o88
II.  Equipment
Laboratory Equipment                  -     10,000    -        500     -        500     -       500     -        500     12,000      70         8,400
Sub-total               -     10,000    -         500     -       500      -       500     -       500      12,000      70         8,400
III. Buildings
Senior Housing                        1     22,000    -       -         -      -        -      -         -      -        22,000
Junior Housing                        1      5,000    -       -         1     5,000     -      -         _      _        10,000
Lab./Office                           1     30,000    -       -         -      -        -      -         -      -        30,000
Sub-total               -    57,000    -         -        -     5,000      -      -        -       -        62,000      33        20.460
Total Capital Costs                         88,340             500            5,680          42,460              500    137,480       49       66 c48
Ju_Y 17,1 9 7
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPNOrl PROJECT
Veterinar Dep-artmen
(Eth$)
Year 1         Year 2            Year 3           Year 4            Year 5        TOTAL       F. E.      hMOUNT
No.    Cost     No.    Cost        No.    Cost     No.    Cost      No.    Cost         -
OPERATING COSTS
I.   Staff
Senior Vet.                            1     10,200    1      10,200      1    10,200      1    10,200      1    10,200      51,000                  -
Animal Health Asst.                    1      4,800    1       4,800      1     4,800      2     9,600      2     9,600      33,600                   -
Vaccinators                            3      4,500    3       4,500      4     6,ooo      6     9,000      6     9,000      33,000                  -
Drivers                                1      2,400    1       2,400      1     2,400      2     4,800      2     4,800      16,800                  -
Sub-total                 -     21,900    -      21,900      -    23,400      -    33,600      -    33,600    134,400                    -
II.  Other Costs
Vehicle Running                        -      2,250    -       2,250      -     2,250      -     4,500      -     4,500      15,750       50        7,875
Lab. & Other Costs                     -      5,600    -       5,600      -     5,800      -     6,200      -     6,200      29,400       50       14,700
Maintenance of Buildings               -       -        -      2,850      -     3,100      -     3,100      -     3,100      12,150       33         4,050
Sub-total                 -      7,850    -      10,700      -    11,150      -    13,800      -    13,800      57,300                 26,625
Total Operating Costs                        29,750           32,600           34,550           47,400           47,400    191,700        13       26,625
CJ 7
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Experimentation
(Eth$)
YEAR 1         YEAR 2         YEAR 3         YEAR 4          YEAR 5         TOTAL           F.E.            __._
CAPITAL COSTS                             No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   CUL              Cast             4             Ananrt
I.   Vehicles
4-Wheel Drive                           1    17.850            -               -           17,850           -         35.700            60            21^42O
Sub-Total                                 17,850            -              -           17,850            -         35,700            60            21,420
II. Equipment
Meteorological Equipment                1    11,500            -               -              -             -         11,500            70             8,050
Tractors & Equipment                    1    16,500            -               -              -             -         16,500            70            11.550
Tools                                          2,000         2,000          2,000           2,000         2,000       10,000            70              7,000
Troughs                                          200           600             -              -             -            800           -                  -
Spray Race & Yards                             1,300         3,900          2,000           2,000         2,000       11,200            40          _       4480
Sub-Total                                 31,500          6,500          4,000          4,000          4,000       50,000            62            31,080
III. Purchase of Livestock                        2,600        15,630             200            200           200        18,830          -                  -
IV. Buildings
Office Store                             1   30,000            -               -              -              -        30,000            30                -
Senior Staff - Housing                   1   12,000            -               -              -             -          12,000           30                -
Sub-Staff - Housing                      1       600    2   1,200              -              -                         1,800           30
Fencing of Trials                              5,100        28,800             -              -              -         33.900           30                -
Sub-Total                                  47,700        30,000            -               -             -         77,700            30             23,310
V.   Water Supply
Borehole                                  1   16,950            -              -              -              -         16,950            70            11,865
Wells                                            -       3      750                                                       750
Sub-Total                                  16,950           750            -               - _    ]7-700                               _ _|_
uDa
Total Capital Costs                             116 600         52 880          4,200         22 050          4 200      199.930            44             874675
July 117, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Experimeontat ion
(Ethi)
YEAR 1        YEAR 2         YEAR 3          YEAR 4         YEAR 5          Total           F,E,          Amount
OPERATING COSTS                            No.   Cost    No.  Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.  Cost                Cost            %
I,   Staff
Senior Technician                        1   12,200    1  12,200    1   12,200    1   12,200    1  12,200             61,000
Junior Technician                        1    3,600    3  10,800    3   10,800    3   10,800    3  10,800             46,800           -
Clerk/Storekeeper                        1    3,600    1   3,600    1    3,600    1.   3,600    1   3,600             18,000           -
Guards/Herdsmen                          4    1,440   10   3,600   10    3,600   10    3,600   10   3,600             15,80            --
Driver                                   1    2,400    1   2,400    1    2,40C    1    2,400    1   2,400             12,000           -
Field allowances             1,_                 20__,9    L2 0p0     1, 200    1,200 jO200                            6,000
Sub-Total                                 24,440         33,800         33,800         33,800         33,800      159,640          -
II. Other Costs
Field Trials                                   6,000        12,000         12,000          12,000        12,000       54,000            5n            27.000
Maintenance and up keep                        6,760         6,760          6,760           6,760         6,760       33,800            33             11,266
Visits from Technical                            900           900             900            900           900        4,500            50             2,250
Institutions
Vehicle Operation                              2,250         2,250          2,250           2,250         2,250       11,250            33              3,750
Maintenance of Housing                           -             630             690            690           690        2,700            33                900
Maintenance of Livestock                       3,120         4.620          4,620           4,620         4,620       21,600         __33               7,200
Sub-Total                                 19,030         27,160         27,220         27,220         27,220      127,850                          52,366
Total Operating Costs                            43,470        60=96O          61,020         61,020        61 020       287 490          18              L2a366                     oa
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training
(Eth$)
CAPITAL COSTS                                YEAR 1          YEAR 2         YEAR 3         YEAR 4          YEAR 5             Total          F.E.           Amount
I.   Establishment of Training Centers  No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost                                    %
(a) Buildings
Center Buildings                         39,310            -              -               -             -            39,310          -_                -
Farm Buildings                            4,575            -              -              -              -             4.575           -                -
Sub-Total                                43,885            -              -               -             -            43,885           33            14,628
(b) Equipment
Center                                    5,880          1,000          1,000           1,000         1,000           9,880           -                 -
Farm                                     16,800          1,000          1,000           1.000         1.000          20,800          --                 -
Sub-Total                                22,680          2,000          2,000           2,000         2,000          30,680            70           21,476
(c) Vehicles
Lorry                                1   35,000            -               -       1  35,000            -             70,000          -                 -
4 W.D.                               1   17.850            -              -        1  17.850            -            35.700           -                 -
Sub-Total                                52.850            -              -           52.850            -           105.700            60           63,420
Total Capital Costs                             119,415         2,000           2,000         54,850          2 000         180s265            55           99,524
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training
(Eth$)
OPERATING COSTS                              YEAR I        YEAR 2        YEAR 3         YEAR 4         YEAR 5             TOTAL         F.E.            Amount
I.   Staff  1/                             No.  Cost    No.   Cost   No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.    Cost              Cost            %
Instructor                               1   3,600      1  7,200    1    7,200    1    7,200    1   7,200             32,400            -               -
Assistant Instructor                     1      900     1  1,800    1    1,800    1    1,800    1   1,800              8,100           -                -
Drivers                                  2   2,400      2  4,800    2    4,800    2    4,800    2   4,800             21,600
Laborers                                 2      500     2  1,000    2    1,000    2    1,000    2   1,000              4,500            -               -
Cooks                                    1      360     1    720    1        720    1       720    1     720           3,240            -               -
Stewards                                 2      360     2    720    22       720    2       720    2     720           3,240
Guards                                    1     180     1    360      .      360    1       360    1     360           1,620            -               -
Sub-Total                                 8,300        16,600         16,600         16,600        16,600          74,700           -                -
II. Other Costs
Food & 1Maintenance                             -           9,000          9,000          9,000        9,000          36,000            -               -
Farm Costs                                    4,000        4,000          4,000          4,000         4,000          20,000            -               -
Replacements                                    260           260            260            260          260            1,300           33              430
Maintenance of Buildings                        -           2,200          2.200          2,200         2.200           8.800           33            2.933
Sub-Total                                 4,260        15,460         15,460         15,460        15,460          66,100                          3,363
III, Scholarships & Tours
Overseas                                     20,000       20,000          20,000            -             -           60,000           100           60,000
Local (Farmers)                               9,750         9,750          9,750            -             -           29,250            -               -
Local (Cooperatives)                         39,000       39,000         39,000          39,000           -          156,000            -               -                      x
Sub-Total                                68,750        68,750         68,750         39,000           -           245,250            24           60,000
Total Operating Costs                           81 310       100 810        10  BID         71.i06o       32.060         386,050           16           63,363
1/ Year 1 - only 6 months.
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Planning
(Eth$)
YEAR 1          YEAR 2           YEAR 3          YFAR 4           YEAR 5         TOTAL     F.E,      AMO'TT
No.    Cost     No.    Cost      No.    Cost     No.    Cost      No.    Cost                  7-
CAPITAL COSTS
I. Vehicles
4 Wheel Drive                     4    83,200     -       -        -      -         -      -        -       -       83,200       60      49,920
Sub-total                        83,200     -      -         -      -        -       -        -       -       83,200               49,920
II.  Equipment
Survey & Camp Equipment                50,120     -      5,000     -     5,000     -      -         -      -        60,120       70      42,o84
Sub-total                        50,120     -     5,000      -     5,000     -       -        -       -       60,120               42,o84
III.   Buildings
Senior Housing                    1    22,000     -       -            -       -           -         -      -       22,000
Senior (local) Housing            3    36,ooo     -       -        -      -         -      -                -       36,ooo
Sub-total                        58,000     -       -        -                -      -        -       -       58,000       33      19,140
Total Capital Costs                   191,320      -     5,000     -     5,000      -      -                -      201,320       55      111,144           D
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Plarnin
(Eth$)
YEAR 1           YFAR 2          YEAR 3           YEAR 4          YFAR '      TOTAL      F.E.      AMOUNT
No.    Cost      No.    Cost      No.    Cost     No.    Cost      No.   Cost                5
OPERATING COSTS
I.  Staff
Chief Land Planner               1    60,ooo      1     60,000    1      30,000                                   150,000       90      135,000
Asst. Land Planner                1     9,600     1      9,600    1       4,800    -      -         -      -       24,ooo                 -
Section Heads                     3    21,600     3     21,600    3      10,800    -      -54,00
Surveyors                        6    14,400      6     14,600    6      7,300    -       -                        36,300
Chainmen                        12    11,520    12      11,520   11       5,760    -                               28,800                 -
Drivers                           4     9,600     4      9,600    4       4,8oo    -      -         -      -       24,ooo                 -
Draftsmen                         1     3,600     1      3,600    1       1,800    -      -         -      -        9,000
Laborers                        18,    3,600    18       3,600   18       1,800            -          -             9,000 
Field Allowances                  -    25,800     -     25,800    -      12,900    -      -         _      _       64,500       70       45,150
Sub-total                         159,720           159,920           79,960                                   399,600      45       180,150
II. Other Costs
Running of Vehicles               -    30,000     -     30,000    -      15,000    -      -         -      -       75,000       50       37,500
Field Expenses                    -     -         -      5,513    -       2,756    -      -         -               8,269                 -
Printing & Mapping                -     7,200     -      7,200    -       3,600    -      -         -      -       18,000       70       12,600
Maintenance of Buildings          -     -         -      3,190    -       3,190    -      -         -      -        6,380       33        2,126
Sub-total                          37,200           45,903          24,546                                    107,649                52,226
Total Operating Costs                 196,920          205,823          1456                                      5             46
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extension Services
(Eth$)
CAPITAL COSTS                               YEAR 1         YEAR 2         YEAR 3        YEAR 4         YEAR 5             TOTAL          F.E.          AIMOUNT
I.   Vehicles                             No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost             Cost             %
4 W.D. Vehicles                         2   35,700           -        1  17,850      2  35,700           -            89,250           -               -
Motorcycles                             3    6,525           -        7  15,225     4   8,700      7 15,225          45,675            -               -
Bicycles                                9    1.620    8   1.440    25   4.500    11   1,980              -             9.540           -               -
Sub-Total                                   43,845         1,440         37,575         46,380       15,225         144,465            60           86,679
II.  Equipment
Extension aids (Supervisor)                  3,200           -            3,200          3,200           -             9,600           -               -
Extension Aids (Ext. Agent)                  2,400           -            3,600          3,600           -             9,600
Office Equipment                               500           250            250            250           -             1,250           -               -
Sub-Total                                    6,100           250          7,050          7,050           -            20,450           70           14,315
III. Buildinas
Head of Department                      1   22,000           -              -              -             -            22,000           -               -
Senior                                  2   24,000           -       1   12,000      1  12,000           -            48,000           -               -
Junior                                  2   10,000           -       3   15,000      3  15,000           -            40,000           -               -
Subordinate                             9    5.400         4.800   25   15.000    11   6.600             -            31.800           -               -                    1 
Sub-Total                                   61,400         4,800         42,000         33,600           -           141,800           33           46,794                  - CO
Total Capital Costs                           113L345         6aUo ==625                  Z,030        1a 225         =3 6715           48          l47.788
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extension Services
(Eth$)
OPERATING COSTS                              YEAR 1        YEAR 2         YEAR 3        YEAR 4         YEAR 5            TOTAL           F.E.          AMOUNT
I.   Staff                                 No.  Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost             Cost             i
Chief Extension Officer                  1  60,000    1  60,000       1  60,000            -             -           180,000           90          162,000
Deputy Chief Extension Officer                  -            -        1  12,200      1  12,200      1 12,200          36,600           -               -
Senior Extension Officer                 1   9,600    1   9,600       1   9,600      1   9,600      1  9,600         48,000            -               -
Supervisors                              1   7,200    1   7,200       2  14,400      3  21,600     3 21,600           72,000           -               -
Extension Agents                         2   9,600    2   9,600       5  24,000      8  38,400     8 38,400          120,000           -               -
Assistant Extension Agents in Training 9  16,200    8  14,400    15  27,000    11  19,800                -            77,400           -               -
Assistant Extension Agents on Job 1/           -       9  16.200    27  48.600    42  75.600    53 95.400           235.800            -               -
Sub-Total                               102,600       117,000        195,800        177,200       177,200        769,800            21          162,000
II. Other Operating Costs
Vehicles                                     4,500         4,500          6,750          9,000         9,000          33,750           50           16,875
Motorcycles                                     750          750          1,750          2,750         2,750           8,750           50            4,375
Demonstration & Field Days                      500          500          1,000          1,500         1,500           5,000           -               -
Maintenance of Buildings                        -          4,340          9,020         11,400         9,280          34,040           33           11,346
Field Allowances                             1.650         2,650          7.275         10.650        10.650          32,875           25            8.218
Sub-Total                                 7,400        12,740         25,795         35,300        33,180        114,415                         40,814
Total Operating Costs                          110.000      3=  740        221159 5       212 500       210 380                           23
1/ Staff to farmer rates  1:200  1:200  1:300  1:600  1:600
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
TAHADU Headquarters
(Eth$)
CAPITAL COSTS                                 YEAR 1         YEAR 2        YEAR 3           YEAR 4         YEAR 5            TOTAL           F.E.           240rCUT
I.   Vehicles                               No.  Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost                 Cost             I
4 W.D. Vehicles                            1  17,850           -               -        1  17,850           -             35,700            60           21,420
Sub-Total                                 17,850            -              -            17,850           -            35,700                          21,420
II. Buildings
Office                                     1  40,000           -               -              -              -            40,000            -               -
Housing - Head of Department               1  22,000           -               -              -              -            22,000            -               -
Housing - Senior                           1  12,000           -               -              -              -            12,000            -               -
Housing - Junior                           1   5,000           -               -              -              -             5,000            -                -
Guest House                                1  12,000           -               -              -              -            12.000            -                -
Sub-Total                                 91,000            -               -              -             -             91,000            33           30,333
III. Equipment
Office Equipment                              10,000           700             500            500            500          12,200            -                -
Radio Telephone                                3,000            -              -              -              -             3,000            -                -
Borehole & Water Supply                       17,000           -               -              -              -            17,000            -                -
Electricity Supply                             9,000            -              -              -              -             9,000                       - 
Sub-Total                                  39,000           700             500            500           500           41.200            70           28.840
Total Capital Costs                             147X850            700            500          18 350           500          167,900           48            80,593
July 17, 1973



ETIIIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TAHADU Headquarters
(Eth$)
OPERATING COSTS                              YEAR 1        YEAR 2         YEAR 3         YEAR 4         YEAR 5           TOTAL          F.E.            AMOTNT
I.   Staff                                 No.  Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost             Cost             O
Project Director                         1  14,400    1  14,400       1  14,400      1  14,400      1 14,400         72,000            -               -
Finance & Administrative Officer         1  12,200    1  12,200       1  12,200      1  12,200      1 12,200         61,000            -               -
Cashier                                  1   9,600    1   9,600       1   9,600      1   9,600      1 9,600          48,000            -               -
Accounts Clerk                           2   7,200    2   7,200       3  10,800      3  10,800      3 10,800         46,800            -               -
Personal Secretary                       1   7,200    1   7,200       1   7,200      1   7,200      1 7,200           36,000           -               -
Typist                                   2   7,200    2   7,200       2   7,200      2   7,200      2  7,200          36,000           -               -
Messenger                                4   2,400    4   2,400       4   2,400      4   2,400      4  2,400          12,000           -               -
Guard                                    3   1,080    3   1,080       3   1,080      3   1,080      3  1,080           5,400           -               -
Cleaner                                  3      900    3     900      3     900      3     900      3    900           4,500           -               -
Driver                                   1   2,400    1   2,400       1   2,400      1   2,400      1 2,400           12,000           -               -
Water Point Attendant                    1   1,200    1   1,200       1   1,200      1   1,200      1  1,200           6,000           -               -
Allowances                                   3.000         3.000          3.000         _3000          3.000          15,000           -               _
Sub-Total                                68,780        68,780        72,380          72,380       72,380         354,700            -               -
II. Operating Costs
Operation of Vehicles                       10,000        12,500         12,500         12,500        12,500          60,000           50           30,000
Operation of Office                          4,500         5,000          6,000          6,000         6,000          27,500           50           13,750
Electricity & Water                           1,500        1,500          2,000          2,000         2,000           9,000           -               -
Maintenance of Equipment                      3,850        4,000          4,000          4,000         4,000          19,850           50            9,925
Maintenance of Building                         -          5,050          5,050          5,050         5,050          20,200           33            6,733
Sundry Expenses                             10.000        12,000         12.000         12,000        12,000          58,000           50           29,000
Sub-Total                                29,850        40.050         41.550         41,550        41.550         194,550                        89.408
a A
Total Operating Costs                          =98 fi630    1=0=8 830      ii3,=93O       113 ==930     ll300930        5499250           16           89^4O8                      |x
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
Lower Adiabo Development Project
Cooperative Development Department
(Eth$)
CAPITAL COSTS                               YEAR 1         YEAR 2         YEAR 3        YEAR 4         YEAR 5          TOTAL           F.E.         AMOJNT
I.  Vehicles                              No.  Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.  Cost               X
4 WD  Station Wagon (Audio              1 32,300            -              -          32,300                     2  64,600           -
visual Equipped)
4 WD  Station Wagon                     1 20,300            -              -          20,300              .      2 40,600            -
Motorcycle                               3   6,405    2   4,270      3   6,405      1   2,135     2 4,270       11  23,485
Personnel Carrying Lorry                 1  19,000          -              -          19,000           -         1  38.000           -              -
Sub-Total                               78,005         4,270          6,405        73,735         4,270         166,685           60         100,001
II. Buildings
Head of Department                       1 22,000           -              -              -            -         1  22,000           -               -
Senior Staff                            2  24,000           -              -              -            -         2  24,000           -
Junior Staff                             5 25.000           -              -              -                      3  25.000
Sub-Total                               71,000           -              -              -            -            71,000           30           21,000
Total Capital Costs                           149JOO5        4p27O          61405         ____473       470           237,85                       1121001
d Dj
JD 1 9
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cooperative Development Department
(Eth$)
OPERATING COSTS                              YEAR 1         YEAR 2         YEAR 3          YEAR 4          YEAR 5           TOTAL         F.E.         AMOIJT
I.   Staff                                No    Cost    No.   Cost    No    Cost    No    Cost    Nol   Cost    Noj   Cot
Head of Department                       1    9,600    1   9,600       1   9,600      1   9,600      1  9,600          48,000           _
Cooperative Education Officer            1    7,920    1   7,920       1   7,920      1   7,920           -            31,680           _                _
Cooperative Supervisor                   5    3,960    1   7,920       1   7,920      1   7,920      1  7,920          35,640           _                _
Assistant Cooperative Education
Officer                              3   14,400    4  19,200       4  19,200       3  14,400           -            67,200           _                _
Cooperative Inspector                    I      -       1   4,800     1   4.800       2   9.600      2  9,600          28,800           _
Sub-Total                                 35,880       49,440          49,440         49,440        27,120         211,320          -                 -
II. Maintenance
Maintenance of Housing,5%                       -           3,550          3,550          3,550         3,550           14,200          -                -
III. Maintenance of Vehicles
Motor vehicles                                5,750         6,750          6,750          6,750         4,500           30,500          -
Motorcycles                                   1,800         3,000          3,000          3,600          3,600          15,000          -
Sub-Total                                  7,550         9,750          9,750         10,350         8,100          45,500          50             22,500 
Total Operating Costs                           43,430        62,740         62,740          63,340        38,770         271,020                         22,500                 a
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cooperative Union and Primary Cooperatives - Staff and Training Costs 1/
(Eth$)
YEAR 1        YEAR 2         YEAR 3         YEAR 4         YEAR 5          TOTAL           F.E.          A`0UN'r
No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost   No.  Cost                 %
TAHECU Manager                          1   12,000    1  12,000       1  12,000            -             -        1  36,000            -               -
TAHECU Engineer                         1   60,000    1  60,000       1  60,000      1  60,000     1 60,000       1 300,000            90          270,000
Cooperative Ranch Manager               1    9,600    1   9,600       1   9,600            -             -        1  28,800            -               -
Cooperative Secretaries on
Training (6 months) 2/               3    2,700    6   5,400       6   5,400      5   4,500           -        20  18,000
Cooperative Secretaries to
form Cooperatives 3/                        -      3   5.400      9  16,200    15  27,000    17 30,600            79,200            -               -
Total Training Costs                            84.0         924003,00                     21.500            L                          270 000
1/ Borne by TARADU
2/  Training Cost of Primary Cooperatives' Secretaries.
F/ Primary Cooperatives take  over payment of their Secretaries from year 4.
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Adjudication
(Eth$)
YEAR 1           YEAR 2           YEAR 3          YEAR 4           YEAR 5       TOTAL       F.E.    AMOUNT
No.    Cost      No.    Cost     No.   Cost       No.   Cost      No.   Cost
CAPITAL COSTS
I.   Vehicles
4 Wheel Drive                         1    17,850     1     17,850    -        -       1     17,850    1      17,850    71,400o
Lorries                               1    35,000     1     35,000    -                1     35,000    1      35,000   140,000o
Sub-total                   -    52,850      -     52,850        -            -     52,850    -     52,850   211,4oo      60       126,840
II. Buildings
Office                                1    30,000     -        -       -       -       -       -        -       -       30,000
Senior Housing                        1    22,000     -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       22,000
Junior Housing                        2    24,000     1     12,000    1      12,000    -       -        -       -       48,ooo 0
Sub-total                  -    76,ooo      -     12,000    -     12,000    -        -       -        -      100,000     33        33,000
III. Equipment
Survey Sets                          14   17,240      2      8,620    2       8,620    -       -        -       -       34,480                _
Replacements                          -      -        -      1,500    -       2,000    -      2,000    -       2,000     7,500                _
Drawing Equipment                     -     3,000     -      3,000    -       2,000    -      2,000    -       2,000    12,000                -
Office Equipment                      -     5,000     -      2,000    -       2,000    -       -        -       -        9,000                -
Tentage                               -    10,000     -     10,000    -       5,000    -      5,000    -       5,000    35,000                _
Sub-total                 -    35,240      -    25,120    -      19,620    -       9,000    -       9,000    97,980     70        68,586
Total Capital Costs                       164,090           89,970           31,620          61,850           61,850  409,380       56      228,426
g  Chain         at    100
Level        at    850                                                                                                                                           cO
Staff        at    280
Compass      at    200
Rods         at    180
Instruments  at    200
Plane Table  at  2,500
4,310
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Adjudication
(Eth$)
YEAR 1            YEAR 2           YEAR 3           YEAS 14          YEAR 5         TOTAL      F.E.    AMOINT
No.    Cost     No.      Cost     No.    Cost      No.    Cost      No.    Cost                  7
OPERATING COSTS
I.   Staff
Senior Land Adj. Officer               1     12,200    1      12,200      1    12,200      1    12,000      1    12,200      6D,0oc                -
Asst. Land Adj. Officer                2     14,4oo    3      21,600      4    28,800      4    28,800      4    23,800    122,400
Driver                                 1      2,400    2       4,8oo      2     4,800      2     4,8o0      2     4,800      21,600                 -
Staff Allowances                       -      3,500    _       6,300      -     '7,500     -     7,500      -     7,500      32,300                -
Field Survey Team 9                    4     21,880    6      32,820      8    43,760      3    43,760      8    43,760    185,980                 -
Draftsmen                              2      7,200    3      10,800      4    14,400      4    14,4oc      4    14,400      61,200                 -
Subtotal                  -     61,580    -      88,520      -   111,460      -   111,1460     -   111,460    484,480                  -
II.  Other Costs
Running of Vehicles                    -      7,500    -      15,000      -    15,000      -    15,000      -    15,000      67,500    50         33,750
Stationery, etc.                       -      2,000    -       4,000      -     6,000      -     6,ooo      -     6 ooo      24,ooo    70        16,800
Committee Allowances                   -      1,000    -       2,000      -     3,000      -     3,000      -     3,000      12,000      -          -
Maintenance of Buildings               -       -         I     2,900      -     3,400      -     3,900      -     3,900      14,100    33          4,700
Subtotal                  -     10,500    -      23,900      -    27,400      -    27,900      -    27,g00    117,600                55,250
Total Operating Costs                        72,080          112,420          138,860          139,360          139,360    602,080       9        55,250
9    1 Surveyor  at         $2,400      2,400
2 Chainman  at         $  960      1,920
2 Laborers  at         $  200       1400
Field Allowances at $  750:    750
5,1470
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Administration
(Eth$)
YEAR 1            YEAR 2             YEAR 3            YEAR 4           Y AR5           TOTAL    F'.R        AROUB'T
No.    Cost       No.    Cost       No.    Cost       No.    Cost      No.    Cost                  5
CAPITAL COSTS
I.   Vehicles
4 Wheel Drive                      1    17,850       -       -        -        -        1      17,850    -         -       35,700       60       21,420
Sub-total                         17,850      -        -        -       -               17,850    -         -       35,700                21,420
II.   Buildings
Office                             1    20,000       -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -       20,000                  -
Housing - Head of Dept.            1    22,000       -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -       22,000
Housing - Junior                   2    10,000       1      5,000    3       15,000    -         -        -        -       30,000
Sub-total                   -    52,000       -       5,000    -      15,000    -         -        -        -       72,000       33       94,000
III.   Equipment
Office Equipment                   -      1,000      -      1,000    -        1,000    -         -        -        -        3,000       70        2,100
Sub-total                   -      1,000      -       1,000    -        1,000    -         -       -        -        3,000                 2,100
O D
Total Capital Costs                      70,850             6,ooo            16,000            17,850                     110,700       43       47,520
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Administration
(Eth$)
YEAR 1           YEAR 2           YEAR 3           YEAR 4           YEAR 5        TOTAL       F.E.     LM4OUNT
OPERATING COSTS                       No.    Cost       No.    Cost     No.    Cost      No.    Cost      No.    Cost
I.   Staff
Senior Land Admin. Officer       1    9,600       1      9,600     1      9,600     1      9,600     1      9,600    48,ooo       -          -
Senior Clerk                     1    4,800       1      4,800     2      9,600     2     9,600      2     9,600    38,400        -          -
Clerk                             1    3,600      2      7,200     4    14,400      4    14,400      4    14,4oo    54,000        -          _
Driver                            1    2,400      1      2,400     1      2,400     1      2,400     1      2,400    12,000       -          -
Allowances                        -    1,200      -      1,800     -      2,400     -      2,400     -      2,400    10,200       -          -
Sub-total                    -   21,600       -    25,800      -    38,400      -    38,400      -    38,400   162,600        -          -
II.  Other Costs
Vehicle Operating                 -    2,500      -      3,500     -      4,5o0     -      5,000     -      5,000    20,500       50       10,250
Stationery                       -    1,000       -      1,500     -      2,000     -      2,500     -      3,000    10,000       70        7,000
Maintenance of Housing            -      -        -      2,600     -      2,850     -      3,600     -      3,600    12,650        33       4,216
Sub-total                    -    3,500       -     7,600      -     9,350      -    11,100      -    11,600    43,150        50       21,466
HIE
Total Operating Costs                 25,100            33,400           47,750           49,500           50,000   205,750        10      21,466                   `3
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EPID - Evaluation and Financial Control Unit
YEAR 1             YEAR 2             YEAR 3             YEAR 4              YEAR 5            TOTAL          F. E.        AMOUNT
CAPITAL COSTS                                       No.      Cost      No.      Cost      No.      Cost      No.      Cost      No.      Cost         Cost            M
Vehicles
4 W.D. Vehicle                                1     17,850               -                  -          1     17,850               -          35,700
Small Car                                     1     10,000               -                  -          1     10.000               -          20,000
27,850               -                  -                27,850               -          55,700           60           33,420
Total Capital Costs                                         27.850               _                  _                27.850                          55.700           60           33420
OPERATING COSTS
Staff Costs
Finance Controller (expatriate)               1     70,000             70,000             70,000             70,000              70,000      350,000           90         315,000
Senior Evaluation Officer                     1      7,200              7,200              7,200              7,200              7,200       36,000            -              -
Evaluation Officers                           3     10,100             10,800             10,800             10,800              10,800       54,000           -              -
Accounting Officers                           2      7,200              7,200               7,200              7,200              7,200       36,000           -              -
Secretary                                     2      7,200              7,200              7,200              7,200               7,200      36,000            -              -
Drivers                                       2      4.800              4.800              4.800              4.800               4.800       24.000           -              -
107,200            107,200            107,200            107,200            107,200      536,000           59          315,000
Other Operating Costs
Vehicle running expenses                              5,000              5,000              5,000              5,000              5,000       25,000           50           12,500
Special Studies (Evaluation)                         8.000                                                   10.000                           18.000           90           16.200
13,000              5,000              5,000             15,000              5,000       43,000                        28,700
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                      120 200            112.200            112.200            11                              579.000            59         343,700
July 17, 1973
110



E(TIOPIA
.LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPM,=  PRF- !CT
Road Development
_    EthO
Year 1         Year 2        Year 3        Year 4         Year 5         Total      Fr     Amount
No   Cost      No.  Cost    No. Cost    No.  Cost         10o. Cost       Cost
Capital Cost::
"ehiclec
4 x 4   P  uk:,I ic- *p                     I   1i,850                             -    1   17,850              -     35,700
Bulmp tinek^.                               2   67,728              -              -    2   67,728              -    135,456
Sub-total                                     85,578                                      85,578                   171,156    60    102,694
Equipment
Bulldozer                           1  139,631               -             -              -              -    139,631
Motor Grader                                1   78,647              -              -              -             -      78,647
Front end loader                            1   59,498              -              -              -             -      59,498
Water or fuel trailer (200 It)              6   18,000              -              -              -             -      18,000
Scraper                                     I   46,ooo              -              -              -             -      46,ooo
Spares for vehicles and equipment 5,            19,050              -              -              -             -      19,050
Camping equipment ($400 per man)                 6,ooo              -          1,600         1,6(y)         1,600      10,800
Office equipmernt (set)                            250              -              -              -             -         250
hand tools (set per year)                        1,400          1,400          1,400          1,400         1,400       7,000
Sub-total                                    368,476          1,400          3,000         3,000          3,000    378,876    70    265,213
Buildings
Senior staff                                1   12,000              -              -              -              -     12,000
Junior staff                                4   20,000              -              -              -              -     20,000    _     _
Sub-total                                     32,000                             -              -              -     32,000    33      lo,666
Total Capital Costs                            486,o54          1,400          3,000        88,578          3, 00     582,032    65    378,573
Operating Costs
Salaries
Accountant                                      10,500         10,5o0         10,500         10,500        10,500      52,500
Road supervisor                             1    7,800          7,800          7,800          7,800          7,800     39,000
Mechanic                                    1    4,200          4,200          4,200          4,200          4,200     21,000
Operators                                   4   16,800         16,800         16,800         16,800         16,800     84,ooo
Operators' Assistants                       4    2,880          2.880          2,880          ?,880          2,880     14,400
Drivers                                     4    9,600          9,600          9,600          9,600         9,600      48,0o0
.ime-keeper                                 1      goo            900            900            900            goo      4,500
Staff allowances 503,                           26,340         26,340f        26,340        26,340         26,340    131,700
Skilled labour                                  12,400         12,400                        12,400  12,400  12,400    62,000
l:nskilled labour                               28,000         28,000         28,000         28,000         28,000    140,000
Sub-total                                    119,420        119,420        119,420       119,420        119,420    597,100
Other Expenses
Materials - maintenance                         33,600         33,600         33,600         33,600         33,600    168,ooo
Operating costs - equipment                    106,200        106,200         81,700         21,700         21,700    337,500
- dump trucks                  89,000         89,000         89,000         49,ooo         49,ooo    365,000
- pick-up                       5,000          5,000          5,000          5,000          5,o00     25,000
Tub-total                                    233,800        233,800        209,300       109,300        109,300    895,500    50    447,750
Total operating Costs                          353,220        353,220        328,720        228,7Po        228,720  1,492,600    30    447,750
=                            =       -                 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-12



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health and Education
(Eth$)
CAPITAL COSTS                                YEAR 1         YEAR 2         YEAR 3        YEAR 4          YEAR 5            Total          F.E.          Amount
I.   Health                               Ro.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost               Cost            %
Buildings                                1   15,000    1  15,000             -              -             -            30,000          33            10,000
Equipment                                    10,000        10,000            -              -             -            20,000          70            14,000
Mobile Clinics                           1   15,000    1  15,000             -              -             -            30.000          60            18.000
Sub-Total                                40,000        40,000             -              -             -            80,000           -            42,000
II. Schools
Number of classrooms                            -               5              5              5             5             -              -               -
Cost @ $5,000                                   -          25.000         25.000         25.000        25,000         100.000          33            33,000
Total Capital Cost                              40 000         65 000        25A00          25 000        25LO2 00       1000              42            75 000                          p
Hl  1
July 17, 1973



AIE 9
ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Fundhis
IDA Fiscal Year and                                            Cumulative Disbursement
Quar'.r End               Disbursement in Quarter              at End of Quarter
---------US$.000 ------O-                 .---
1974/75
September
December
March                               -                               -
June                               431                             431
1975/76
September                          456                             887
December                           456                           1,343
March                              455                           1,798
June                               312                           2,110
1976/77
September                          312                           2,422
December                           312                           2,734
March                              311                           3,045
June                               444                           3,489
1977/78
3eptember                          444                           3,943
December                           444                           4,377
March                              443                           4,820
June                               6o4                           5,424
1978/79
September                          604                           6,028
December                           6o4                           6,632
March                              604                           7,236
June                               559                           7,795
1979/80
September                          559                           8,354
December                           559                           8,913
March                              587                           9,500
June
!/Lagged by 9 months to allow for delays in Project
implementation and document processing.
October 1, 1973






ANNEX 10
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procedures and Guidelines of Evaluation and Reporting 1/
1.        EPID's Planning, Evaluation and Liaison Division (PELD) has,
among others, the following duties and responsibilities with respect to
all Comprehensive Projects including the Lower Adiabo Development Project:
(a) To develop suitable planning and evaluation methods and
procedures;
(b) To monitor planning and evaluation activities;
(c) To compile and analyze suggested work programs and budgets;
(d) To appraise progress reports, budget follow-ups and
evaluation reports;
(e) To participate in long-term planning, project preparation
and discussion of new project activities;
(f)  To assure exchange of experience among the Comprehensive
Projects with the Minimum Package Program;
(g) To provide, arrange and/or coordinate services and/or
activities to avoid duplication of effort;
(h) To arrange coordination of rules, regulations and procedures
among Comprehensive Projects and with the Minimum Package
Program in order to assure uniformity;
(i) To serve as a secretariat to the Ministerial and Liaison
Committees of EPID.
2.        TAHADU would have a small Planning and Evaluation Unit in the
Project area. The Unit would carry out internal planning and evaluation
of the Project components and activities in accordance with the reporting
system devised by EPID's Planning Evaluation and Liaison Division (PELD).
PELD would provide the Project with guidelines within which framework the
Project's Planning and Evaluation Unit would undertake "internal" evaluation,
which would be used in making "external" evaluation by PELD. The guidelines
would mainly focus on:
1/  Drawn up by the Ethiopian delegation and accepted at negotiations of
the Development Credit Agreement in Washington in February 1974.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 2
(a) An outline of planning and evaluation program.
(b) M4ethodology for field surveys:
(i) Baseline surveys;
(ii) Crop sampling surveys;
(iii)  Credit program analysis;
(iv) Meteorological surveys;
(v)  Soil sampling surveys; and
(vi) Special studies to explore some aspects of
Project activities.
3.        The Project's Evaluation Unit would be responsible for:
(a)  Collection of basic data and preparation of baseline studies;
(b)  Assisting all departments, divisions, sections, and units of
the Project in preparing their annual work programs and
budgets, and assisting the Project Director in compiling
the total work program and budget and in the preparation of
quarterly and annual reports;
Cc)  Internal evaluation of various components of the Project with
particular emphasis on the settlement and cooperatives
promotion program;
(d)  Cost/benefit analysis at the Project and farmer level;
(e)  Launching special studies at the request of various divisions,
sections, aid units of the Project;
(f) Identification and conduct of feasibility studies for ouall-scale
agro-industrial ventures; and
(g)  Collection of necessary data for the preparation of a
subsequent phase of the Project.
4.        The Project's Evaluation Unit would play a key role in systematic
collection, documentation, and "internal" evaluation of settlement and
cooperatives promotion costs in order to improve the efficiency of the
Project and the Government's ability to formulate and implement its national
development policy in general and settlement policy in particular.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 3
5.        EPID would continuously oversee the activities of the Project (as
with those of all other comprehensive projects) through the systematic and
regular flow of information and a reporting system.
6.        It is emphasized that the primary function of the Project's Planning
and Evaluation Unit would be to ensure that information on the Project and its
progress is collected and processed on a continuing basis in conformity with
the requirements of PELD. With regard to the technical aspects of this work
the Unit should expect to receive and accept guidance and supervision from
PELD. PELD would continuously develop and revise methodology for data
collection.
February 27, 1974






ANNEX 11
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop and Livestock Production
1.        About 56% of the area available and with potential for cropping
(after allowing for some relocation of farmers) is currently under a crop;
a further 21% is fallow, and 23% has potential for cropping but has not yet
been cultivated (some of it has been cleared). The present ratio of fallow
to cropped land is much lower on black than on other soils (about .143:1 as
compared to .5:1 on other soils). At present the main crops grown are sorghum
and sesame, with 25-30% of the total area cropped in any one year being under
sesame and the remainder in sorghum. Present yields of sorghum and sesame,
averaged over good and bad years alike, are about 7 quintals per ha and 2 quir.-
tals per ha respectively. In good years sorghum yields average about 10 quin-
tals per ha and sesame 3.5. The present ratio, for all soils taken together,
of fallow to cropped area is .37:1. The average holding of farmers presently
resident in the area is, therefore, approximately as follows:
Area cropped with sorghum            2.0 ha
Area cropped with sesame             1.0 ha
Area fallow                          1.0 ha
2.        Future increases in agricultural output for the market or
consumption must primarily be sought through increasing per ha yields. Any
increase in the total area cropped each year, whether achieved by bringing
entirely new areas under cultivation or by reducing fallow, will mainly be
given over to the growing of fodder crops for consumption by the farmer's own
livestock. It is forecast that yields (averaged over good and bad years
together) of sorghum and sesame can be progressively raised to 14 quintals/ha
and to 5.5 quintals/ha in the first five years after each participating farmer
joins the Project's program. In good years sorghum yields will average 16 and
sesame 6 quintals per ha. Yield increases after the first five years from
each farmer's incorporation in the program will be more gradual. At the end
of 5 years a typical farmer's cropping pattern will be:
Sorghum              1.7 ha
Sesame               1.3 ha
Fodder crop          2.0 (minimum 1.5 ha)
Fallow               0.0 (maximum 0.5 ha)
Total                5.0 ha
3.        Farmers explain the present high fallow:cropped area ratio (on soils
uthtr than black ones) as being a result of the declining yields obtained
from land cropped for 3 or more years in succession. The decline in yields



ANNEX 11
Page 2
is attributed both to increasing weed infestation and to declining natural
fertiLity, but it is not known whether the declining fertility is a result
of exhaustion of nutrients, deteriorating soil structure ur some other cause.
The generally low level of yields on new and old fields alike is attributed
to:
(a)  Inadequate rainfall.
(b)  Late planting due to slow%methods of seed bed preparation,
which cannot begin until the start of the rains has
softened the soil.
(c)  Inadequate seed bed preparation - partly due to inefficient
tools and partly due to lack of time to do it properly
(often only one ploughing is done which simultaneously breaks
the land and covers the seed which was broadcast before any
ploughing).
(u) Poor seed and seed varieties; inadequate amounts of seed,
unevenly sown and badly covered.
(e) Poor soil structure and fertility.
(f) Inadequate weed control.
(g) Infestation by pests.
4.        So far very little reliable information is available from the Proj-
ect area itself to show precisely how these causes of low yields may be
overcome.  The TDO farm in Tach Adiabo has had to struggle with such severe
organizational problems that it has not been able to provide much useful
information. Nevertheless, some of the yields, especially for sorghum,
recorded in the fertilizer trials carried out in the area show that good
yields in the area are possible, and research results elsewhere, especially
in similar parts of the Sudan and in Ethiopia, show ways in which most of
the problems can be overcome. The crop trials component of the Project will
not engage in original research (unless some peculiar local problem emerges)
but will concentrate on testing which of the useful research results obtained
elsewhere can be adopted and recommended for use in the Project area.
5.        Although some irrigation potential exists on the banks of the
tiehreb and Tekazze Rivers, the development of this is not one of the Project's
components. Moisture available to the crops will, therefore, always be a
fairly severe constraint on the level of crop yields. The average rainfall
in the area is thought to be in the range of 550-650 mm per year. Rain
gauges have been located in four places in the Project area spasmodically
since 1966. Nevertheless, neither the length of time for which records exist,
nor the skill with which these gauges are tended and read, is sufficient to
enable an accurate estimate of average rainfall and its reliability on the
basis of these alone. Thie Project area lies near the center of a triangle



i'iNEX 11
Page 3
of which the apexes are Asmara, Gondar and Setit Humera (for all of which
longer and more reliable records exist), but is somewhat north of the triangle's
center and nearer the Setit Humera to Asmara line. Annual rainfall at Asmara
(altitude 2,325 meters) averages 518 mm (67 years of records), at Setit Humera
(altitude '550 meters) 587 mm (20 years), and at Gondar (altitude 2,120 meters)
1,225 mm (31 years).
6.        Where yields decline on continuously cropped land as a result of
weed infestation, the process can be halted and reversed by herbicides,
improved cultivation techniques and appropriate rotations. Striga is a
problem in the Project area and needs to be controlled by introducing new
strigc.-resistant varieties (now being tested at Holetta Research Station) and
by a crop rotation involving the growing and then cutting or grazing, of sor5-
ghum and its ploughing-in before the striga has had a chance to set seed.
The requirement that all farmers given land under the Project should reside
permanently in the Project area, and should not migrate between highland aInd
lowland farms, will improve the standards uf hand-weeding. Weed-control
techniques will be one of the subjects of trials under the Project.
7.        Where yields are low, or decline over time as a result of the
exhaustion of soil nutrients, the use of artificial fertilizer may be calle&4!
for. Soil analysis indicates that the area's soils are poor to medium in
phosphorous status. The results of fertilizer trials already carried out in
the area are not so far conclusive, although in 1969 a good response in the
case of sorghum, and a fairly good response in the case of sesame, was shown
to NP applications. In the area of moderate and somewhat uncertain rainfall
the application of artificial fertilizer may be very unprofitable in some
years, although even in these cases there will be a residual improvement to
the soil, carrying into the next year. The use of fertilizer at an appli-
cation of 50 kg/ha is introduced into the projection of a model farmer's oper-
ations. Further investigations on the use of artificial fertilizer will be
carried on in trials under the Project, and other methods of maintaining
fertility, e.g. by appropriate crop rotation, will also be investigated.
8.        It is probable that late planting is one cause of present low
yields in the Project area (as has been found to be the case elsewhere). One
reason for late planting is because migrant farmers have two farms (one in
the higghlands), and the lowland farm only begins to get attention after sowing
on tht highland farm is cumplete.  Another reason for late planting is that
with the traditional plough, and the poor condition of work oxen at the end
of the dry season, it is difficult to start ploughing until after the start
of the rains has softened up the soil.
9.        A related problem is the very poor standard of seed bed preparation
anid seed covering. To produce a good seed bed with the traditional local
plough, up to 5 ploughings may be required, the last being to cover the seed.
These repeated ploughings may require over 100 hours of ploughing time per ha,
probably at least a month's work (oxen dependent on unfenced, unimproved,
grazing can not plough for more than a few hours per day). In the Project



ANNEX 11
Page 4
area, iiowever, because there is no time to do all this after the start of the
rains if the crGp is to be planted ln time for it to escape drying out un-
matured when the rains stop, often only a single ploughing takes place, with
the seed being scattered on the unbroken land before this ploughing. Not
surprisingly this technique leads to many unbroken clods of earth and seed
buried far too deep.
10.       It cannot be assumed that new tools which have given superior
results to the traditional sector elsewhere in Ethiopia will necessarily
do the same at a different altitude, on different soils and with different
crops, in Lower Adiabo. It would, however, be surprising if no improve-
ment on the traditional type of tools could be found. Trials with dif-
ferent tools, different dates of planting, znd different cultivation
methods (including post-emergence cultivatiol), will form part of the
trials carried out under the Project.
11.       In other parts of the world the introduction of new varieties
of seed has had dramatic effects. Variety trials will be carried out
under the Project to see whether improvements on local varieties of
sesame and sorghum can be found, although experience elsewhere (Setit
kumera and 1WADU) with sorghum and sesame suggest that Ethiopian varieties
may be best. The varieties currently in use in the Project area, however,
may have come down from the highlands, and may not be best adapted to
conditions at the lower altitude (the ones now grown in Lower Adiabo
appear to be dlifferent varieties than those grown at Setit Ilumera).
12.       iot a great deal is known yet about crop pests in the area,
except that at Badime froghoppers appear to be a serious problem. Sudan
dioch does not yet appear to be a problem. Trials for pesticides and
pest control measures will be carried out. Control of froghoppers has
been introduced in the 2nd year of the farm model.
13.       Out of the 5 ha holding proposed for farmers under the Project
3 ha are expected to be put to crops for sale or human consumption. The
remainder of the holding will be used for the production of fodder to
feed the farmer's livestock. The best fodder crop will be sorghum (S.
Vulgare, or possibly Sudan Grass, S. Sudanense). The very long dry
season in the Project area will prevent the establishment of permanent
pastures. The fact that 3.7 out of the total of 5 ha on the holding will
be sown to sorghum (1.7 for grain and 2.0 for fodder) will be an advantage
rather than a disadvantage. The fodder - sorghum will be cut before
maturity, and the roots and the stumps ploughed in as a green manure. Not
only will this improve the condition of the soil, but it will also help
in control of striga, since the growing of sorghum will stimulate the
germination of striga seed (no other crops and only a few other host plants
will), while the cutting and ploughing in of the sorghum and its associated
striga will prevent the striga setting seed. This system has been used
to good effect in the Central Rainlands in the Sudan.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 5
14.       Apart from the maintenance of soil fertility and structure, the
main cunstraint on peasant farming systems tends to be the availability
of human and animal labor in relation to the demands made upon them. The
following shows the labor utilization projected for the proposed cropping
pattern:



ANNEX 1 1
Labor Requiremerts on 5 ha Farm                Page 6
Man-days of    Oxen-pair
Period                   Tasks                                     human labor    days
required       required
February-     a) Very little labor required. Some maintenance
April            work will be undertaken.
May
(X1 days)     a) plough 2 ha ploughed in previous September           12.0             ..
(once)
b) Plough 1 ha not ploughed in previous
September (once).                                   12.0           12.0
c) Spread fertiliser on 2 ha.                           2.0              -
Period Total                                        26.o           214.0
lst-21st      a) Harrow 3 ha ploughed in May (Twice each)              6.o            6.5
June          b) Plough 1 ha for fodder crop (once)                   12.0
(21 days)        Period Total                                         18.0          15.0.
z'nd June-    a) Broadcast seed on 3 ha cash and food crops            4.5
July          b) Cover seed with harrow on 3 ha cash  and
food crops                                           3.0            3.3
c) Plough 1 ha of fodder crop (once)                    8.0            8.0
Period Total                                        15.5           11.0
Remainder     a) Harrow 1 ha fodder crop (twice)                       2.)
of July       b) Broadcast seed on 1 ha fodder crop                    1.5
(24 days)     c) Cover seed on 1 ha fodder crop                        1.0           1.0
d) Apply herbicide on 3 ha cash and food crops          6.o
e) Apply insecticide on 2 ha sorghum                     o.0 
f) Harrow 1 ha fodder crop (twice)                      2.0            2.0
g) Broad cast seed on 1 ha fodder crop                  1,5              _
h) Cover seed on 1 ha fodder crop                       1.0            1.3
i) Hand weed 1 ha cash and food crops (1st time)        6.o
Period Total                                        25.0
August        a) Hand weed l ha cash and food crops (1st time)        6.o
(31 days)     b) Hand weed 2 ha fodder crops (1st time)               12.0
c) Hand weed 3 ha cash and food crops (2nd time)       12.0
Period Total                                        30.0
1/ In fifth year.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 7
Man-days of   Oxen-pair
?eri ad                         Tasks                              human labor       days
required      required
eptermber  ta) Cut and carry 1 ha fodder crop                        10.0            8.0
(b) Plough in one ha fodder crop                            4.0           4.0
(c) Cit and carry 2nd ha fodder crop                      10.0            8.0
(d) Plough in 2nd ha fodder crop                            4.0           4.0
(e) Bird watch grain sorghum 1/                             7.0             -
Period Total                                           35.0          24.0
-ct,ber    \ .a) Bird watch grain sorghum 1/                         17.0
-1 5th
15 days)
(a) Harvest 1.3 ha sesame                                 20.0              -
10-30th
(b) Bird watch grain sorghum                                1.0
Period Total                                           21.0             -
November   (a) Thrash Sesame (5.5 quintals)                           17.5              -
(b) Harvest 1 ha sorghum                                    8.o              -
Period Total                                           25.5              -
December   (a) Harvest 0.7 ha sorghum                                  6.0              -
(b) Deliver 5.5 quintals sesame for sale                    2.0            2.0
(c) Thrash 12.0 quintals sorghum                           12.0           4-C
Period Total                                           20.0           6.0
<'.Ilnary    (a) Thrash 11.8 quintals of sorghum                      12.0            4.0
(b) Delivery 15 quintals sorghum for sale                   7.0           7-.
Period Total                                           19.0          11.0
If I: child labor can be used,more time should be given to this task.



ANNX 1 1
Page 8
Theoretical maximum availabilities per farm holding are:
Man-days - 40 (no hired labor)
Oxen - pair days - 30 (1 day = 6 working hours)
In practice limits of 35 and 25 respectively are more probable. Initially,
because of the very strong hold of the church in the area, limits of labor
availability will be less, and as few as 17 or 13 working days may be
allowed in some months. It is probable that as the area develops this
particular constrainz on availability will tend to relax. The figures in
the table ignore requirements for cattle herding, which will be met by
hired or child labor.
15.       As can be seen from the above table the critical months for use
of human labor are June-October inclusive, and for oxen labor the months
of May, June and September. At the prices forecast for sorghum and
sesame in the early years of the Project, there is no great difference in
gross value of output between a hectare of sorghum and a hectare of sesame.
At the prices forecast for later years the gross value of a hectare of
sesame is higher than that of sorghum, and a limited switch from sorghum
to sesame production may be possible.  However, the constraint of labor
availability for sesame harvesting is more acute than would appear from
labor availability and requirement figures for a whole month, since sesame
harvesting may have to be compressed into a 2-week period. A critical
;-inft.uption is the ploaigIling inl of 2 lha of fodder crops in September, and
with the lower pull requirements of improved tools, of 3 ha of land in May or
earlier before much rain has softened up the soil.
The Putential for Increasing Livestock Output
16.       There is, at present, no net sale of cattle from the Project
area. Rather the area is a net importer of cattle. The reasons for this
are the extremely high mortality rates, low fertility, and the very high
requirements in the area of oxen for ploughing. The causes of mortality
are summarized from the veterinary team's report. Mortality (including
abortions) of calves in their first year of life is about 33%. For older
animals it is probably about 10-12%. According to herd owners (Cossins
1971), the causes of death among calves are as follows:
% of all calf deaths
Rinderpest                                26.3
Starvation                                15.6
Abortions                                 13.8
llyena attack                              8.6
Coccidiosis                                6.6
Trypanosomiasis                            6.0
Blackquarter                               4.8
Other                                     13.3
100.0



ANNEX 11
Page 9
17.       Precise details are not available for adult animals, but Rinder-
pest is almost certainly the most common cause of death. A veterinary
team (1971) cite Rinderpest, Blackleg, Trypanosomiasis and Anaplasomosis
as the most serious diseases. CBPP is not, at the moment, a problem in
this area. Although Trypanosomiasis exists in the area, it is not thought
to be an important direct cause of death, although the high proportion of
animals said to die "from starvation" may be partially attributed to this
disea e. Tick infestation in the area tends to be heavy. Ticks are the
probable cause of some diseases (Brucellosis, Anaplasomosis) found in the
area, but are more generally regarded by local farmers as the cause of
overall bad conditions in animals, and especially of damaged udders in
female animals, leading to poor milk productlon.
18.       Questioning herd owners about cattle fertility produced answers
suggesting a fertility rate of about 50-60%. When the questioning was
accompanied by physical per rectum examination to aid pregnancy diagnosis,
however, a much higher fertility rate (70%) was indicated.
For present standards of husbandry a fertility rate of 70% seems improbably
high.
19.       Shortage of water points, or more particularly shortage of water
points where adequate amounts of water can be drawn with the available
labor force, is also a problem. Cattle are watered in the dry season every
other day, instead of daily. Shortage of water points leads to uneven use
of the grazing, with areas further avay from water points not being as thor-
ou,ghly grazed.
2P.       After disease, the most critical constraint on livestock develop-
ment is shortage of grazing.  Estimates of livestock numbers in 1972 in the
area in March, gives a figure of 58,000 cattle. Another estimate made in
1971 was 31,000 of which 6-8,000 belong to temporary immigrant herders.
The implied actual stocking rate derived from these figures is therefore
between 12 and 7 ha per animal and probably, therefore, between 9 and 6 ha
per livestock unit. A World Bank (1970) Mission estimated the carrying
capacity of the area at 4 ha per livestock unit, although most other
observers have been more pessimistic. Apart from the usual problems
arising from uncontrolled grazing there are particular problems on the
black soils arising from the dominance of Hyperrhenia and Cymbopogon
species. These are unpalatable to stock except when young, and are com-
monly burnt off every year, which again perpetuates the dominance of these
particular species.  The resulting preference of the cattle for the red
soil grazing has led to a degree of over-utilization that has destroyed
most of the grass cover on these areas.
21.       Present castration methods are inefficient.  In some animals it
is ineffective. In others it leads to a severe check on growth.



ANNEX 11
Page 10
22.       In most cases the technical solutions to these problems of livet.
stock are known, although appropriate methods for managing the grass spec-.es
and grazing in the area have yet to be determined.  The majority of the
cattle in the Project area will be incorporated into village grazing schemes,
and the following are the measures which will be taken to overcome the
problems listed above:
(i) Free and compulsory vaccinations against:
(a) Rinderpest, regularly
(b) Anthrax (when required)
(c) CBPP (when required)
(d) Brucellosis
(ii)  Vaccinations not compulsory and for a charge, against:
(a)  Trypanosomiasis
(b) Liverfluke (Fascioliasis)
(c) Blackleg
(iii)  Compulsory regular dipping, effective against tick
infestation generally, and specifically to reduce
the incidence of Anaplasmosis, Brucellosis (possibly),
and Mastitis.
(iv)  Provision of water supplies.  These will:
(a) Enable daily watering, keeping all cattle in
better condition.
(b) Improve hygiene at watering places, and hence
reduce the incidence of Fascioliasis.
(c) Enmble better and more even exploitation of
grazing. It is estimated that 90% of each village's
grazing area will be less than 5 km from water.
(v) The supervisor of each village grazing area will be issued
proper castration equipment, and will be instructed in its use.
(vi)  Fencing of village grazing areas.  This will permit:
(a) Limitation of total cattle numbers on the area;
(b) Prevention of indiscriminate grazing by nomadic herds;
(c) Some grazing management and, as a consequence, an
improvement in pastures;



ANNEX 1 1
Page 1 1
(vii) A hyena control program, which will reduce mortality,
especially that of calves.
23.       All the measures listed above will also be taken on the coopera-
tive ranch; the degree of management of grazing on this ranch will be much
higher than on village grazing areas, allowing faster growth of animals
and reduced incidence of certain diseases (e.g. parasitic gastroenteritis,
parasitic bronchitis).
August. 31, 1973






ANNEX 12
Page 1
EThIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing and Prices
1.        The Project's output would consist of sorghum, sesame, live cattle,
and a small amount of milk (consumed as family subsistence), all traditional
Tigrean products for which there are ready markets and well established trad-
ing patterns. Marketable output has been valued at producer prices ex vil-
lage cooperative store, and are directly related to world market prices
(Tables 3 and 4).
Sorghum
2.        There is no national homogeneous grain market in Ethiopia.  This
is mainly because production (and consumption) areas are widely separated
from each other, and transport facilities are inadequate. Other marketing
problems include the absence of accurate market or price information outside
the network of traders and merchants, a failure to enforce standard weights
and measures, and shortage of capital to carry and store grains from harvest-
ing season until periods of scarcity. Government efforts to alleviate these
difficulties resulted in the creation of the Grain Board and the Grain Cor-
poration. These institutions, however, have only a very limited impact on
grain marketing in rural areas. The grain produced in the Project area and
other renmote parts of the country is marketed by small traders answerable
to wholesale merchants who finance the operations. There are few reliable
production or consumption statistics for sorghum. Nevertheless, certain
inferences can be drawn from such information as is available. National
trade statistics indicate that there has been a tendency for cereal exports
to decline and for imports, particularly of wheat, to increase. It would
seem, therefore, that the rate of increase of domestic output has been below
that of market demand.
3.        Three major determinants of domestic demand for sorghum are (i) the
rate of population growth; (ii) the growth of incomes; and (iii) the relation
between sorghum prices and the prices of barley, maize, wheat and teff. The
present population of Tigre Province is estimated at 1.5 million. With the
population growing at the national average rate of approximately 1.5% per
year, the population of Tigre Province will grow by about 300,000 by 1984.
The annual grain consumption by that time is projected at 190 kg per head
of population. Thus there will be an incremental demand, purely from pop-
ulation increase, of 57,000 metric tons per year by 1984. By that date,
the output from this Project is estimated at 23,000 tons a year. Demand
effects arising from income growth are somewhat ambiguous. It has been
noticed in Ethiopia that there is a tendency for individuals to consume less
sorghum (which is considered a low quality grain) and consume more wheat and
teff as incomes increase. It is difficult to judge to what extent this sub-
stitution effect will outweigh the pure income effect.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
4.        International demand for Ethiopian sorghum Is extremely difficult
to identify and is probably so small as to be practically non-existent.
This is because Ethiopian sorghums differ in important characteristics from
most of the feed sorghums which dominate the international market. Further-
more, in EthLopian trade statistics sorghum is lumped together with other
grains. Tile producer price used for valuing Project sorghum output has been
directly related to world prices, even though it is not envisaged that any
of the sorghum would be exported. The long-term international demand for
Ethiopian sorghum depends on the sorghum/maize price ratio in world markets,
the parity price of Ethiopian sorghum as compared with sorghum from other
sources, and the demand characteristics for animal feed sorghum in Japan,
U.S.A. and Europe - the main importing areas.
5.        In addition to the peak output of about 29,000 metric tons expected
from this Project, sorghum is also being produced under the Minimum Package
Project and several other agricultural projects in Ethiopia. Tigre Province
is at the moment a net importer of grain from other countries. However,
there is no clear evidence of how much, if any, of these net imports consist
of sorghum. In view of possible demand constraints and high supply poten-
tial noted above, a situation of over-supply of sorghum is forecast for the
countrv as a whole in the 1980s. This would result in a decline of the aver-
age producer price from Eth$14 to Eth$10.50 per quintal by 1980/81. To deal
with this market situation, this Project has also provided for intensive
research and crop trials into alternative crops with a view to reducing the
2roject's reliance on sorghum.
Sesame /
6.        Ethiopian sesame production constitutes a small part of the total
world output of major oilseeds. Among the important producers are India,
Peoples Republic of China, Sudan and Mexico; Ethiopia's share in tDtal world
output is only about 3 per cent. Most of the output, however, is consumed
in the producing countries themselves, and exports constitute only about one
tenth of the total annual output. The main exporting countries are Sudan
and Ethiopia, roughly accounting for two-fifths and one-fifth of world
exports respectively. The rest of the exports are shared by about a dozen
countries. The principal importing countries are Italy, Japan and the
United States. Sesame seed is partly crushed to produce oil and partly used
directly in confection and bakery products.
7.        World production of sesame seed has increased from an annual aver-
age of 1.54 million tons in the triennium ending 1963 to an annual average
of 2.01 million tons in the triennium ending 1971, representing a rate of
growth of about 3.3 percent a year. Most of the important producers achieved
considerable progress in output, but the fastest growth occurred in Sudan
and Ethiopia (the two main exporters) and in Venezuela (Table 5). World
1/   A substantial portion of this section has been contributed by Mr. R.
Dayal of IBRD Economic Analysis and Projections Department.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
exports of sesame seed (the exports of sesame oil being negligible) increased
from an antnual average of 0.17 million tons in the triennium ending 1963 to
0.20 million tons in the triennium ending 1971, or an annual average rate of
increase of about 2.1 percent. Most of the increase in exports came from
Ethiopia and Sudan (Table 6). World imports were similar to world exports,
the difference between the two being generally the quantities in transit
and minor accounting discrepancies. The increased imports were mainly to
Italy and Japan and to some extent the U.S.A. The other importers showed
pra_tically no increase in their trade in the commodity (Table 7). Prices
o0  gesane se(d rose steadily from an average of i 77.20 a metric ton cif
ELrope in the triennium ending 1963 to i 110.80 in the triennium ending 1971.
In March 1973 prices increased further to i 134.80.
8.        The future market prospeci:s for sesame seed depend on the growth in
productiorL in the main exporting countries and consumption in the main import-
ing countries. Encouraged by the high prices of sesame seed in recent years,
Sudan and Ethiopia - the two main exporters.- are expected to continue the
substantial rate of growth in production and exportable surplus. It seems
unlikely that any of the other major producers such as India, Peoples Republic
uf China or Mexico would emerge as significant exporters in the next several
years. These countries are experiencing a sharp increase in domestic demand
due to rapid population increases and economic development, and the growth in
their output would hardly be sufficient to meet domestic needs.
9.        The import demand for sesame seed (which comes mostly from Italy,
Japan and the United States) is expected to increase in line with the growth
in population and per capita incomes. As for the influence of prices, it
seems reasonable to assume that the seed used for crushing is more responsive
to price movements than seed used directly for food purposes.  This is likely
to be true due to the possibilities of substitution between sesame oil and
other fats and oils. Some substitutability between sesame seed and other
oilseeds such as groundnuts, sunflower seed and copra in direct food uses is
also possible, but it seems that consumer preference for particular seeds
for direct food uses is more rigid.
10.       As sesame seed oil is much more expensive 1/ than most other fats
and oils and sesame seed cake is not as popular as soya and some other
cakes/meals, it is expected that a decreasing proportion of sesame seed
would be used for crushing and an increasing proportion for direct food use.
Already, ithe United States employs practically all its sesame seed imports
for direct food use; although no precise information is available for Italy
and Japan, it is believed that these two countries use substantial if not
major proportions of their imports for edible purposes. This tendency would
be encouraged as large expected increases in output of oils and fats, partic-
ularly soy bean oil and palm oil, bring about a downward adjustment in the
prices of fats and oils from their present high levels.
I/   No regular quotations of international prices of sesame seed oil are
available; the reason is the absence, for all practical purposes, of
international trade in this oil.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
11.       Moreover, the elastic nature of demand for sesame seed 'or cru8h-
ing would contribute to the long-run stability of the prices of s4same seed.
Given the normal prices of fats and oils in general, any significint increase
in the prices of sesame seed above the normal level would make sesame seed
oil more expensive in relation to other fats and oils, and this would have
the effect of reducing the demand for sesame seed oil and sesame seed for
crushing, thereby curbing the rising tendency of sesame seed prices. Simi-
larly, if sesame seed supply tends to exceed demand and its prices tend to
fall, it will make sesame seed oil cheaper in relation to other fats and
oils, and the consequential increase in the demand for sesame oil and seed
would arrest the downward movement in the prices of sesame seed.
12.       In recent years Ethiopian exports of sesame seed have been as
follows:
1971-
1964   1965   1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   6 monthv
Price FOB Eth$/ton         472    445    554    576    519    510    587    655
Value Eth$ million            6.8   10.0   11.2   11.4   14.0   15.6   22.3   12.9
Metric tons (rounded) '000 14.4   22.4   20.2   19.8   27.0   30.6   39.7   19.7
Source: C.S.O. and Customs.
It is expected that practically all the incremental output of sesame from
the Project would be exported. Although the price of sesame is not expected
to continue to rise as sharply as it has done in the recent past, it is not
expected to fall much below the 1970 level.* The Project's income from sesame
has been calculated at Eth$47 per quintal e>-village cooperative store. This
price is directly related to a wholesale Asmara price of Eth$51.26 and an FOB
Mlassawa price of Eth$56.27 per quintal or Eth$563 per metric ton. (Table 4)
This price is well below the prices Ethiopian sesame has been fetching since
1970 (see figures above), and is in line with the long term prices projected
by the IBRD Economic Analysis and Projections Department.
Cattle
13.       The domestic markets for cattle are of four main types:
(a) local markets where farmers trade breeding and work animals
among themselves;
(b)  primary markets in towns and villages where traders meet
producers;
(c)  secondary imarkets, mainly on routes to consumption centers,
where dealers trade among themselves; and
(d)  terminal markets where dealers sell to local butchers, slaughter
houses and live animal exporters.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
There is at present a limited domestic demand for quality beef cattle, but
this demand is expected to increase with the rise in the general level of
incomes. There is a considerable export potential for such cattle, especially
in the Arab countries to the north. The Project's output of cattle would
come partly from individual farmers' herds and partly from the cooperative
ranch. The former would be sold in the livestock market to be built and
maintained by the cooperative union, while fattened cattle from the ranch
would be sold direct to cattle merchants. Several surveys of cattle prices
have been made in Lower Adiabo over the last three years; the results are
shown below:
------------------ Eth$ per head -----------------------
Min. of Agri. CSO study Cossins Ellman Ato Abay Tedla
Type of Animal           team 1970         1970       1971     1971         1971
1 year old calf            30-40
2 year old immature        50-60
3 year old immature        60-80
Cow                      60-80          90-100                100
Bull or steer            80-100                      90       100       100-150
Ploughing ox                            100         140       100       120-150
14.       The canning plants in Asmara currently pay (at the plant) between
Eth$0.27 and Eth$0.33 per liveweight kg. For animals of higher quality than
normally go for canning, prices up to Eth$0.50 or Eth$0.60 per liveweight kg
are paid in Asmara. The LMB's Middle East Marketing Mission's (1971) report
shows that live exports to Saudi Arabia would fetch Eth$0.70 per liveweight kg
in Jeddah; this, after deducting all the intervening costs other than the
pLre profit margins of traders, gives a price in the Project area of Eth$0.44
per liveweight kg. As a result of the Project, cattle sales would
increase from about 3,200 adult culls (50% female) in the third year to about
10,340 adult culls and 1,900 finished male animals by about the 12th year.
15.       The calculations in this proposal assume that the average liveweight
of culled animals (male and female together) will be about 280 kg for tne
first six years of the Project (1974-1979) inclusive, and 310 kg thereafter.
Both these figures (especially the latter) are considerably higher than the
average weight of animals currently processed by the meat industry in Asmara,
but these animals will have been kept under much better conditions - especaiL
in the latter years - than the animals now making up the Asmara intake. For
finished steers produced by the commercial-type cooperative ranch, an average
liveweight at sale of 400 kg is assumed.
16.       The FAO 1970-1980 commodity projections forecast a growing gap
(at constant prices) between world demand for meat and its supply. By 1980
world import demand is projected to exceed w9rld export supply by some
2.1 million tons, an amount equivalent to about 40% of the world's 1970 b
trade in meat (and its products). For beef and veal the projected deficit,
1.7 million tons, is equivalent to about 60% of the present level of world
trade in this commodity. The estimates of demand going into this projection



ANNEX 12
Page 6
take into account growth in world population and incomes and income elasti-
cities of demand. On the supply side the projection takes into account
past trends, the probable impact of recent policy measures, carrying capaci-
ties of pastures, and some technical changes. A reasonable proportion of
the projected "world gap" arises in respect of countries in the Middle East
and Asia, whose hygiene requirements for meat imports are not as high as
those of Western Europe.
17.       The implication of these projected world gaps is a risii\g trend in
meat prices, and especially those of beef and veal. In calculatieg Project
income a price of Eth$0.33 per liveweight kilogram at the canning plants at
Asmara is used for all culled animals for the first six years of the Project
(1974-1979 inclusive), and a price of Eth$0.37 (i.e. a 12% price rise) there-
after.
18.       The cost of transporting an animal (including marketing fees)
from Sheraro to Asmara is calculated at Eth$9 per head. On the weight and
price assumptions made, this gives a price per head for culled animals in
the Project area of Eth$83 in the first period and Eth$106 in the second.
For higher quality finished animals from the commercial type cooperative
r,anch a price per liveweight kilogram of Eth$0.44 in the Project area is
assumed for the first six years (1974-1979), and a price of Eth$0.50
thereafter.  For the sale weight assumed this gives a price of Eth$176 in
the first period and Eth$200 in the second.
August 31, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sorghum and Sesame Price Series in Asmara Market
Monthly Average Prices of Sorghum and Sesame (1968 - 1971) in Asmara
Wholesale Market. (EthT .per quintal)
MONTH               1967                1968                1969                1970                1971                1972
SESAME  SORGHUM    SESAME  SORGIHJM    SESAME  SORGHUM    SESAME  SORGHUM    SESAME  SORGHUM    SESAME  SORGHLZM
JANUARY        55.00   22.60       50.83   13.00        42.00   15.50           -   17.67       62.00   17.00       58.00   27.00
FEBRUARY       56,00   24.o6        50.18   14,00       44.38   19.25           -   21.00       58.o0   17.00           -        -
MARCH          57.75   23.31        49.00   14.50       46.50   18.33       61.00   23.10       63-50   20.00       62.25   26.50
APRIL               -       -       46.80   13.90       46.62   18.00       62.00   25.66           -        -      61.25   27.00
MAY            66.03   22.93        45.87   10.00       47.75   17.50       60.25   27.00       64.50   22.00       61.66   28.66
JUNE           67.20   24.00        42.62    9.37       50.80   18.1o       60.00   27.83           -        -      62.66   17.33
JULY                -       -       42.00   lo.14           -   20.50           -       -           -        _      63.00   18.33
AUGUST              -   23.00       43.50   LL.,6       51.00   21.00           -   31.00           -        -      63.50   25.00
SEPTEMBER      27.00   22.00       44.60   11.70            -   21.00           -   33.00       71.00   15.00       64.oo   25.00
OCTOBER        27.00   22.00        41.12   12.87           -       -       59.00   30.00       62.25   17,12       54.oo   13.00
NOVEMBER        46.48   17.00       39.37   13.37       49.66   19.00       60.00   27.00       58.66   21.66       55.75   21.12
DECErBER        48.25   13.33       41.70   15.00           -   20.00       60.50   26.50       58.25   26.00       57.00   25.00
AVERAGE         50.07   21.42       44.8o   12,41      J47 34   18.93       60.39   26.34       62.27   19.47       60.27   23.08
- Information not available.
Source: Ethiopian 'rain Corporation.



ETHIOPIA                          ANNEX 12
Table 2
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Analysis of 1973 Sorghum Price A
Price per quintal
Et,h.$     -Eth.$
Price paid to farmer at village cooperative store A                                  11.55
Loading at village cooperative store, unloading and reloading
at Union Store                                                                      0.30
Transport:
Primary cooperative to Union Store Yrga 35 Kms at $0.012                o.42
Yrga to Barentu Feed or road junction 40 Kms at   $0.012                o.48
Feed road junction to Asmara 174 Kms. at            $o.oo84              1.46       2.36
Unloading at Asmara                                                                   0.10
Price to wholesaler at Asmara (naked)                                                14.31
Bag                                                                                   1.50
Wholesaler price (bagged) at Asmara                                                  15.81
Cleaning and fumigation                                                   0.39
Wholesalers margin                                                         0.50
Loading at Asmara                                                          0.03
Insurance                                                                  0.20
Chamber of Commerce fee                                                   0.03
Export tax (2%)                                                           0.36
Transport Asmara to Massawa (115 Kms. at $o.oo84 Km.)                     o.96
Loading of ship                                                           0.20
Exporters margin                                                          0.71        3.38
F.O.B. price Massawa                                                                 19.19
Shipping,insurance and handling Massawa to Rotterdam                                 14.50
Price per quintal C.I.F. Rotterdam                                                   23.69
Price per metric ton C.I.F. Rotterdam Eth$237 or US$114 A3
/1  Prices of different types of sorghum differ. For example consumers in the Project
area pay more for white sorghum than for the dark variety. The price used here is
about half way between prices of white and dark sorghums.
2  $14 per quintal in years 1-6; $10.50 in years 7-20.
/3 Price of U.S. No.2 yellow sorghum for delivery CIF Rotterdam in July 1973
according to USDA was US$118 per metric ton.



ANNEX 1 2
ETHIOPIA                       Table 3
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Analysis of Sesame Seed Price
Price per quintal
Producer price at primary cooperative store                                          4700
Loading at primary store, unloading and reloading at
Union Storc                                                                          0.30
Transport:
Primary cooperative to Union store, Yrga 35 kms.
at Eth$0.012                                                            $0.42
Yrga to Barentu Feed or Road junction 40 kms.
at Eth.$0.012                                                            o.48
Feed Road Junction to Asmare. 174 kms.
at Eth.$o.oo84                                                           1.46        2.36
Unloading at Asmara                                                                    0.10
Price to who>esaler at Asmara (naked)                                                 49.76
Bag                                                                                    1.50
Price to wholesaler at Asmara (bagged)                                                51.26
Cleaning                                                                               0.40
Wholesaler's margin                                                                    0.75
Loading at Asmara                                                                      0.10
Insurance                                                                              0.30
Chamber of Commerce Fee                                                                0.10
Export Tax (2%)                                                                        1.
Transport Asmara to Massawa (115 kms. at $0.0084/km)                                   0.
Loading  of ship
Exporter's margin                                                                      1
Price F.O.B. Massawa                                                                  56.:.
Shipping, insurance and handling Massawa to Japan                                      3
.  ce C.I.F.. Japan                                                                     59 -
Price per metric ton C.I.F. Japan Eth.593  or US$286
/I Average price C.I.F. Japan for first 3 months of 1973 was L Sterling 130.5 or
US$326.



ANNEX 12
Table 4-
ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVEWPMNT PROJECT
Sesame Seed: Production by Major Producing
Countries and World Total, Annual 176T--77-
(thousand metric tons)
1961  1962  1963  1964  1965  1966  1967  1968  1969  1970  1971 A
Mexico              147   156   170   172   162   167   154   158   146   163   200
Venezuela            25    28    31    47    59    60    81    76    83   126   12
Ethiopia            33    31   31    32    33    37    51    60    69    70    70
Sudan              232   1142   171   184   160   134   186   122   202   329   350
India              372   464   439   493   420   416   445   423   448   568   460
China, P.R. of     325   340   340   370   370   365   365   365   365   365   370
All Others         373   391   370   421   387   416   45L   440   479   506   522
World Total      1,507 1,552 1,552 1,719 1,591 1,595 1,736 1,644 1,792 2,127 1,984
/1 Preliminary
Source: FAO, Trade Yearbook, various issues; and
USDA, Foreign Agriculture Circular, Fats and Oils, October 1972



ANNEX 1 2
Table5
ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPM'ENT PROJECT
Sesame Seed: Exports fran Specified Countries
and Estimated World Total, Annual 1 961 -71
(thousand metric tons)
1961  1962  1963  1964  1965  1966  1967  1968  1969  1970  1971 /1.
Mexico                 -     2    23      2     0.4   3    22       2      3     -      1
Nicaragua             8      6     6      6     6      5     7      9     7      6     5
Ethiopia             11    10      9    14    22    20    20    27    31    40    35
Sudan                63    77    70   101    71    74    76    85   113    82    86
Nigeria              21    24    16    18    21    25        3    14    16    12        8
Tanzania             12      8    10      7    10      7     7      7     7      5     6
Indonesia             2      2     2      2     6      7     6      4     2      8      8
China, P.R. of        2      1     2      1     4      3     2      1     2      1     1
Khner Rep.            6      8     6      1     9      5     7      5      4     7      3
Thailand              4      7     4      3     4      5     4      4                   7
All Others           26    36    30    30    25.6  2h    3L    32    29    32    35
World Total         155   1 81   178   185   179   178   188   190   218   198   195
/1 Preliminary.
Source: FAO, Trade Yearbook, various issues; and
US1)A, Fore'gn Agriculture Circular, Fats and Oils, October 1972.



ANNEX 12
Table 6
ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sesame Seed: Imports by Selected Countries
and Estimated World Total, Annmal 1961-71
(thousand metric tons)
1961  1962  1963  1964  1965  1966  1967  1968  1969  1970  1971 /1
Western Europe       32    48    48    4       48    56    52      3    72           66
Italy             20    21    33    27    31    41    36    45    52    40    51
Others            12    27    15    14    17    15    16    18    20    12    15
United States        10     9    12    11    13    14    16    15    18    19    21
Japan                22    28    33    34    33    38    40    39    34    53    41
USSR                 12     8    10    12       8     -     8      9    12     9      8
Egypt                12    16    10      7     5      7    16      9    10    19    10
All Others /2        50    50    47    48    52    38    30    46    48    53    55
World Total         138   159   160   153   159   153   162   181   194   205   201
/1  Preliminary.
/2 Includes a large number of' small importers.
Source: FAO, Trade Yearbook, various issues; and
USDA, Foreign Agriculture Circular, Fats and Oils, October 1972.



l'r'Wl2l A,l, l' l/lJ ,l' ll M        rPROJECT
Crops (ha;)                                                                          Yso' I        ir er 2        ear 3       Year 4         Year 5       Year 6       Year6 7-20
Sorghu=                                                                                           2          1.8            1.7          1.7           1.7              1.7
Seeane                                                                               I            1          1.2            1.3          1.3           1.3              1.3
Fodder                                                                                            1          2              2            2             2                2
Total    ho           3             4          5              5            5             5                5
Yield (Qtls/ha)
Sorghoa                                                                             7            11         13             13           14            14               14
Se.e-                                                                               2             2          3.5            4.5          5.5           5.5              5.5
Total froductio QOuintals
Sorgh..                                                                            14            22         23.4           22.1         23.8         23.8              23.8
Sesae                                                                                2            2          4.2            5.8          7.1           7.1              7.1
Livestock
Milk in Litres                                                                    140           160         190            230          270           270              2.0
A.  Cost of Production
UDit Co6t
1. Crop InPLts                Unit         (Eth$)                                 Unit  Coot  Unit  Coot  Unit  Cost  Unit  Cost  Unit  Cost  Unit  Cost   Unit  Coet
Fertiliser                  ha           20                                            _      1     20    2       40     2      40    2       40    2       40      2     40
Insecticide                 ha            6                                            -      2     12    2       12    2       12    2       12    2       12      2     12
Sorgha,e Seed               ha            1                                     2      2      2       2   1.8   1.8    1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7    1.7   1.7    1.7    1.7
Sessose Seed                ha             2                                    1      2      1       2   1.2   2.4    1.3   2.6   1.3   2.6   1.3   2.6   1.3           2.6
Fodder Seed                 h.            6                                            -              6    2      12    2       12    2       12    2       12      2      12
Sub-total              4             42         63.2          68.3          6.3          608.3          65.3
II. Livestock
PurcheseC                  .                - 
Oxen                       Head         130)1/                                        54            54            54            54            54            40              -
Heifers 3-4 years          Head          90)
Village gracing fee        L.U.        12.00                                    1    12       2      24   2.5    30   2.5    30   2.5    30   2.5    30   2.5              30
Veterinary care            Head         1.50                                    5      6      6       9   8       12   8        12    8       12    9       14    9        14
Herding cost               Head         1.50                                    2      3      3       5   4         6   4        6    4        6    4        6    4         6
Sub-Total             77             92           102           102          102            90             50
I22. Other Costs
Cooperative Union Fee   Year           12                                     .25      3     .5       6   1        12   1       12    1       12    1       12    1        12
Crop Storage Levy          Qtl.           .77                                   6      4    14       11  17.6    14  17.9    14  20.9    16  20.9    16  20.9              16
-eveloptoent Charge        Year        11                                              -              -             -             -            -    1       11    1        11
Land Ta                    Year         5                                              -              -             -                -         -    1        5    1          5
7            17            26            26           28            44             44
IV. Villaze Facilities Cost Pa.yble to Prie,ary Cpoos.
Office/Store/Staff         Year         9.90                                   .25   2.5    .5    4.95  1    9.M0    1    9.90         1   9.90      1   9.90      1    9.9C
Water Supply               Year        15.57                                   .25   3.9    .5    7.79  1   15.57    1   15.57          1  15.57     1  15.57      1   15.57
Mill and Dipping Cast   Year            3.60                                   .25    .9    .5    2.30  1    3.60    1    3.60          1   3.60     1   3.60      1    3.6V
Road                       Year         2.23                                   .25    .6    .5    1.12        1  2.3        1  2.23     1   2.23     1   2.23    1    2.23
7.9          16.16        31.3          31.30        31.30         31.30           31.3l(
Total cost of Production- (I-IV)                                                    95.9o         167.16      227.53        227.60        229.60        233.6O         193.60
/,,-rchase of one oI md  wo hil-ers oorr a period of sir years.
'ul. 17, l@ 



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budget (Resident and Migrant Farmers)
(Eth$)
B.  Farmers'lncome                                              LYEAR I          YEAR 2          YEAR 3          YEAR 4           YEAR 5          YFAR 6          YEAR 7-20
Unit     Value    Unit  Value    Unit  Value    Unit  Value    Unit  Value    Unit  Value    Unit  Value               Unit  Value
I.   Crops
Sorghunm                             qtls.        1/      14.0   196      22.0   308      23.4   327       22.1   309      23.8   333       23.8   333       23.8   250
Sesame                               qtls.       47        2.0    94       2.0    94       4.2   197        5.8   272       7.1   334        7.1   334        7.1   334
Sub-Total                                                       290             402              524             581              667             667               584
II. Livestock & Milk
Live animals 2/                                   -        -      38       -       53      -       57       -      67       -       92       -      110      -       110
Milk                                  lts.      '18        140    25       160    29        190    34       230   41       270      49      330      59       330     59
Sub-Total                                                        63              82               91            108               141             169               169
III. Total Income (1 + II)                                             353             484             615             689              808              836               753
IV. Subsistance consumption
Sorghum 1/                            qtls.      1/         10   140        10   140        10   140         10  140       10      140       10    140         10    105
Milk                                   lts.    18          140    25       160    29        190    34       230   41      270       49      330      59       330      59
_____________________                          I165                                    169              174            181               189             199               164
1/ Sorghum price ex-farm is Et$14/qtl for farmers'years 1 to 6:               Eth$10.50/qtl thereafter.
2/ Proportionate figures over the years 1 to 20.                                                                                                                                        - St
Note: Migrant farmers' income is slightly different and is niot showl separately.
Juily 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model Farmer Budget - Development Cost and Financin&
A. BESIDENT FARMER                                                                                                                                                                     Total
Year 1                 Year 2                Year 3               Year 4                Year 5              Yearsl - 5
Unit    Unit Cost        No.       Total       No.       Total       No.       Total       No.       Total       No.       Total       No.       Total
1.  Cooperative Subscription              Family         10           1         10                                                                                                  I         10
2. Livestock
2/
a.  Oxen                              Head        130           1        130          1         130                                                                            2        260
b.  Heifer  3-4 years                 Head         90                                                       1         90           1          90                               2        180
c.  Heifer  1-2 years                 Head         50                                                                             1           50                               1         50
V                                        3
3.  Hand-Sprayer                           No.           52                                                                             .5         52                                5        52
4.  Harrow                                 No.           30                                                       1         30                                                      1         30
5.  Plough                                 No.          40                                  1          40                                                                           1         40
6.  Cart                                   No.          156                                                       1        156                                                      1        156
7.  Grain Storage                                        15                                            15                                                                                      15
140                    185                  276                    192                                        793
Financing
a.  Long Term Loan                                                         -                     158                   236                    152                                        546
b.  Farmer's Contribution                                                  140              (15%) 27            (15%)  40                (207) 40                                        247
l/ 9 litres back-pack unit.
2/Farmer's r:ontribution of one ox from his existing
herd Eth$130.
3/  share in sprayer together with water drum.
July 17, 1973
IH 






ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model Farmer Budget - D-evelopment Cost and Financing
Bl. 2IjAAtANT FARMERx
Total
Year 1                 Year 2                 Year 3                   Year 4                  Year 5           Years 1-5
Unit      Unit Cost        No.      Total         No.       Total         No.       Total         No.       Total          No.      Total   No_       Total
1.  Cooperative Subscription              Family          10           1         10                  -                                                                                   1         10
2.  Livestock
2/
a) Oxen                              Head           130           1       130           1          130           -          -            -          -             -         -       2        260
b) Heifer 3-4 years                  Head            90           -         -             -          -           1         90            1          90            -         -       2        180
c) Heifer 1-2 years                  Head            50           -         -             -          -            -                      1          50            -                 1         50
3.  Hand Sprayer                           No.            52           -         -             -          -152 - _                                                                       1         52
4.  Harrow                                 No.            30           -         -             -          -            1         30            -          -                              1         30
5.  Plough                                 No.            40           -         -            1           40           -          -            -          _             _         -      1         40
6.  Cart                                   No.           156           -         -             -          -            1        156            -          -             -         -      1        156
7.  Resettlement                                         100           1        100                  -                 -          -                                                      1        100
8.  House Construction                                    50           1         50            -          -            -          -                                                      1         50
9.  Grain Storage                                       __.5           -         -                        15           -          -            -          -             -         _      1         15
Total                                                290            -         185           -        276            -         192            -                 -       943
FinancinR
(a) Long Term Loan                                                         135             _        158            -       236             -        152                              -        681
2/
(b) Farmer's Participation                                                 155             -   (15%) 27            -   (15%)40            -   f207) 40             -   _             -        262
Total (a+b)                                                                                                                                                             943
1/1'litres back-pack Unit.
2/Farmers contribution of one ox from his
existing herd Eth$130.
July 17, 1973



ETHIOPIA
LCUER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model Farmer's Budget - Cash Flow Resident Farmer
(Eth$)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10    Year 11    Year 12    Year 13    Year 14-20
I.  Cash Inflow
Gross Income                           353        484        615       689        808         836        753       753        753          753         753         753         753            753
Subsistence                            165        169        174       181        189         199        164       164        164          164         164         164         164            164
Cash Income                            188        315        441       508        619         637        589       58Y        589          589         589         589         5389--         58
Short-term Loan 1/                      -          32         52        52         52          52         52        52         52           52          52          52          52             52
Long-term Loan                          -         158        236       152         -           -          -         -          -            -           -           -           -
Total Cash Inflow                   188        505         729       712        671         689        641       641        641         641          641         641         641            641
II. Cash Outflow
Development Cost                        10        185        276       192         48 4/       48         48        48         48           48          48          48          48             48
Recurrent Cost                          96        168        230       230        232         236        195       195        195          195         195         195         195            195
Short-term Loan Repayments
Interest 2/                          -            5          6         6          6           6          6         6          6           6            6           6           6              6
Principal                            -           32         52        52         52          52         52        52         52          52           52          52          52             52
Long-term Loan
Debt Service
Interest 3/                          -           16         39        55         55          52         46        37         28          19            9           3          -              -
Principal                            -           -          -         -          -           26         65        90         90          90           92          67          26
Total Cash Payments                  106       406         603       535        393         420        412       428        419         410          402         371         327            301
III.  Net Cash Inflow                         82          99        126       177        278         269        229       213        222         231          239         270         314            340
1/  75% of cost of fertilizers, insecticides and seeds.
2/  127. interest rate.
3/  4 years grace on principal; interest rate 10%.
4/ Average replacement cost of equipment.
April 2, 1974                                                                                                                                                                                              cr
m- 



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model Farmer's Budget
Cash Flow - Migrant Farmers
(Eth$)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10    Year 11    Year 12    Year 13    Year 14-20
I.  Cash Inflow
Gross Income                        353         484        615          689,      808          836       753         753          753        753          753          753         753             753
Subsistence                          165        169         174         181        189         199       164         164          164        164          164          164         164             164
Cash Income                          188        315         441         508        619         637       589         589          589        589          589          589          589            589
Short-term Loan 1/                    -          32          52          52         52          52         52         52           52         52           52           52           52             52
Long-term Loan                       135        158        236          152         -           -          -          -            -          -            -            -            -
Total Cash Inflow                 323         505        729          712       671          689       641         641          641        641          641          641         641            641
II. Cash Outflow
Development Cost                     160        185         276         192         48 4/       48        48          48           48         48           48           48           48             48
Recurrent Cost                        96        168         230         230        232         236        195        195          195         195         195          195          195            195
Short-term Loan - Repayments
Interest 2/                        -            5          6            6         6            6         6           6            6          6            6            6            6              6
Principal                          -           32         52           52        52           52        52          52           52         52           52           52           52             52
Long-term Loan -
Debt Service
Interest                           -           14         30           54        68           66        61          52           41         30           18            9            2             -
Principal                          -           -          -            -          22          48        87         113          113        114           92           66           26             -
Total Cash Payments               256         404        594          534       428          456       449         466          455        445          411          376          329            301
III.  Net Cash Inflow                        67        101         135         178        243         233        192        175          186         196         230          265          312            340'
1/  75% of cost of fertilizers, insecticides & seeds.
2/  127  interest rate.
3/  4 years grace on principal; interest rate 10%.                                                                                                                                                                1
4/  Average replacement cost of equipments.
April 2, 1974






LOWER ADIA330 DEVEI MlMENTI I lu. LJCT
Government Caah Flow f'rom the  roject
(Kth$' ooo)
Year                                           1       2        3         4        5         6        7          3       9         10       11        12       _134                 15
Cash Inflow
IDA disbursements for project:                                            2,
- On farm  Posts                                        -      41      251       677    1,095
- Annual farm credit                         -          -      60      267       228      248         -
- Other development costs and
contingencies                                     566   2,274    3050    3,891    3,                                            - _ 
Total IDA disbursement                     _       3,566   2,375    3,468    4,796    4,424         _
Import, duty and taxes on vehicles 2          212        17      13      142        27       22         2        26       24       10         11        11        11        11        11
Income and other personal taxes /3             70        78      80        72       78        39       39        39       39       39         39        39        39        39        39
Turnover tax on equipment /4                   18         7       7         6        5                  -          -       -         -         -         -         -         -          -
Development and land levy 75                    _         _       _         _                  -       29        86      144      192        192       192       192       192       192
Loan service from AIDB /6                      61       115     242       452      669       669    1,432      1,432   1,4432    1,432     1,432    1,432      1,432    1y43        1,432
Total Cash Inflow                           361    3,783   2,717    4,140    5,575    5,154    1,502         1,583   1,639    1,673      1,674    1,674      1,674    1,674       1,674
Cash Outflow
Disbursement of IDA funds                   3,566    2,375   3,468    4,T96    4,424           -        -
Own contribution to Project
development
- On farm costs                               -        10      63       171      277         -        -         _        _         _         _         _         _         _
- Annual farm credit                          -        15      42        58       63         -        -          _       _         _         _         _          _        _
- Other development costs and
contingencies                            978      623      835    1,066       844         -        -
Health and education recurrent costs  7        18        18      18        18       18        18       18         18      18        18        18        18         18       18         18
Road maintenance costs                          -         -       -         -        -       109      109        109     l09       109       109       109        109      10        109
Servicing of IDA Credit /8                      -        27      45        71      106       140       140       140     140       140       140       326        324      323        321
',overnment staff cosis (TAHADU)                -         -       -         -         _      100      100        100     100       100        100      100        100      100        100
Total Cash Outflow                        4,562    3,o6e   4,471    6,180    5,732         367      367        367     367       367        367      553        551      550        548
Balance Carried Forward                    (4,201)      715  (1,754)  (2,o40)    (157)   4,787    1,135        i,.-16   1,272    1,306     1,307    1,121       1,123    1,124      1,126
/L  Lagged here by one ,ear to reflect the fact that IDA reimbursement of Project expenditure
would proba'ly be received about 9 months after it is incurred.
t  Ranges between 22% and 34%. Average applied here is 30* of landed cost.
Average of 10% of total payroll.
2% until year D. 'hereafter, the turnover tax is included in taxes on vehicles.
Eth$16 per farmer/year.
7 1/4% per year interest only for 6 years, followed by nine equal instalments combining
principal and interest.
/   Estimated at 10% of capital cost.
3/4% service charge on outstanding loan.  10 years period of grace; thereafter, 1% principal
repayment annually for 10 years, then 3% annually for 30 years.
L  Extension, Veterinary, Land Administration and other staff remaining after project period.






ANNEX 15
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
1.        Table 1 shows the annual costs and returns used in calculating
the Internal Economic Rate of Return from investments in the Project. The
following assumptions have been used in the calculations:
The economic costs include:
(a) development costs for the 5-year Project period;
(b) incremental farm expenditure; and
(c) recurrent costs (including replacements) for the cooperative
ranch, village cooperatives, cooperative union, road maintenance
and the Tach-Adiabo Hedekti Agricultural Development Unit (TAHADU).
The economic benefits include:
(a) incremental farm incomes;
(b) income of the cooperative ranch;
(c) milling and water benefits enjoyed by farmers;
(d) storage benefits;
(e) road benefits (savings in transportation from villages to
cooperative union crop store);
(f) value added at crop store (bags and transportation from
cooperative union store to merchant); and
(g) sale of bulldozer not required after Year 1.
Adjustments:
In the calculations the financial costs and benefits have been
adjusted. as detailed below:
(a) development costs of the EPID Evaluation Unit and the
proposed Financial Control and Accounting Unit have been
excluded as the Units will service all EPID managed
projects;



AINNEX 15
Page 2
(b) health and education costs were excluded since their benefits
were also excluded;
(c) since benefits have been based on projections in terms of
1973 currency values, no price contingency is included;
(d) farm labor and land, both wit;h and without the Project, have
been costed at their combined social opportunity cost as
represented by farmers' present net income;
(e) foreign exchange costs and benefits have been valued at 133%
of actual levels; and
(f) all identifiable taxes have been deducted from costs as these
are transfers from the private to the public sector.
Internal Economic Return (IER) and Sensitivity Analysis
2.        The IER after the above adjustments is 16.67% over 20 years.  The
IER is sensitive to changes in key variables:
Variable             Direction and Percentage             IER
of Change
Value of benefits:                 Up       10%                   20.4%
Up      20%                   23.1Z
Down    10%                    14.5%
Down    20%                    11.2%
Cost of inputs:                    Up      15%                    13.6%
Up      33%                    10.1%
Down    10%                    20.7%
Combined movements of these variables would have the results indicated below:
Combination                          IER
Value of benefits up          10% )          16.3%
Costs up                      15% )
Value of benefits down        10% )          7.2%
Costs up                     30% )
Value of benefits down        20% )
Costs up                     30% )           3.8%
Value of benefits up         20% )
Costs up                     30% )          15.3%
If foreign exchange costs and earnings were not shadow priced IER would
be 15%.
3.        The financial rate of return on the whole Project is estimated at
19.0% over 20 years (Table 2).
August 31, 1973



ETHIOPIA
IOWER ADIAO DEVE1,9PENT PR0JECT
Calculation of Internal Economic Return
(Eth.$ '000)
Years                                            1          2          3          4          5          6          7        8         9         10         11      I-!-,       20
Development Costs                              4,544      3,433      5,358      7,354      7,048          _          _        _         _         ,          _         _         _
Deduct: EPID Evaluation Unit                    1148        112        112        150        113
Health and Educat os                      40        65          25         25         25          -          -        _         _         _          _         _         _
Fsrm development i                        -         41i      1,152      1,983      2,690
Credit fund foinputr                      -          92        254        348        378          -         _         -
Contlngencles4 a271                                 1            8      1 477     1686
4759   i:t  r4x,  twf  tlpR                                -       _        _         _       
get development coot                           4,085      2,360      2,957      3,371      2,156
Incremental faou expenditure                    251       1,040      2,392      3,785      4,256       3,908     3,o86    2,527     2,391     2,268      2,268     2,268     2,268
Recurrent costs, including replacements:-
- Cooperative Ranch                              69          85         98         96        109         171       111      106       163       118        118       118       118
- Cooperasve Union and Primary Crops             35          35         59        178        201        225       209       25Q       2         276        276     276         276
-TAHADU 5/                                                                                                       51 AU               594                   
- Road maintenance /                               -          -                                          l- 109    1        109       109        109                           109
Sub-total development and recurrent
costs                                     4,440       3,520      5,506      7,430      6,722      5,007      4,109    3,595     3,533     3,365      3,365     3,365     3,365
Deduct: Import duty And taxes on vehicles        212         17         13        142         27         22          2       26        24         10        11        11         11
Income and other personal taxes          70          78         80         72         78         39         39       39        39        39         39        39        39
Turnover tax on equipment                 18          7          7          6          5          -          -        -         -          -         -         -         -
Development and land levy /6- -                                  -                     -          -         2        86       144                  192       11
300        102                                                                                  200 . 22    i 70  151 207  241  '  i
3,14018    556        7,210                  4,944,039 6,3 3124  3,            1 23 TO           3 ,123
Deduct: Foreign exchange costs                1,515       1,22       2,006      2,653      2,435       1,929     1 575    1.343     1 297      1 218     1,218     1,218      1 218
2,625      2,136      3,400      4,557      14,177      3,017     2,404    2,101      2,        7         1,905     1,905
Add: Foreign exchange coats shadow-pricedti  2,015        1.705      2,668      3.528      3,238       2,565     2,095    1,786      1,725     1,620       16      1,620      1.620
Incremental Economic Costs                     4,640      3,841      6,068      8,o85      7,415       5,582     4,559    3,887     3,754      3,526     3,525     3,525      3,525
Farmers' incremental incomes                       -         57        406      1,227      2,402       3,744     4,865    5,562     5,878      5,820     5,702     5,702      5,702
Cooperative Rarch income                          53         82         71        187         155        118       327      224        252       269       269       269        916 L
Milling and water benefits                         -         70        212        360         488        498       5o4      503        504       504       504        5D4       504
Storage benefits                                   -         32        119        251         404        523       613      645       635        574       574       574        574
Road benefits - savings in Araneport costs         -          7         29         63         100        127       143      150        156       156       156        156       156
Value added at crop store /L                       -         19         82        309         491        635       734      807        948       948       948        948       948
Sale of bulldozer                                  -         79          -          -           -          -         -        -          -         -         -          -         -
53  346              9 9      2,397         4      ,040 3bIi5  7,186    ,73                  8271       ,153     B73         9
Deduct: Foreign exchange benefits L7              53        196        486         4 4      2,90       3 9014    5 240    5,836      6180      6,139     6 021     6,021      6 021
-        150        433         13 1,50             19                 2,055     2,193      2,132     'TT       2,132      ?,TM
Add:  Foreign exchange benefits shado,-
priced LT                                   70        261        646      1,907       3,445      5,192     6,969    7,762      8,219     8,165     8.008      8.oo8     8,008
Gross Incremental Benefits                        70        411      1,079      2,870       4,895      6,933     8,915    9,817    10,412    10,297    10,140    10,140    10,787
Net Incremental Benefits (Costs)              (4,570)    (3,430)    (4,989)    (5,215)    (2,520)      1,351     4,356    5,930      6,658     6,771     6,6i5      6,615     7,262
I.E.R. over 20 Years: 16.67
L  Multi-purpose expenditure not necessary to this Project.
7g Excluded because benefits are also excluded.
These purely financial costs are replaced by actual
"Incresental fams expenditure" brought-in in line 8.
T4 Price contingencies dealt with by sensitivity analysis.
5 Recurrent costs for years I to 5 are included in
development costs.
L Taxes of Eth.$16 per farmer/year designed to contribute
to Government's costs of development.
L7 Foreign exchange costs (39% of total costs) snd all
aetively or potentially exportable benefits are
shados-priced at 133f of actual.
L Transport and bag costs not received by farmers but
recovered from merchants by Cooperative Union.



!LRIOPIA
I4 ADIABO DBVE10PMBl PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return
(Rtb~'000)
Years                                          1         2          3         4          5          6        7        8         9        10        11      12-19       20
Development costs Li                         4,544     2,930      3,952      5,023     3,980          _-                                    -        -              -
Farmers' total c9ts 2                           -       349      1,333     2,878      4,431      4,902    4,555   3,732      3,173    3,037    2,914    2,914    2,914
Recurrent costs 12i
Cooperative ranch                             69        85         98         96       109        171      111      106       163       118      118       118       118
Cooperative Union and Primary Crops           35        35         59        178       201        225      209      259       276      276       276       276       276
TAHADU                                         -         -          -          -         -        594      594      594       594      594       594       594       594
RosA ,uintenence                               -                                                  1 9      109      109 109             109      109       109       109
Total Financial Costs                        4,648     3,399      5,442      8,175     8,721      6,001    5,578   4,800      4,315     4,134    4,011    4,o0 1      , cn, -
Farmers' incomes                                 -       635      2,141      4,119     6,255      7,600    8,738   9,340    9,499       9,283    9,034    9,034      9,034
Cooperative ranch income                        53        82         71        187       155        118      327      224       252      269       269       269       916
Milling and water benefits                       -        70        212        360       488        498      504      503       504      504       504       504       504
Sale of bulldozer                                -        79          -          -                    -        -        -         -        -         -         -         -
Trtal Incomes                                   53       866      2,424      4,666     6,898      8,216    9,569   10,067    10,255   10,056     9,807    9,807   io,454
Project let Income (Cost)                   (4,595)   (2,533)   (3,018)    (3,509)   (1,823)    2,215    3,991   5,267    5,940    5,922         5,796    5,796    6,443
Financial rate Of return: 19.05 over 20 years.                                                            3
L  Excluding faremers' development costs included in tne 2 sbove.       F         rs
Li Ineluding replacements.                                                                                                                                                      rn



ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJWC
Value Added at Crop Store
(Transportation and Bags Recovered from Merchants by Cooperative Union)
(FBth$)
Year                                      1      2       3        4        5         6        7        8                 10 lO    l2 -25
SO.RGIUM thitpiut (quintals)               14      22       23       22       24        24       24       24       24       24       24        24
Less Ccmnsusnpticrl                     10       10       10       10       10       10       10        10       10       10       10       10
1                               -7~~~~ -12       -13       1-2     17         -1     -W         -i      -1        17      -1        n
Marketed sorghum                                             3 
Year 1 no fanners
1,800 farmers joining in Yr.2               -  7,200   21,600   23,400   21,600   25,200   25,200   25,200   25,200   25,200   25,200   25,200
3,600 farmers joining in Yr.3               -       -  14,400   43,200   46,800   43,200   50,400   50,40D   50,400   50,400   50,400   50,400
3,600 farnmrs joining in Yr.4               -       -        -   14,400   43,200   46,800   43,200   50,400   50,400   50,400   50,400   50,400
3,000 fanners joining in Yr.5                        -                 -  12,000   36,000   39,000   36,000   42,000   42,000   42,000   42,000
Total Marketable Sorghum (quintals)         -  7,200   36,ooo   81,000  123,600  151,200  157,800  162,000  18,000  168,000  168,000  168,000
Transport: Sheraro-Enda Selassie at
$1.68 per quintal                        _   12,096   60,480  136,080  207,648  254,016  265,104  272,160  282,240  282,240  282,240  282,240
SESAE Output (quintals)                     2       2         4        6        7        7        7        7         7        7        7        7
1,800 farsers joining in Yr.2               -  3,600    3,600    7,200   10,800   12,600   12,600   12,600   12,600   12,600   12,600   12,600
3,600 farmsrs joining in Yr.3               -       -   7,200    7,200   14,400   21,600   25,200   25,200   25,200   25,200   25,200   25,200
3,600 farmers joining in Yr.4               -       -         -    7,200    7,200   14,400   21,600   25,200   25,200   25,200   25,200   25,200
3,000 farmers joining in Yr.5                       -      _           -     _       6,0oo   12,000   18,000   21,000   21,000   21 000   21 0
Total Marketable Sesame (quintals)          -  3,600   10,800   21,600   38,400   54,600   71,400   81,000   84,000   84,000   84,000   84,000
Transport: Sheraro-Asmara
at $2 per quirrtal                        -   7,200   21,600   43,200   76,800  109,200  142,800  162,000  168,000  168,000  168,000  168,000
(LMB suggest $2,86)
Sorghum transportation (above)              - 12,096   60,480  136,C80  207,648  254,016  265,104  272,160  282,240  282,240  282,240  282,240
Bags-replacenents as suggested
by LMB                                    _        _        -  129,900  206,850  272,700  326,100  372,750  497,850  497,850  497,850  497,950
Total value added at Cooperative
Store                                      -  19,296   82,080  309,180  491,298  635,916  734,004  806,910  948,o90  948,090  948,090  948,090
=........ .H
H-3






ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE EXTENSION AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
DEPARTMENT OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE (EPID)
IMinisterial Committee forl_                                            r|
|    Package Projects  r                                         1          Minister of Agriculture
Cooperation with                                                                                                                        Cooperation with
HAID                                                                               Head  --                                             Research and
LMB                                                                               Department                         -      _           Training                  _  _   _   _
etc.                                                                                                                                    Institutions 
etc,
I       _      l                   t  ~~~~~~~~~and Accounting Unit l
Liaison                                Liaison Division                   Common Setvices Division
Committee for                          - liaison with                      - accounting                                                     Exaudi
Package                                Comprehensive                       internal auditing                                                Di
Projects                               Projects                            lstaff servicesg
l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Training _..  op rmto
Peasant Farming                          Commercial Projects                                             Group
Development Projects                      AVA
- ADA, CADU, HADU,                       - Northwestern
WADU,TAHADU                               Lowlands
_~~~~~~~~Sahmn                                                                      Agronomic            _ _               Marketing &
Group_                    _           Credit Group
{   Anirraal      |         f    ~~Home Economics        t
4   Husbandry      r     7       ~~and Youth Group       l
Minimum
Projects
World Bank-7821 (2Ri






ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TACH ADIABO AND HEDEKTI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT (TAHADU)
[Mnisterial Com mittee                         Minster of Agricture
For Packagle Projects                       Mitro   yiutr
.  _F
Extension and Project
Impler.ntation Depart-
ment of the Ministry
of Agriculture (EPID)
AWVRAJA                                     Project Director
Coordinating                                  (TAHADU)
Committee
Finance and                             ExtensioTi and                      Road Construction and                  Cooperanive Development
Administration                          Veterinary                          Maintenance Department                  Department                                  Land Dpartment
Departmen t                             Department
Animal               Crop and                  Training              Exterition             Cooperative            Cooperative            Land Planning          Land Allocation      Land Administration
Heaith               Animal Tnals              Center                Services               Education         l    SupervisWon                                                            n  - _
World Bank - 7819/3RI






______________i_________________________________________________________                                                    IBRD  10587
36                      i
; t A 7 i 1 ' 4 6 -I % : : 0 9 R n S > 0 j \ 0                                                      T 14    ,P  -I eT   P A rt
L,OWM:-ADIAO `DEVEVOPMENT PROJECT
)CATIN (OF PROJECT AREA
L  c U D A N \\9   /   i                                 <            ,   a            f    0  ;' X t~Nr+'+4el e  A,
N                                                                                                                            so       a s   ho A Adigrol ~>__  X   \    0 ti 0:  4 1 Af;0  8,$  2   :    nE  ru
:20   /GI r   s Z-            rFf                         T   [               G   ulf    of    A dc e   n
/              ''   ~"i                                 }Ke/ DebeTocr gWifa  -  - ]
M.,U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M 4                                                           L I A<Dw<t .  ~-
UGANDA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-"~~S BD
I
|~ ~ ~        ~~ r/   -j                      bc                                                                                                    /7ef  J,,/Bh HA?       ,E  rz
Bq-  ~  -    t  e \   s ) Endl tar s  C7 Q                                                        Moib
______M,        ___T_f_,_G_b_                                                   _                       KO, __h_r
\   A   v Z 3-   5  X   - X    --soG4n r           |?                 /                                ?  r t   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l ... h- L;                                                  E    og   grA g - b     4     KblDhr*    
% 19 /~~-1   Y $aG   \, rf[   i
: f V e a X ( r 1> _ / X |0 5 i: .:
\ ~    ~  ~  ~~   ~   ~~~  ~~~~~    Y>3 1;- P ! )\                                                         P  w   2 v  <   ;   273   r      t
UG .ZsA.N. t1.4  W, trd 7     /Ir1   DAi/LtL    
ulSSRF vli; >Rell * +>rtAQ< ]  t t i r   X    ~    ~  Lr  gtI  A sx    w    \                ,,              1t ,              .  r r -






IBRD 10546
AUGUST 1973
37. 30'
ETHIOPIA
LOWER ADIABO
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
=        :    Area Suitable for Village Grazing Areas
EZ            Area in Which Cultivation Will Be Located
Area Tentatively Earmarked for Commercial Ranch
Existing Tracks
Rivers
1430  ~      Highlands
0          1 0            0         30          4
KILOMETERS             |     IA
s * 7 A N; X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   X ' t
N.~~~~~~~
|  UDA N  ~t 'l          //' TO HUMERA
X A        X         ;      <      t         0             ,/7-                     t          iXADDIS         Xt       - 
S U      C                     A NL
K     N  Y A  -2            /                         1 A



