CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 516 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Lower Adiabo Development Project)
BETWEEN
ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 18, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 516 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Lower Adiabo Development Project)
BETWEEN
ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 18, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 18, 1974, between ETHIOPIA (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION)
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank, S.C. (hereinafter
called the AIDB), a share company established and operating pursuant to Decree
No. 55 of 1970 of the Borrower, is willing to undertake certain responsibilities
in connection with said Project and the Borrower is willing to make available part
of the proceeds of the Credit to AIDB for this purpose;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
hereinafter and in a Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and AIDB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h);
(c)   Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the Project
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement";


﻿4
(d)   Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words ", the Project
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement"; and
(e)  The following sub-paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term "Project Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth
in paragraph (a) of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and AIDB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and AIDB pursu4nt to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "TAHECU Project Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between AIDB and TAHECU pursuant to Section 2.03(a) of the Project
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the TAHECU Project Financing Agreement;
(d)   "Cooperative Project Financing Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between AIDB and the Cooperative Ranch pursuant to Section
2.03(a) of the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Cooperative Project Financing
Agreement;
(e)   "Eth $" means the currency of the Borrower;
(f)   "LMB" means the Livestock and Meat Board, established and operating
in accordance with the Borrower's Order No. 34 dated March 14, 1964 and
Proclamation No. 212 dated March 14, 1964;
(g)   "Order" means Order No. 34 dated March 14, 1964 providing for the
establishment of LMB;


﻿5
(h)   "Proclamation" means Proclamation No. 212 of March 14, 1964,
defining the powers of LMB;
(i)   "EPID" means the Extension and Project Implementation Department
of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(j)   "Project Farmer" means a farmer participating in Part A of the Project
and affiliated to one of the Village Cooperatives;
(k)   "Seasonal Loan" means a loan between Village Cooperatives and
Project Farmers included in Part A of the Project for the purpose of assisting
Project Farmers in the financing of the purchase of farm inputs under Part A(iii)(b)
of the Project and which shall mature in accordance with its terms no more than
one year after the date on which it is incurred;
(1)   "Long-Term Loan" means a loan between Village Cooperatives and
Project Farmers other than a Seasonal Loan for the purpose of assisting Project
Farmers in the financing of goods and services included in Part A(iii)(a) of the
Project;
(m)   "Agency Agreement" means the agreement to be concluded between
the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and AIDB pursuant to Section 3.02 of this
Agreement and Section 2.02(iii) of the Project Agreement and which is to provide
inter alia for cooperation between the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture (EPID)
and AIDB and which is to set forth the responsibilities of the Borrower's Ministry
of Agriculture and AIDB in the carrying out of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project;
(n)   "TAHECU" means the Tach Adiabo and Hedekti Cooperative Union,
a cooperative union to be established as provided under Section 3.03 of this
Agreement;
(o)   "TAHADU"      means   Tach   Adiabo   and  Hedekti Agricultural
Development Unit to be established as provided under Section 3.03 of this
Agreement as a department of EPID responsible for carrying out the Project:
(p)   "Ministerial Committee" means the ministerial committee for package
projects, chaired by the Borrower's Minister of Agriculture for the purpose of
coordinating agricultural development projects.
(q)   "Cooperative Ranch" means the ranch to be established under the laws
of the Borrower as a cooperative society as provided under Section 3.05 of this
Agreement;


﻿6
(r)   "Village Cooperatives" means village primary cooperative societies
referred to under Section 3.03 and under Part A of the Project and established
under the laws of the Borrower and which, for the purposes of the Project, are
affiliated with TAHECU;
(s)   "Registrar of Cooperative Societies" means the person or persons
referred to under Article 5 of the Borrower's Proclamation No. 241 of 1966; and
(t)   "Village Cooperative Sub-loans" means loans to be made by TAHECU
to Village Cooperatives for purposes of enabling Village Cooperatives to construct
the facilities referred to under Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million five hundred thousand
dollars ($9,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿7
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per'cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 1984 and ending April 1, 2024, each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half'
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out
(i) Parts A, B, C and D of the Project through EPID with the assistance of AIDB
and TAHECU, (ii) Parts E and F of the Project through EPID, (iii) Part G of
the Project through EPID with the assistance of the Borrower's departments
specified in the description in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and (iv) Part H of
the Project through LMB, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with  sound administrative, financial, economic, engineering and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall make available to AIDB the equivalent of $3,200,000 or such
other amount as may from time to time be agreed between the Borrower and
the Association, out of the proceeds of the Credit, and such additional funds from
its own resources, as shall be required to carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the
Project under a subsidiary loan agreement on terms and conditions (including inter
alia those set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be
modified from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association) satisfactory to the Association.


﻿8
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause its Ministry of Agriculture (EPID)
to enter into an agency agreement with AIDB under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause its Ministry of Agriculture (EPID) to exercise
its rights under the Agency Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit,
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, suspend, terminate, abrogate or waive the Agency Agreement or any
provis-^n thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain TAHADU,
TAHECU and 20 Village Cooperatives in the Project area, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall make land in the Project area available
to each Village Cooperative under a leasehold to be sub-leased to Project Farmers
and the terms and conditions applicable to such leasehold and to such sub-leases
to Project Farmers shall be satisfactory to the  Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain or
shall cause to be established and thereafter to be maintained a cooperative ranch
under its laws and regulations governing cooperatives, for the purpose of carrying
out Part D of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall staff or cause LMB to staff the Cooperative Ranch
with experienced and competent management assisted by an adequate number of
qualified and competent personnel.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, and
thereafter maintain or cause to be maintained in office the following personnel,
which shall be acceptable to the Association:
(i)        a Project Director and a Senior Cooperative Officer within
TAHADU; and
(ii)       a General Manager and a Chief Engineer within TAHECU.


﻿9
(b)   The Borrower shall second to EPID, TAHADU, TAHECU and Village
Cooperatives or cause EPID, TAHADU, TAHECU and Village Cooperatives to
employ experienced and competent personnel in adequate numbers sufficient to
enable EPID, TAHADU, TAHECU and Village Cooperatives to carry out their
responsibilities as described under Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.07. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part G.6 of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit not relent to AIDB against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause EPID to:
(i)         undertake the responsibility for the planning, construction,
improvement and maintenance of the roads referred to in Part
E of the Project; and
(ii)        obtain the Association's approval of the design standards of the
roads included in Part E of the Project prior to commencing
construction of such roads.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause LMB to consult with the Association
on terms of reference for Part H of the Project prior to commencing feasibility
studies, trials and other activities thereunder.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain the Ministerial Committee
for the purposes of coordinating at the national level actions to be taken for carrying
out the Project; and (ii) maintain an Awraja coordinating committee for the
purposes of coordinating at the local level actions to be taken under the Project.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules, for the Project,


﻿10
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the Borrower's departments and agencies responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) For the audit of their accounts and financial statements
(as such financial statements are described in the following paragraph) the Borrower
shall cause EPID and the Cooperative Ranch at all times to employ independent
auditors acceptable to the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) cause EPID and the Cooperative Ranch to have
their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, by the independent auditors referred
to in the foregoing paragraph; (ii) cause TAHECU and Village Cooperatives to have
their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied by the Registrar of Cooperative
Societies; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
such financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors and by the Registrar of Cooperative Societies as appropriate,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iv) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts


﻿11
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause through EPID:
GI)         TAHECU     to cause each Village Cooperative to charge each
Project Farmer, and to collect therefrom, an annual cooperative
union fee and assessment to be determined at a rate sufficient
to ensure that TAHECU's operating income covers its operating
expenses and its debt service requirements in excess of
depreciation of its assets;
(ii)        each Village Cooperative to charge each Project Farmer and to
collect therefrom an annual grazing fee and fees for other services
to be determined at a rate sufficient to ensure that the operating
income of each Village Cooperative covers its operating expenses
and its debt service requirements in excess of depreciation of
its assets; and
(iii)       TAHADU      to  charge each   Project Farmer and     to collect
therefrom an annual land development fee and rent to be
determined at ETH$5.00 and ETH$ 11.00 respectively, which
annual fees and rents may, in consultation with the Association,
be modified, as may be necessary from time to time, to bring
such annual fees and rents in line with annual fees and rents
charged on state-owned farm land in other development areas
of the Borrower.
(b)   Without limitation upon the application of the foregoing paragraph,
the Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all measures as may be necessary
(including, but without limitation, adjustment of fees, assessments, rents and road
maintenance charges) so as to ensure that the conditions of the foregoing paragraph
are fulfilled and the Association shall be promptly notified of any change in the
rates of any such levies and fees.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the term "operating income" means all revenues from operations
and other revenues incidental thereto, any fees, assessments and
rents charged on Project Farmers or Village Cooperatives as the
case may be;
(ii)        the   term  "operating expenses" means all direct costs of
operation, including administrative and overhead costs, adequate


﻿maintenance expenses, and adequate provision for depreciation
and taxes, but excluding interest and other charges on debt;
(iii)       the term   "debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking funds payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt;
(iv)        the term "debt" means any debt maturing by its terms more
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred;
(v)         the term  "incur" with reference to any debt includes any
modification of the terms of payment of.such debt. Debt shall
be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution and delivery
of a contract, loan agreement or other instrument providing for
such debt; and
(vi)        whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by
TAHECU, TAHADU or Village Cooperatives, as appropriate, for
the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such other currency
is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be
reasonably determined by the Association.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall meet or cause to be met recurrent
expenditures of any health and education facilities to be constructed, installed or
purchased under Part C.3 of the Project.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause the roads constructed under Part
E of the Project to be maintained fully and adequately in accordance with sound
engineering and financial practices.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause EPID and the various other
departments or agencies of the Borrower participating in the Project to cooperate
fully to ensure the carrying out of the purposes of the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the


﻿13
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by AIDB of their obligations under the Project
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of EPID, AIDB and, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower or subsidiaries of AIDB responsible for carrying out
any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit;
and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of AIDB and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by AIDB of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the TAHECU Project Financing
Agreement and the Cooperative Project Financing Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿14
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   AIDB shall have failed to perform   any covenant, agreement or
obligation under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture (EPID) or AIDB shall have
failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation under the Agency
Agreement;
(c)   AIDB   or TAHECU    shall have failed to perform  any covenant,
agreement or obligation under the TAHECU Project Financing Agreement;
(d)   AIDB or the Cooperative Ranch shall have failed to perform any
covenant, agreement or obligation under the Cooperative Project Financing
Agreement;
(e)   an  extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that AIDB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement;


﻿15
(f)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action without the prior approval of the Association for the dissolution
or disestablishment of AIDB, LMB, TAHECU, any of the Village Cooperatives,
TAHADU or EPID or for the suspension of their operations, respectively;
(g)   Decree No. 55 of 1970 or any provision thereof of the Borrower
establishing AIDB or any other legislation presently in force and effect and
governing the organization and operation of AIDB shall have been amended,
suspended, modified or repealed without the Association's prior agreement so as,
in the opinion of the Association, to materially and adversely affect AIDB's
operations or financial condition or AIDB's ability to perform its obligations under
the Project Agreement,
(h)   the Order or the Proclamation or any provision thereof or any other
legislation presently in force and effect and governing the organization and
operations of LMB shall have been amended, suspended, modified or repealed
without the Association's prior agreement so as, in the opinion of the Association,
to materially and adversely affect LMB's operations or financial condition or LMB's
ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement;
(i)   AIDB, TAHECU or LMB shall have become unable to pay their debts
as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by AIDB,
TAHECU or LMB or by others whereby any of the property of AIDB, TAHECU
or LMB, respectively, shall or may be distributed among its creditors; and
()    the TAHECU Project Financing Agreement or the Cooperative Project
Financing Agreement or any material provision thereof shall have been assigned,
amended, suspended, terminated, abrogated or waived without the prior approval
of the Association.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Section 7.02
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (f), (g), (h), (i), and () of Section
7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿16
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
AIDB have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate,
administrative and governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and AIDB, respectively, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate, administrative and governmental action;
(c)   the execution and delivery of the Agency Agreement on behalf of
the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture (EPID) and AIDB, respectively, have been
duly authorized  or ratified by all necessary corporate, administrative and
governmental action; and
(d)   a Project Director and a Senior Cooperative Officer shall have been
employed as provided in Section 3.06(a)(i) of this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, AIDB, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of AIDB in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and AIDB,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
AIDB in accordance with its terms; and
(c)   that the Agency Agreement has been duly authorized by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture (EPID) and
AIDB, respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of AIDB and
EPID in accordance with its terms.


﻿17
Section 8.03. The date December 31, 1974 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.03, 3.04,
3.05, 3.06, 3.09(i), 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 of this Agreement and the provisions of
Section 7.02 of this Agreement and those of Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:
MINFIN
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿18
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ETHIOPIA
By /s / Kifle Wodajo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿19
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            %Of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.         Ploughs, carts,               1,337,000          100% of foreign
livestock, im-                                   expenditures or
plements, on farm                                80% of total ex-
storage, equip-                                  pendres for
ment, housing                                     ocally procured
and other set-                                   goods
tlement expenses
of Project
Farmers to be fi-
nanced under Long-
Term Loans; fer-
tilizers, seeds,
insecticides and
other annual farm
inputs to be fi-
nanced under
Seasonal Loans
II.        Purchase of equip-             799,000
ment, furniture,
road and mechanical
plant and vehicles
III.       Construction of               1,323,000
TAHECU and Village
Cooperatives faci-
lities, including
grain storage
facilities and pur-
chase of related
equipment
JV.        Construction of and            280,000           it
putting into opera-
tion of the Coopera-
tive Ranch including
facilities and pur-
chase of related
equipment
V.         Road construction              577,000
by Force Account


﻿20
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % Of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
VI.        Cost of Project               2,369,000           100% of foreign
support services                                  expenditures or
including farm                                   80% of total ex-
inputs for pro-                                  penditures for
motional purposes,                                ocally procured
staff salaries                                   goods
(including Coop-
erative Ranch
manager), housing,
construction of
Project headquarters
facilities, training
materials, supplies,
equipment
VII.       Planning and con-              268,000
sultants services
for preparation of
the second phase
of the Borrower's
agricultural settle-
ment and development
program in the
Project area
VIII.      Preparation of                 347,000
future livestock
projects, including
feasibility studies
and cost of running
trials, demonstra-
tions and pilot
projects
IX.        Unallocated                   2,200,000
TOTAL        9,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the   term   "foreign  expenditures"   means expenditures     for goods
produced in, or services supplied frlm, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the   term   "total expenditures"    means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:


﻿21
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories VI and VIII on account of
expenditures incurred after August 1, 1973 in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $225,000;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes; and
(c)   any goods and services under Category IV of the table set out under
paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the following conditions shall have been fulfilled:
(i)        The Cooperative Ranch shall have been established and provided
with competent and experienced management in accordance with
the provisions of Section 3.05(b) of this Agreement.
(ii)       The execution and delivery of the Cooperative Project Financing
Agreement on behalf of the Cooperative Ranch and AIDB,
respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate a6d governmental action.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)  if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set


﻿22
forth or referred to in this or the Project Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under any Category
shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first five-year (1975-1979) phase of an agricultural
settlement and development program to provide basic services, infrastructure and
institutions necessary to develop a total of about 24,000 family farms on
450,000 ha. in the lower Adiabo area of Tigre Province.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A.     Establishment of family farms in the Project area:
The establishment in the aforesaid Project area of 12,000 family farms
of about 5 ha. each, grouped in 20 Village Cooperatives of about 600
families each. To that end, (i) each Village Cooperative will be granted
by the Borrower a sixty-year lease on all the land required for the
family farms to be grouped in it; (ii) farm land will be sub-leased
by the Village Cooperative to Project Farmers; and (iii) Project Farmers
will be expected to construct their own housing and will be eligible
for (a) Long-Term Loans for the purchase of construction materials,
ploughs, carts, livestock, implements, on farm storage and resettlement
expenses, and (b) Seasonal Loans for purchase of seeds, fertilizers,
insecticides and other annual farm inputs.
Part B.     Establishment of Village Cooperative facilities:
1.    The construction by TAHECU of a cooperative office and store,
a permanent village water supply, a grain milling center and
about 6 kilometers of village roads for each Village Cooperative,
to be owned by the Village Cooperative and to be financed by
a long-term loan from TAHECU to such Village Cooperative.
2.    The establishment by TAHECU for each Village Cooperative of
a village grazing area of about 6,000 ha., with related facilities
(watering points, cattle dips, cattle crushes, fencing and
firebreaks).
Part C.     TAHECU facilities:
1.    Construction and putting into    operation  by TAHECU      of
livestock market facilities and crop storage facilities at Enda
Selassie to be equipped to clean, fumigate and handle grain.


﻿24
2.    Construction by TAHECU and equipping of buildings, stores and
engineering unit facilities.
3.    Construction  by TAHECU     of facilities for primary level
schooling for Village Cooperatives, two permanent dispensaries
and purchase of two mobile clinics.
Part D.     Cooperative Ranch facilities:
The establishment of a cooperative society which will own a ranch
of about 20,000 ha. in the Project area; the provision of essential
facilities for such ranch (including boreholes, firebreaks, cattle crushes,
vehicles and equipment) and the purchase of an initial herd of about
5,300 head of cattle for such ranch.
Part E.    Road construction and expansions to be carried out by TAHADU:
1.   Improvement of about 245 kilometers of motorable tracks to
minimum wet weather access standards for ten ton trucks.
2.    Construction and improvement of about 50 kilometers of new
motorable tracks to minimum wet weather access standards to
ten ton trucks.
3.    Purchase and use of equipment and vehicles to carry out the
construction and improvement program under I and 2.
Part F.    Strengthening and expansion of EPID's and TAHADU's staff, facilities
and activities:
1.   Provision to EPID and TAHADU of planning staff and facilities
at Project headquarters in Sheraro, with the objective of enabling
EPID and TAHADU to undertake (a) the required land planning
for reallocation of land, consolidation of holdings, and expansion
of land under cultivation to provide each farmer with about 5
ha. of land in the Project area; (b) the division of the Project
area into 20 village units of 600 farmers each with access roads,
basic infrastructure and communal grazing areas; and (c)
construction of office buildings and staff housing, purchase of
vehicles and equipment, and operating costs of TAHADU's Land
Planning, Adjudication and Administration Sections.


﻿25
2.    Strenghtening of EPID's Evaluation and Financial Control and
Accounting Unit through the provision of additional staff.
3.    Strengthening of TAHADU's staff to train TAHECU and Village
Cooperatives staff and to assist TAHECU and Village
Cooperatives staff in the execution of the Project.
4.    Provision of extension services and inputs on a promotional basis.
Part G.     Additional Technical Services:
1.    Establishment of an    agricultural research  program  to be
conducted by the Borrower's Institute for Agricultural Research
to include testing of improved varieties, alternate crops, seed
bed preparation methods, pest control and crop and animal
husbandry techniques.
2.    Training of farmers and staff at EPID's Sheraro facilities,
including construction of training facilities; overseas training for
a limited   amount of TAHADU        staff; employment of a
cooperative and an agricultural training officer.
3.    Training of secretaries for cooperatives by the Borrower's
Cooperative Development Department in its Ministry of National
Community Development and Social Affairs.
4.    TAHADU extension services consisting of an advisory service for
farmers totaling about 60 extension workers; provision of staff
salaries, vehicles, equipment and additional cooperative staff.
5.    Establishment of a veterinary team in TAHADU headed by a
veterinary officer, assisted by vaccinators to provide advisory
services to farmers and to perform prophylactic innoculation on
village livestock.
6.    Short-term  consultant services to EPID-TAHADU to assist the
Borrower in the preparation of the second phase of the Project,
and in problem identification and solution with regard to Project
evaluation and administration, pasture management, agronomy
and livestock disease control.


﻿26
Part H.     The Preparation by LMB of Future Livestock Projects:
1.    The carrying out of basic technical and economic feasibility
studies for future livestock projects.
2.    The carrying out of trials for the fattening of livestock, for the
growing of fodder crop and for the improvement of rangelands
and pastures, in connection with future livestock projects.
3.    The carrying out of demonstrations and small-scale pilot projects
in connection with the future livestock projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿27
SCHEDULE 3
Summary of Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1.   The Borrower shall relend to AIDB the equivalent of that part of the proceeds
of the Credit which shall be withdrawn for expenditures made or to be made
under Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, for a period of 15 years, including
a grace period of 5 years, at an interest rate of 7-1/4% per annum on amounts
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
2.   AIDB shall enter with TAHECU into a project financing agreement under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, for the
purpose of making a loan, the principal amount of which shall be the equivalent
in the currency of the Borrower to the proceeds of the Credit which shall be
withdrawn for expenditures made or to be made under Parts A, B and C of the
Project and which shall be relent to AIDB by the Borrower in accordance with
paragraph I of this Schedule.
3.   TAHECU and EPID (TAHADU), acting as agent for AIDB, pursuant to the
Agency Agreement shall at all times promptly exercise all remedies to promptly
collect and recover (i) from Project Farmers all payable and outstanding amounts
of Seasonal Loans and Long-Term Loans including principal interest and other
charges and (ii) from Village Cooperatives any amounts payable and outstanding
including principal, interest and other charges, outstanding on Village Cooperative
Sub-Loans.
4.    AIDB shall enter into a project financing agreement with the Cooperative
Ranch under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association for the purpose of making a loan to the Cooperative Ranch the principal
amount of which shall be the equivalent in the currency of the Borrower of the
proceeds of the Credit which shall be withdrawn for expenditures made or to be
made under Part D of the Project and which shall be relent by the Borrower to
AIDB in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
5.   The exchange risk -under paragraph I hereof shall be borne by the Borrower.


﻿28
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
1.    Identical or similar items of material and equipment shall, to the extent
possible, be consolidated in a single invitation for the purposes of bidding.
2.    With respect to any contract for mechanical plant and other equipment,
vehicles and fertilizers estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower (which term shall
for purposes of this Schedule, include EPID, AIDB or such other agency or
instrumentality of the Borrower acceptable to the Association) shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The items
to be purchased will be grouped so as to permit such bulk procurement as shall
be consistent with sound technical and procurement practices. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom    it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.


﻿29
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
3.    With respect to any other contract for mechanical plant and other equipment,
vehicles and fertilizers, the Borrower shall follow its procurement procedures in
force on the date of this Agreement and furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the subnmission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds- from the Credit Account in respect of any
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract is not consistent with such procedures, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.    With respect to any contract for construction of buildings the Borrower shall
follow local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association and shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent with such procedures
promptly inform the Borrower, and state the reasons for such determination.
5.   Construction of roads may be carried out under force account.
6.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
supplied goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided. Bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods. The cost to the
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the
evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
7.    For goods included in Categories I and II of the table set forth in paragraph
I of Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference to goods manufactured in the Borrower's territories in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿30
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Borrower's
territories, if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing cost
of such goods includes a value added in the Borrower's territories
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B:   bids offering goods manufactured in the Borrower's
territories, other than bids classified in Group A.
(3)   Group C:   bids offering any other goods.
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes in goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied locally, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (b) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest bid from Group A, as determined under paragraph (b) above, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each Group C bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such Group
C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the Group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes of award;
if not, the lowest bid from Group C, as determined under paragraph (b) above,
shall be selected for purposes of award.
8.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


