CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 516 ET
Project Agreement
(Lower Adiabo Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT BANK, S. C.
DATED OCTOBER 18, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 516 ET
Project Agreement
(Lower Adiabo Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT BANK, S.C.
DATED OCTOBER 18, 1974


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 18, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK S.C. (hereinafter
called AIDB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Ethiopia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nine million five hundred thousand dollars ($9,500,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that AIDB agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement (hereinafter called the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and AIDB, a portion
of the proceeds of the Credit, required for the carrying out of Parts A, B, C and
D of the Project, will be relent to AIDB inter alia on the terms and conditions
as provided in paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement;
and
WHEREAS AIDB, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. AIDB shall in cooperation with EPID carry out Parts A, B,
C and D of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit


﻿4
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Part A(iii)
of the Project shall be carried out as follows:
(i)         AIDB shall procure or cause to be procured in accordance with
the provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the
Development Credit Agreement, and sell to the Project farmers
through TAHECU, the farm inputs included in Part A(iii) of
the Project. Sales shall be made according to the needs of each
Project Farmer, as recommended by EPID. The prices charged
for such farm inputs shall be determined in agreement with
EPID.
(ii)        Delivery of said farm inputs to the Project Farmer who does
not pay his purchase price in cash shall be made only after (1)
TAHADU has established his creditworthiness, (2) a Seasonal
Loan Agreement or a Long-Term Loan Agreement, as
appropriate, has been signed and delivered between the Project
Farmer and the Village Cooperative financing part of the
purchase price of said farm inputs, and (3) the Project Farmer
has paid in cash the balance of the purchase price not financed
under a Seasonal Loan or a Long-Term Loan. The terms and
conditions of Seasonal Loans and Long-Term Loans shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
(iii)       The Ministry of Agriculture (EPID) and AIDB shall enter into
an agency agreement, satisfactory to the Association, governing
inter alia the relationships between EPID and AIDB in the
carrying out of Part A(iii) of the Project.
(iv)        The principal amounts of Seasonal Loans and Long-Term Loans
shall be the equivalent in the currency of the Borrower of the
amounts in various currencies (including the Borrower's
currency) paid for such farm inputs, such equivalent to be
determined as of the respective dates on which such loan
amounts shall be disbursed by AIDB.
Section 2.03. (a) AIDB shall enter into project financing agreements with
TAHECU and the Cooperative Ranch, under terms and conditions (including inter
alia those set forth in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement as such


﻿5
Schedule may be modified from time to time in agreement between the Borrower
and the Association) which shall have been approved by the Association.
(b)   Without limitation to the application of the foregoing paragraph,
Village Cooperative Sub-Loans shall be made under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. (a) AIDB undertakes to insure or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods under Parts A, B, C and D of the Project
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, AIDB shall cause all
goods and services under Parts A, B, C and D of the Project financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for
the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) AIDB shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, reports and procurement schedules for Part A of the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b)   AIDB: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of Section 4.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine the goods and all relevant records and documents related
to Part A of the Project; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to AIDB and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.06. AIDB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AIDB shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. AIDB shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 3.02. AIDB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of AIDB and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Association and AIDB shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and AIDB shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of AIDB and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 4.02. The Association and AIDB shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower
and AIDB of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. AIDB shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all stocks of goods purchased under Part A of the Project and any relevant records
and documents.


﻿7
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of AIDB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify AIDB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿8
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For AIDB:
Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank, S.C.
Box 1900
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Cable address:
AIDBANK
Addis Ababa
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of AIDB may be taken or executed by the Managing Director of AIDB or such
other person or persons as the Managing Director of AIDB shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. AIDB shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of AIDB, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by AIDB pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿9
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT BANK, S.C.
By /s/ Legesse Tickher
Authorized Representative


