CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 889 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Punjab Irrigation Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 30, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 889 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 30, 1979, between INDIA, acting by its
President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinatter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the State of Punjab, the State of Punjab has
agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying
out of the Project;
(C) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the Agricultural Refinance and Development Cor-
poration, the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the
carrying out of the Project; and
(D) the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Agreements of even
date herewith referred to in Recitals (B) and (C) above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the Gen-
eral Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Punjab" means the State of Punjab, a State of India,
or any successor thereof;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Punjab of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(c) "ARDC" means the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation, a statutory corporation established and organized
under the laws of the Borrower;
(d) "ARDC Agreement" means the agreement between the Asso-
ciation and ARDC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time and such term includes all agreements supplemen-
tal to the ARDC Agreement;
(e) "Irrigation Department" means the Department of Irri-
gation of Punjab;
(f) "PSTC" means the Punjab State Tubewell Corporation
Limited, a company established and organized under the laws
of Punjab; and
(g) "participating banks" means any cooperative bank or
commercial bank in Punjab participating in lending under the
Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to one hundred and twenty-nine million dollars
($129,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and


﻿- 3 -
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January 1
and July 1 commencing July 1, 1989, and ending January 1, 2029,
each installment to and including the installment payable on
January 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) carry out Part D of the Project
or cause it to be carried out; and (ii) enable Punjab and ARDC to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
and the ARDC Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provi-
sion of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable Punjab and ARDC to perform such obli-


﻿gations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make available out of the proceeds
of the Credit funds equivalent to $82,300,000 to Punjab in accor-
dance with the Borrower's standard arrangements for developmental
assistance to the States of India.
(c) The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds of the
Credit funds equivalent to $46,000,000 to ARDC under financ,"il
arrangements to be entered into between the Borrower and r-RDC
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Punjab shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(b) ARDC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the ARDC Agreement;
(c) ARDC shall have become unable to pay any of its debts
as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken
by ARDC or by others whereby any of the property of ARDC shall or
may be distributed among its creditors;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ARDC or for the suspension of its operations; and
(e) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that (i) Punjab will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement, or (ii) ARDC will
be able to perform its obligations under the ARDC Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿- 5 -
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and Punjab or ARDC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the eftectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) ot the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
Punjab has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action; and
(b) the execution of the ARDC Agreement on behalf of ARDC
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by Punjab, and is legally binding upon Punjab in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the ARDC Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ARDC, and is legally binding upon ARDC in accordance
with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date July 3, 1979, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 (b) of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary of the Department of
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECOFAIRS                           953-313546
New Delhi
For the .association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 7 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By Is/ R. L. Misra
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. H. Wiehen
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works
(a) under Part B          46,000,000         55% of ARDC's
of the Project                          refinancing
(b) under Parts A         71,000,000         65%
and C of the
Project
(2) Vehicles and                7,400,000         100% of foreign
equipment                                    expenditures;
or 100% ex-
factory cost;
or 70%
(3) Preparation of                700,000         100% of foreign
projects under                               expenditures
Part D of the
Project
(4) Unallocated                 3,900,000
TOTAL      129,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and


﻿-9-
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) expenditures under Part B of the Project until the
Association has approved (i) the financial arrangements entered
into between the Borrower and ARDC pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, and (ii) the Banking Plan prepared and
adopted by ARDC pursuant to Section 2.01 of the ARDC Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿- 10 -
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in ,ny way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expen-
ditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is intended to modernize and improve irrigation
systems and to introduce pilot demonstration schemes involving
advanced technologies for these purposes in the State of Punjab.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Modernization of canals through (i) lining of about
21,400,000 square meters of canal surface (equivalent to
about 4,060 kilometers of distributaries and minor
canals) and (ii) improvement of the canal structures,
all within a command area of about 1,200,000 hectares.
Part B:   Modernization of watercourses through lining of a
total length of about 15,200 kilometers of watercourse
channel on about 2,820 watercourses serving an area of
about 620,000 hectares.
Part C:   Studies and pilot de:'onstration schemes to test advanced
technologies for water distribution and on-farm works.
Part D:   Preparation of irrigation projects by the Borrower
I
throughout India.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


