CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 889 IN
Project Agreement
(Punjab Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF PUNJAB
Dated March 30, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 889 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 30,1979, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association)
and the STATE OF PUBJAB, acting by its Governor (hereinafter
called Punjab).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred and twenty-nine million
dollars ($129,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
Punjab agree to undertake such obligations toward the Associa-
tion as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Punjab, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Punjab shall carry out Parts A, B and C of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. Punjab shall provide funds sufficient to
execute the Project substantially in accordance within an imple-
mentation schedule agreed with the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Punjab undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by che Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by Punjab to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Punjab
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclu-
sively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Punjab shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) Punjab: (i) shall maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿- 3 -
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not laler than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Punjab
and the Association, Punjab shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by Punjab and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Credit
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.06. (a) Punjab shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) Punjab shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Punjab of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. Punjab shall:
(i) establish by July 31, 1979 and maintain thereafter,
a Project Coordinating Unit with such functions as
shall be mutually agreed between the Association
and Punjab; and
(ii) appoint by July 31, 1979 and maintain thereafter a
Project coordinator whose qualifications, experi-
ence and terms of reference shall be mutually
agreed between the Association and Punjab, to head
the said Unit.
Section 3.02. Punjab shall establish or cause to be estab-
lished by January 31, 1980 and maintained thereafter, a monitoring
and evaluation unit with functions mutually agreed between the
Association and Punjab, in PSTC and in each of the following
administrations within the Irrigation Department: (i) Canal
Administration; and (ii) Water Resources Administration.


﻿Section 3.03. Punjab shall cause PSTC, by August 31, 1979 or
such later date as may be mutually agreed between the Association
and Punjab, to: (i) establish a Management Information Unit with
such functions as shall be mutually agreed between the Associa-
tion and Punjab; (ii) appoint and maintain a financial advisor
whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be
mutually agreed between the Association and Punjab, to head the
said Unit; and (iii) furnish a financial management plan to the
Association for its review and comments.
Section 3.04. Punjab shall establish, by July 31, 1979, a
wing in the Irrigation Department, with responsibilities, satis-
factory to the Association, for works under Part C of the Project.
Section 3.05. Punjab shall cause PSTC to:
(a) prepare and furnish, by December 31, 1979, a design
manual suitable for use under Part B of the Project, to the
Association for its review and comments; and
(b) monitor and evaluate the existing procedures and speci-
fications for plastering of watercourse lining and furnish a
report on the adequacy of the said procedures and specifications
together with any recommendations thereon, by December 31, 1979,
to the Association for review.
Section 3.06. Punjab shall make adequate arrangements for the
efficient operation and preventive maintenance of all the irri-
gation works under the Project.
Section 3.07. Punjab agrees to guarantee debt repayments
by PSTC for institutional credit to be refinanced by ARDC under
the Project.
Section 3.08. Punjab agrees that each of the studies and
pilot demonstration schemes under Part C of the Project shall be
mutually agreed between the Association and Punjab before each of
such studies or schemes is carried out.
Section 3.09. (a) Punjab agrees to complEte and make avail-
able to the Association for its comments not later than August 31,
1981, a statewide review of alternative methods of collecting
water and water-related charges in modernized irrigation projects,
with special emphasis on volumetric water pricing.


﻿-5-
(b) The said review shall, inter alia, have regard to: (i)
farmers' capPr,ity to pay; (ii) farmers' incentives for adopting
procedures of modern irrigated agriculture; (iii) the effects of
the alternative collecting methods on Punjab's revenues; and
(iv) comparable systems of water and water-related charges in
other States of India.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Punjab shall cause each of its various depart-
ments or agencies responsible for carrying out any part of the
Project, to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition in respect of the Project or
any part thereof.
Section 4.02. Punjab shall cause each of its various depart-
ments or agencies responsible for carrying out any part of the
Project to: (i) have the accounts and financial statements
for such part of the Project as the department or agency may be
responsible, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of the said financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning the said accounts and financial statements and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreament shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿- 6 -
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Punjab thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify Punjab
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreemant shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International D-:velopment Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
For Punjab:
Chief Secretary to the Government
of Punjab
Chandigarh, India
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC Punjab
CHANDIGARH, India
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Punjab may be taken or executed by its
Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as Punjab shall
designate in writing, and Punjab shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ M. H. Wiehen
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF PUNJAB
By /s/ R. L. Misra
Authorized Representative


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Punjab shall prepare and forward
to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. Punjab shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in India


﻿- 9 -
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacLuring cost of such goods includes
a value added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in India.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this compari-
son, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the evaluated bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 10 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, Punjab may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to
domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
Punjab and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group
of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding docu-
ments shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by Punjab,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works on distributary and small canals to be modern-
ized under Part A of the Project may be carried out by contracts
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Civil works on modernization of watercourses and small
canals under Part B of the Project may be carried out by small
unit price contracts awarded on the basis of local competitive


﻿- 11 -
bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
3.   Civil works under the Project may be carried out through
force account, provided that such works shall not in the aggregate
exceed 10% of the total cost of all civil works under the Project.
4.   Groups of contracts for vehicles, equipment and spares, each
costing less than $100,000 equivalent, may be procured locally on
the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Association, provided that such
contracts shall not in the aggregate exceed $4,000,000 equivalent,
and, further provided that such contracts shall not include
backhoes, crawler tractors, transporter units for heavy equipment
and initial spares for these items.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Punjab shall urnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Punjab
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Punjab
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 12 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Punjab shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Punjab and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, Punjab shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform Punjab and
state the reasons for its determination.


