                                 Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR-0003233




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (Loan No. IBRD-74980)

                                  ON A LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$72.5 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA

                                     FOR A

      PORT-CITY OF LIMON INTEGRATED INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT




                               December 24, 2014




Global Practice Transport & ICT
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
               (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 19, 2014)
                            Currency Unit = Colon
                          US$1.00 = 528.00 Colones

                                FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 – December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GoCR    Government of Costa Rica
ICR     Implementation and Completion and Results Report
OP/BP   Operational Policy/Bank Procedures
MOF     Ministry of Finance
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PDO     Project Development Objectives
SMEs    Small and Medium Enterprises
TA      Technical Assistance




        Senior Global Practice Director: Pierre Guislain
                      Practice Manager: Aurelio Menendez
                  Project Team Leader: Oscar E. Alvarado
                     ICR Team Leader: Oscar E. Alvarado




                                        ii
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS
Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph
Section 1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design .............................. 1
  1.1 Context at Appraisal.................................................................................................. 1
  1.2 Original Project Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators ....................... 2
  1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators ............................................................................. 2
  1.4 Main Beneficiaries .................................................................................................... 2
  1.5 Original Components ................................................................................................ 2
  1.6 Revised Components ................................................................................................ 4
  1.7 Other Changes........................................................................................................... 4
Section 2. Key Factors Affecting Imple mentation and Outcomes ............................... 4
  2.1 Project Preparation, Design, Quality at Entry........................................................... 4
  2.2 Implementation ......................................................................................................... 5
  2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation ....................................................................................... 7
  2.4 Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance ..................................................................... 7
Section 3. Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................ 9
Section 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................... 11
Section 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................... 11
  5.1 Bank Performance................................................................................................... 11
  5.2 Borrower Performance ............................................................................................ 12
Section 6. Lessons Learned ............................................................................................ 13

Annexes:
 1. Project Cost and Financing
 2. Project Output by Components
 3. Financial Management
 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
 5. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
 6. List of Supporting Documents




                                                               iii
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
                                                                               Port-City of Limon
Country:                  Costa Rica                   Project Name:           Integrated
                                                                               Infrastructure Project
Project ID:               P085539                      L/C/TF Number(s):       IBRD-74980
ICR Date:                 12/24/2014                   ICR Type:               Core ICR
                                                                               GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:       SIL                          Borrower:
                                                                               COSTA RICA
Original Total
                          US$72.5M                     Disbursed Amount:       US$8.90M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           US$72.5M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Project Coordination Unit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                    Revised / Actual
     Process                 Date               Process            Original Date
                                                                                        Date(s)
Concept Review:           11/03/2003       Effectiveness:            10/06/2009       10/06/2009
                                                                                        12/10/2010
Appraisal:                10/29/2007       Restructuring(s):            N/A
                                                                                        06/30/2011
Approval:                 01/08/2008       Mid-term Review:          10/29/2012         10/29/2012
                                           Closing:                  06/30/2014         06/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                              Highly Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                           High
Bank Performance:                                      Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                  Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
       Bank                  Ratings            Borrower                              Ratings
                                                                               Moderately
Quality at Entry:         Unsatisfactory               Government:
                                                                               Unsatisfactory
                          Moderately                   Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                                        Unsatisfactory
                          Unsatisfactory               Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                           Overall Borrower
                          Unsatisfactory                                       Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                           Performance:

                                                      iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                         QAG Assessments
                              Indicators                                    Rating
      Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                 Quality at Entry
                           No                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                      (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                           Yes                                      None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 General industry and trade sector                               2                  25
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector            46                 12
Other social services                                            36                 56
Ports, waterways and shipping                                    7                    1
Sub-national government administration                           9                    6


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery                    10                 14
Cultural Heritage                                                20                 44
Municipal governance and institution building                    20                   6
Participation and civic engagement                               40                 25
Urban services and housing for the poor                          10                 11

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:            Jorge Familiar Calderon         Pamela Cox
Country Director:          J. Humberto Lopez               Jane Armitage
Practice
                           Aurelio Menendez                Laura Tuck
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Oscar E. Alvarado               Cecilia Claudia Corvalan
ICR Team Leader:           Oscar E. Alvarado               N/A
ICR Primary Author:        Bernardo Gomez                  N/A




                                                v
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The PDO was to revitalize the city of Limon in line with the Government’s Regional
Development Strategy, and prepare for the modernization of the port of Limon. The
specific Project objectives were to: (a) improve the protection and management of
Limon’s cultural and natural heritage; (b) increase access to the sewerage system and
reduce urban flooding in the area of Limoncito; (c) foster a more efficient, accountable
and credible local government; (d) create new employment opportunities through small
and micro-enterprises; and (e) support the port modernization process and improve
transport access to the Limon and Moin port terminals.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target Formally             Actual Value
  Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                              approval          Target        Completion or
                                            documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Limon's protected emblematic/cultural and natural assets.
Value
quantitative or            N/A                   N/A               N/A              N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                The PAD does not contain values for this indicator. Related outcome indicators
(incl. %
                are discussed under Intermediate Outcome Indicators.
achievement)
                Number of households connections to sewer system and reduced frequency of
Indicator 2 : floods (households affected) in Limoncito.
Value
quantitative or            N/A                   N/A               N/A              N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                The PAD does not contain values for this indicator. Related outcome indicators
(incl. %
                are discussed under Intermediate Outcome Indicators.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : SME contribution to GLP.
Value
quantitative or            N/A                   N/A               N/A              N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                The PAD does not contain values for this indicator. Related outcome indicators
(incl. %
                are discussed under Intermediate Outcome Indicators.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Municipality of Limon capital expenditure/current expenditure ratio.
Value                      N/A                   N/A               N/A              N/A

                                               vi
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                The PAD does not contain values for this indicator. Related outcome indicators
(incl. %
                are discussed under Intermediate Outcome Indicators.
achievement)
                Number of urban investments which follow the Strategic Plan of the Port-city of
Indicator 5 : Limon.
Value
quantitative or            N/A                   N/A                N/A             N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %        The PAD does not contain values for this indicator.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Number of containers reaching Moin by railway.
Value
quantitative or            N/A                   N/A                N/A             N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                The PAD does not contain values for this indicator. Related outcome indicators
(incl. %
                are discussed under Intermediate Outcome Indicators.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
   Indicator           Baseline Value           Values   (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                                  approval                          Completion or
                                                documents) Target Values Target Years
                  Decree for the protection of historically valuable buildings in place and joint
Indicator 1 :     Municipal Planning Bureau and Minister of Culture monitoring of its
                  implementation
Value
                  10 buildings/year         1 building/year                    No information
(quantitative                                                   Not revised
                  demolished                demolished                         available.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/27/2007                 11/27/2012          12/01/2014      12/01/2014
Comments          Decree for protection of historical buildings was not issued. A decree for the
(incl. %          Casa de la Cultura (Cultural House) was issued. Target was never revised. No
achievement)      information on indicator is available.
Indicator 2 :     Score in city's image perception from citizens and tourists (using a scorecard)
Value
                                                                               No information
(quantitative     85% negative              50% negative        N/A
                                                                               available.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/27/2007                11/27/2012          12/01/2014     12/01/2014
Comments
                  At closure no scoring exercise had been conducted.
(incl. %

                                                 vii
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Perception regarding cultural activities in the city (using a scorecard)
Value
                                                                                 No information
(quantitative     95% negative               50% negative        N/A
                                                                                 available.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/27/2007                11/27/2012         12/01/2014      12/01/2014
Comments          The ICR establishes this outcome indicator as not applicable because related
(incl. %          subcomponents were not fully completed. Some were initiated only near the
achievement)      closing date.
Indicator 4 :     % of population with access to sewage system in Limoncito
Value
                                                                                 No information
(quantitative     38%                        100%                N/A
                                                                                 available.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/27/2007                 11/27/2011          12/01/2014      12/01/2014
Comments
                  The ICR establishes this outcome indicator as not applicable because no
(incl. %
                  investments related to the indicator were made.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Number of Flood Events
Value
                                             < once every 5                      No information
(quantitative     >once per year                                 N/A
                                             years                               available.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/27/2007                 11/27/2011          12/01/2014      12/01/2014
Comments
                  The ICR establishes this outcome indicator as not applicable because no
(incl. %
                  investments related to the indicator were made.
achievement)
                A series of geometric averages of monthly fecal coliforms in sea water samples
Indicator 6 : at 3 sampling points located in front of Playa Los Baños, each at a distance 100m
                from the shore (repeated at least 6 times during the year)
                80% of the geometric
Value           monthly averages of fecal
                                            80% below                        No information
(quantitative   coliforms are above the                        N/A
                                            reference                        available.
or Qualitative) reference (1000
                MPN/100ml)
Date achieved 11/27/2007                    11/27/2012         12/01/2014    12/01/2014
Comments
                The ICR establishes this outcome indicator as not applicable because no
(incl. %
                investments related to the indicator were made.
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Number of new SME in the tourism and cultural heritage sectors
Value
(quantitative   0                           15 operating       N/A           about 100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/27/2007                    11/27/2012         12/01/2014    12/01/2014
Comments        A number of cultural and tourism related Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs)
(incl. %        are now registered in Limon. While correlation with Project activities is difficult
achievement) to establish, the indicator target was achieved.
Indicator 8 : Tourism perception of quality of SMEs products (using scorecard)


                                                  viii
Value
                                                                                 No information
(quantitative     90% negative               70% negative        N/A
                                                                                 available.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/27/2007                 11/27/2012          12/01/2014      12/01/2014
Comments
(incl. %          No measurement of perception was made by Project closure.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Current/Capital Expenditures Ratio
Value
                  Figure prior to                                                No information
(quantitative                                Reduced by 20% N/A
                  intervention                                                   available.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/27/2007                 11/27/2012          12/01/2014      12/01/2014
Comments
                  The ICR establishes this outcome indicator as not applicable because no
(incl. %
                  interventions related to the indicator were made.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    Fiscal Revenues (Taxes)
Value
                  Figure prior to                                                No information
(quantitative                                15% increase        N/A
                  intervention                                                   available.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/27/2007                 11/27/2012          12/01/2014      12/01/2014
Comments
                  The ICR establishes this outcome indicator as not applicable because no
(incl. %
                  interventions related to the indicator were made.
achievement)
Indicator 11 :    Citizen perception of credibility and accountability of the municipality
Value
                  Score prior to                                                 No information
(quantitative                                15% increase        N/A
                  intervention                                                   available.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/27/2007                 11/27/2012          12/01/2014      12/01/2014
Comments
                  The ICR establishes this outcome indicator as not applicable because no
(incl. %
                  interventions related to this indicator were made.
achievement)
Indicator 12 :    # investments aligned with strategic development plan
Value
                                                                                 No information
(quantitative     0%                         50%                 N/A
                                                                                 available.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/27/2007                  11/27/2012        12/01/2014     12/01/2014
Comments          The ICR establishes this outcome indicator as not applicable because no
(incl. %          investments related to the indicator were made. The Strategic Development Plan
achievement)      was not prepared.
Indicator 13 :    # containers reaching the dock of Moín via railway
Value
                                                                                 No information
(quantitative     6000                       12000               N/A
                                                                                 available.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/27/2007                  11/27/2012       12/01/2014      12/01/2014
Comments          The ICR establishes this outcome indicator as not applicable because no
(incl. %          investments related to the indicator were made.

                                                   ix
achievement)
Indicator 14 :     Reduction in handling costs per ton in Moín dock
Value
                                                                                    No information
(quantitative      USD 0.08/ton              USD 0.03/ton          N/A
                                                                                    available.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/27/2007                11/27/2012            12/01/2014       12/01/2014
Comments
                   The ICR establishes this outcome indicator as not applicable because no
(incl. %
                   investments related to the indicator were made.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                        Actual
No.      Date ISR                    DO                           IP
         Archived                                                                   Disbursements
                                                                                    (USD millions)
  1     02/13/2008            Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     09/05/2008            Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                       0.00
                               Moderately                    Moderately
  3     12/15/2008                                                                                 0.00
                             Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately                    Moderately
  4     05/15/2009                                                                                 0.00
                             Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately                    Moderately
  5     11/25/2009                                                                                 0.00
                             Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately                    Moderately
  6     06/15/2010                                                                                 2.50
                             Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately
  7     02/25/2011                                      Moderately Satisfactory                    2.50
                             Unsatisfactory
  8     06/28/2011        Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                    2.50
  9     03/03/2012        Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                    2.50
 10     10/22/2012        Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                    2.50
 11     06/26/2013           Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                          4.70
                                                             Moderately
 12     02/23/2014              Unsatisfactory                                                     7.37
                                                           Unsatisfactory

H. Restructuring (if any)

Restructur          Board          ISR Ratings at       Reason for Restructuring and Key Changes
ing Date(s )       Approved        Restructuring                         Made
                  PDO Change        DO      IP
12/10/2010                          MU      MU          Description of the financing of the unit
                                                        responsible for Project activities in one of the
                                                        implementing agencies (INBIO) was added.
 6/30/2011                          MS       MS         Playa Los Banos activity was split from the
                                                        Patios de INCOFER activity to allow the
                                                        approval of procurement plans for Playa Los
                                                        Banos, which was ready before Patios de
                                                        INCOFER.


                                                    x
Section 1.     Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      At the time of appraisal, Costa Rica stood out as a strong pe rforme r in the Latin
American region. Costa Rica was able to diversify its economy and post a long record of
sustained economic growth enabled by political stability and an open export-driven economy.
GDP growth peaked at 8.8 percent in 2006. Economic growth and pro-active social policies
resulted in one of the lowest poverty rates in Latin America and social indicators that ranked
higher than those of other countries of the region.

2.      However, aggregate national indicators hid significant social disparities and
competitiveness bottlenecks. Despite low national poverty rates, the country’s Atlantic coast ,
including the Province of Limon, was characterized by higher levels of poverty, lower income
growth for the poor and lower social development indicators. In 2007, the poverty rate for the
Atlantic region was 20.2 percent, and 26 percent in the Province of Limon, well above the
national average of 16.7 percent.

3.      The Province of Limon and its port was recognized as one of the central bottlenecks
to Costa Rica’s trade and competitiveness. The port of Limon handled nearly 15 percent of all
containerized cargo from Central American countries in 2006, making it the busiest port in the
region after Panama. Yet Costa Rica ranked well below linear connectivity standards of countries
of similar levels of income due in part to infrastructure constraints. In the World Economic
Forum’s Global Competitiveness Report, Costa Rica was tied with Guatemala for the lowest
ranking in terms of port infrastructure quality. These trends for Costa Rica pointed to the need to
define regionally differentiated investment strategies that respond to regional differences in
patterns of poverty.

4.      The city of Limon was also known for its complex social fabric. Limon’s 70,000
inhabitants constitute a complex ethnic mix, including Chinese and Afro-descendants (the latter
made up 46 percent of the city’s population). This ethnic diversity underlies the cultural and
historic richness of Limon. Historically, the city suffered from racial friction and recurring social
unrest, motivated by inequalities in relation to the rest of the country, conflicts between trade
unions and the banana and port businesses, as well as a perception of neglect by national
authorities. Limon’s recent development was characterized by a lack of planning and inadequate
conservation and management of its cultural and natural assets, resulting in urban decay and a
gradual erosion of its unique Caribbean identity.

5.      Given the singular importance of the Port of Limon for the competitiveness of the
country’s trade, the city’s social indicators, and the multiple and unique challenges that the
City of Limon faced, the Government of Costa Rica (GoCR) developed a regional
development strategy for the Province of Limon. The strategy included three main pillars: (i)
the Social Action Plan for the Province of Limon; (ii) the Port-City of Limon Project; and (iii)
Modernization of the port of Limon. The three pillars exemplified an innovative, integrated,
multi-sectoral approach to address the complexity of the problems that the city of Limon faced
and build synergies between the port and the city.


                                                 1
Reflecting GoCR’s priorities, the 2004 -2008 World Bank Country Partnership Strategy
focused on strengthening trade and competitiveness and sustaining social progress. The
World Bank was well placed to support the GoCR Regional Development Strategy due to its: (i)
experience and ease in facilitating multi-sectoral projects; (ii) ability to attract donor funding;
and (iii) convening power to improve coordination among the key partners in t he Project. The
CAS included the City-Port of Limon as one of the main operations.
1.2 Original Project Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators

6.      The PDO was to revitalize the city of Limon in line with the Governme nt’s Regional
Development Strategy, and prepare for the modernization of the port of Limon. The
specific Project objectives were to: (a) improve the protection and management of Limon’s
cultural and natural heritage; (b) increase access to the sewerage system and reduce urban
flooding in the area of Limoncito; (c) foster a more efficient, accountable and credible local
government; (d) create new employment opportunities through small and micro-enterprises; and
(e) support the port modernization process and improve transport access to the Limon and Moin
port terminals.

7.      The achievement of the PDO was to be measured by six key indicators 1 : (i) adequate
protection of Limon’s emblematic cultural heritage; (ii) increased household connections to the
sewerage system and to decrease the number of households affected by flooding in Limoncito;
(iii) new jobs created in tourism related Small and Medium Enterprises (SME); (iv) improved
capital/current expenditure ratio for Limon municipality; (v) number of investments which
follow the strategic plan; and (vi) number of containers reaching Moin by railway.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators

8.      No changes were made to the PDO, PDO indicators or interme diate outcome
indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9.      The Project’s target beneficiaries were the residents of the City of Limon. The
Project also sought to benefit the entire country by improving the performance of the port.

1.5 Original Components

10.     The Project consisted of four components and included 10 subcomponents and 24
activities, as follows: 2

11.     Component 1. Urban and Cultural Rehabilitation (US$55.9 million). This component
would invest in the urban upgrade, cultural heritage protection and revitalization and natural
conservation of Limon, restoring its emblematic historical and cultural patrimony and providing
basic services to one of its poorest neighborhoods. It encompassed two subcomponents: Limon’s

1 The ICR reports the PDO level indicators as presented in the Annex 3 of the PAD (Results Framework and
Monitoring, section on Arrangements for Results Monitoring).
2 This ICR includes figures from the PAD or the Loan Agreement depending on availability.


                                                       2
Cultural, Natural and Architectural Revitalization (US$24.8 million) and Provision of Sewerage
and Drainage Services (US$31.1 million). The Limon’s Cultural, Natural and Architectonic
Rehabilitation subcomponent included the rehabilitation of six emblematic buildings/sites in the
city to achieve a more adequate patrimonial protection and appealing urban development.
Provision of Sewerage and Drainage Services included (i) extending the sewerage and drainage
system to increase access to sanitation, (ii) reducing urban flooding, and (iii) decreasing
contamination on the beaches.

12.     Component 2. Local Economic Development (US$2.0 million). This component would
support the generation of new sources of employment and income, particularly among the young,
through the development of micro and small businesses, training and technical assistance, seizing
the opportunities presented by growing cruise tourism and the historical/cultural richness of
Limon. It encompassed two subcomponents: Financial Assistance for Development of a Market
place (US$0.4 million) and Technical Assistance (TA) to Small and Medium Enterprises
(US$1.6 million). The Financial Assistance for the Development of a Market Place
subcomponent included market-place type activities to select the most promising business plans
as a means of triggering community-driven economic development. The incentives and grants
provided through competitive processes in the context of project fairs provided the following
types of support: (i) incentives to finance the start- up of promising project profiles; and (ii)
grants to access technical support services to improve the profitability and sustainability of
business plans and projects. The Training and TA subcomponent provided support to micro and
small businesses to improve the quality of their products and services.

13.     Component 3. Local Governance and Port-City Strategic Planning (US$4.3 million).
This component would provide TA for the Municipality of Limon to improve its capacity to
deliver and manage quality services and goods while empowering it to take an active role in the
city’s development. It encompassed four subcomponents: Strengthening Municipal Management
(US$0.5 million); Strategic Plan of the Port-City of Limon (US$0.8 million); Strengthening
Municipal Finance (US$1.3 million); and Expansion of Municipal Building (US$1.7 million).
These subcomponents focused on the following activities: (i) formulation of a participatory
strategic plan for the Port-City in coordination with other key Government agencies, private
sector, and citizens; (ii) strengthening of the municipality’s management capacity by
administrative restructuring, supporting the creation of an office for urban development planning
and monitoring, and a municipal tourism office; (iii) strengthening o f the municipality’s financial
management capacity by integrating its information systems, and updating cadaster and revenue
collection mechanisms; and (iv) physical improvements in its administrative buildings and
provision of adequate equipment.

14.      Component 4. Support to the Port Environme nt (US$6.6 million). This component
would support: (i) improvement of transport access to the Limon and Moin port terminals,
including the repair of the bridge over the river Chiripo, the rehabilitation of a warehouse in
Leesville, and the construction of a short section of track for direct access to the dock of Moin;
and (ii) TA to the Transport Ministry to support the concessions process of the terminals and
transport system for Moin and Limon, including complementary analysis such as fine-tuning the
Port Master Plan, developing a business plan for the port, and carrying out more detailed
institutional analyses.


                                                 3
1.6 Revised Components

15.    None of the components were revised during implementation.

1.7 Other Changes

16.      The Project underwent two minor amendments in Decembe r 2010 and June 2011 .
Both amendments (level two restructuring) sought to improve and accelerate Project
implementation. The first amendment added to the Project description the financing of the
implementing agency, the National Institute of Biodiversity, responsible for some of the Project
activities. The second amendment sought to facilitate the World Bank approval of the
procurement plan for the activities related to the beach Playa los Banos, and allow it to move
ahead, by splitting this activity from the activity related to rehabilitation works for the Railway
Company, which at the time was not yet fully defined.

Section 2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, Quality at Entry

17.      The multi-sectoral and multi-faceted design of the Project was overly complex for
the Costa Rican context. The project objectives were relevant both to Costa Rica and to the
Bank. The PDO, which included water, transport, urban upgrading, municipal develop ment and
promotion of micro, small and medium enterprises, was overly unrealistic. Project design, given
the number of multi-sectoral subcomponents, was not clearly articulated as part of a cohesive
Limon development proposal, but rather ended up as an aggregate of generally unconnected
activities. This contributed to the lack of common purpose and ownership among the
participants, and made coordination even more difficult.

18.     The imple mentation arrange ments we re challenging. The Project’s institutional set-up
included: (i) an Inter-Institutional Coordination Committee, with high- level representation of all
agencies involved in Project implementation; (ii) a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), responsible
for administrative, fiduciary, safeguards and general Project coordination, housed within the
Ministry of Finance (MOF); and (iii) twelve implementing agencies (the National Institute of
Biodiversity, Port Authority and Development Agency for the Atlantic Slope Region, Postal
Service, Ministry of Culture, Municipality of Limon, Institute of Sports and Recreation, National
Drainage and Flood Control Authority, Aqueduct and Sewerage Company, Ministry of Industry
and Trade, Municipal Development and Counseling Institute, National Railway Company,
National Board of Concessions) in charge of the execution of activities or subcomponents under
their jurisdiction, in coordination with other participating agencies, as established in the
corresponding Inter-Institutional Agreement. Such implementation arrangements wo uld have
required a more sophisticated institutional environment than the one present in Costa Rica. The
PCU was generally weak with high staff turnover, and subject to the uncertainties inherent in the
funding from the Government budget. The commitment and capacity of the implementing
agencies was mixed and generally low. The lack of commitment was a consequence of the



                                                4
agencies’ limited participation in Project preparation, which was led by the Central Government
through the Ministry of Public Works, the MOF, and the Ministry of Institutional Coordination.

19.     Project preparation spanned almost five years, and endured significant changes in
the Project concept. At the concept stage in 2003, the Project proposal fed into the strategy for
improvement of the port system, and proposed an update of the port Master Plan and preparation
of a port-city strategy. To respond to the high poverty levels and poor social indicators,
subsequent studies led the Project to gravitate more towards the integrated development of the
port-city. Finally, from 2006 onwards, the new National Government Administration and the
World Bank shaped the Project into its current concept, supporting a port-city regional integrated
development strategy and plan. Initial Project Concept Note and the final Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) documents differ substantially, in particular in terms of Project scope and
implementation arrangements.

20.     At the time of the loan approval, the Project was largely at a conceptual stage . No
complete engineering studies nor any final designs were ready at appraisal or by Loan approval.
It should be noted, however, that in the case of the sewerage subcomponent, preliminary studies
existed for one of the Project areas, forming the basis for the proposal to implement it using a
design–build (turn-key contract) approach. This lack of Project readiness led to both delays in
Project implementation and an enormous underestimation of Project costs. The first bids under
the Project were launched about four years after the loan approval and less than three years
before the closing date. The cost estimates at appraisal for some subcomponents were less than
half the revised estimates based on more detailed engineering studies and designs that were
carried out during Project implementation.

21.     The overall risk of the Project was assessed as High at appraisal. The rating was
adequate and some of the identified risks materialized during Project implementation. In
particular, the risk related to the multiplicity of actors participating in the implementation of the
Project rendering difficult their coordination and hence Project implementation. The proposed
mitigation measures were not effective in addressing the materialized risks.

2.2 Implementation

22.     Project imple mentation suffered a number of setbacks, delaying the Project start
date and causing an impasse in Project execution. The Project was approved on January 8,
2008, signed on February 27, 2008, and became effective on October 6, 2009. The 22 month
time lag between loan approval and the enactment of the law approving the Project delayed the
start of Project implementation as there were no provisions in place to advance Project
implementation before Congress approval. The PCU and most of the Project implementing
agencies, once legally created, struggled to fulfill their functions under the Project, given
permanent shortages in human and material resources.

23.    Challenges continued throughout Project imple mentation. The limited
implementation capacity of the PCU and of many of the implementing agencies was reflected by
the absence of adequate Project management practices necessary to achieve specified results
within well-defined cost, time, and technical boundaries. The PCU failed to develop an effective


                                                 5
working relationship with the twelve independent implementing agencies. The Project closed
disbursing only 10.2 percent of the total Project amount (US$72.5 million).

24.     The in-country institutional frame work and political economy have proven to be an
important bottleneck in moving the Project forward. These include changes within the PCU
with three different Directors since effectiveness of the Project, and constant changes of
technical staff. Periodically, the PCU social, environmental, procurement, financ ial management
and monitoring and evaluation specialist positions were vacant. The PCU did not have a defined
location and was moved back and forth from San Jose to City of Limon depending on the
physical location of the PCU Director and as a result of political factors. Additionally, the
Project lacked political leadership at the highest level that was necessary to disentangle critical
bottlenecks and provide adequate support to push different ministries to enable the necessary
restructuring of the Project without the need to submit the proposal for congressional approval3 .

25.     Efforts were made to improve implementation but were late and insufficient to
address the key bottlenecks. During the Mid-Term Review of 2012, a comprehensive
restructuring was proposed but never materialized because any substantial restructuring would
have required submission to Congress to amend the law by which the loan had been approved.
The proposal to restructure the Project was never submitted to Congress mainly due to concerns
that the approval could not be obtained in a reasonable period to ensure timely implementation.
Some efforts to accelerate implementation were nevertheless made. In 2012, the country’s
General Controller Office recommended the appointment of an Inter-Institutional Coordinator in
the PCU, responsible for handling the relationships with the project implementing agencies. The
first Vice-president of the Republic supported this recommendation and helped the creation of
this position with the rank of deput y director and head of the PCU’s office in San Jose. This
position was filled, and the office was located in the office of the President of the Republic.
Another important result of the Controller Office’s report and of the first Vice-president
intervention was the appointment in the PCU of a technical coordinator with project experience,
two additional civil engineers working under his direction, and a member of the MOF’s staff to
help accelerate and improve project implementation. An important result of these appointments,
together with the work carried out between 2008 and 2011, was acceleration in implementation
of some activities starting in 2012. Nevertheless, most of the activities of the Project never took
off.

26.     Given the poor pe rformance of the Project, options for full or partial cancellation
we re considered during the last three years of imple mentation. This cancellation never
materialized mainly due to political reasons given the high visibility of the Project and its
importance to the country. Also, the World Bank was actively engaged in a dialogue with the
Government to try to agree on a strategy for restructuring and had anticipated a positive
resolution that never occurred. Lastly, the World Bank was also reluctant to close the Project
before its scheduled closing date so as not to harm the country relationship which was previously



3 The PAD became a Law and it was interpreted that to make any substantial changes to it or the Legal Agreement
would have required Congressional approval, which in Costa Rica is obtained if all 57 legislators, diputados, vote in
favor of an amendment.

                                                         6
negatively affected by the cancellation of a structural adjustment credit causing a ten-year hiatus
in the relationship4 .

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation

27.      The monitoring and evaluation design was dis mal and inadequate. The complexity of
the Project and the need for a sound monitoring and evaluation design was acknowledged but
efforts to setup a workable arrangement were not successful, and therefore in practice it was not
used. The PDO indicators were not clearly defined and had no assigned base or target values.
Moreover, the PDO indicators did not fully correlate with some of the proposed outcome
indicators under each of the subcomponents. Some outcome indicators did not correspond clearly
with Project activities and in some instances, values of the indicators were not adequately
justified. For example, the reduction in handling costs per ton in Moin dock was not clearly
supported by any of the activities of the Project.

28.     The overall responsibility for monitoring and evaluation was to be assigned to the
Office for Urban Planning and Monitoring to be created under the Project in the city of
Limon Municipality. This office, which was never created, was to be responsible for gathering
data from the implementing agencies, as well as for undertaking surveys when required. The
PCU would have the responsibility for oversight of the Office for Urban Planning and
Monitoring. This was a risky approach taking into account the lack of experience of the PCU and
the lack of human and financial resources of the municipal administration.

2.4 Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance

29.     The Project complied with the World Bank’s policy and procedural require ments
both at appraisal and during imple mentation for the activities that were imple mented. The
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet – Appraisal Stage (Report: AC 3233 – publicly disclosed)
rated the Limon Project as Category B – Partial Assessment. The Project triggered the following
safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01); Natural Habitats (OP 4.04);
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12); and Cultural and Physical Property (OP 11.03).

30.     In compliance with OP 4.01, agreement was reached at appraisal on developing the
Environmental and Social Manage ment Frame work and a Quick Urban Environme ntal
Assessment. With regard to OP 4.04, the following was carried out during Project preparation:
Preliminary Environmental Assessment of the Cariari Park, Study of Capacity of Uvita Island,
and the Update of the Environmental Management Plan for the Limoncito Wildlife Refuge.
During implementation, the Project was responsible for preparing the environmental studies
required by the national legislation and getting the environmental approvals ( licencia ambiental).
Consultations were carried out during environmental impact assessment and environmental
management plan preparation and the PCU developed a Facebook and web site that maintained
communication with local communities. Some of these environmental studies however started
very late during implementation and most were never completed.


4The structural adjustment credit was cancelled in 1993 and the World Bank had a very limited engagement with
Costa Rica until 2003.

                                                     7
31.     Obtaining necessary licenses required substantial amounts of work and time . The
main issues affecting the preparation of the environmental studies and obtaining the needed
environmental licenses was the lack of timely work designs, lack of environmental staff in the
implementing agencies to prepare the terms of reference, and the local procure ment rules that
made the contracting of the studies difficult. It should be noted that at Project closure, the final
environmental management plans for the sewerage and drainage works were still under
preparation. The PCU hired environmental and social experts to oversee and assist the
implementing agencies. The roles of these staff were never clear for the other implementing
agencies which are ruled by their own legislation and found it difficult to coordinate or submit
information to the PCU. The World Bank carried out several workshops and meetings to
increase capacity and support safeguards policy implementation.

32.     In compliance with OP 4.12, it was agreed that the Involuntary Resettlement Policy
Frame work would be developed to properly handle involuntary resettlement, in
accordance with the World Bank’s Guidelines. An abbreviated Involuntary Resettlement Plan
in accordance with Bank Guidelines was developed during Project preparation, and to a large
extent, adequately executed during the last phase of Project implementation. For the planned
sewerage and drainage component, there were a total of 19 resettlement cases, 11 for sewerage
and 8 for drainage, 18 of which were concluded by Project closure, and the remaining one in
August 2014.

33.     The Project complied with operational policies on financial manage ment (OP/BP
10.02). The financial management assessment carried out as part of the Project preparation
concluded that the proposed financial arrangements we re adequate and that the Borrower was
sufficiently capable with suitable resources to implement the agreed action plan. The risks were
considered modest. The borrower complied, although with delays, with Quarterly Unaudited
Interim Financial reports and with yearly audited financial statements, which concluded that the
financial operations of the PCU were fairly represented.

34.    Overall procurement arrangements we re moderately unsatisfactory. During
appraisal, issues and risks concerning procurement were identified and mitigation measures
agreed upon. The overall risk rating for procurement was rated high. Given this rating,
procurement processes were subject to intensive supervision, including the carrying out of
several procurement workshops during Project implementation. However, there were major
shortcomings, such as: (i) the responsibility for procurement implementation was too diluted
given the organizational structure of the Project 5 ; and (ii) frequent procurement staff turnover
throughout Project implementation. Due to these shortcomings, building client capacity was
challenging and resulted in often very lengthy procurement processes for the few activities that
were undertaken. Further complications initially emerged because the World Bank provided
inadequate and untimely advice to the client. For example, in the case of packaging and
procurement method for the sewerage activities, the World Bank provided poor initial advice to
use turn-key contracts for design-build of the sewerage works. This method proved unfeasible
because of the inadequate quality of the support studies which the World Bank did not assess in a


5Of the twelve implementing agencies; two had procurement autonomy and the others had to interact with the
World Bank through the PCU, i.e. the World Bank had to interact with three client procurement teams.

                                                    8
timely manner, causing very long delays and postponement of sewerage works that were, at the
time of Project closing still not initiated.

2.5 Post Completion Operation/Next Phase

35.     The authorities are undertaking efforts to consolidate arrange ments for operational
maintenance of the assets created under the Project. 6 However, at the time of the
Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR), no sustainable arrangements had been put
in place.

Section 3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1. Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Modest

36.      The relevance of Project development objectives is rated substantial7 . The Project
intended to support important elements of a well-designed strategy for the development of the
city of Limon, including city economic development, revitalization, and basic infrastructure, to
reduce inequality and improve the life of many mostly poor residents of the city of Limon. While
the above objective was worthy, it required an integrated approach involving several institutions
at the national and local level, and the design and implementation of multiple components which,
overall, presented a very significant challenge both for design and implementation.

37.    The design and imple mentation are both rated negligible. With four components and
10 subcomponents to be implemented by twelve implementing agencies, the design was overly
complex and ambitious for the Costa Rican context as demonstrated by the failure to move
forward with the implementation of Project activities except for a few minor outputs.

38.    Therefore, on the basis of rating the relevance of the PDO as substantial, the
relevance of the design and implementation as negligible, the overall relevance for the
Project is rated Modest.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Negligible

39.     The achievement of the PDO is rated negligible. None of the six PDO indicators were
achieved and only one out of 14 intermediate outcome indicators was achieved. The one
indicator that was achieved is related to the number of new SMEs in the tourism and cultural
heritage sectors. Besides the activities under the local economic development component, only a
few other subcomponents and related activities were initiated and mainly focused on completing
designs, feasibility studies and terms of reference for hiring consultants (please see Annex 2 for a
detailed description of Project Outcome by Components).

6 The Project built or rehabilitated three assets, namely: the Post Office Building and Museum, the Cultural House
and several sports fields. Also, a hydro-vacuum equipment was purchased for cleaning sewers.
7 The PDO was relevant at appraisal and aligned with the 2004-2007 CAS, and remains relevant and aligned with
the FY12-15 Country Partnership Strategy that sought to inter alia support competitiveness.

                                                        9
3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Negligible

40.     The Project efficiency is rated negligible. This ICR does not attempt to quantify the
benefits of the small part of the Project that was implemented because these investments would
not have a noticeable impact. The Project completed only five minor activities before closing,
namely: (i) the restoration of the Post Office building, including the modernization of the Post
Office services and the establishment of a Living Cultures Museum; (ii) the rehabilitation of 15
sports fields; (iii) the restoration of the Cultural House ; (iv) provision of training and TA to
SMEs to promote local economic development activity; and (v) acquisition of the hydro- vacuum
truck. The actual costs for these activities, except the sports fields, were in line with appraisal
estimates. The actual expenditures for the sport fields were much higher than appraisal estimates
(US$0.2 million at appraisal vis-à-vis US$1.2 million actual costs). Three main factors explain
the difference: (i) lack of information at the time of appraisal to provide realistic cost estimates
as the location of only four fields had been identified; (ii) lack of adequate analysis which
required additional rehabilitation of some of the sports fields; and (iii) during implementation, it
was decided to add some equipment and enclosures to ensure the safety of the fields.

41.     The PAD did not include the economic evaluation for the SME component, and no
separate evaluation for a package consisting of the seven activities under the subcomponent
Limon’s Cultural, Natural and Architectonic Revitalization with a total cost of US$24.8
million. In the PAD, the analysis assumed that the synergy between the seven activities would
help to increase the percentage of tourists via cruise ships that visit the City of Limon and
consequently, the increase in average daily spending per person. The additional spending by the
tourists would have been the Project benefits. Given that only four of the seven activities were
completed under the subcomponent for the cultural revitalization, the ICR cannot adequately
measure any Project benefits.

42.    The economic analysis for other activities, amounting to around 90 percent of
Project cost, cannot be carried out. Given that the Project was essentially not implemented, the
economic analysis for this ICR cannot be carried out. Nonetheless, the ICR recognizes that the
investments made in feasibility studies and engineering designs will be helpful by the time the
Government decides to undertake these activities with local funds or external financing.

Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Highly Unsatisfactory

43.     The overall outcome rating is highly unsatisfactory. While the relevance of objectives
remains substantial, there were severe shortcomings in the design, implementation and efficiency
of the Project.




                                                10
Section 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

44.     The overall risk do development outcome is rated high. Considering Limon’s history
of dilapidated historical assets, weak managerial and financial capacity of the municipality
responsible for maintenance, the sustainability of the assets is vulnerable. The municipality is
currently seeking to mitigate this risk by entering into agreements with the Ministry of Culture
and the University of Costa Rica for the management and operation of the Cultural House, and
with the communal organizations for the sports fields. The risk to development outcome for the
Post Office Building is considered moderate as the post office will follow its standard
operational and maintenance practices which are generally satisfactory. For the Museum, the
Ministry of Culture is seeking to enter into an agreement with the University of Costa Rica for
the management and administration of the Museum and with Port Authority and Development
Agency and the municipality for sharing the costs.

Section 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Unsatisfactory

45.     The World Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory.
The main shortcomings were: (i) the complexity of the design and of the implementation
arrangements, despite identified weak capacity; (ii) lack of coherent solutions for the Limon
Development plan; (iii) failure to ensure that the GoCR assigned a Project preparation team with
the necessary multi-sectoral skills; (iv) lack of formal Project documents to serve as a reference
point for all Project actors in Limon and central Government; and (v) incomplete Project cost
estimates. This reflected a lack of readiness to execute, with significant consequences for Project
execution. The ICR identifies four factors in the World Bank performance that contributed to the
failure of the Project: (i) the decision to go ahead with a risky project with a large number of
components and lacking a cohesive approach; (ii) the decision to put in place an institutional
arrangement with twelve Project implementing agencies, ignoring the virtually insurmountable
coordination problems; (iii) the lack of implementation readiness given that no complete
engineering studies nor any final designs were ready at appraisal or Loan approval; and (iv) the
lack of rigorous consideration of alternative approaches to achieve the desired PDOs.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

46.    The World Bank’s quality of supe rvision is rated moderately unsatisfactory. While
there were frequent supervision missions leading to the Mid-Term Review in 2012, the attention
to the obvious challenges related to complex subcomponents and weak implementation
arrangements was suboptimal. This lack of understanding is reflected in the absence of a
coherent supervision plan and explicit diagnostics of the recurrent problems affecting Project
implementation.


                                                11
47.     A comprehensive Mid-Term Review was carried out in November 2012. To improve
performance and streamline Project activities, the World Bank and the GoCR reached an in-
principle agreement on a substantial restructuring and an Action Plan intended to remove
identified bottlenecks to successful Project implementation. This plan was aborted because of
legal constraints in Costa Rica—the World Bank was informed that the Project legal agreement
was written into law, and any proposed restructuring or cancellation of activities required
Congressional approval.

48.     It is important to highlight that during the last three years of Project
imple mentation, the World Bank’s regional management was directly involved in high-
level meetings with the GoCR to find appropriate solutions to improve performance and
carry out activities given the legal constraints for a substantial Project restructuring. The
management team also exhibited flexibility in applying its norms and regulations by approving
two loan amendments. Finally, management allocated ample supervision funds that allowed
intense hands-on support during the life of the Project. Safeguards and fiduciary aspects were
effectively guided by the World Bank, particularly during the last two years of Project
implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

49.    Overall Bank pe rformance is rated unsatisfactory given that the quality at entry was
unsatisfactory and the quality of supervision was moderately unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

50.    Government performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory. During Project
preparation, the Government failed to identify one team responsible for Project preparation
which negatively affected the overall Project design. This point is evident in the Aide Memoirs,
which show that at different points in time, the counterparts for Project preparation were the
Ministry of Public Works and Transport, the Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Institutional
Coordination, and the MOF. Furthermore, gaps in Project support during implementation were
also noticeable. The situation was exacerbated during the transition from one presidential
administration to the next. The Project spanned four changes in Government during the thirteen
years of Project preparation and implementation.

51.     The GoCR proposed imple mentation arrange ments based on two weak premises ,
namely (i) that the arrangements would maximize the benefits of using the in-house capacity of
the technical agencies involved in Project implementation; and (ii) that they would benefit from
the leverage of the Committee for Institutional Coordination. The first premise was only
assumed as the capacity of the technical agencies was not systematically assessed as part of
Project preparation. The second premise did not consider the hurdles that had to be overcome to
put in place new institutional arrangements.


                                              12
52.    It is important to highlight a period of high Governme nt support to the Project.
This took place in early 2012 when high- level Government officials, including the first Vice-
president of the Republic intervened to try to improve and accelerate Project performance.
These actions had positive but limited results and were insufficient to resolve the problems
accumulated during the previous four years of Project implementation.

(b) Implementing Agencies Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

53.     The performance of the PCU and the Project executing agencies is rated
unsatisfactory. The implementing agencies, including the PCU, were unable to put in place
Project teams with the capacity to carry out Project tasks and overcome most of the emerging
Project challenges. In addition, the PCU was unable to effectively coordinate the various
implementing agencies and often acted as a barrier, rather than facilitator, in trying to solve
implementation bottlenecks. PCU management capacity was weak and unable to create a
conducive environment for solving problems often motivated by political factors.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

54.    On balance and for reasons outlined above, overall Borrower Pe rformance is
unsatisfactory.

Section 6. Lessons Learned

55.    Lessons learned from this Project confirm that the success or failure of a project
reaching its development objectives is determined by the quality of the project’s conceptual
design, its organizational arrangements, and the institutional coordination adopted. The
main lessons and recommendations resulting from the Project are outlined below.

56.     Multi-sector projects require a strong and effective interagency coordination
backed by top level Government endorsement and accountability. Interagency collaboration
refers to various governmental, public organizations and officers intervening in a coordinated
manner under a common plan and reporting processes around a shared common objective. As
mentioned, the Project lacked cohesiveness and ownership in design, a situation that was not
corrected at implementation. In general, Project implementation underestimated the challenge of
managing multiple components encompassing various sectors, twelve implementing agencies all
without a structure, and processes aimed at fostering interagency collaboration and cooperation.
The main lessons from this experience are that complex integrated urban projects, in particular
projects that involve multi-sector coordination, require convening stakeholders at the national,
sub- national and local levels to facilitate harmonization. Such convening power is particularly
needed at the project management level. Effective coordination requires carefully selecting
project coordinators and empowering them to ensure they can envisage and enforce decisions
that are needed during implementation.




                                              13
57.     Adapting institutions to complex project implementation arrange ments requires
time and effort. The preparation of the Project did not sufficiently take into account the critical
steps necessary for the proposed complex implementation arrangements to be put in place and
underestimated the relative strength of groups of individuals affected by such change. This type
of change requires intensive support to modify individual behaviors and adapt institutions to
change.

58.     The extent of front-end work to ens ure project readiness should be carefully
considered. Putting in place a new organizational arrangement, and preparing final designs and
bidding documents during project implementation was an overwhelming task for the GoCR.
This situation ultimately became a major contributing factor for the Project not achieving its
PDOs. The idea of carrying out these tasks as part of project preparation, which seems obvious,
was difficult because of legal reasons and lack of budgetary funds. The World Bank should
ensure that project preparation is sufficiently advanced so as to allow the borrower to start a
substantial part of the project immediately after loan approval. A possible alternative is to
consider less ambitious projects consistent with the borrower executing capacity.

59.     In the specific case of Costa Rica, where the legal frame work (approval in Congress)
does not provide the flexibility for project restructuring to address implementation
bottlenecks, simple project design and readiness for imple mentation is essential in
countries. At approval, the Project lacked most engineering designs, which later resulted in
adjustments in the concept, scope and estimated cost of various components. Moreover, various
components encountered serious implementation challenges and were not moving ahead after
several years. While the shortcomings identified due to poor Project design merited a Project
restructuring, no substantial change could be carried out given that the Project restructuring
would had to have been approved by the Congress. In such legal environment, projects should be
ready to begin with implementation once approved. Project design must ensure also that there is
adequate flexibility for carrying out eventual implementation changes.

60.     Creating an integrated and cohesive World Bank team to imple ment multi-sectoral
and complex projects is often underestimated. Challenging projects require teams and
dedication commensurate with the task, particularly when the implementation setup is weak. The
World Bank should carefully select project team members and ensure the teams have the right
set of skills to respond to circumstances during project design and support implementation as the
project evolves.




                                                14
                          Annex 1: Project Costs/Expenses and Financing8
                      (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                                         Actual       Percentage
                                                   Appraisal
                                                                       Expenses       of Appraisal
                                                   Estimate                              (Actual)
                                                                         (USD
             Components                          (USD millions,         millions,
                                                 November 27,
                                                    2007)               June 30,
                                                                         2014)

             Component 1- Urban and
             Cultural Revitalization                     55.9             5.072           9.07%
             Component 2 – Local
                                                           2.0            1.845          92.25%
             Economic Development
             Component 3 – Local
             Governance and Port-city                      4.3            0.449          10.44%
             Strategic Planning
             Component 4 –Support for
             Improving               Port                  6.6            0.012           0.18%
             Environment
             Operating Costs                               5.6             5.3           94.64%
             Contingencies                                 5.2             0.0             0.0
             Total     Baseline      Cost
             (including physical and                     79.6             12.68          15.93%
             price contingencies)
             Total                Project
                                                         79.6             12.68          15.93%
             Costs/expenses

             Total                Financing
                                                         79.6
             Required

                                                  (b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal
                                                                         Actual      Percentage of
                                                   Estimate
                                                                         (USD          Appraisal
             Source of Funds                     (USD millions,
                                                                        millions)       (Actual)
                                                 November 27,
                                                    2007)               June 30,
                                                                          2014
             Counterpart financing                        7.1              5.3             75%
             Inte rnational Bank for
             Reconstruction       and                    72.5             7.389            10%
             Development
             Total                                       79.6             12.6



8 The data shown in the third column represents actual expenditures at Loan closing date. Expenses under
components 1-4 were financed by the WB Loan, and operating costs by counterp art funding.
9 This number represents net disbursements after a refund from the Borrower that is being processed at the time of
the ICR

                                                        15
                                  Annex 2: Project Output by Components

Despite its shortcomings, the Project delive red some minor outputs. The Project built or
rehabilitated three assets, namely: the Post Office Building and Museum, the Cultural House and
several sports fields. Also, hydro-vacuum equipment was purchased for cleaning sewers. Several
studies and designs were completed or significantly advanced. In addition, most activities under
the Local Economic Development Component, including promotional events, training, and
studies were completed. Annex 2 presents additional details about the Project achievements.

Component 1: Urban and Cultural Rehabilitation (PAD: US$55.9 million; actual
expenditures: US$5.1 million).10

        This component sought to contribute to improving the quality of life of Limon’s
population by restoring and revitalizing its emblematic historical and cultural patrimony while
providing basic services to its poorest neighborhoods. It also aimed at protecting the city’s
natural assets through investments in urban and cultural renewal and in eco-tourism initiatives in
two of its main ecologically protected areas. The ultimate goal was to rescue and better protect
Limon’s unique cultural identity, natural assets and heritage while improving the city’s image
and livability, tourism attractiveness, and overall urban development quality.

         Subcomponent 1.1: Limon’s Cultural, Natural, and Architectonic Revitaliz ation (PAD:
US$ 24.8 million; actual expenditures: US$4.3 million). This subcomponent included seven
activities, of which the borrower substantially completed three. For the other four, borrower
advanced in the preparation of feasibility studies and final designs.

        The activities substantially completed were the following. The rehabilitation of the post
office building and the area for the museum were completed, the equipment for the post office
acquired, and the installations reorganized. The design and installation of the museum is still
pending and the Government is planning to carry out this activity in 2015 with budgetary funds.

        The restoration of the Casa de la Cultura was completed. The procurement process for
the equipment and installations is underway, and the cost would be covered by the national
Government. The 15 sports fields were rehabilitated and, by the time of the ICR mission, the
contractors were working on the final details.

        The four activities for which the borrower prepared feasibility studies and final designs
financed by the project were: the restoration of INCOFER warehouses; the rehabilitation of
Cariari Park; the tourist center and trails on Uvita Island; and the creation of three pedestrian
cultural tourism routes.

        Subcomponent 1.2: Provision of Sewerage and Drainage Services (PAD: US$ 31.1
million; actual expenditures: US$0.77 million). The borrower acquired a sewerage cleaning


10The data on actual expenditures is not yet available as the Bank and the PCU are still completing the loan closing
process.


                                                         16
truck with its accessories, and advanced the preparation of feasibility studies and final designs
financed by the project for the civil works. No civil works were carried out.

Component 2: Local Economic Development (PAD: US$2.0 million; actual expenditures:
US$1.8 million).
        This component aimed at generating new sources of employment and income,
particularly among youth, through the promotion and establishment of micro and small
businesses, training and technical assistance.

        Subcomponent 2.1: Competitive Fund and Development Market Place for the promotion
of SMEs (PAD: US$0.4 million; actual expenditures: US$1.6 million). The main activity under
this subcomponent was the organization of six fairs with the participation of medium and small
entrepreneurs.

        Subcomponent 2.2: Training and Technical Assistance (PAD: US$1.6 million; actual
expenditures: US$0.26 million). The main activities under this subcomponent consisted of: (i)
the development of a competitiveness model, which includes a directory of small and medium
entrepreneurs, workshops to form a competitiveness council, and a competitiveness agenda; (ii)
development of a business model; (iii) development of a data base to help in the identification of
technical assistance needs; (iv) consulting services in entrepreneurship; and (v) acquisition of
equipment for the MEIC’s small and medium entrepreneurs program in Limon.

Component 3: Local Governance and Port-city Strategic Planning (PAD: US$4.3 million;
actual expenditures: US$0.45 million).

        This component aimed at strengthening the Municipality of Limon capacity to deliver
and manage quality services while empowering it to take an active role in the city’s development
component. It also sought to promote a participatory strategic development plan for the Port-city
in conjunction with public institutions, private organizations and citizens.

        Subcomponent 3.1: Strengthening Municipal Management (PAD: US$0.5 million; actual
expenditures: US$0.02 million). A contract with a consulting firm is underway since May 2014
to reformulate the vision of the municipal Government, to make a diagnosis of the organization
and of the internal procedures, to formulate recommendations for improvement, and to
recommend a plan of action for the implementation of the recommendations. The completion of
this contract would be financed through budgetary funds from the central Government.

       Subcomponent 3.2: Strategic Plan for the Port-city of Limon (PAD: US$0.8 million;
actual expenditures: US$0.31 million). The terms of reference for hiring a consultant were
prepared.

        Subcomponent 3.3: Strengthening of Fiscal and Financial Management (PAD: US$1.3
million; actual expenditures: US$0.0 million). The terms of reference for hiring a consultant
were prepared.



                                               17
      Subcomponent 3.4: Municipal Building (PAD: US$1.7 million; actual expenditures:
US$0.12 million). The preliminary designs were completed.

Component 4: Support for Improving Port Environment (PAD: US$6.6 million; actual
expenditures: US$0.01 million).

        This subcomponent aimed at helping to obtain a better balance between modes (trucks
and cargo trains) to transport export goods to the Limon-Moin port complex, thus improving
access to port facilities. It also sought to contribute to the creation of a logistics network in the
area, in which the railroad plays a more important role in the transportation of cargo to Moin.

      Subcomponent 4.1: Improving the railway access to the Moin Port Terminal (PAD:
US$5.5 million; actual expenditures: US$0.0 million). Not implemented.

      Subcomponent 4.2: Technical Assistance to Support the Port Modernization Process
(PAD: US$ 1.1 million; actual expenditures: US$0.01 million). Not implemented.




                                                 18
                                Annex 3: Financial Management


                                        FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

                Concept                                                Comments
Adequacy of the financial management         The PCU was responsible for the project’s financial
arrangements                                 management. Its performance was satisfactory. The
                                             PCU’s financial responsibilities included the day -to-day
                                             management of the financial and procurement aspects of
                                             the project.
Reporting and accounting provisions          The PCU was responsible for centralizing the financial
                                             information of the project and to submit quarterly reports to
                                             the Bank. The quarterly reports were often late.
Internal control procedures                  According to the project’s audited financial repo rts, the
                                             PCU’s internal controls were adequate.
Planning and budgeting                       PCU’s planning and budget systems were weak as it did
                                             not have in place a satisfactory project management
                                             system.
Counterpart funding                          It was subject to Government and Congress approval of the
                                             funding for the administrative expenses of the PCU and of
                                             the project implementation agencies. Often there were
                                             significant shortage of funds, affecting project
                                             performance.
Flow of funds arrangements                   The loan proceeds flowed through an account denominated
                                             in dollars in the National Treasury, in the name of the PCU,
                                             as well as an account denominated in local currency for
                                             payments in colones. The PCU made all payments from
                                             the loan procedures to contractors and suppliers. The
                                             project implementation entities covered their administrative
                                             expenditures from their own budgets.
External audit reporting (timeliness,        The PCU’s financial statements were audited by private
opinion)                                     auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The auditor’s opinion
                                             were that the financial statements represented fairly the
                                             project accounts in accordance with the loan agreement and
                                             the Costa Rican Norms. The audited financial statements
                                             were sometimes late.
Accounting staff issues                      There were significant personnel rotation.
Compliance with financial covenants          The borrower complied with the loan financial covenants:
                                             quarterly progress reports; yearly audited financial
                                             statements.
Audit recommendations addressed by           The PCU was generally responsive to the auditor’s
project closure                              recommendations and implemented them. The auditor’s
                                             2013 management letter reports that the weaknesses
                                             identified in the 2012 letter had been corrected.




                                                  19
      Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                    Names                                     Title
               Cecilia Corvalán                             Co-TTL
               William Reuben                               Co-TTL
               Ralph Kaltheier                              Co-TTL
              Oscar E. Alvarado                             Co-TTL
                 Martin Sgut                    Consultant – Transport Specialist
             Indu John-Abraham                   Consultant – Social Specialist
              Marco Zambrano                  Consultant – Environmental Specialist
               Melanie Glass                       Junior Professional Associate
              Roberto Chavez                             Urban Specialist
            Menahem Libhaber                      Water and Sanitation Specialist
               Bradley Julian                              Port Specialist
                Julieta Abad                                 Consultant
              Stefania Abarkeli                          Urban Specialist
              Emmanuel James                 Sustainable Development Sector Leader
               Marta Molares                               Lead Counsel
               Keisgner Alfaro                        Procurement Specialist
              Stefania Abakerli                 Sr. Social Development Specialist
               Antonio Blasco                  Sr. Financial Management Specialist
           Alessandra Heinemann                    Junior Professional Associate
               Oswaldo Patiño                                Consultant
                 Jose Yeng                                   Consultant
              Gustavo Gonnelli                        Procurement Specialist
                  Kenn Rapp                   Senior Social Development Specialist
                Valerie Hickey                         Safeguards Specialist
                Alvaro Larrea                         Procurement Specialist
            Ruth Tiffer-Sotomayor                  Sr. Environmental Specialist
            Mary Lisbeth Gonzalez               Sr. Social Development Specialist
                 Yonhee Kim                               Social Specialist
               Aaron Ordower                            Operations Analyst
              Andres Mac Gaul                       Sr. Procurement Specialist
              Fabienne Mrozcka                  Financial Management Specialist
                Salvador Pena                           Transport Specialist
            Luis Enrique Gutierrez                       Operations Officer




                                        20
Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle                                USD (including travel and
                                    No. of staff weeks
                                                               consultant costs)
Lending
 FY2004                                  23.16                   150,413.00
 FY2005                                  37.91                   222,163.75
 FY2006                                  37.81                   185,202.53
 FY2007                                  33.22                   173,317.94
 FY2008                                  43.45                   235,799.74
Total:                                  175.55                   966,896.96
Supervision/ICR
 FY2008                                  17.04                    122,906.04
 FY2009                                  29.23                    191,521.07
 FY2010                                  26.26                    179,937.42
 FY2011                                  46.57                    206,435.56
 FY2012                                  17.63                    148,203.59
 FY2013                                  27.04                    194,622.77
 FY2014                                  11.89                     90,719.94
 FY2015                                   6.81                     47,481.20
Total:                                  182.47                  1,181,827.59




                                        21
            Annex 5: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.       The Borrower reviewed a draft copy of the ICR and provided comments. These comments were
addressed in the final version of the ICR. The Borrower did not have any comments regarding the ratings
of the ICR.

2.       The Borrower prepared its own ICR, and the full version of the Borrower’s report, in Spanish, is
available in the project files. Overall, the report presents a comprehensive and analytical storyline of
project preparation and implementation, and includes recommendations and lessons learned. A summary
of the key lessons learned from the Borrower’s ICR is presented below.

Lessons Learned

World Bank

3.        It is necessary to understand the World Bank’s requirements for the award of No Objections. In
some instances, the documents did not meet the expectations (guidelines and norms), and in other
instances, some matters had to be clarified because they hadn’t been covered before the documents were
sent. It is critical for the World Bank to endorse requests within the stipulated timeline

4.     It is necessary to recognize the existence of a transitional phase between the adoption of the law
which rules the loan and the beginning of operations.

PIU (Project Implementation Unit)

5.      Ensuring greater continuity in the Management team of the PIU and relying on professionals with
the required qualifications were identified as critical to achieve successful results.

6.      The project should always have an office in the project area. The existence of two offices
complicated some processes. In this regard, JAPDEVA’s report indicated that the decentralization of
administrative support in San Jose hindered the ordinary procedures, which required more time than
expected.

7.       The PIU must count on a Management team for the management of the UTEs and other
participating entities.

8.       High level negotiations must be conducted with sophisticated techniques and practical tools, and
carried out by qualified negotiators that have robust qualifications.

Recruitment:

9.       As part of the implementation of projects, it is necessary to include, in the contracts, liability
clauses to be able to follow up with suppliers when they do not comply in a timely manner.

10.    Include more rigorous clauses in the contracts for the enforcement of social and environmental
safeguards, clearly highlighting that any failure to comply with safeguard policies could stop the works. It
is mandatory to assign a prominent environmental specialist to the project area.



                                                       22
Interagency Coordination

11.     Interagency coordination requires real changes in organizational culture, so that processes are
streamlined and decisions can be taken under a clear institutional structure.

12.      There should be a lead actor that is convinced of the need to successfully carry out the execution
of the project.

13.      The innovative strategy of gathering diverse institutions for the execution of a project does not
seem to have given the results that were expected. It was not the fact that the Port-City of Limon Project
was carried out by many institutions, but rather the grouping of many institutions for the development of
a specific project (construction of the Strategic Plan, Flood Control, Post Building Restoration, etc.).

14.     The roles and responsibilities of each institution need to be clarified. However, even when these
were clear, relying on the work of others complicated the situation.

Local Stakeholders (civil society)

15.      Linking with local stakeholders is vital for the proper adoption of initiatives; participatory and
communication processes have not only to be clear and transparent, but also to clearly trace the scope of
the projects and their impact so that there are no expectations that won’t be met.

16.      Stakeholders were involved in projects of direct impact, however, the involvement and
commitment of the community was not present in all the projects, or at least not to a point where the
project’s achievements were shared and internalized by the local community.

17.    Direct communication was maintained with affected individuals through informative workshops,
which facilitated the implementation of project tasks and enabled the acceptance of the project from
communities.

Government Supervision

18.      Greater intervention by the Government is highly needed for a project as significant as this one. It
is important to monitor the project’s progress in order to take key or drastic measures to prevent delays in
project implementation.

19.     To this end, it is necessary to create a Project Management Unit, with highly qualified
professionals that are able to monitor the financial and technical execution of the project. This unit would
work as a mechanism to support the Government in executing loans.

Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

20.     Manuals and norms that were established at the beginning of the Project were not taken into
consideration.

21.     The Project was elaborated with minimal acceptable times. A seven-day week was taken into
account, while in reality only five days were working days. This caused time estimates not to be in
accordance with the actual envisaged works.


                                                     23
22.     Drastic measures are needed to monitor the Project’s works. Project monitoring required more
than progress reports or coordination meetings; it is necessary to plan and develop real strategies for the
monitoring of the various processes and their development. If processes aren’t being conducted
punctually, timing is a key factor to rectify any delays and deliver projects successfully.

Planning

23.      It is necessary to count with all the necessary formats for the different hiring processes, so that
there is no need to create new formats.

24.       The PIU must clearly define the tools needed for a correct monitoring of the Project, under a
framework that is known by all parties, and to train the individuals responsible for executing all the
activities.

25.     The closing process for the project requires better planning and control. Negative amortizations of
the non-execution of the activities scheduled for the closing date of the Project were not taken into
account.

26.    It is important to use a clear and straightforward organizational structure that allows the project to
be completed as planned.

27.    It was very difficult to coordinate a project so encompassing and complex such as this one.
Nonetheless, with the experience obtained, it is possible that in the future similar projects will be handled
with more celerity.




                                                      24
                           Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents

Consultoria para la Fundacion de Cooperacion Estatal. Consultoria de Analisis de los Actores
Sociales Vinculados al Proyecto Limon-Ciudad- Puerto. Febrero del 2007.

Costa Rica. Ministerio de Hacienda. Cierre Proyecto Limon Ciudad Puerto. September 2, 2014.

Costa Rica. Ministerio de Hacienda. Manual de Operaciones del Proyecto.

Costa Rica. Proyecto Limon Ciudad Puerto. Estados Financieros y Opinion de los Auditores.
December 31, 2012 and 2013.

Costa Rica. Ministerio de Hacienda. Convenios Interinstitucionales entre el Ministerio de
Hacienda y las Unidades Ejecutoras del Proyecto. Diffeerent dates.

The World Bank. Aide Memoirs of Project Preparation and Appraisals Missions. 2003 to 2007.

The World Bank. Aide Memoirs of Supervision Missions. 2008 to 2014.

The World Bank. Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Costa Rica. April 20, 2004.

The World Bank. Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Costa Rica (FY2012-2015),
June 10, 2011.

The World Bank. Implementation Completion and Results Report – Guidelines. OPCS, August
2006. Last updated on: 07/22/2014.

The World Bank. Guidelines for Reviewing World Bank Implementation Completion and
Results Report – A Manual for Evaluators. Last updated: November 12, 2013.

The World Bank. Port-City of Limon Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet – Concept Stage.
December 12, 2003.

The World Bank. Port-City of Limon Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet – Appraisal Stage.
October 23, 2007; February 28, 2008.

The World Bank. Implementation Status and Results Reports for Puerto Limon Project.
February 2008 to February 2014.

The World Bank. Port-City of Limon Integrated Infrastructure. Project Concept Note
(Information Document). December 19, 2003; May 2006.

The World Bank. Port-City of Limon Integrated Infrastructure. Project Information Document-
Appraisal Stage. December 18, 2007.

The World Bank. Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring Port-City of Limon
Infrastructure Project Loan to the Republic of Costa Rica. June 24, 2010.

The World Bank. Internal memorandums and letters to and from the borrower.

                                              25
The World Bank. OP 10.02 – Financial Management, March 2007 and BP 10.02, March 2007;
OP 12.00 – Disbursements, March 2007, and BP 12.00 of March 2007; and BP 11.00
Procurement, July 2011 (revised July 2014); BP 11.00 Annex A, January 2011 (revised July
2014); and BP Annex B, January 2011, January 2011 (revised July 2014).

International Development Association. Operations Policy and Country Services. IDA 14
Results Measurement System: Mid-Term Review Report. November 2006.

Japan PHRD Grant for Project Preparation. August 25, 2004.

The World Bank. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$ 72.5
million to the Republic of Costa Rica for the Port-city of Limon Project. November 27, 2007.

Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto. Informe de Medio Periodo. October 2012.

Project Coordination Unit. Tables and short reports prepared at ICR mission’s request.




                                               26
