Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17762-NIR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
POPULATION PROJECT
(Credit 2360-NIR)
May 1, 1998
Human Development III
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withoui
World Bank aujthorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
The CFAF is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF I to CFAF 100 following the January 12, 1994
devaluation of the CFAF from a ratio of FF I to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.
1993   US$ = 270 CFA francs            1993   CFAF 1 million = US$3,703.70
1994   US$ = 470 CFA francs            1994   CFAF I million = US$2,127.66
1995   US$ = 490 CFA francs            1995   CFAF 1 million = US$2,040.82
1996   US$ = 550 CFA francs            1996  iCFAF I million = US$1,818.18
1997   US$ = 590 CFA francs            1997   CFAF I million = US$1,694.92
SDR I - US$1.34442 (February 1998)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS           Acquired Immune-Deficiency Syndrome
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CCPP           Cellule de Coordination du Projet Population (Population Project Coordination Unit)
CONAPO         Commission Nationale de la Population (National Commissioii on Population Activities)
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Agency
IEC            Information, Education and Communication
MCH/FP        Maternal and Child HealthlFamily Planning
MSD/P/WD/CP Ministry of Social Development, Population, Woman's Development and Child's
Protection
MOPH           Ministry of Public Health
MTR           Mid-term review
NGO            Non Governmental Organization
NIGETIP        Agence Nigerienne de Travaux d'Interet Public pour I'Emploi (Niger's Public Works and
Employment Agency)
PDS           Plan de Developpement Sanitaire (Health Sector Development Plan)
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SIP            Sector Investment Program
STD            Sexually transmitted disease
TOR            Terns of Reference
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA          United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director:                    Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager:             Helena Ribe
Task Team Leader:           Denise Vaillancourt



TABLE OF CONTENTS    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PREFACE  .....................................................................                                                                                        i
EVALUATION SUNIMARY ....................................................................                                                                              i
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................................................... I
1. INTRODUCTION .....................................................................1
A. Macroeconomic Setting ....................................................................                                                                    I
B. The Bank's Role in the Country  and  in  the Sector ....................................................................                                     2
11. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ....................................................................                                                                          2
A. Original Project Objective ...............................................................-..... 2
B. Project Components ....................................................................                                                                      3
C. Credit Covenants and Special Agreements ..................................................................... 
D. The Risks ....................................................................                                                                               4
E. Evaluation  of Project Objectives ....................................................................                                                       5
III. IMPLEMENTATIC)N EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ....................................................................     5
.4. Assessment of Project's Outcome and Sustainability ....................................................................                                       5
B. Summary of Costs ....................................................................                                                                        7
C  Financing Arrangements ....................................................................                                                                   7
D. Implementation Schedule ....................................................................                                                                  8
E. Analysis of Key Factors Affecting  Implementation  ................................................                                    .................... 8
F. Assessment of the Bank 's Performance ....................................................................                                                  10
G. Assessment of the Borrower's Performance                                       .................................................................... I I
V. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED ................. 12
A. Findings of Project Implementation  Experience  ....................................................................                                        12
B. Sustainability  and  Future Operations .................................................................... 13
C. Lessons for Future Projects in  the Sector in Niger ....................................................................                                     15
PART 11: STATISTICAL TABLES ....................................................................                                                                   18
TABLE 1:   SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .1.........9....                                                     ..             ............................................... 19
TABLE 2:   RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS.......................................................... ....20
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .............                                                                                                                            21
TABLE 4:   CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ............................................ 2 1
TABLE 5A:   KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION .......................................... 22
TABLE 5B:  PROBLEMS RELATED TO THE QUALITY OF INFRASTRUCTURES/LESSONS LEARNED .................... 29
TABLE 6:   STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT .........................................................                                                               3 1
TABLE 7A:  PROJECT COSTS .........................................................                                                                                 32
TABLE 7B:    PROJECT FINANCING .........................................                                                                                            33
TABLE 7C: PROJECT EXPENDITURES BY COMPONENT BY YEAR .34
TABLE 8: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .35
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .36
TABLE 10: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .39
TABLE 1 1: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .39
TABLE 12A: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .40
TABLE 12B: BANK RESOURCES: SUPERVISION MISSIONS.                                                                                                                   41
APPENDICES:
A. Mission's Aide Mdmoire
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C. Loan Status (Active and inactive) for Niger, as of March 16, 1998
D. Map IBRD No. 23562
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
POPULATION PROJECT
(Credit 2360-NIR)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Population Project in
Niger, for which Credit 2360-NIR, in the amount of SDR 12.9 million (US$17.6 million
equivalent in 1992) was approved on April 30, 1992 and made effective on December 1,
1992. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1997, 6 months after the original closing
date of June 30, 1997. Final disbursement took place on April 27, 1998, and a balance of
SDR 5.3 million (US$ 7.2 million equivalent) was canceled on May 1, 1998.
2.    The ICR was prepared by a team led by Ms. Denise Vaillancourt (Task Team
Leader, AFTH3) and composed of several members of the final evaluation mission:
Hugues Agossou (Financial Analyst), Johanne Angers (Operations Analyst, AFTH3).
Rougui Diallo (Program Officer. AFMNE), Celine Gavach (Team Assistant, AFTH3).
Belkis Giorgis (Consultant/Family Health Specialist) and Jacques Waechter
(Consultant/Architect). Aboubacar Magassouba (Consultant/Implementation Specialist)
and Ross Pfile (Project Assistant) also contributed to the preparation of Annexes. The
report was reviewed by Nimes/Messrs. Theodore Ahlers (Director, AFC13), Helena Ribe
(Sector Manager, AFTH3) and Jerome Chevallier (Manager, AFTS3), as well as key
members of the Niger Country Team and population and reproductive health advisers.
3.    Preparation of this ICR was initiated during the Bank's supervision missions of
November 1996 and January 1997. Following a change in task team leaders and a 6-
month postponement of the original closing date to accommodate a more meaningful and
participatory evaluation process, ICR preparation was further supported through the
Bank's supervision mission of September/October 1997. In addition to its analysis of
documents in the project file, and interviews with former task team leaders and other
members of previous teams, this ICR draws heavily on extensive, independent field visits
carried out by the task team, covering all regions and districts touched by the project.
This ICR also draws heavilv on the products and outcomes of the evaluation process
carried out by the Govermnent. Culminating in a national final evaluation workshop.
held in Niamey during the period February 9 -14, 1998 and attended by the Bank's team
during its final evaluation mission, Government's evaluation encompassed the points of
view of key actors and stakeholders (including beneficiaries), as well as an independent
evaluator. The Borrower's contributions to this ICR include: the production of internal
and external evaluation reports, discussion of the Bank's final evaluation Aide Memoire,
and submission to the Bank of its own chapter of the ICR document.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
POPULATION PROJECT
(Credit 2360-NIR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
BANK'S ROLE IN THE COUNTRY AND SECTOR
1.    Niger is one of the poorest countries in the world with some 60 percent of its
population living on less than a dollar a day. Social indicators are correspondinglv low.
Dismal statisristics on child mortality, life expectancy. literacy and primary school
enrollment give Niger the rank of last in the world in the UNDP's human development
index. Nigeriens are, moreover, much poorer than they were 30 years ago -- GDP growth
has been negligible, while the population has more than doubled. Finally, given Niger's
extremely poor natural resource base and low- levels of human capital investment, growth
prospects are not good. Sound economic management has been further complicated by
political instability throughout much of the 1990s.  The past efforts of both the
government and multilateral and bilateral development institutions have failed to reach
their objectives -- as witnessed by slow economic growth and increased poverty. This
performance is mirrored in the IDA portfolio where more than half of closed projects
have been rated unsatisfactory.
2.    The Government is fully aware of the country s poor economic performance,
increasing poverty and daunting development challenges. An economic reform was
adopted at the end of 1995 and implemented satisfactorilv through 1997. Broad poverty
reduction, private sector development and capacity building programs have also been
prepared. Implementation experience with programs has, however, been episodic and
weak implementation capacity is further strained by unresolved political tensions.
3.    The first Health project (Credit 1668-NIR) marked the beginning of the Bank's
involvement in Niger's health sector.  Its direct assistance to population activities
included support to family planning services and information and cofinancing of the 1998
Population Census. The Population project (Credit 2360-NIR, declared effective on
December 1. 1992) was designed to build on achievements of the Health project. The
Health Sector Development Program (Credit 2915-NIR. which becamne effective on July
29, 1997) supports implementation of Niger's Health Sector Development Plan, including
the support of reproductive health services as an integral part of the minimum package of
activities at all levels of the health system.



- 11 -
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
4.    Original Project Objective. The project was designed to assist the Government
in implementing an effective national population program, with the primary objective of
accelerating the onset of fertility decline by increasing the contraceptive prevalence raite
as rapidly as possible, reducing maternal mortality, promoting attitudes favoring a
reduction in family size norms, and enhancing the capacity of women to participate
effectively in socioeconomic development.
5.    Project Components.   The project consisted of three components: (1)
strengthening maternal health and family planning services through improvements to the
efficiency, effectiveness and coverage of family planning and safe motherhood
interventions in three selected Departments (Zinder, Tahoua and Tillabery); (2)
promotion of family welfare and women 's status through information, education and
communication (IEC) activities, efforts to improve economic opportunities for women
and nutrition interventions; and (3) strengthening population policy analysis, research
and coordination through activities to build public sector capacity in these areas and to
encourage private sector and NGO initiatives in population and family planning.
6.    Credit Covenants and Special Agreements. After two extensions of the limnit
date for effectiveness, all conditions of effectiveness (itemized in para. 7 of the main text)
were complied with and the credit was declared effective on December 1. 1992. No
substantial changes were introduced to the project description or to the implementation
arrangements during the life of the project. nor were any amendments made to the
Development Credit Agreement.
7.    Evaluation of Project Objective. The project's objective were -- and remain --
consistent with the Bank's and Niger's strategies for economic recovery and
development. They are also consistent with the international consensus on the approach
to population and reproductive health reached at the 1994 International Conference on
Population and Development in Cairo. At the same time, project objectives -- and the
consequent project design -- were very ambitious, covering a wide range of challenges
and sectors in a country with very limited management and institutional capacity, where
the Bank had limited operational experience. Project targets were also ambitious given
the five-year time span of the project and given considerable pockets of resistance of
initiatives to limit family size and improve the status of women.



- Inl -
IMPLEMENTATION EXFPERIENCE AND RESULTS
8.    Assessment of Project's Outcome and Sustainability.  While the project
succeeded in providing most inputs and in carrying out most activities envisaged, its
overall success in achieving its stated objectives is unsatisfactory. This being said,
however, project inputs and activities, particularly those supporting health sector
development, are likely to contribute in the coming years to the realization of
program/project objectives.  The sustainability of project investments varies from
component to component and is discussed in detail in Section V.B. of this report. Major
outcomes of the various components are summarized as follows.
9.    Under the first component, strengthening maternal and child health services,
project inputs contributed to the upgrading and equipment of first-referral services and of
selected primary level facilities. Completion of works and procurement of equipment
transferred to the new health project are already underway and should provide the
necessary complement for making the district hospitals functional. IEC training and
equipment provided under the second component, promotion of family welfare and
women's status, must be more fully exploited through a needed review and revision of
Niger's communication srxategy. Also under this second component, investments in the
establishment and suppoM of 53 women's groups (about 3000 women) have shown their
potential to give women The capacity, income and opportunity to care for themselves and
their families more effeciively. as well as to participate more effectively in communal
initiatives. However, there is substantial scope for reducing the costs and cost-
effectiveness of such initiatives in the future.  The last component, strengthening
population policy analysis. research and coordination, contributed to improvements in
vital statistics. Capacity strengthening efforts are still needed, however, to improve
program coordination. A Population Fund financed about 30 projects with NGO and
private sector involvement. but was closed at the mid-term review because it was
insufficiently decentralized and participatory, and because of inadequate financial
management.
10.   Summary of Costs and Financing Arrangements. At appraisal, the total cost of
the project was estimated at US$24.1 million equivalent (net of taxes and duties) and its
financing was projected as follows: IDA: US$17.6 million equivalent; Govermnent:
US$2.7 million equivalent; NGO/private sector: US$0.2 million equivalent;
communities: US$0.1 million equivalent; the Belgian Cooperation: US$2.5 million
equivalent; and UNICEF: US$1.0 million equixalent. Actual total project cost was
US$12.6 million, financed as follows: IDA: USS10.9 million equivalent; Government:
US$1.4 million equivalent; communities: US$0.1 million equivalent; NGO/private
sector: US$0.1 million equivalent; UNICEF: US$0.1 million equivalent; and Belgian
Cooperation: nil. Differences in planned vs. actual costs and financing were due
essentially to: (1) the effect of the 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc on local component
expressed in foreign curTency; (2) the transfer of significant civil works and equipment to
the new health project that could not be completed before the closing date; and (3) the



- iv -
decisions of the Belgian Cooperation and UNICEF to channel their respective support
through parallel financing arrangements.
11.  Implementation Schedule. The project was prepared over a period of two years,
with the first identification mission taking place in May 1990 and the Board Presentation
and signature of the Development Credit Agreement taking place on April 30, 1992 and
May 22, 1992, respectively. The credit became effective on December 1, 1992 and
closed five years later on December 31, 1997 after one six-month extension of the
original closing date of June 30, 1997. Disbursements against commitments under the
project were made until April 27, 1998. An outstanding balance of SDR 5.3 million
(about US$ 7.2 million) was canceled on May 1, 1998.
12.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation. The project was implemented during a
period of severe political instability and economic hardship. A long period of political
instability following the National Conference in 1991 and a political deadlock in 1995
culminated in a military coup in January 1996. Legislative elections were boycotted by
opposition parties; and the unresolved and continuing political instability in Niger has
had a negative impact on project implementation. Among the most detrimental results of
this situation were: (1) the high turnover of Ministers and key technical staff; and (2)
suspension of significant donor assistance to population and reproductive health in protest
of the military coup, some of which has never been reinstated. In addition, the dire public
finance situation in Niger left civil servants without salaries for extended periods of time,
creating conditions of low morale and lack of motivation.
13.   Organizational and managerial constraints were also formidable. Government
capacity to implement a project of this magnitude and complexity was inadequate.
MSDIP/WD/CP was a new, sparsely staffed, relatively weak Ministry with a very small
budget and a broad, somewhat unclear mandate, which changed over the life of the
project and which tended to compete with, and even duplicate, the efforts of other
Ministries. The project coordination unit (CCPP) lacked basic capacity in project
management and coordination, most particularly in: planning and programming,
procurement, financial management, supervision, monitoring and evaluation. During the
course of project implementation, the CCPP exceeded its mandate to manage and
coordinate project activities and assumed an increasing role in implementation, as Well as
increased autonomy and decreased accountability. The performance of NIGETIP as
contractor for the health civil works component was unsatisfactory.
14.   Assessment of the Bank's and the Borrower's Performance.  Bank's
performance during project development was mixed. The sector dialogue was good,
focusing on a holistic approach to addressing population issues. While the project
objectives were pertinent, project design and complexity underestimated institutional
capacity to carry out a project of this nature and magnitude. A number of risks should
have been cited and addressed as a part of the design process. Project design could. have
benefited greatly from the setting of baseline indicators at the level of the 9
arrondissements and from more involvement of beneficiaries and decentralized decision-



- v -
makers and technical staff of the various implementing Ministries. Bank's performance
during implementation was unsatisfactory. Problems raised in Aide Memoires were not
addressed and resolved in subsequent missions, reporting on 590s was overly optimistic
and overly focused on inputs vs. impact, and mission composition was not always
responsive to project issues. The mid-term review was not exploited as an effective
vehicle for reviewing and revising project objectives and design or for improving
implementation performance and impact.
15.   Considering that this Population project was the first of its kind in Niger and that
family planning and women's status were extremely sensitive topics, Government
performance during project development was satisfactory in general. The existence of a
national population policy provided an enabling framework for program and project
implementation. On the whole, Government performance on project implementation was
unsatisfactory, however. MSD/P/WD/CP was unsuccessful in effectively coordinating
other Ministries responsible for implementing different components of the project.
Despite its mandate, this Ministry did not link strategically its own overridinQ social
objectives to those of the project, nor did it forge links between the program project
objectives and the expressed needs of the population it was serving. The CCPP's
performance in project coordination and management was also unsatisfactory. Lack of
respect of Bank procedures persisted through the end of the project. Management and
supervision of the contract with NIGETIP were not adequately carried out resulting in
infrastructure of marginal quality.
FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
16.   The Population project was implemented during a period when Niger was facing
very considerable constraints -- socio-political, economic and financial. While fully
appropriate to Niger's development and population agenda, project objectives wvere too
ambitious for a five-year project to implement successfully. The project's outcome vis-a-
vis its stated objectives has, therefore, been rated unsatisfactory. This being said,
however, the project comnpleted a considerable portion of the investments and activities
envisaged in the project, and it is anticipated that much of this investment and effort,
particularly that supporting health sector development, will be sustained and will, in the
medium-term, make some contribution to the realization of program and project
objectives. Sustainability of the women's groups will need a concerted effort on the part
of Goverrnent to apply lessons of project implementation and to find the right
institutions, the most cost-effective approaches and the cheapest, most available financing
for supporting efforts in this regard. Support of mass communications for population and
efforts to strengthen capacity for data collection and analysis and research has been
disappointing.



- vi -
FUTURE OPERATIONS
17.   The Government and the Bank reached general consensus on the ways and means
to consolidate and sustain project investments in the health sector (itemized in Section
V.B and in the final evaluation mission Aide Memoire shown in Appendix A). Agreed
actions include the assumption under the Health Sector Development Program (Credit
2915-NIR) of most major investments that could not be implemented before the Niger
Population closing date, as well as support to the functioning of health facilities
strengthened under the Population project, in line with reform implementation envisaged
under Niger's Health Sector Development Plan for the period 1994-2000. In addition,
during the final evaluation mission, the Bank and MOPH committed themselves to
devoting greater effort to ensuring the availability, quality and access of the full range of
reproductive health services that constitute an important part of the minimum package of
services that has been defined for each level of the health svstem. It was also agreed that
the strengthening ofpartnerships in health component of the new health project would be
used as an effective vehicle for continued efforts to exploit alternative (non-
govemmental) channels for family planning services and information and also for linking
with women's Croups supported under the Population project in an effort to promote safe
motherhood and extend preventive and promotional activities for improved family health.
While the Bank emphasized its recognition of the potential contributions of women s
groups to poverty alleviation and to the stimulation of desire for smaller family size, it
noted that the overhead costs of support to these groups under the Population project we-re
not sustainable and recommended that Government: (a) incorporate lessons of
implementation experience so as to decrease significantly the costs and improve the cost-
effectiveness of such efforts and to use more efficiently the comparative advantages and
mandates of the multiple Government and non-aovermental structures in Niger to this
end; and (b) exploit IDA financing immediately available through IDA's ongoing
portfolio of projects under supervision -- worth some USS135 million -- for support of
these groups, as many of these projects support objectives commensurate with such
initiatives. The Country Director and senior members of the country team representing
key sectors and initiatives committed themselves at the final evaluation workshop to
meeting and pursuing how they can collaborate among themselves and with Government
to address more effectively Niger's population agenda.
LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS IN THE SECTOR IN NIGER
18.   A number of lessons of project design and development emerged from the
evaluation process. Project objectives should be realistic so as to be feasible within the
established timeframe of the life of the project. And they should be based, to the extent
possible. on a sound knowledge of the existing situation. Reliable baseline data are
essential in this regard. Complex projects implemented through various Ministries
require well-defined monitoring and supervision systems with a capacity to address and
resolve constraints in a flexible, pro-active manner. Involvement of key stakeholders
(including beneficiaries and decentralized personnel) increase ownership and
sustainability. A more comprehensive and rigorous assessment of institutional capacity



- vii -
would have modified project design and introduced interventions to streamline and
strengthen that capacity. The objective of achieving sustainability of project investments
should have been a driving force in the project, from its very conception, and throughout
implementation.
19.   The most salierLt of all of the implementation lessons is the importance of
embracing a learning approach. The project's design and complexity, weaknesses in
capacity and cumbersome institutional arrangements, political and economic factors
affecting project implementation -- all of these could have been proactively addressed and
minimized, had supervision missions constantly questioned the viability of project
objectives and implementation arrangements and been in constant pursuit of ways and
means to finetune implementation effectiveness and maximize impact. Greater adherence
to the annual programming and evaluation process, envisaged in the project design,
would have accommodated both more rigor and more flexibility during project
implementation to take into account and to manage opportunities and constraints
emerging from implementation experience. In short, opportunities should have been
more fully exploited to address and quickly resolve project implementation issues. The
mid-term review process and the special financial and operational audits should have
been more fully exploited in this regard.



IMPLENIENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
POPULATION PROJECT
(Credit 2360-NIR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.   INTRODUCTION'
A.   MACROECONOMIC SETTING
1.    Niger is one of the poorest countries in the world and ranks last in the world in the
UNDP's human development index. One out of five children die before the age of five, which is
double the average for low-income countries. Four out of five adults are illiterate, two and a half
times the average for low-income countries. Fewer than one out of three children attend primary
school, less than one third the average for low-income countries. Per capita income is estimated
at US$200 in 1996, and more ihan 60 percent of the population lives on less than a dollar a day.
Overall economic performance has been dismal since the 1960s and poverty has increased
steadily over the last 30 years. GDP has hardly grown -- the 30-year real growth rate is 0.3
percent, while the population has more than doubled. Agricultural GDP has actually declined
over the same period. During the last 30 years there have been only two relatively brief
occasions when GDP growth wvas positive for more than two consecutive years. The first was
the 1977-80 uranium boom and the second was the 1993-97 period when rainfall was relatively
favorable and the CFAF was devalued. Poor economic and social performance is mirrored in
weak implementation of development projects.
2.    Progress on stabilization and economic reform has been episodic. Niger abandoned its
economic reform efforts in ithe early 1990s with.consequent disarray in public finances. Critical
problems were low revenue mobilization due in large measure to tax evasion, an unaffordable
wage bill and public enterprise mismanagement. The Government adopted a stabilization and
reform program in December 1995 and has executed it satisfactorily through 1997. Public
finance management in 1996 and 1997 was particularly encouraging as it began to address long-
standing problems. In particular the Government raised revenue collection by 16 and 15 percent,
respectively, in one year, cut the wage bill by 11 percent in 1997, and launched a major
privatization program, including for the water, power and telecommunication utilities. A long
period of political instability constitutes a major risk for sound economic management.
Although there is a broad consensus on the reform agenda of fiscal stabilization, privatization
and market liberalization, privatization and wage bill issues are highly political and remain a
focus of Govenment opposition.
Source: Niger Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), November 1997.



- 2 -
B.    THE BANK'S ROLE IN THE COUNTRY AND IN THE SECTOR
3.    As of March 1998. 50 IDA credits have been approved for Niger for a total of US$785
million equivalent (Appendix C). The Bank's current portfolio of 10 projects under supervision
supports structural adjustnent, social sector development, agriculture and rural development,
natural resources management and urban infrastructure. Total uindisbursed amount is about
US$135 million equivalent (Appendix C). The Bank's CAS for Niger emphasizes that
significant improvement in the well-being of the Nigerien population w ill depend on major long-
term investments in human capital, a reduction in the population grovth rate, and regional, rather
than national, growth opportunities. Future Bank assistance would. therefore, take a long-term
view, recognize that Niger will require external assistance for the foreseeable future, and focus
on three things: (1) improvements in access and quality of basic education and health services;
(2) increased access to safe water and improved water use in agriculture: and (3) promotion of
open economic policies and regional linkages to take advantage of external growth opportunities.
4.    The first Health Project (Credit 1668-NIR, which became effective on November 3,
1986) marked the beginning of the Bank's involvement in Niger's health sector and was
designed to support the government's structural adjustment objectives at the sectoral level: (a)
more efficient use of resources: (b) mobilization of resources through cost recovery; and (c)
policy reform to improve overall efficiency and effectiveeness in the health sector. Direct sLupport
to population activities included: support to familx- planning services and information; and
cofinancing of the 1988 Population Census. Policy and program objectives were substantially
met and prospects for sustainability of investments are proving to be good. The Population
Project (Credit 2360-NIR) was designed to build on achievements of the Health project. The
Health Sector Development Program (Credit 2915-NIR, which became effective on July 29.
1997) is a sector investment program  (SIP).  This investment is designed to support
implementation of Niger's Health Sector Development Plan.  It supports health reform
implementation and has carefully incorporated lessons of experience of both the first Health and
Population projects. Among other priorities, this investment is supporting reproductive health
services as an integral part of the minimum package of activities at all levels of the health
system.
II.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.   ORIGINAL PROJECT OBJECTINE
5.    The project was designed to assist the Government in implementing an effective national
population program, with the primary objective of accelerating the onset of fertility decline by
increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate as rapidly as possible. reducing maternal mortality.
promoting attitudes favoring a reduction in family size norms, and enhancing the capacity of
women to participate effectively in socioeconomic development.



B.   PROJECT COMPONENTS
6.    The project consisted of three components. The first aimed at strengthening maternal
healtlh and family planning services. Designed to complement activities of other aid donors
(particularly USAID and UNFPA), this component focused on improving the efficiency,
effectiveness and coverage of family planning and safe motherhood interventions at the
departmental, district and village levels in three selected Departments (Zinder, Tahoua and
Tillabery) through two subcomponents: (a) support of health policy reform in the areas of
essential drugs and cost recovery and strengthening departmental and district capacities in
strategic sector management; and (b) improving the quality and access of maternal and child
health and family planning (MCH/FP) services through investments in infrastructure and
training. The second component, promotion offamily welfare and women 's status, was designed
to support activities encouraging behavior favoring a reduction in family size norms and
improvements in the status of women through three subcomponents: (a) development of a
nationwide information, education and communication (IEC) program; (b) promotion of the
status of women; and (c) improvements in nutrition interventions. The third and last component
aimed at strengthening population policy analysis, research and coordination through activities
to (a) improve data collection, research and analytical capacities at the central level; (b)
strengthen the institutional capacity to facilitate and coordinate the national population program
at the central level; and (c) encourage private sector and NGO initiatives in population and
familv planning programs through a Population Fund.
C.    CREDIT COVENANTS AND SPECIAL AGREEMENTS
7.    Special covenants or agreements were included to help promote achievement of project
objectives (Table 9). Conditions of effectiveness were as follows: (a) publication of the arrete
defining the structure of thLe regional health system, including the roles and functions of the
departments and districts in the administration and management of the decentralized health
system; and adoption of the policy document defining the personnel recruitment and
redeployment plan for 1993-95; (b) adoption of the action plan establishing guidelines for the
extension of the drug distribution network, as well as procedures for the introduction of the
national essential drugs list; (c) adoption of the revised departmental in-service training modules
for MCH/FP and nutrition, including a detailed in-service training plan for the first two years of
project implementation; (d) adoption of the statute governing the proposed interregional family
health center in Zinder and giving details of the center's organizational structure, role and
functions, as well as a proposed staffing plan; (e) publication of the arretj defining the norms
and standards for provision of MCH/FP at each service delivery level; (f) publication of an arrete
(i) authorizing newly recruited village health workers to provide refills for hormonal
contraceptives, as well as supplies of barrier methods and (ii) defining the revised checklist to be
used to screen new family pLanning acceptors and other modalities for its utilization; (g) adoption
of the by-laws and regulations governing the administration of the Population Fund, together
with a procedures manual and a standard contract to be entered into with the would-be
beneficiaries of the Fund; and establishment of the committee for the selection of sub-projects to
be financed under the Fund; (h) publication of the arrete establishing the Interministerial IEC



- 4 -
Technical Committee; (i) submission to IDA for review and comment, of draft bidding
documents for all bid packages for the first year of the project; (j) finalization and signature of
the contract with the selected auditor; and (k) conclusion of appropriate agreements with other
cofinanciers in view of securing all complementary financing required for execution of' the
project.  After two extensions of the initial limit date for effectiveness, all conditions of
effectiveness were complied with and the credit was declared effective on December 1, 1992.
8.    Agreed Changes and Amendments. No substantial changes were introduced to the
project description or to the implementation arrangements during the life of the project, nor were
any amendments made to the Development Credit Agreement. It is worth noting, however, that
at the mid-term review it was agreed that all remaining project investments in the health sector
would have to be in conformity with Niger's recently issued health sector development plan and
with newly established norms and standards for the sector. The credit's original closing date of
June 30, 1997 was extended once by six months to December 31, 1997 to accommodate a more
in-depth and participatory final evaluation process.
D.   THE RISKS
9.    The SAR identified three main risks: (a) persistence of the unstable political situation that
might threaten the attention and visibility of the population and family planning programr; (b)
slow implementation of the decentralization strategy at departmental and district levels; and (c)
non-respect or ineffective implementation of the plan for redeployment of health personnel from
the central to the regional and district levels. All three of these risks proved to be real and ef."forts
envisaged under the project to mitigate them had some, albeit marginal, impact. There were
other, more pressing, risks. however, that should have been anticipated and effectively addressed
at the project design stage. These risks were mainly institutional and socio-political in nature.
There was considerable risk that Government did not have sufficient capacity to implement such
an ambitious and complex project. The Ministry of Social Development, Population, Woman's
Development and Protection of the Child (MSD/P/`D/CP) was given the overall responsibility
for project coordination and management, yet it was newly established and its human and
budgetary resources were extremely limited. Risk was also considerable that coordination of the
inputs and actions of five different Ministries responsible for implementation of different
components and subcomponents under the project would prove too difficult, especially for a
brand new Ministry with an unclear mandate, weak capacity and weak standing in the hierarchy
of Government. USAID and Canadian capacity building efforts were ongoing but insufficcient
to prepare MSD/P/WD/CP for this responsibility. The risk of probable turnover of' key
Ministers. and other key actors, who were strong leaders and proponents of the population
program, should have been anticipated. These risks could have been mitigated at the design
stage by, among other things, efforts to: strengthen MSD/P/WD/CP and/or scale back project
complexity; clearly define roles and responsibilities, as well as systems and procedures, in
project management, coordination and implementation; build project success more around
institutions vs. individual leaders; and employ consultative and participatory approaches during
project design and implementation that would have broadened and deepened understanding and
ownership of the project and program.



-5 -
E.   EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
10.   The project's objectives were -- and remain -- consistent with the Bank's and Niger's
strategies for economic recovery and development. The objectives are also consistent with the
international consensus on the approach to population and reproductive health reached at the
1994 International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, which encompasses
efforts to: bridge the gender gap in education, promote equity for women, reduce maternal
mortality and morbidity, increase child survival, provide universal access to reproductive health
and family planning services and information, and integrate the population agenda into all
national policies and strategies. At the same time, project objectives -- and the consequent
project design -- were very ambitious, covering a wide range of challenges and sectors (health
sector reform, improvements to quality and coverage of health services, essential drugs policy,
nutrition interventions, income generation for women, literacy and numeracy initiatives,
institution building, vital registration, population analysis, research, monitoring and
coordination) in a country with very limited management and institutional capacity, where the
Bank had limited operational experience. Project targets (especially those aimed at reduction of
fertility and increasing contraceptive prevalence rates) were also ambitious given the 5-year time
span of the project and given considerable pockets of resistance of initiatives to limit family size
and improve the status of women. The mid-term review of the project should have been seized
as an opportunity for the review and revision of project objectives in light of the progress in
implementation and lessons of experience and in light of evolutions in policy, institutional
arrangements and socio-political and religious attitudes towards family planning and women's
status.
III. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.   ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY
11.   The lack of region-specific baseline data in the 9 arrondissements covered by the project
and the lack of an adequate, decentralized monitoring system with clear performance indicators
make it difficult to quantify and qualify any gains made in achieving the main objectives of the
project: increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate, reducing maternal mortality, promoting
attitudes favoring a reduction in family size norms, and enhancing the capacity of women to
participate effectively in socioeconomic development. This assessment is thus based on all
elements of the national evaluation process and on the mission's own independent field visits,
reviews and discussions. In summary, while the project succeeded in providing most inputs and
in carrying out most activities envisaged under the project (planned vs. actual inputs and
activities are itemized in Table 5), its overall success in achieving its stated objectives is
unsatisfactory.  This being said, however, project inputs and activities, particularly those
supporting health sector development, are highly likely to contribute in the coming years to the
realization of program/project objectives. The sustainability of project investments varies from
component to component and is discussed in detail in Section V.B. of this report. In summary,
sustainability of health sector investments, which constitute the bulk of project investments, will
be assured thanks to the support envisaged in the context of the Health Sector Development



- 6 -
Project (Credit 2915-NIR). On the other hand. the sustainabilitv of women's groups is in
jeopardy until certain steps are taken to: improve the cost effectiveness of such initiatives; define
and exploit more fully the mandates and comparative advantages of the various Ministries
involved, most particularly MSD/P/WD/CP, and of the small, but growing, network of NGOs;
and draw on grant monies and funds available through IDA's existing portfolio of projects xvhose
objectives accommodate such initiatives.
12.   Major outcomes of the various components are summarized as follows. Under the first
component, strengthening maternal and child health services, project inputs contributed to the
upgrading and equipment of first-referral services (now called district hospitals under the new
sector development plan), and of selected primary level facilities (see Table 5A for itemization).
Completion of works and procurement of equipment transferred to the new health project are
already underway and should provide the necessary complement for making the district hospitals
functional. Training of staff at all levels of the system should render them more capable of
delivering reproductive health services and of sector management. Construction of housin g for
health personnel is helping to curtail high mobility of service providers. Under the second
component, promotion offamily welfare and uwomen 's status, IEC training and equipment were
provided to the department of health education of the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) at the
central and departmental levels. Fuller exploitation of this assistance must be pursued through a
needed review and revision of Niger's communication strategy. Local level social workers were
trained iP interpersonal communication. Listening clubs at the village level were provided with
radios and cassettes but this material remains to be fully exploited. Also under this second
component, 53 women's groups (about 3,000 wvomen) benefited from training in literacy and
management and from microproject funds, which have allowed them to undertake income
generation activities. These interventions show the potential of women's groups in giving
women the capacity, income and opportunity to care for themselves and their families more
effectively. They have also given women more weieht in decision-making in their families and
in their communities; and they have created greater solidarity among women. The timeframne of
support to these women's groups was too short to have had any discernible effect on changing
attitudes in desired family size. It must also be said that the overhead costs for this component
were high and would need to be scaled back significantly in the future. The last component,
strengthening population policy analysis, research and coordination, contributed to
improvernents in vital statistics registration. A number of studies were also produced under this
component (itemized in Table 6) that might be better exploited. Niger's National Population
Commission (CONAPO) received equipment and material to enable it to carry out its mandate
more effectively, but it is still in need of other support to enable it to facilitate and coordinate the
national population program at the central level. The recent transfer of this entity to the office of
the Prime Minister may give it the weight and credibility to improve its performance and irmpact.
Finally, the Population Fund supported NGO and private sector involvement in population
activities.  While the idea is excellent, the operation of this fund suffered from  being
insufficiently decentralized and participatory, and from poor financial management. After 45
projects were funded, this Fund was closed at the mid-term review.



B.   SUMMARY OF COSTS
13.   At appraisal, the total cost of the project was estimated at US$24.1 million equivalent
(net of taxes and duties) with a foreign exchange component of US$12.3 million (51%). Base
cost estimates were in February 1992 prices. Actual total project cost was US$12.6 million, of
which US$2.7 was in foreign exchange.
14.   The difference between projected and actual total project cost is significant. Table 7A
itemizes these differences by cost category, bv project component and by local vs. foreign
components. The 1994 devaluation is an important factor in explaining the difference between
the projected vs. actual costs of the local component (US$11.8 million equivalent vs. US$9.9
million equivalent): the value of the local component after devaluation, expressed in US dollars,
is half of that estimated at appr aisal, given that the CFAF was devalued by 50 percent vis-a-vis
the French franc. On the other hand, the difference in the projected vs. actual costs of the foreign
component (US$12.3 million equivalent vs. US$2.7 million equivalent) is attributable to other
factors, most notably: the transfer of unfinished investments in civil works and equipment to the
new health project (paragraphi 30); the underutilization of international technical assistance
programmed under the project; and, in view of the nature of many the activities, the
overestimation at appraisal of -he foreign component for the project. In addition, the actual costs
of project coordination and management were much higher than anticipated. This cost category
consumed 20 percent of total project costs vs. the 5 percent estimated at appraisal. While the
local component of this expenditure should have been low -er due to the devaluation effect, actual
local costs for project coordination were four times the amount estimated at appraisal
C.   FINANCING ARR-ANGEMENTS
15.   Table 7B shows the planned vs. actual financing plans for the project. At the time of
Board presentation it was estimated that the total project cost of US$24.1 million equivalent
would be financed as follows: IDA: US$17.6 million equivalent; Government: US$2.7 million
equivalent; NGO/Private Sector: US$0.2 million equivalent; communities: US$0.1 million
equivalent; the Belgian Coop,ration: US$2.5 million equivalent; and UNICEF: US$1.0 million
equivalent. The actual financing of this project was somewhat different. IDA financing was
US$10.9 million equivalent, some US$6.7 million equivalent less than planned when compared
at appraisal exchange rate of the US dollars with the SDR. This difference is due to the project's
inability to complete a number of key investments prior its closing date (paragraph 30).
Government financing, at USS 1.4 million equivalent was half of the appraisal estimate, but this
shortfall can be explained in large part by the devaluation effect; and its contribution as a
percentage of total project cost is fully consistent with the appraisal estimate of 11 percent.
Actual community contributions matched projections.  NGO  contributed 100 percent of
contributions to local costs, but did not finance the US$0.1 million worth of foreign costs, as
projected. After Board presentation, Belgium chose not to cofinance the Population project, but,
rather, to provide assistance through its bilateral channels. To compensate for this change, the
Population project financed three UN Volunteers to carry out the tasks initially slated for Belgian
technical assistance: the training and backstopping of district hospital surgical staff. UNICEF



- 8 -
only contributed US$0.1 million equivalent to nutrition activities (vs. US$1.0 million equivalent
planned), because it also chose ultimately other vehicles for channeling its support to nutrition
activities.
D.   IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
16.   The project was prepared over a period of two years, with the first identification mission
taking place in May 1990 and the Board Presentation and signature of the Development Credit
Agreement taking place on April 30, 1992, and May 22, 1992, respectively. The credit became
effective on December 1. 1992 and closed five years later on December 31, 1997 after one six-
month extension of the original closing date of June 30, 1997. While the mid-term review
should have been scheduled for the end of 1994 (two years before the December 1996
completion date), it did not actually take place until April 1996. and the exercise wasn't
completed until a second phase mid-term review mission and workshop took place in October
1996. Disbursements against commitments under the project were made until April 27, 1998.
An outstanding balance of SDR 5.3 million (about US$ 7.2 million) was canceled effective May
1, 1998. Because of substantial delays in the implementation of various project components, a
number of investments in health sector infrastructure and equipment were not able to be
undertaken in the context of the population project. but were ultimately shifted to the ongoing
Health Sector Development Program (Credit 2915-NIR). Suppon to the promotion of women
and family health was only initiated during the last two years of the project curtailing both the
number of women's groups reached and the timeframe of such assistance. Major reasons for the
delays in implementation are summarized below.
E.   .A-NALYSIS OF KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMIPLENIENTATION
17.   Political and Economic Situation. A long period of poliiical instability following the
National Conference in 1991 and political deadlock in 1995 culmninated in a military coup in
January 1996. Legislarive elections in November 1996 were boycotted by opposition parties and
the unresolved and continuing political instabilitvy in Niger has had a negative impact on project
implementation. The high turnover of Ministers of Social Development, Population, Woman's
Development and Child s Protection and of Public Health (with a new Minister appointed every
8-9 months on average for each Ministry throughout the life of the project),. and the
accompanying, frequent changes in Secretary General and other key positions, have also
disrupted project implementation, as each new Minister revisited and questioned project
objectives and implementation progress.  Significant donor assistance to populatiorL and
reproducitive health was lost as donors suspended aid in protest of the military coup. Substantial
USAID support to population (including contraceptive procurement and the support of non-
governmental channels of service delivery) has never been reinstated. In addition, the dire public
finance situation in Ni2er has left civil servants without salaries for extended periods of time,
creating conditions of low morale and lack of motivation. This prompted pressure on the project
to supplement salaries through the financing of overtime, training costs and per diems. Finally,
widespread sensitivities to issues of women's status. coupled with the highly volatile political
situation, caused the family code to be shelved.



- 9 -
18.   Organizational/Managerial Constraints. Govermment capacity to implement a project of
this magnitude and comrplexity was inadequate. Lack of progress in implementing Niger's
decentralization policy, particularly decentralization of budgets and financial responsibilities,
impeded the decentralized thrust of this project. MSD/P/WD/CP was a new, sparsely staffed,
relatively weak Ministry with a very small budget and a broad, somewhat unclear mandate,
which changed over the life of the project and which tended to compete with, and even duplicate,
the efforts of other Ministries. Despite the fact that the bulk of funds under this project were
direct investments in health sector development, MOPH involvement in implementation of the
health component was impeded by the complex institutional arrangements and inadequate
definition of roles and responsibilities of the various actors: MSD/P/WD/CP as coordinator;
MOPH as implementor (encompassing central, departmental and local level managers and
technical staff); NIGETIP as contractor of civil works investrnents. These deficiencies were
clearly illustrated in the inadequate communications and monitoring of the health civil works
component, which culminated in less than satisfactory quality of works under the project (Table
5B).
19.   The project coordination unit (CCPP) lacked basic capacity in project management and
coordination, most particularly in: planning and programming, procurement, financial
management, supervision, monitoring and evaluation.   During the course of project
implementation, the CCPP exceeded its mandate to manage and coordinate project activities and
assumed an increasing role in implementation, as well as increased autonomy and decreased
accountability. Rather than relying on line Ministries for implementing various components,
CCPP on a number of occasions requested financing to hire technical staff to oversee
implementation. This was a phenomenon of a number of factors, including: CCPP's attachment
to a relatively weak and under-resourced Ministry, fast tumover of Ministers and Secretary
Generals for MSD/P/WD/CP, and CCPP's enormous financial clout, being the channel for all
financial resources of the project during a time of severe public finance and budgetary
constraints. The Government's chapter notes that it was CCPP's autonomy that allowed it to
function during a period of political and economic instability. It must also be noted that,
however, this autonomy was inhibiting of capacity building of line ministries and too expensive
to be sustainable. Financial mismanagement was raised in annual audits as well as in the special
financial audit undertaken prior to the mid-term review. Neither these nor the operational audit,
also prepared prior to the mid-term review, led to any concrete action by Govermment or by the
Bank to correct these serious flaws in project management.
20.   The performance of NIGETIP (Niger's Public Works and Employment Agency), as an
executing agency for the health civil works component was unsatisfactory. The elements of this
poor performance, the reasons behind it, as well as actions to avoid repeating the same mistakes
in the future were discussed and agreed with this contractor in a tripartite meeting (Government
of Niger, World Bank, NIGETIP), recorded in the mission's Aide Memoire and summarized in
Table 5B.



- 10-
F.    ASSESSMIENT OF THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
21.   Bank's perfornance during project development was mixed. The sector dialogue was
good, focusing on a holistic approach to addressing population issues, encompassing the need to
improve the supply and quality of health services with a particular emphasis on reproductive
health; stimulate demand for family planning services and information through investments to
improve the status and opportunities of women; and incorporate quality population data, analysis
and research into national macroeconomic and sector policy and strategy. The essence of this
dialogue remains commnensurate wNith the thrust of the CAS and, as well, with the
recommendations of the 1994 Cairo Population Conference on which an international consensus
was reached (para. 10). This dialogue should also be appreciated in light of the fact that there
was still widespread resistance to efforts to limit family size and to improve the status of
women.  While the project objectives were pertinent, project design and complexity
underestimated institutional capacity to carry out a project of this nature and magnitude. A
number of risks should have been cited and addressed at this stage (para. 9). Performance
indicators were itemized for use during the mid-term review (MTR), but indicators and baselines
for monitoring of implementation progress as well as impact at the level of the nine
arrondissements were not defined. Project design could have benefited greatly from more
involvement of beneficiaries and of decentralized decision-makers and technical staff of the
various implementing Ministries. During the design phase, coordination with MOPH was good,
given that the same Bank team worked on both population and health.
22.   Bank's performance during project implementation was unsatisfactory. Supervision was
inadequate from a number of perspectives. Supervision missions focused too heavily on tasks in
Niamey and visits to subregions in the three departments covered under the project were too
infrequent and cursory. Problems raised in Aide M6moires were not addressed and resolved in
subsequent missions. Reporting on 590s was overly optimistic, minimizing issues associated
with implementation performance, impact and respect of covenants. Supervision reporting
focused too much on project inputs and not enough on project outcome and impact, and did not
include ongoing validation of project objectives in light of implementation progress, issues and
constrairts and evolutions in relevant policy and strategy. Skills mix of supervision missions did
not accommodate the need to address and resolve crucial technical issues: civil works,
procurement, organization and management/institutional development, accounting and financial
managemrrent. The team's performance in handling procurement matters was weak: there were
long delays in communicating the Bank's non-objections; and the team's review of procurement
files was in many cases not sufficiently comprehensive or rigorous. The MTR, carried out in two
phases, was not exploited as an effective vehicle for putting the project back on track, in spite of
the results of the operational and special financial audits carried out prior to the MTR. Neither
did the MTR culminate in a set of lessons to apply immediately for improved project
performance or in a detailed planning of the remainder of project activities that could have
provided a credible basis for seeking an extension of the project.
23.   Quality of the Bank's supenrision work suffered considerably as a result of rapid turnover
of task teams and task tearn leaders and a lack of clarity of roles and responsibilities. During the
5-year life of the project there were four different task managers. The second and third task team



- Il -
leaders were assigned exclusively to work on population issues in Niger; and communication and
coordination between this team and the team responsible for health in Niger was inadequate,
resulting on occasion in conflicting messages to Government. While field staff would have been
well placed to reconcile and resolve such internal disagreements, their roles and responsibilities
were unclear and they were not fully used to their potential. Disagreements and conflicts in
approach across the four successive population task managers and their teams were also evident.
Changes in Country Directors, Sector Managers and Resident Representatives during this period
only exacerbated this situation. Corrective measures have been taken: the recently appointed
task team for this project works across both health and population, and this is also the case now
for the responsible field staff. Current managers have been brought into the dialogue to reconcile
and resolve outstanding conflicts in messages.
G.   ASSESSMENT OF THE BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
24.   Considering that this Population project was the first of its kind in Niger and that family
planning and women's status were extremely sensitive topics, Govemment performance during
project development was satisfactory in general. This was due in significant part to the vision
and leadership of the Ministers of Social Development, Population, Woman's Development and
Child's Protection and Public Health, who worked well with the Bank and with each other. Also,
the existence of a national population policy provided an enabling framework for program and
project implementation. There were some weaknesses in project development, the most
noteworthy of which are: inadequate assessment of institutional capacity for project coordination,
implementation and management; inadequate incorporation of sociological and political
dimensions and risks in project design; and insufficient solicitation and incorporation of
stakeholders' points of viewv into project design.
25.   On the whole. Government performance on project implementation was unsatisfactor,.
for reasons itemized in Section E, above.  MSD.P/WD/CP was unsuccessful in effectively
coordinating other Ministries responsible for implementing different components of the project;
and it did not wield enough authority and quality control over the CCPP. which was placed under
its overall responsibility. Despite its mandate, this Ministry did not link strategically its own
overriding social objectives to those of the project, nor did it forge links between the
program/project objectives and the expressed needs of the population it was serving. Until
recently this Ministry had no representation at the departmental level and so was far removed
from its stated grassroots orientation. Neither did it exploit the opportunity to forge stronger
links with the small, but growing network of NGOs in pursuit of project activities, although this
was a stated objective of the project. The Ministrv did not take advantage of the opportunity it
had under the project for building its capacity; the technical assistance programmed under the
project was not fully utilized. In addition, Government failed to comply fully with a number of
key covenants of the Development Credit Agreement (Table 9).
26.   The CCPP's performance in  project coordination  and management was also
unsatisfactory. It lacked critical skills and experience in project management, and took little or
no action to address and correct problems raised in Bank mission Aide Memoires. During the



-12 -
course of the project life, CCPP gained more autonomy and power than had been envisaged and
gradually took on more of an implementation (vs. coordination) role. Management and
supervision of the subcontract with NIGETIP (executing agency for health civil works) was not
adequately carried out with the result being that infrastructure constructed/rehabilitated under the
project was of low quality and not fully responsive to technical requirements of the health sector.
CCPP's lack of respect of Bank procedures persisted through the end of the project: the Bank
was unable to give its non objection to a number of studies envisaged under the evaluation
process (including a beneficiary assessment) because terms of reference, budget, contract, and
choice of consultants did not meet minimum requirements even after Bank had transmittecl its
comments on preliminary drafts.
V.   SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS
LEARNED
A.   FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
27.   The Population project was implemented during a period when Niger was facing
considerable constraints, among which are: poor economic performance and poor prospects for
economic development, a crisis in public finance, high and increasing poverty, political
instability, high turnover of Ministers and lead technical specialists, weak, overly centralized
institutions and poor performance in virtually all key development sectors (health, education,
agriculture), waning donor assistance, and limited involvement of non-governmental sector in
social sectors. In addition, the development and implementation of the Population project was
also challenged by the fact that the population issue is complex and multisectoral in nature and it
touches on the most personal aspects of the lives of Nigeriens and addresses issues that are
sensitive and highly volatile, such as limitations in family size and women's status. Despite this
difficult context, this Population project was developed to support a national population program.
28.   While fully appropriate to Niger's development agenda and to the population agenda,
project objectives were too ambitious for a five-year project to implement successfully. The
project's outcome vis-a-vis its stated objectives has therefore been rated unsatisfactory. This
being said, however, the project completed a considerable portion of the investments and
activities envisaged in the project, and it is anticipated that much of this investment and effort,
particularly that supporting health sector development, will be sustained and will, in the medium-
term, make some contribution to the realization of program and project objectives.
Implementation delays ultimately resulted in an underutilization of IDA funds and, after a six-
month extension of the closing date, the cancellation of a part of the Credit in the amount of US$
7.2 million equivalent. Completion and sustainability of the health investments will be ensured
through su.pport of the ongoing health project. Sustainability of the women's groups will need a
concerted effort on the part of Government to apply lessons of project experience and to find the
right institutions, the most cost-effective approaches and the cheapest, most available financing
for supporting efforts in this regard. Support of mass communications for population and eifforts
to strengthen capacity for data collection and analysis and research has been disappointing.



- 13 -
29.   Both the Bank's and the Borrower's performances have been mixed and a number of
steps are suggested to improve them. By far the two most importanm themes of this evaluation
process -- both to Government and to the Bank -- were: the consolidation and sustainability of
achievements made under the project; and lessons learned. These were exhaustively addressed
and discussed throughout the evaluation process and there is full consensus that responsibilities
for following up on both of these themes rests with both parties. The following two sections on
"Sustainabilitv and Future Operations" and on "Lessons for Future Projects in the Sector in
Niger" provide, in practical form, the essence of findings of project imDlementation experience.
B.   SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
30.   The Government and the Bank reached general consensus on the ways and means to
consolidate and sustain project investments in the health sector (recorded in final evaluation
mission Aide Memoire shown in Appendix A). In summary, the Health Sector Development
Program (Credit 2915-NIR) has already assumed the responsibility for financing most major
investments that could not be implemented before the Niger Population closing date, most
notably: construction and equipment of radiology facilities and equipment of surgical facilities
for district hospitals consmicted under the Population project, construction and equipment of the
nine office facilities for the nine district health teams. Furthermore, of the nine districts
supported under the Popuiaation project, three (Fillingue and Say in the Department of Tillaberi,
and Mirriah in the Departnent of Zinder) were already targeted under the new health project for
intensive support in implementing their district health plans, in line with national health sector
reform. With reference to provisions agreed between Government and the Bank in June 1996
during negotiation of the new health project, and in light of significant reduction in committed
donor assistance to health sector operations since that time (particularly the closing down of
USAID office and operations in late 1996), the Bank- and the MOPH confirmed their agreement
to support the functioning of health facilities and health reform implementation in the remaining
six districts included in the Population project subject to certain conditionalities and principles
that all target health districts are subject to under the new health project (itemized in attached
Aide Memoire). During the final evaluation mission, the Bank and the MOPH committed
themselves to devoting greater effort to ensuring the availability, quality and access of the full
range of reproductive health services that constitute an important part of the minimum package
of services that have been defined for each level of the health svstem. Past experience has
shown all too clearly that these services can be easily neglected in favor of curative services.
Finally, it was acknowledged and agreed that the strengthening of partnerships in health
component of the new health project can and should be used as an effective vehicle for continued
efforts to exploit alternative (non-governmental) channels for family planning services delivery
and promotion, and also for linking with women's groups established and supported under the
Population project in an effort to promote safe motherhood and extend preventive and
promotional activities for improved family health.
31.   There were also a number of points of disagreement between Government and Bank on
the consolidation and sustainability of other outputs of the Population project.  While
Government requested financing under the new health project of the equipment and functioning



- 14 -
of the Zinder Center for Reproductive Health, constructed under the Population project, the Bank
kept its position on this issue as discussed and recorded in Aide Mdmoires of the final evaluation
mission as well as those of previous missions. In summary, in light of a number of evolutions
since its conception over 9 years ago, the Bank questions the viability of this Center and
recommends a review and revision of its mandate, before it would consider the financing of its
equipment and functioning, based on a number of criteria discussed during the last several
missions and itemized in the mission's final evaluation Aide Memoire (attached).
32.   Perhaps Government's greatest concern was for the future of the women's groups
established under the microproject fund. Having only been established and supported ovei the
last two years (or less) of the project, these groups were seen as fragile and almost certain to
disintegrate unless added support (continued training and support of women's groups, continued
financing of salaries of rural animatrices and of the costs of supervision of decentralized
MSD/P/WD/CP staff) is provided. The Government presented to the Bank a request for "
interim" financing aimed at: supporting existing women's groups; extending the fund to establish
and support additional groups; and developing a second Population project.  While the Bank
emphasized its recognition of the potential contributions of these groups to poverty alleviation
and to the stimulation of desire for smaller family size. it noted that the overhead costs of support
to these groups under the Population project were excessively high and recommended that
Government: (a) exploit IDA financing immediately available through IDA's ongoing portfolio
of projects under supervision -- worth some US$135 million -- for support of these groups, as
many of these projects support objectives commensurate with such initiatives; and (b)
incorporate lessons of implementation experience so as to decrease significantly the costs and
cost-effectiveness of such efforts and to use more efficiently the comparative advantages and
mandates of the multiple Governnent and non-governnental structures in Niger to this end.
33.   More broadly speaking, the Bank seized the occasion of the final evaluation of the
Population project to communicate to Government its strong commitment to addressing
population issues in the context of its overall development strategy for Niger. The Country
Director and senior members of the country team representing key sectors and initiatives,
attended a special session of the final evaluation work-shop devoted to the topic of sustainability
and future operations and specified that Bank's future support to population will be determined
in large part by the Cairo agenda (para. 10). This agenda is clearly multisectoral in nature and
highlights the need to draw on the potential contributions of all sectors and development
initiatives. This requires a clear and holistic national vision on population issues, strategy and
priority interventions that will both mobilize and render accountable key actors and institutions.
In the context of Niger's severe public finance constraints, it also requires a concerted effort to
minimize the costs of carrying out activities -- particularly the overhead costs -- as well as efforts
to achieve greater cost effectiveness.
34.   Any future support to population activities that the World Bank might consider will also
take into full account the achievements, shortfalls, lessons and perspectives emanating from
program implementation -- both those activities financed by IDA through the Population project
and those financed by others. It will also take into consideration the need to streamline
cumbersome institutional arrangements that are both costly and inefficient. The Director



- 15-
committed the country team to a meeting to explore how best it can support Niger in its efforts
to address population issues. This meeting will review the Bank's portfolio of ongoing projects
with a view to exploiting its full potential for contributing to Niger's population agenda. It will
also review its menu of lending and non-lending instruments and their adequacy for addressing
any priority areas that cannot be effectively covered under the existing portfolio. This approach
is fully consistent with the draft population strategy that is currently being developed by the
Bank for eventual presentation to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors.
C.    LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS IN THE SECTOR IN NIGER
35.   The following lessons were gleaned from the evaluation process. They are annexed to the
final evaluation mission's Aide Memoire and were reviewed jointly with Government with a
view to ensuring their application in the implementation of the Health Sector Development
Project. These are lessons that both the Bank and the Government must learn and apply.
36.   Lessons of Project Design and Development.  The lessons of project design and
development are: (a) project objectives should be sufficiently modest so as to be feasible within
the established timeframe of the life of the project. And they should be based. to the extent
possible, on a sound knowledge of the existing situation. The compilation of reliable baseline
data is verv important in this regard. Clear targets and indicators should be set at the outset; (b)
conditions for effectiveness should be limited to only a few key actions, as most critical actions
should be implemented during project preparation; (c) complex projects implemented through
various Ministries require well-defined monitoring and supervision systems with a capacity to
address and resolve constraints to smooth implementation in a timely and efficient manner. Such
systems should also continually examine strategies. modify or revise objectives, reorient
priorities in order to respond to an environment where external and internal forces are dynamic
and changing; (d) key stakeholders, including the beneficiaries, service providers, local
authorities. NGOs and key donors involved in the sector, should be identified at the outset and
involved in all stages of project desian and development: needs assessment, design, setting of
targets and indicators, implementation, management and evaluation; (e) a more comprehensive
and rigorous assessment of institutional capacity would have modified project design and
introduced interventions to steamline and strengthen that capacity. Project complexity should
not exceed institutional capacity. A least cost approach should drive the project design and
costing exercise, with a particular emphasis on fully accounting for and minimizing the recurrent
cost implications of project/program investments; and (f) the objective of achieving sustainability
of project investments should have been a driving force in the project, from its very conception,
and throughout implementation, rather than emerging as a crisis at the project's closing.
37.   Lessons of Project Implementation. In order to improve Government's effectiveness in
its efforts to address population issues, more effort must be devoted to develop capacity: in
coordination of activities; in management of resources; in decentralized strategic sector
management; and in decentralized implementation. Future support to social development
initiatives should not only inform and involve local actors and stakeholders. Its very conception
should be initiated at the local level and primary responsibility for its implementation should also



- 16-
be assigned to the local level. This will serve to make interventions more commensurate with
local priorities and needs. It will also serve to elicit greater ownership of project goals and
activities and will significantly enhance prospects for sustainability.   The roles and
responsibilities of the various institutions within Government for the coordination and
implementation of population activities are not clearly defined and have been proven through
project experience to be inefficient. The recent decree placing CONAPO (National Commission
on Population Activities) in the office of the prime minister is a positive step in raising the
prominence of the population issue and in facilitating its mandate to coordinate activities across
Ministries. However, considerably more effort must be devoted to clarifying the roles and
responsibilities for defining and implementing a population agenda for Niger, that would be
commensurate with the comparative advantages of the various institutions in Niger. The support
of future activities that would be implemented through this MSD/P/WD/CP must be grounded1 in
a revised mandate. mission objectives, strategy and program of that Ministry that would exploit
its relative strengths vis-a-vis other Ministries in addressing population and gender issues and
that would eliminate duplication or competition with other Ministries.
38.   Institutional arrangements for project implementation should have been reviewed and
revised during the life of the project to correct the trend of the CCPP assuming increasing power,
autonomy, executing (vs. coordination) responsibility and consuming considerably more of
project resources than initially planned. Greater adherence to the annual programming and
evaluation process. envisaged in the project design, would have accommodated both more rigor
and more flexibility during project implementation to take into account and manage
opportunities and constraints emerging from implementation experience. Opportunities should
have been more fully exploited to address and quickly resolve project implementation issues.
The mid-tern review process and the special financial and operational audits could have been
more full)y exploited in this regard. Routine (quarterly or semi-annual) reporting on project
execution should have been more instrumental in identifying and resolving implementation
issues effectively and efficiently. The credit's original closing date of June 30, 1997, negotiated
and agreed and clearly stated in the Development Credit Agreement, should not have come as a
surprise to project implementors and beneficiaries. The decision to close the credit after a six-
month extension and to integrate unfinished health investments into the new health project was
the outcorne of extensive discussion of Government's request for credit extension in which all
key actors in the Bank participated: Management, the resident representative, technical advisors
and members of the population and health teams, encompassing both HQ and field-based staff.
This decision was immediately communicated to Government by field staff.
39.   Investments in service quality improvements were not fully exploited or consolidated due
to a lack of technical support and follow-up that should have been provided through the
implementation of a well-designed supervision program. Likewise, a lack of follow-up and
evaluation of training investments left MOPH and MSD/P/WD/CP incapable of ensuring optimal
utilization of newly acquired skills and of assessing the utility of training to guide future
investments in human resources development. Greater emphasis on both of these -- supervision
and training evaluation -- would have contributed to enhance service quality. More emphasis
should also have been placed on the preventive aspects of reproductive health and on issues of
service quality. The adoption of Niger's Health Sector Development Plan (PDS) in 1994,



- 17-
including a clear definition of the full range of reproductive health services within the context of
the minimum package of activities, should have been a springboard for the project: to verify that
the package of reproductive health services is complete and commensurate with the needs and
demands of clients; and to consolidate and reinforce efforts to respond fully to this agenda. This
would have been an opportlnity to review the quality of care in family planning and reproductive
health, with particular emphasis on: prevention and promotion; on quality enhancement at the
primary health care level; and on adequate attention to STDs/AIDS, adolescent reproductive
health, sterility and sub-fecundity. Finally, although gender is a critical aspect of the population
agenda, all sectors and development initiatives should be held responsible and accountable for
poverty alleviation and for improving the lives and prospects of women.



- 18-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:     Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5A:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Table 5B:    Problems related to the quality of infrastructures/lessons
Table 6:     Studies Included in the Project
T'able 7A:   Project Costs
Table 7B:    Project Financing
Table 7C:    Project Expenditures by Component by Year
Table 8:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 11:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 12A:  Bank Resources: Missions
Table 12B:  Bank Resources: Supervision Missions



- 19 -
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objecives        Substantial       Partial         Negligible     Not applicable
National Population Policy         FL                                                   i 
Financial Objectives
Institutional Development                          []                                 (II
Physical Objectives                  l                              LI                iii
Poverty Reduction                                                                     Li
Gender Issues                      L                                L0
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectfi-es          L
Public Sector Managerient           n              L                                  Li
Private Sector Develorment         II              I                                  Li
B. Proiect Sustainabilitv             Likely                   Unlikehv                Uncertain
L                         Ei
Highl]
C. Bank Performance                    Satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                      nl
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal                          CO
Supervision                        [J                        Li
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                Satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
Preparation                        EL                                                 Li
Implementation                     Li                        Li
Covenant compliance                n                         Li
Operation (if applicable)          I                         L                         G
Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome               Satisfactory          Satisfactory            Unsatisfactony
Oi                       Li                       E



- 20 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Credit                       Purpose                   J   Year of approval   |   Status
Preceding operations
Cr. 1668-NIR  First Health Project: The project aimed at             1986             Closed
improving the efficacy of the public health
sector through (a) the adoption of an appropriate
mechanism for investment planning; (b)
development and implementation of policies for
demographic planning, nutrition, mother and
child health. control of communicable diseases,
including. among others, malaria and diarrhea;
and (c) implementation of health personnel
training programs.
Following operations
Cr. 2915-NIR Health Sector Development Program: The
project aimed at improving the population's           1997            Ongoing
health status through improving (a) the quality
and coverage of basic health services: (b) the
population's access to essential generic drugs;
and (c) sector effectiveness and efficiency
through (i) strengthening and decentralizing
strategic sector management and management of
resources: and (ii) efforts to appreciate more
fully and to utilize more effectively the capacity
of various partners active in the health sector in
implementing national and district programs.



-21 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
j  |     Date actual/
Steps in Project. Cycle            Date Planned    |        latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                05/90
Preparation                                                                10/90
Appraisal                                        07/89                    06!91
Negotiations                                                              03/92
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                               11/91                    04/92
Signing                                                                   05/92
Effectiveness                                    05/91                     12/92
Mid-Term Reviews (in two phases).                                     04/96 and 09/96
Project completion                                12/96                    12/97
Credit closing (one extension)                   06/97                     12/97
TABLE 4: CREDIT' DISBURSEMENTS: CUMUL-ATIVE ESTIMATED AND
ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
FY1993  FY1994  FY1995  FY1996  FY1997  FY1998
Appraisal estimate        0.8       2.8       8.3      13.3    16.3       17.6
Actual                     1.7      2.8       5.7       8.2      9.8      10.9
Actual as % of
estimate                213       100        69        62       60        62
Date of final disbursement: April 27, 1998
Source: Actual data are taken from the Loan Database of May 1, 1998.



- 22 -
TABLE 5A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND
OPERATION
Components                           SAR Planned        Actual
I. STRENGTHENING OF MATERNAL AND CHILD
HEALTH (MCH) AND FAMILY PLANNING (FP)
SERVICES
A. Sectoral reforms and s.engrhening technical and
managenment training caps.ities:
Originally programmed a.:ivities:
a) Implementation of a pe:sonnel recruitment/redeployment plan                  50%
b) Implementation of an a:tion plan regarding drug distribution
and application of the essential drugs list                                     0%
c) Implementation of a cos recovery system (during the first year
of the project)                                                                 0%
d) Implementation of a deailed training plan for health personnel
(1993-94 plan was prepar.-d)                                                    20%
e) Five-year plan for finan.-ing health operations at the
department and district levels.                                                 0%
1. Equipment:
a) Vehicles                                                      3               3
b) Office materials for the departments of Zinder, Tahoua and
Tillabery and their distric-s                                    3               3
c) Computer equipment for the three departments                  3               3
2. Technical assistance and Training:
a) National and intemational specialists to develop, launch and
evaluate the training pro-ram.                                   5               5
b) Health management training of health administration
personnel in the departments and districts.                      18              15
c) Training in programming and using data to establish a
supervision and reference svstem.                                6               5
d) Technical assistance financed by I 'Agence Generale de la
Cooperation au D6veloppement, Belgium (AGCD) (one doctor
specializing in health management and one doctor gynecologist
for each of the three depa-tments)                           $2.500,000          $0
B. Improving the quality of and access to MCH/FP services
Originally programmed activities:
a) Elimination of the vertical supervision system by transferring
follow-up and supervision responsibilities to the nurses                        0%
b) Participation of village committees in the selection of and
support to the Village health teams (VHT)                                       50%



- 23 -
Components                           SAR Planned       Actual
c) Establishment of supervision teams for the dispensaries.                    0%
d) Placing in rural dispensaries of two nurses trained in MCH/FP
who will be responsible for supervising the VHT                                100%
e) Training modules developed by the MSDPPF with the support
of USAID/INTRAH                                                                100%
1. Civil works, equipment and other goods
a) Provision of contraceptives (barrier and hormonal)        $500,000        $500.000
b) Equipping operating blocks at the medical center level in the 9
districts surveyed. 2                                           9               0
c) Equipping laboratories at the medical center level in the 9
districts surveyed. 2                                           9               0
d) Construction of 9 operating blocks and rehabilitation of 9
laboratories. 2                                                 9               0
e) Housing construction                                         15              1 5
f) Construction of the National Reproduction Center in Zinder    I               I
g) Rehabilitation of rural dispensaries                         30               0
h) Rehabilitation of other housing for supplementary personnel  12               8
i) Equipping the lodgings (constructed and rehabilitated)       27              27
i) 4X4 Vehicles and trucks                                      I I             17
j) Mopeds                                                       63              63
k) Bicycles                                                     54              54
l) Provision of a medical kit for each mid-wife, nurse and doctor
at the completion of training.                                 225             225
2. Technical assistance and Training:
a) Training of doctors in obstetrics/gynecology and minor
surgery                                                         18              18
b) Specialized training of an OB/GYN doctor for a period of
three years.                                                     1
c) Training of mid-wives and nurses                             45              68
d) Training of nurses in FP anid MCH                            108            108
e) Training of traditional birth attendants                    300             144
f) Training of first-aid workers                               300              144
II. PROMOTION OF FAMILY WELL-BEING AND
WOMEN'S STATUTE
A. National IEC Program:
Originally programmed activities:
a) Development of an annual media production plan                              50%
2 The procurement process for the construction/rehabiliation and equipping of operating blocks and
laboratories was initiated under the Population Project but in view of the Project's closing date, these
items were financed at 100%/c, under the Health ll Project.



- 24 -
Components                        l SAR Planned       Actual
b) Expanding central production facilities of the DFEPS                       50%
c) Production of mass communication (radio, television and
written press)                                                               100%
d) Preparation of a series of audio-visual and printed messages
based on the results of research on family health and FP.                     50%
e) Development and production of the messages                                 50%
f) Development instruments to monitor the impact of IEC
activities                                                                    0%
g) Development of a plan for visits to listening clubs by the
agents responsible for interpersonal communication                            0%
l ~~~~~
1. Civil works! equipment and other
a) Expansion of the DFEPS office                                I              I
b) Furnishing of audio-visual material for the 9 medical centers  9            9
c) 4X4 Vehicles                                                3               3
d) Mass communication production (radio and television)         1              I
e) Printed and audio-visual material production                 1             0.5
f) Equipping of listening clubs                                700            247
2. Technical assistance, Training and other
a) Journalist training (first and third years of the project)  40              50
b) Training of interpersonal communication facilitators for
"Women in Development" interventions at the village level
c) Training of moderators for youth groups                     20              0
d) Training of IEC facilitators (interpersonal communication in  8             8
the departments)
e) Training of mid-wives (annually)                           200             169
f) Training of nurses (annually)                               50              50
g) Training of auxiliary health workers (annually)            200             200
h) Organization and implementation of listening clubs          140            140
i) Technical assistance for the preparation and production of the  700        269
messages (national and international: manmonths)
68             n.a.
B. Community Initiatives:
Originally programmed activities:
a) Identification/selection of micro-projects using impact and
viability as selection criteria                                60              53
1. Technical assistance and training
a) Principal facilitator and programmer specialists (manmonths)  24            24
b) Management training for one member of the management
committee                                                      60              53



- 25 -
Components                         J SAR Planned  ]    Actual
c) Training for the facilitators recruited for the component
Community initiatives, development and evaluation of micro-
projects                                                           5               10
d) Management training of the members of the women's groups      n.d.             506
C. Functional Literacy Progranm:
Originally programmed activities:
a) Development of literacy programs in collaboration with the
relevant ministries                                                               50%
b) Development and production of the pedagogical supports                        50%
c) Implementation of a post-literacy and reading program                          0%
1. Technical assistance and training
a) International specialists for training material and program
(manmonths)                                                       10               0
b) National specialists for research on the post-literacy and
training programs (manmonths)                                     16               0
c) Training in use and maintenance of pedagogical materials       60              45
d) Training for trainers and instructors
e) Study tours to learn of positive experiences in functional
literacy (Niger and regional)                                      6               0
f) Recruitment and training of facilitators                        9               9
g) 45-day rapid training in functional literacy for women in the
16 women's groups                                                n.d.             270
2. Rehabilitation and equipment
a) Rehabilitation of the buildings for women's groups (three       6               2
departments)                                                       6               6
b) Didactic materials for the women's groups                       6               3
c) Equipment for the women's groups
D. Strengthening of nutrition interventions:
Originally programmed activities:
a) Monitoring of the nutritional status of babies (managed and
financed by UNICEF through the Agreement under the
Population Project)                                            $115,000         $140,000
1. Equipment
a) Material for monitoring infants growth (financed by
UNICEF):
computers                                                          2               2
vehicle                                                            I               1



- 26 -
Components                          SAR Planned       Actual
2. Training
a) Training of health workers in planning, coordination,
monitoring and evaluation of the nutrition programs (25 per
district)                                                      200            200
D. Institutional Strengthening:
Originally programmed activities:
a) Strengthen the institutional capacity of the MDSPPF by
training select workers at the central and departmental level to
improve their knowledge and efficiency                                        0%
1. Training
a) Training departmental workers of the DCF in management,
planning and monitoring                                         8              8
b) Study tours on the experience in organizing women's groups
in income-generating activities                                 2              2
2. Equipment
a) Office furniture and computers                               3              3
b) Vehicles (central and departmental)                          4              4
III. STRENGTHENING THE ANALYSIS, RESEARCH AND
COORDINATION IN POPULATION POLICY MATTERS
A. Data collection, research and analytical capacity
Originally programmed activities:
a) Motivation and awareness campaigns aimed at local
administrators, opinion leaders and communities (number of
villages)                                                                      1 6
b) Visits by awareness teams                                                 100%
c) Quarterly awareness campaigns to the nomads (dropped for
security reasons)                                                             0%
d) Production of registration forms, posters, and advertising at
the village level (written in local languages)                                100%
1. Technical assistance and training
a) Translator (manmonths) for the translation of the civil status
formns destined for the nomadic population                      3              0
b) Train:ing of civil status workers in the Ministry of the Interior
during the first years of the project                         1800            1800
c) Thematic seminars (workshops and discussions in Niarney)    n.d.            2
d) Computer training for workers
n.d.            13



- 27 -
Components                       [_SAR Planned       Actual
2. Research and documentation
a) Development of two regional monographs                     2               2
3. Equipment
a) Vehicles                                                   3               3
B. Integration of demographic variables.
Originally programmed activities:
a) Strengthen the capacity of the directorates of studies and
programming (DEP) of the key ministries (economy and finance,
education, social development, population and women's
promotion, interior and agriculture) at the central and
departmental levels to use the demographic data in their sectoral
plans                                                                        0%
1. Training
a) Training of the DEP employees in collaboration with the
CERPOD (central and departmental levels)                      80             80
b) Workshops at the central level to sensitize directors and
executive secretaries on the importance and use of the
demographic data                                               1
C. Strengthening the institutional capacityfor population
planning and coordination (CONAPO):
Originally planned activities:
a) Support the creation of the National commission on population
activities (CONAPO) which will coordinate, monitor and
evaluate the national population program.                                   100%
1. Equipment
a) Computers and software                                      2              3
b) vehicle                                                     I              I
2. Technical assistance
a) IEC specialist (manmonths)                                 12              0
b) Lawyer (manmonths)                                          2              2
c) Training workshop for communication technicians on
population questions                                          40             30
d) Training seminarfor Islantic preachers andpopulation       30             30
e) Studies:
thematic and                                                  n.d.            7
demographic projections                                       n.d.            I
f) Training for computer worlcers                            n.d.             3



- 28 -
Components                        | SAR Planned  |    Actual
D. Population Funds:
Originally programmed activities:
a) Furnish grants for activities and programs contributing to the
implementation of a population program.                      $500.000        $400,000
IV. Coordination and project management
Originally programmed activities:
a) Responsible for administration of the population fund                       0%
b) Responsible for the coordination and management of project
activities.                                                                    50%
1. Equipment
a) 4x4 Vehicle and truck                                        2               2
b) moped                                                         1
c) computers                                                                    3
2. Technical assistance and training
a) Management specialist (manmonths)                            24              24
b) Audit (manmonths)                                             8              10
c) Implementation of compatible software (manmonths)            4               4
d) Procurement specialist (manmonths)                           3               3
e) Monitoring, evaluation, studies (manmonths)                  10              10
f) Study tours                                                  2               2



TABLE 5B: PROBLEMS RELATED TO THE QUALITY OF INFRASTRUCTURES/LESSONS LEARNED
Problems               Possible origins                           Possible solutions                              Health 2 Project
Plans de nmasse        .Fragmented operationis in terms of priorities .standards (package of activities, locaux)  .standards to be comipleted (Cu-D Diffa)
Poor distribution of   and/or opportunities                       .functional needs                               .users + BET + architect
buildings on the sites
Finiancing                                .establishliment of master plans                .establishiment of master plans
.Site constraints                         whiich provide a guide for progressive
restructurinig or global interventions
Unexpressed fiutCtional requirements
.Absence of an overall vision
Poorly conceived       .Unexpressed requiremenits witl regard to   .improving the archlitectural programminig     .arch. + users
buildings              functional aspects, and problems of comfort,
security, maintenance and stanidards for
savings
.expression and ranking of needs                .arch. + users
.qualification of the consultinig firimis      .morc rigorous selection
.Inadequate architectural proposals       .improving the monitoring/ supervision of the    .arch. + users
architectural studies
.Insufficient recourse to the users to validate                                           .use of different chaniels for conductinlg
the studies                                                                                the studies
.Doubtful programiniiig (abuinidancc of'  .useaid respeci olfthIC standards
buildings)
.Lost space, unadapted plans, improper or   .expression of needs and monitoring of the studies .arch. + users
useless materials and equipment
.arch. + users
.Poor ventilation of the roofs and the      expression of needs and monitorinig of the    .arch. + users
btuildinigs, Uiiadapted protectionls againlst stiun  sttidics
and dust
Poorly constructed     .Architectural plan unadapted to the area    .qualification and monitoring of the consulting    .arch. + users
buildings              (materials, knowledge)                     firms
.Technical/financial capacities of the    .qualification of the enterprises                .qualification criteria in agreemenit witi
enterpr-ises                                                                               the conistructioni standards
.Framing failure   -                       .monitoring/supervision of the worksites        .use of different cliannels for realization
.technical audit



Problems               Possible origins                            Possible solutions                               Health 2 Project
Deteriorating Buildings .Poor conception (roof collects water)     . qualificalion and monitorinig of thc conisultinig   .arch + users
firms
.Poor quality implementation               . qualification of tihe enterprises, supervision  arch + users
.Ignorance of site constraints             .quality and respect of the preliminary technical   arch + users
studies
(Soil quality, water, rain, and drainage,
erosion)
.Absence of buildings protection           .adapted conception, treatment of the approach   arch + users
(roof, gallery, water collection,)
.Absence of adequate mainitenianice        .nunininial mainitcinanice outside conceptioni   arcih + uscrs
.decentralization of the responsibility         .budget and decision making at the
district level
.strengthening of the appropriation by the      .support to the partnership component
beneficiaries
(installations, maintenance)
0
lO



-31 -
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Purpose as defined at
Study                            appraisal/redefined                 Status         Impact of study
Thematic Studies on:                    Population                                 Published in  Used as a reference guide
Fertility                                                                 February     but with limited capacity
Mortality                                                                 1994         in view of the limited
Population-Health                                                                      timeframe and scope
Population-Employment                                                                  covered.
Population-Agriculture
Population and Development
in Niger
Legal Study on the implementation of the   Population                             Completed    The National Population
National Population Policy                                                        in 1995       Policy document exists
but recommendations are
not implemented,
therefore legal study has
little use. Furthermore, the
study does not address the
main problems of
population. that is the
acceptance of the Code de
lafamille (e.g.. women
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _rri g hts)
Study on the impact of Population funds    Community Initiatives                  Completed    The study w;as completed
and micro-realizations                                                             in 1996      after the Mid-term review
and never had an impact
on the management and
implementation of the
Population Funds and
micro-realizations.
Analysis of the Etat Civil data 94-95   Legal Status                               Completed    Possible reference guide
in 1996      for historical research due
to the fact that the data are
obsolete.
Guide to informing the population about    Population and Legal Status             Completed    Guide was translated in
the Etat Civil                                                                    in 1996-97    several local languages et
distributed. but current
practice shows that vital
registration system has not
__ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ _   __ ____  im proved.
Survey on youth needs and aspirations  Youth                                       Completed    Data was unfortunately
in 1995      not used during the two
phases of the Mid-term
review in 1996. This is
the only activity that
benefitted the Ministry of
Communication, Culture,
Youth and Sports.
Brochure on Women's Associations and    Women in Development                       Completed    The pamphlet was
NGO                                                                                in 1994-95    distributed but had limited
impact.



-.32 -
TABLE 7A: PROJECT COSTS
a) By Category of Expenditures (US$ Million)
Categorv                        Appraisal estimate                Actual/latest estimate
Local     Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign      Total
I. Civil Works                            1.3        2.0         3.3        2.5         0.0         2.5
2. Office Furniture, Vehicles,
Equipment, and Materials              0.7         3.7         4.4        0.5         2.2         2.7
3. Service Contracts                      0.5         0.3        0.8         0.4         0.0         0.4
4. Consultant Services                    1.1        2.6         3.7         1.5         0.5         2.0
5. Training                               3.0        0.0         3.0         1.2         0.0         1.2
6. Population Funds                       0.3        0.3         0.6         0.4         0.0         0.4
7. Micro-projects                         0.4        0.4         0.8         0.3         0.0         0.3
8. Operating Expenses                    2.9          1.0        3.9        2.7          0.0         2.7
9. PPF                                    0.1        0.3         0.4         0.4         0.0         0.4
10. Unallocated                           1.5        1.5         3.0        0.0         0.0          0.0
TOTAL                     11.8        12.3        24.1        9.9         2.          12.6
b) By Components (USS Million)
Component               _     _Appraisal estimate                  Actual/latest estimate
IL______________________________  ILocal   Foreign    Total    %           Local   Foreign   Total    04
1. STRENGTHENING DELIVERY OF
MCH AND FP SERVICES                     4.5       6.5       11.0    46     5.0       1.1      6:11     49)
2. PROMOTING FAMILY WELFARE
AND THE STATUS OF WOMEN
l ________________________________       4.4      2.6       7.0     29      1.8      0.7       2.5      20
3. REINFORCING POPULATION
POLICY ANALYSIS. RESEARCH
AND COO]RDINATION                        0.6      0.8       1.4      6     0.9       0.1       1.0      8
4. PROJECT COODINATION AND
MANAGEMENT                              0.5       0.6       1.1      5     2.0       0.6      2.6      20
5. PPF                                  0.1       0.3       0.4      2     0.2       0.2      0.4       3|
6. UNALLOCATED                           1.5      1.5       3.1     13                            _       _
TOTAL                    11.8      12.3      24.1    100    9.9       2.7      12.6    100
Source: Ministry of Social Development, Project Coodination Unit. February 1998; and Loan Database of May 1. 1998.



-33 -
TABLE 7B: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ Million)
Source                  Appraisal estimate                  Actual/latest estimate
Local      Foreign       Total       Local      Foreign       Total
IDA                        8.0          9.6         17.6         8.2         2.7         10.9
NGO/Private Sector         0.1          0.1          0.2         0.1         0.0          0.1
Communities                0.1          0.0          0.1         0.1         0.0          0.1
Belgium                    0.5          2.0          2.5         0.0         0.0          0.0
UNICEF_   0.5                           0.5          1.0         0.1         0.0          0.1
Government of Niger        2.7          0.0          2.7         1.4         0.0          1.4
TOTAL              11.8         12.3        24.1         9.9         2.7          12.6
Source: Ministry of Socia Development, Project Coordination Unit. February 1998: and Loan Database of May 1, 1998.



TrABLE 7C: PROJECT EXPEND)ITURES UY COMIONEN'I' BY YEAR
(US$ Million)
Component                  1993           1994             1995             1996            1997           Total       %
1. STRENGTHENING
DELIVERY OF MCII ANI) 1'P
SERVICES                                  0.07             1.30             2.37             1.43          0.90            6.07   49
- Services Extension                      0.07             1.12             1.38             1.15          0.73            4.44
- Sectoral Reforms                        0.00            0.18              0.99            0.28           0.17             1.63
11. PROMOTING FAMILY
WELFARE AND THE STATUS
OF WOMEN                                  0.14             0.97             0.77            0.35           0.21            2.45   20
- IEC Program                             0.13             0.50             0.39            0.07           0.03             1.12
- Community Initiatives                   0.00             0.17             0.25            0.18           0.05            0.64
- Functional Literacy                     0.00             0.01             0.04            0.06           0.00            0.12
- Institutional Restructuring             0.00             0.24             0.(9            0.04           0.13            0.50
- Nutrition Support                       0.01             0.04             0.01            0.00           0.00            0.07
111. REINFORCING
POPULATION POLICY
ANALYSIS, RESEARCI-I AND
COORDINATION                              0.11             0.40             0.32            0.10           0.10             1.03    8
- Vital Registration System               0.05             0.20             0.06            0.06           0.05             0.41
- Integrating Demograpic Variables        0.07             0.05             0.02            0.01           0.03            0.19
- CONAPO                                  0.00             0.06             0.00            0.01           0.02             0.09
- Population Fund                         0.00             0.09             0.23            0.03           0.00             0.35
IV. PROJECT COORDINATION
AND MANAGEMENT                            0.64             0.55             0.48            0.36           0.57            2.59   20
V. REFINANCING PPF                        0.40             0.00           0.00              0.00           0.o0             0.40    3
TOTAL                                     1.37             3.21            3.94             2.25           1.78            12.55   100



-35 -
TA13LE 8: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return (ERR)
and therefore there is no baseline against which to judge a re-estimate for evaluation purposes.



TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
-      -                          __________                                                  4~~~~~.. _
Agreement Section  Covenant Present   Original    Revised                           Description of                                        Comments
type    status   fulfillment  fulfillment                        covenant
date        date
Cr. 2360-  3.01 (a)  10          ( 05A)01 1/(6    01/23/97    13oriower declares comiti entiliili to Itie objectives ol'fle  Inmplemenlation impeded dtic to the lack of
NIR                                                          Project as set loritl in Schedtile 2 to Ihis Ag,retiiiii and to    counterpart funids. (i) Delays in executitig
this end, shall crry out Part A of the Project through MSP and Parts A and B. Activities not completed
MDSPPF, Part B of the Project through MDSPPF, MEF, and  under the Population Project transfered to
Mi, with due diligence and efliciently and in coniformity with  the Ilealth 11 project (Cr. 2915-NIR); (ii)
appropriate admlinistrative, Financial, techniical aind public  buildings constructed do not always
Iieiiltli piiicIices aiid piovitde as Iiee(ldel             r1espild Io locill niceds; 1ictciii ic  costs iiiil
funds/facilities/services, etc. as requ iredl for the Project.  locally sustainable, efficiency of the
__________  ____________  iv estm ent   is  un certain.
3.01 (b) 10       CP                  05/01/96    Without limitations upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of   Actions 1, 2, 5, and 6 under Schedule 4
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association   have been partially achieved with delays.
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall canry out the Project Actions 3 and 4 will be addressed under the
in accordance withi the Implementation Program set forth in   new Health If Project.
Sclhedule 4 to this Agreemenit.
3.02    10        NC                  05/01/96    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement Long delays in procurement of equipment
of thie goods, works and consultanits' services requir eld for the due to hlie lack of a procuieimieint plan.
project and to be financed out of the proceeds of lie Credit   P'roceduiies to reciruit consultalits do not
shall he gover-nied( by tlie provision ot'Scled(uiIle 3 to tIlis  always loiolow Iaink's procedures. '1'Ii is has
Agreement.                                                  caused somlle stud(lies planned flor the ICR
. _______   _______   _______                                                                                            process to  be canceled.
3.03 (a)  I0      CD      05/01/96    10/26/96    Borrower and Association shall, no later thaii Oct. 31, 1993   MTR delayed by coup d'e(at--completed in
and, tlhereafter, no later than Oct. 3 1. of each subsequent  October 1996
year, undertake a joint rev. to be undertaken no later than
00.  1.  1.'95,  Ilalid-lerill review lo ext'll:inge v % jew  111
matters re.: progress ol'the Project and thie Plerformaiice by
tlie ltoi-rower- ol' its ob)jefives und(ler Ii is Agreciiient and il
part (i) evaluate the activities of the Project for the current
FY.
3.03 (a)  10      NC                              Consolidate the proposed work program for the forthcoming  Project coordination and managemenit unit
(ii)                                              fiscal year.                                                 has focused almost exclusively on the
.aninual evaluation process rather than also
_ _____ _  on the planning of activities.
3.03 (a)  1(0     NC                              In the case of the MTR, review the instittitionial arrangemilenits The responisibility for MCI-I/FP had been
(iii)                                             governlilig M('l 1/1:1' services, assess tleir elflicienicy and, if'   move(d back toMO(I' I at the timne of'thie
nieed be agree on any corrective actions reictir-ed to remedy    M'l'R. Instittitionial arrangement was
l          I I  ___________ I             isliortcoiiiings iltat may have become apparenlt in this regard.  revisited during the M'l'R but due to



Agreement Section  Covenant Present   Original    Revised                            Description of                                       Comments
type    status   fulfillment  fulfillment                        covenant
date        date
resistance from the Ministry of Social
Development, this arrangement has never
been modified.
3.03 (b) 9        C                   05/01/96    Nol later tlhani oniC m1onitlh prior to cacli such review, tlle
Borrower shall funishi to the Association, for its commenits, a
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request on the progress and status of the Project, and on all
I______                                           other related amtters due to be addressed during each review.
3.  c)io C05/01/96    Fo!lowing each suc!l review, fhe Borrower undertakes to act  Audi: repor.s l;ave highlighted um esolved
promptly and diligently, in order to take any corrective action management problems which led to
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in thie    implementation difficulties.
implementation of the Project, or to implement such other
measures as may have bceii agrecd upon between the parties
in futheranice of the objectives of the Project.
3.03 (d) 9, 10    CP                  05/01/96    Without limitations to the preceding paras. (a), (b), and (c) of Submission of reports has been inconsistent
this Section, borrower shall, throtighiout the period of    during the life of the project.
implemenitation of the lProject, subimiit to the Associatiotn for
its review; (a) serniannual reports on the progress of
implementation of the Project; and (b) not later than the end
of each fiscal year, the final draft duly approved by
MVDSIPF, for activitics lo be underwaken dturing Ihe
.________         ._______                        fortlhco ming   FY.
4.01 (a)  I       CP      pro jcct lifc  pro cC lire  Borrower shiall maintain or cause to be mainitainied records    Problems of accountinig and expenditures
and accountis adequtate to rcllect in accordancc willh sounld    rccords throtuglhotit Ihc lifc of tihe pojicc'il
accountinig practices the operation, resources, and         have been identified in aniual reports and
expenditures in respect of the Project or the departments or   audit reports.
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
I_Project or any part thereof.
The Borrower shall: (i) have records and accounts referred to
4.01 (b)  I       C       pr.ject life  project life  in paras. (a) of this Section includinig those for the Special
Account for each financial year audited, in accordance ith
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
I______ _independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
4.01 (1) I        C       prlQicL lilc'  prqjeCt lile  (ii) furn,isl to tilhe Associatioii, as soon as available, but in any Final audit reporit for FY97 is being
(ii)                         .           .        case not later thani six monithis after the end of each such year, prepared aiid is expected shortly.
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detaail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested.



~-- .  -
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present    Original                   Revised                                       Description of                                   fComments
type       status    fulfillment    fulfillment                                          covenant
date            date
4.01 (b)  I             C           project life    project life    Furnish to the Association such other infonnation concerning
4.01i (b)  l            C           proJect llSe    proJect life    said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall fromil time to time reasonably request.
4.01 (c)   l            C'          project lilc                    lFor all cxpendiliuies wilh  rcspecl to whicih witlihidawals fromil   (iii) tistially comiplic(l witil. I lowevcr, thc
4.01 (c) I  prlject lithe Credit Account were made oni the basis of statements of    October 97 mission was informed that
expenditures, the Borrower shall: (i) Maintain or cause to be    certain documents were unavailable after
maintained, in accordance with para. (a) of this Section,                         the departure of the acting coordinator in
records and accounts reilecting stich expendittires; (ii) etain,   September 1997.
until at least one year after the Association has received the
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from  the Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts, and other documents) evidencing such
expenditure; and (iii) enable the Associations representative
to examinie such records; and (iv) ensure that the said
accounts and records shall be audited on a semi-aninual basis
by said auditors, who shall prepare audit reports accordingly                                                                                                   w
and furnisi themii to the Association, not later than 3 months                                                                                                  co
after tlie ci(l oftlhsc s      ien-annual atiudit period, along with an
opinioni as to whelitle  the statemenlt of expenditures sub.
(lurintg suclh period, logellhel wilh Ithc procuremcnt and
internial controls involved in preparationl.
Covenant types:
1   -   Accoumntsaudits                                                8   - Il,gvmv,n peopkl
2.  -   Financial peformrncdrevennegeneration frombeneficiaries        9.  = Mo=Ntring. re6e, and reporting
3 I     Flow ,nd atiliktjion o'project funds                          10   =  Projct inpl-cr   n
4       (Conute,pnrt fimding                                         I    - Sectotal I,, cross-noctorul bslglovty vs s,rhcr rune,,cc nll,,c,tivn
5   =   Management aspect, of the projecl or sec-cting agency         12   - Sectoal o>r cte       P'sal fsrlicy/ regulatiory/hci.trtitt wil act,i,l,
6   =   Environmentai covenans                                         13.     Other
7   =   Involuntary resettlement
Present Staius
C   -   covenanl complied with
CD =   wmplied with after delay
Cr -   complied silt pmttilly
NC -   not wmplied with



- 39 -
TABLE 10: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement Number and Title                Description and comment on lack of compliance
1. O.D. 13.05 Project Supervision (para. 4)        The Bank did not allocate sufficient Bank staff and other
resources commensurate with the nature. complexity and
size of the project.
2. O.D. 13.05 Project Supervision (Annex D, para. 29)  A few legal covenants were not complied with. Refer to
Table 10, Status of Legal Covenants and Development
Credit Agreement, Sections 3.02, 3.03 (a) (ii) and (iii).
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of                        Planned                           Actual
Project Cycle
Staff Weeks         US$         Staff Weeks          US$
('000)                          ('000)
Preparation to appraisal             n.d.             n.d.                70.5           156.3
Appraisal                            n.d.             n.d.                48.9           113.7
Negotiation through Board            n.d.             n.d.                  7.5            19.2
approval
Supervision                          n.d.             n.d.               182.2           362.7
Completion                           28.7            68.7                 28.5            37.4
TOTAL                               n.d.             n.d               337.6            689.3
n.a.: not available
Source: Costs Accounting System (FACT, March 12, 1998)



-40 -
TABLE 12A: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Stage of           Month/      Number    Days           Specialized       Implemen.       Develop.        Types of
project cycle          year          of         in         staff skills       Status        objectives     problems
persons     Field       represented                           __
A. To Appraisal:
Identification             06/90          6          19      ED, PH. D, PF,
WID. RM
Preparation                11/90          3          13      ED, D. RM
Pre-evaluation             04/91          7          18      D, POP/IEC,
MGT. N, PH,
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ W ID .  R M_           _  _   _  _
B. Appraisal through
Board Approval:
Evaluation                 07/91          8          21      D, POP/IEC,
MGT. PH, WID,
NT, A. RM
Post-evaluation            11/91          2          12      D. POP/IEC
C. Board Approval          06/92          3          18      D, POP. A
through Effectiveness
11/92         4           10     D, PH. WID.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _                                 ~~~~~RM
Supervision             06/93 to          76         167    A, D. E. ED,                                       PDO, PMP
10/97:                              HE. EP, FA. HS,
16 missions                         IEC, IS. PR,
LTA. MGT, Ml,
PH. POP, RM,
POP/WID                                                        |
Completion                 02/98          9          10      A, FA, PH,
POPJWID, RM,
-                 =       -   =     -QOA. PR. LTA                                  .
Specialization:
A: Architect; CIE: Civil Engineer;D: Demographer; E: Economist; ED: Principal Education Planner: FA: Financial Analyst; HE: Health
Economist; HNP: Health and Population Specialist; HS: Health Specialist; lEC: IEC Specialist; IS: Implementation Specialist; MC: Malaria
Control Specialist; MCH: Matemal and Child Health Specialist; N: Nutritionist; PEV: EPI Specialist; PF = Family Planning Specialist; PR:
Procurement Specialist; MGT: Project Management Specialist; OA: Operations Analyst; PG: Planning Specialist: PH: Public Health Specialist;
PO: Project Officer; POP: Population Specialist; PR: Procurement Specialist: RM: Resident Mission staff; SOO: Sr. Operations Officer; TRG:
Training Specialist
Types of problems for performance:
AOF: Availability of Funds; CLC: Compliance with Legal Covenants; DL: Disbursement Lag; OS: Overall Status; PDO: Project Development
Objectives; PMP: Project Management Performance; PF: Procurement Progress: SP: Studies Progress; TAP: Technical Assistance Progress; TP:
Training Progress



Appendix A
REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER
PROJET POPULATION (CR. 2360-NIR)
MISSION D'EVALUATION FINALE
PROJET SANTE II (CR. 2915-NIR)
MISSION DE SUPERVISION
AI)E MEMOIRE
ler - 20 fevrier 1998
I.    Une mission cle la Banque mondiale a s6journe au Niger du ler au 20 f6vrier 1998. Elle
avait deux objectifs: (a) participer a l'6valuation finale du Projet Population (Cr. 2360-NIR), et
(b) superviser le Programme de D6veloppement du Secteur de la Sante (Cr. 2915-NIR). Elie 6tait
composee des personnes suivantes: Mmes/Messrs. Denise Vaillancourt (Chef de Mission,
Spdcialiste en Gestion), Hugues Agossou (Analyste Financier); Johanne Angers (Analyste
d'Op6rations); Asha Ayoung (Specialiste en Passation des March6s), Rougui Diallo (Chargde de
Programmes), Celine Gavach (Assistante), Belkis Giorgis (Consultante/Expert en Santd
Reproductive), Abdul-Wahab Seyni (Charg6 des liaisons avec les ONG) et Jacques Waechter
(Consultant/Architecte). La mission a aussi ben6fici6 de l'appui de M. Edward Brown
(Repr6sentant Rdsident de la Banque mondiale au Niger).
2.     La mission tient a remercier Leurs Excellences Mme Mariama Abdoulaye Sambo,
Ministre du D6veloppement Social, de la Population, de la Promotion de la Femme et de la
Protection de I'Enfant, et M. Almoustapha Illo, Ministre de la Sante Publique, ainsi que tous leurs
collaborateurs, et plus particulierement le personnel des Unit6s de Coordination des Projets
Population et Sante pour leur disponibilit6 ainsi que pour la nature franche et dynamique des
discussions.
3.    La mission a bleaucoup apprdci6 la semaine passee sur le terrain. Elle souhaite remercier
tres sincerement le personnel des DDS et les membres des Equipes Cadres de District, le
personnel de sant6 et les populations des- departements de Tahoua, Zinder et Diffa, ainsi que les
membres du groupement f6minin de Dan Alla (Arrondissement de Bouza) pour leur hospitalit6 et
pour la richesse des discussions auxquelles elle a etd conviee.
A.    PROJET POPULATION
4.     La mission a assist6 a l'Atelier National d'Evaluation Finale du Projet Population qui s'est
deroule a Niamey du 9 au 14 fevrier, et souhaite f6liciter le Gouvernement pour son succ6s. Les
objectifs fixes par l'Equipe Nationale d'Evaluation ont et6 atteints. Suite aux discussions, aux
debats et aux rapports d'evaluation interne et externe de cet atelier, une compilation des lecons a
tirer de I 'ex6cution du projet Population a ete elaboree par la mission et se trouve enAnnexe 1. La
mission souhaite que ces lecons soient pleinement prises en compte lors de la mise en oeuvre du
Projet Sante 11.
5.    Au cours de l'Atelier, les participants ont pu exprimer leurs opinions et poser des
questions a M. Theodore Ahlers (Directeur des Operations pour le Niger), qui 6tait accompagnd
des principaux membres de son 6quipe: Mme Antonella Bassani (Economiste, Responsable des
dossiers de r6forme 6conomique), Mme Denise Vaillancourt (Responsable du Secteur Sante), M.
Makha Ndao (Responsable du Secteur Education), et M. Madani Tall (Responsable du Secteur
Agriculture et Ddveloppement rural). Ces discussions ont pertnis d'elever le dialogue sur les
questions relatives a la population i un plus haut niveau, et ont contribue a sensibiliser tous les



2
acteurs sur la nature multisectorielle de ce domaine et sur les problemes de population. Les
declarations de M. Ahlers et de Mme Vaillancourt au cours de l'Atelier se trouvent en Annexe 2.
6.     Un des principaux themes discute tout au long de I'Atelier et souleve pendant la session
avec M. Ahlers etait la consolidation et la perennisation des acquis du projet. Les participants ont
demande a l'IDA de considerer le financement d'une phase int6rimaire. M. Ahlers a assur6 les
participants de la volonte de P'IDA de s'attaquer aux problemes de population, et a indiqu6,
qu'6tant donnd la nature multisectorielle de ces problemes, il conviendrait d6sormais de les
integrer dans les operations en cours dans les autres secteurs. Dans les mois a venir, 1'6quipe de la
Banque mondiale travaillant sur le Niger reverra son portefeuille de projets en vigueur en vue
d'exploiter tout son potentiel.
7.     La mission Sante a pr6cise les mesures deja prises pour assurer la p6rennisation du volet
sante. Le projet Sante If a pris en charge plusieurs investissements qui ne pouvaient pas etre
acheves avant la date de clbture du projet Population, notamment la construction de blocs de
radiologie et de bureaux d'Equipes Cadres de District, et l'achat des equipement pour les blocs
operatoires. De plus, le projet Sante II pourra 6ventuellement appuyer la mise en oeuvre des
reformes dans tous les 9 districts qui b6n6ficiaient de financements sous le projet Population. En
plus de Mirriah (Departement de Zinder), Filingue et Say (Departement de Tillabery), deja prevus
darts le projet Sante 11, ce projet pourrait appuyer la mise en oeuvre des r6formes dans les 6
districts restants: Matameye, Magaria (Ddpartement de Zinder), Bouza, Konni et Madaoua
(Departement de Tahoua) et Ouallam (Departement de Tillab6ry). Cependant, les etapes suivantes
devronlt etre suivies pour permettre la prise en charge de ces districts par le projet Sant6 ll:
(a) I'elaboration d'un PDS et d'un plan d'actions pour la premiere annee d'exdcution; (b) la mise a
jour des donnees sur l'aide prevue et actuelle, et, en fonction des resultats de cette mise a jour, la
description de I'assistance demand6e a l'IDA en tant que "bailleur de demier recourt"; et
(c) P'approbation par l'IDA du PDSD et des plans d'actions.
S.     Afin de consolider les acquis du projet Population en matiere de sante reproductive (y
compris la planification familiale), le projet Sante 11 s'assurera de la disponibilite et de la qualit6
de toute la gamme de services et d'activites de sante reproductive dans le cadre du paquet
minimum d'activit6s.
9.     La mission a reconnu les resultats positifs de l'appui consenti aux groupements feminins,
et a tire des lecons de cette experience. Malgre l'int6ret porte a de telles initiatives, elle
recommande l'all6gement du cadre institutionnel et la reduction des frais g6neraux relatifs a de
telles activites dans le futur. Avant de demander de nouveaux financements dans ce domaine, la
mission recommande que le Ministere du Developpement Social, de la Population, de la
Promotion Feminine et de la Protection de l'Enfant (MDSPPFPE) considere les 6l6ments
suivants: (a) la revision du mandat du MDSPPFPE afin de faire ressortir sa compl6mentarite et
d'eviter les duplications avec les autres ministeres techniques; (b) la rationalisation du cadre
institutionnel afin de le rendre plus efficace et de faciliter un partenariat solide avec les ONG; et
(c) la recherche d'appuis financiers qui devrait en priorite exploiter les opportunit6s offertes par le
portefeuille de projets finances par l'IDA, se montant a plus de 70 milliards de FCFA, ainsi que la
recherche de dons eventuels provenant d'autres partenaires au developpement.
10.    Situation financiere et comptable. Dans le cadre de l'evaluation finale du projet
population. et pour appr6cier la situation financi6re en fin de projet, la mission cherche a appr6cier
les differentes ressources financieres mobilis6es pour les differentes composantes du projet tous
bailleurs de fonds confondus et de s'assurer que les biens acquis sur le projet ont 6te inventories
pour 6ventuellement etre verses dans ie patrimoine du projet population ou des Ministeres
techniques. Deux tableaux refletant I'evolution financiere du projet du ler janvier 1993 au 31
ddcembre 1997 sont prdsentds en Annexe 3.



3
11.    L'audit des comptes du projet pour l'exercice 1997 a ete r6alise par le cabinet ivoirien
Pannel Kerr Forster. Le rapport d'audit n'est pas encore parvenu au projet. Les audits des anines
antdrieures ont etd realises par le meme bureau d'etudes et presentent de fa9on detaillde la
situation financiere du projet par bailleurs. Aussi dans le cadre de l'evaluation finale du projet
population et -en attendant le rapport de l'auditeur pour fin fevrier, la mission a pris connaissance
du rapport du cabinet SEKOU et Associes, consultant charge de l'6valuation exteme du projet
dont les resultats peuvent etre exploites.
12.    La mission rappelle a l'emprunteur que les pieces comptables relatives au projet doivent
etre archivees au sein du MDSPPFPE pour une pdriode d'un an a partir de la date de cl6ture, en
vue d'une verification eventuelle ult6rieure.
13.    Le projet a rernis a la mission le tableau d'immobilisations de tous les biens inventori6s,
leurs emplacements et leurs etats pour appreciation.
14.    Le statut des clauses de l'Accord de Credit de Developpement se trouve en Annexe 4.
15.   Les prochaines etapes. Selon les directives soumises au Gouvemement et discutees au
cours des missions precedentes, un Rapport Final d'Evaluation sera presentd au Conseil
d'Administration de la Banque mondiale le 30 avril 1998. Ce document sera compose de 2
chapitres: un dcrit par l'IDA, et l'autre prepare par le Gouvemement. Chaque chapitre ne devrait
pas excdder 10 pages. Le calendrier a suivre A cet effet est presente en Annexe 5. La mission
soulig,ne l'iimportance pour la Banqie de recevoir la contribution du Gouvemement nigdrien au
Rapport Final le 13 mars 1998, au plus tard.
C.    SUPERVISION DU PROJET SANTE IL
16.   Fonds de contrepartie. Les engagements pris par le Gouvemement en matiere de fonds
de contrepartie n'ont pas ete satisfaits. La decision de mandatement a ete remise au projet, mais les
fonds ne sont pas dispcnibles au niveau du Tresor National.
17.   Ressources htimaines. Le MSP a confirme, qu'en mai 1997, 260 agents de sante ont AtA
recrutes, dont la plupart ont ete assignes dans les zones du projet. Ce recrutement a pennis au
MSP de reduire le deficit en ressources humaines dans ces zones.
18.    La mission a ete informe que la DFGP a demande A toutes les DDS d'executer leurs plans
de redeploiement interne avant fin fevrier. La DFGP entreprendra ensuite une mission de
sensibilisation, au cours de la seconde moitie du mois de mars, pour inforner les autorites locales
sur le bien-fonde de ce redeploiement et pour obtenir leur appui. La DFGP prevoit egalement de
mener un exercice de reconversion de 285 auxiliaires (matrones, filles de salle, etc.), afin d'en
faire des agents polyvalents. Cette tache ddbutera par une enquete qui evaluera les besoins en
formation A cet egard. Suite au redeploiement interne, un etat precis des besoins et des deficits en
personnel sera etabli et servira de base au plan de reconversion des cadres techniques.
19.    La mission et le Gouvemement ont rappeld la condition de decaissement dans I'Accord de
Credit de Developpement (paragraphe 3 (b) de l'annexe I de l'Accord de Credit). Cette condition
exige qu'avant le financement par le projet de toute nouvelle construction, un plan d'actions pour
pourvoir ces bitiments en personnel soit soumis et juge satisfaisant par l'IDA. La mission
recommande que le MSP developpe un plan d'actions pour entreprendre le renforcement des
capacites du ministere en matiere de gestion des ressources humaines. Ce plan d'actions devrait
etre remis A l'IDA avant le ler avril 1998. La mission a notd, au cours des discussions, les
problemes lies a la mise a jour des fichiers personnel au niveau central. Elle recommande que ce
plan d'actions sus-citd se penche sur cette question particuliere pour degager les mesures



4
necessaires pour avoir un fichier fiable. De plus, la mission propose l'utilisation d'un assistant
tecihnique apres l'exercice de redeploiement afin d'etablir un nouveau fichier des ressources
humaines qui tienne compte de la nouvelle repartition du personnel. Le MSP s'est engage a
sournettre a l'IDA, avant juin 1998, un plan d'actions refletant les besoins reels du personnel des
formrations sanitaires, toutes regions confondues.
20.    Les discussions de la mission avec le Gouvernement et les autres partenaires du secteur
sante ont soulign6 l'importance d'etablir une capacite viable et perenne de lormation des medecins
en chirurgie d'urgence. Un tel-systeme decentraliserait la formation au niveau des CHD et
representerait un processus de fornation continue qui perrnettrait la prevision et la prise en charge
des besoins locaux dans ce domaine. Un plan de formation revise en chirurgie d'urgence sera
prepare d'ici mai 1998 et soumis a l'IDA. Ce plan devrait egalement etre soumis aux bailleurs
participant a la formation en chirurgie d'urgence.
21.    La mission a e  inform6e que la DFGP mene presentement une reflexion sur le probleme
de mise a disposition des aide-anesthesistes et manipulateurs radio dont la premiere promotion
n'achevera sa formation qu'en 1999. Entre-temps, il y aura un d6ficit de personnel dans ce
domnaine. La DFGP a precise que le resultat de ces r6flexions fera l'objet d'un document qui sera
remis a la mission avant son depart.
22.    Indicateurs d'ex6cution et d'impact. Des discussions ont eu lieu sur l'etablissement des
donnees quantitatives pour chaque indicateur du programme de d6veloppement du secteur de la
sante relatif a son execution et a son impact. Cependant, il conviendrait de souligner qu'une
decision devrait etre prise en consultation avec la DEP quant aux dispositions a prendre vis-a-vis
de l'indicateur d'iimpact sur la transformation du PDS en un programme pluriannuel qui servirait
d'instrument pour la gestion strategique du secteur et de la coordination de l'aide. Les tableaux
joints en Annexe 6 presentent la liste de ces indicateurs. 11 avait 6t6 convenu que le ministere se
chargerait d'identifier ces donnees quantitatives au demarrage du projet (a sa mise en vigueur au
29 juillet 1997) et de veiller a ce que les niveaux central, d6partemental et district projettent les
donnees quantitatives qu'ils souhaitent atteindre d'ici l'6valuation a mi-parcours du programme
prevue pour la fin de l'annee 1999. La mission aimerait recevoir ces tableaux remplis d'ici la fin
mars pour son appreciation. Elle propose que les tableaux des indicateurs fassent partis du
processus de planification et de programmation lors des reunions trimestrielles, semestrielles et
annuelles et qu'ils soientjoints au plan d'actions a l'issue de ces reunions.
23.    Les dtudes socioculturelles et dpidemiologiques prevues par le Projet Sante 11 serviront de
base de mesure de l'impact au cours de la revue i mi-parcours. II a ete convenu que les personnes
qui feront ces etudes coordonneront entre elles afin de realiser une analyse globale des facteurs
sanjitaires et socioculturel pertinents dans Ies zones du projet. II a egalement ete convenu que la
d6finition des taux pour les differents indicateurs de performance sera clarif,ie et utilis6e de facon
consistante pour assurer l'exactitude et la validit6 des donnees generees. De plus, sur la base de
ces etudes, le systeme de gestion informatis6 devrait etre revis6 afin d'appuyer les districts
sanitaires. Ce systeme sem utilis6 pour suivre et superviser des activites, determiner des tendances,
des changements de comportement, et aussi pour modifier les objectifs et les interventions pendant
la v ie du projet.
24.    Produits pharmaceutiques. Le dossier d'appel d'offres relatif a l'achat de produits
phaLrmaceutiques sera confie a un sp6cialiste en produits pharmaceutiques, afin d'obtenir son avis
technique. Le Gouvemement devrait transmettre a l'IDA le dossier d'appel d'offres avant le ler
mars 1998, pour avis de non objection.
25.    Processus d'approbation des plans d'actions. Le MSP et-la mission ont convenu d'une
procedure pour revoir et approuver les plans d'actions annuels pour les districts et les DDS



5
finances par le Projet, ainsi que ceux du niveau central. Les deux parties ont reconnu l'urgence de
cette tfiche, etant donne que ceux-ci sont deja a la fin du deuxieme mois de leur execution. La DEP
a informe ia mission clue seuls 2 des 7 districts et I des 3 DDS lui ont soumis un plan d'actions. La
DEP a convenu de ccntacter les personnes concemres afin de permettre la soumission des plans
manquants a l'UCP avant le ler mars 1998. Apres avoir revu ces plans, le MSP/UCP les
soumettront a l'IDA pour avis. Le MSPIUCP et l'IDA reverront ces plans a deux niveaux:
programme et projet. C'est a dire que, conformement a l'approche sectorielle, le MSP/UCP et
l'IDA reverront toutes les activites inclues dans les plans d'actions, toutes sources de financement
confondues, pour assurer leur conformit6 avec les refonnes et priorit6s exiges par le PDS. L'IDA
examinera egalement les activites pr6vues dans les plans d'actions pour financement par le cr6dit
IDA afin de donner son avis de non objection qui sera bas6 sur le respect-des conditions et du
programme d'activites specifie dans l'Accord de Credit de Developpement. La mission fera part
de son avis dans un delai de 3 semaines suivant leur reception.
26.    Les principaux crit&res utilises pour l'evaluation des plans d'actions des districts
comprendront: leur concordance avec les 6 indicateurs de performances et les 6 indicateurs
d'impact (Annexe 6) negocies A Washington et specifi6s dans la lettre suppl6mentaire de l'Accord
de Credit de D6veloppement; leur faisabilit6 (etant donn6 les r6les et responsabilites des DDS et
du niveau central et les d6lais de passation des marches); la concordance des cofits unitaires entre
les districts; et la p6riodicit6 des actions cles (tourn6es de supervision, reunions de coordination,
etc.). Ces plans seront aussi revus et r6vises avec l'idee d'assurer une bonne planification et une
mise en oeuvre des rsformes essentielles a la bonne mise en oeuvre du PDS (assurance de la
qualite, systeme de recouvrement des couts). Un des principaux criteres d'evaluation des plans
d'actions du niveau central et des DDS sera leur appui effectif au fonctionnement des districts
sanitaires. La mission a tenu a rappeler au Gouvernement la procedure de revue et de revision des
plans d'actions telle qu'envisagee dans le PDS et decrite dans l'Accord de Credit de
D6veloppement: r6unions trimestrielles au niveau des districts, reunions semestrielles au niveau
des DDS, reunions annuelles au niveau national.
27.    La mission a developp6, en tenant compte des commentaires du Gouvernement, un projet
.de fiches qui permettront la presentation d'un plan d'actions sur 12 a 18 mois pour les bourses, les
formations A l'etranger, les conferences et les voyages d'6tudes (Annexe 7). Elles seront utilisees
pour gerer le plan de formation, a tous les niveaux. Le Gouvernement etudiera ces fiches et fera
part de ses commentaires a l'IDA afin de permettre leur amelioration eventuelle. Les diff6rentes
fiches remplies par les ,divers responsables seront ensuite regroupees au niveau central et soumises
A l'IDA pour son avis de non objection, en meme temps que les plans d'actions des 7,districts, des
3 DDS et du niveau central.
28.    Passation des march6s. La mission a rencontre les personnes responsables de la
passation des marches pour le Projet Sante II (Unit6 de Coordination/DAF/DEP) et a revu avec
elles le plan de passation des march6s 6labore au cours de la mission d'octobre 1997. La mission a
constate que les responsables ont fait un effort pour respecter les delais pr6vus. Cependant, en
raison de la complexit6 et du volume du travail necessaire, un retard a et6 constate. Aucune
actualisation dcs calcndriers de passation dc marchcs, dont Ics richicrs informatiqucs sonIt
disponibles a l'UCP, n'a 6te effectu6e depuis la derniere mission. 11 est imperatif que, compte tenu
des contraintes de coordination existant entre les differentes activites, ces calendriers soient
regulierement actualis6s et utilises comme outils de gestion et communiques trimestriellement aux
responsables des differentes composantes et a l'IDA. Comme souligne et recommande dans
l'aide-m6moire de la mission de septembre/octobre 1997, la mission a insist6 sur la necessite de
recruter un sp6cialiste en passation des marches, familier avec les procedures de la Banque
mondiale, pour coordonner et suivre de pres les activites. Cependant, I'UCP a affinnr ses
activites, actuellement r6parties au scin des services techniques du MSP, devraient continuer a etre
assum6es par ces memes services, et que le coordonnateur-adjoint pourrait assumer toutes ies



6
rcsponsabilites inhdrentes a la gestion des activites de passation des marches au sein de l'UCP. Par
consequent, en plus de ses fonctions de coordonnateur-adjoint, cette personne assumera la
fonction de "coordonnateur des activites de passation des marches". 11 sera responsable d'assurer
la conformite de toutes les activites de passation des marches pour le projet. Ainsi, parmi les
tiaches qui lui seront imparties, il devra mettre en place un systeme de suivi pour veiller ia ce que
les montants globaux specifids dans l'Accord de Credit de Developpement pour chaque type de
passation des marches, autres que I'Appel d'Offres International, soient respectes. 11 se chargera
du classement adequat des documents de passation des marches permettant aux missions de l'IDA
d'operer des controles a posteriori pour tout marche n'ayant pas ete soumis a un examen prealable
de l'IDA.
29.    La mission a et6 informrn de depart et de mutation au sein de la DAF/M, division de
P'equipement. Pour faire face i cette situation critique, la mission n'a pas d'objection au principe
de recruter, sur les fonds du projet, les services d'un ingenieur genie civil i plein temps, loge a la
DAFIM, et dont la mission principale serait de contribuer a la preparation et de coordonner
i'avancement des dossiers relatifs au genie civil et d'en superviser leur bon avancement. If est
convenu que le recrutement de ce contractuel se fera de facon ouverte, en suivant les procedures
de la Banque mondiale en matiere de services de consultants. La manifestation d'int6ret sera
sollicitie via un avis dans la presse nationale. Les TDR de cet ingenieur sont joints en Annexe 8.
30.    La mission a revu des dossiers de passation des marches: vehicules, mobilier de bureau et
mat6riel informatique. Les commentaires de la mission ont ete remis au Projet et se trouvent en
Annexe 9. La mission demande au Projet de bien vouloir lui renvoyer les documents modifi6s
selon ses instructions, y compris les quantitds et les spdcifications techniques. La mission a partagd
avec le Projet la menace qui pese sur les systemes informatiques qui risquent de ne pouvoir g&er
correctement le passage a l'an 2000 du calendrier gregorien. La mission enverra ulterieurement de
la clocumentation complimentaire.
31.    Une reunion a eu lieu entre le MSP (en pr6sence du Ministre de la Sant6), NIGETIP et la
mission. Cette reunion a et l'occasion de soulever diverses defaillances de travaux ex6cut6s par
NIGETIP, et d'insister sur l'importance de la clart6 et du respect des circuits de communication, la
clarte des responsabilite et le respect des procedures concernant les etapes-cl6s de la mise en
oeuvre, le recours i une s6lection et a un suivi plus rigoureux des BET et des entreprises qui
tienne compte des lerons de l'experience. NIGETIP a assure ses interlocuteurs que les problemes
mentionnes ne se reproduiraient plus, et que l'Agence communiquerait plus fr6quemment avec le
ministere. 11 a et6 convenu que toute correspondance serait envoyee au Ministere qui la
retransmettrait aux DDS et aux districts concernes.
32.    La mission a ulterieurement eu une session de travail avec NIGETIP. Les deux parties se
sont mises d'accord'sur la convention NIGETIP a etre signee. Apres intdgration des commentaires
dc la mission ct dc NIGETIP, Il mission a fait part de Ia non objection de l'IDA sur cette
convention. La mission a egalement remis a NIGETIP des modeles types de "demande de
proposition" et de "contrat-type pour services de consultant - remuneration forfaitaire" pour le
recrutement des BET. Des son retour a Washington a la mi-mars, la mission enverra i NIGETIP
un modele type d"'Appel d'Offres National pour travaux". 11 a ete convenu que NIGETIP utilisera
ces documents et ex6cutera les activites de passations de march6s exclusivement conformement
aux procedures de l'IDA.
33.   NIGETIP a remis son Manuel de Proc6dures ia la mission. 11 a ete convenu que ce
document (et plus particuli6retiient les chapitres relatifs i la passation des marches et aux
documents d'appels d'offres) sera tudie i Washington, et que des commentaires seront envoyes i
NIGETIP dans un effort d'aider l'agence i am6liorer ses procedures de passation des marches.



7
34.    La mission a ete inform6e de la creation d'une Commission Fiscale charg,e de se
prononcer sur la validlite des calculs des droits et taxes, et a rencontre le President de cette
commission. Cette comimission aura pour tache principale de recueillir toutes les offres concernant
les marches publics afin d'en deduire les droits de douane apres 1'evaluation de ces offres. En cas
de difference entre le nnontant indique par le soumissionnaire et celui calculd par la commission,
c'est ce dernier qui fera foi et qui figurera sur le contrat signe. Bien que cette commission n'ait pas
encore commenc6 ce travail, la mission peut deja prevoir quelques problemes qui surgiront des sa
mise en oeuvre. Tout d'abord, toutes les offres passeront par cette commission, apres leur
evaluation par les commissions primaires de march6s, ce qui aura pour effet de rallonger les d6lais
d6ja importants dans le processus de passation des marches. Ensuite, dans l'Accord de Credit de
Developpement, les pourcentages des montants finances par l'IDA s'appliquent aux contrats
T.T.C. Or, si les contrats sont desormais signes sur la base de montants H.T.IH.D., la Banque
continuera d'appliquer De meme pourcentage; le montant finance sera donc inferieur a ce qui etait
prevu lors de l'6valuation du projet, ce qui signifie que plus de fonds de contrepartie devront etre
mobilises. Ce probleme sera discut6 au siege de la Banque mondiale d&s le retour de la mission a
Washington. L'UCP devrait informner l'IDA des developpements de cette question. L'IDA
continuera a suivre de pres cette question afin de s'assurer qu'elle ne gene pas la bonne execution
du projet.
35.   La mission souhaite rappeler a l'UCP qu'elle n'a pas besoin de soumettre a la non
objection de l'IDA les documents dont les montants sont au dessous des seuils prevus dans
l'Accord de Credit de Developpement pour examen prealable. Ces dossiers seront examines par
des missions de supervision qui r6aliseront des revues a posteriori.
36.    Genie Civil. Unie revue de l'etat d'avancement des diffbrents dossiers a et effectuee au
cours de la mission. Des commentaires detaill6s de cette revue sont presentes en Annexe 10.
37.    Situation financiere et comptable. La mission est ravie de constater que le systeme
comptable infornatise est op6rationnel et que sa mise en oeuvre a ce jour est satisfaisante. Elle
s'est entretenue avec les comptables aux niveaux central et peripherique et a constate un niveau
satisfaisant d'appropriation et de maitrise des outils de gestion. La mission a donne son avis de
non objection a la recommandation du MSP d'attribuer le marche concernant la mise en
place du systeme comptable informatise du LANSPEX am cabinet Auditeurs Associes en
Afrique (representant Arthur Andersen). L'Annexe 11 presente de plus amples details sur les
aspects de gestion comptable et financiere du projet.
38.    Le statut des clauses de l'Accord de Credit de Developpement se trouve en Annexe 12.
Niamey, le 20 f6vrier 1998
Denise Vaillancourt
Charg6e des Projets Sante et Population
Banque Mondiale



Appendix B
Niger Population Project
Summary of the Government's Report
The population project, which began in 1992 and closed in 1997, was the beneficiary of
the participatory approach which included all actors involved in all stages of project
exectution. The final internal evaluation was the responsibility of a team composed of
administration representatives from  all levels:  central, regional, and sub-regional.
Additionally, an external evaluation was completed by independent consultants.
The project was developed over a two-year period, from 1990-92, in the context of social
and economic crisis. It was designed to support the government of Niger in its efforts to
implement a national population program.
During the life of the project, Niger underwent a number of political changes which had a
negative impact on project implementation. These political difficulties were aggravated
by social unrest in the country, including strikes, a recession and irregular salary; and
counterpart payments from the State further hindered project implementation. However,
the management autonomy of the project allowed for completion of project obligations,
despite the uneabling environment in the country.
Internal problems were not the only hurdles which had to be overcome, as the
implementation occasionally suffered from difficulties with Bank procedures, especially
procurement procedures and the change in Task Managers. Also, the devaluation of the
FCFA in 1994 further hindered implementation progress.
RESULTS AND GAINS
Overall the project dispensed 92.3% of the proposed budget.' The project also afforded
the opportunity for the different sectors to collaborate on the national population policy.
The task still remains to transform the work of the project into permanent dynamics.
Specific improvements were seen in the following areas:
* MCH/FP: execution rate was relatively high due in part to the project's flexibility.
Health sector reforms were effective due in part to the redeployment of health
personnel. Additionally, construction and rehabilitation of infrastructures and health
personnel training added to the success of this component.
World Bank Qualifying Footnote: Government's financial data on the project are calculated and
presented in CFA francs which are not adjusted for the various exchange rates over the life of the project,
including the 1994 devaluation. As such, they are not thus fully coherent with financial statements
included in the Bank's chapter of this report or with the Bank's official disbursement statements.



* Family well-being and women's rights: 147 women's groups established of which 70
benefited from financing, establishment of 53 micro-realisations benefiting 3,600
families, and training of 4,158 women.
LESSONS LEARNED
*  It is necessary to include the beneficiaries and agents in the design and management
of the project.
*  Performance and impact indicators should be established at the beginning of the
project, and monitored on a regular basis.
*  Training programs should include a monitoring and evaluation plan.
*  Decentralization rnust take into account the following: operationalization of the
current structure; mranagement decentralization; and training.
*  Donors must be more flexible and adaptable to the context and capacity of the
structures responsible for project implementation.
*  An appropriate maintenance plan is necessary to ensure longevity of equipment and
materials.
*  Project Coordination Units should be have appropriate technical competencies.
*  Project/program actions must be coherent in order to improve efficiency and impact.
Finally, the project objectives are perfectly integrated with the national interests in
MCHIFP, family well-being, women's rights, and the overall national population policy.



Appendix B
REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER
MINISTARE DU DEVELOPPEMENT SOCIAL, DE LA POPULATION, DE LA
PROMOTION DE LA FEMME ET DE LA PROTECTION DE L'ENFANT
PROJET POPULATION
IRAPOT :Dre STIMTHiEM. DM VC--VALUIATHCH FNIAR-e:
' - . - .DU: lpftoj .& popuu-0ol
Prisente Dar le Modrateur:
Mr. MAINA BOUKAR MOUSSA
Analyste de I'Eneoncii,
Dodceur is Sciences Ecoomiques
Mars 1998



SOMMAIRE
1. INTRODUCTION.___                                                                                     1
1. 1. CoNEc  DE LLARATION Du  PROJET POP               ..AT.ON      ..................................... I
1.2. PROJEr              1..... . ...............                                                        1
1.2.1. Obiectifs et straties ..........................                                               2
1.2.2. Zones dintervention ..........................                                                 2
1.2.3. Dure. Budet etesfion ..........................                              ... ...           2
2. tVALUATION FINALE DU PROJET POPULAONI_                                                               3
2.1. OaIwECS DE LVALUATON A  ...................................F.NA.                                     3
3. CADRE D'EXACUTION ET DE GESTION DU PROJET
3.1. CADRE DVUXECLTTON DLU PROJT ................................                                        4
3. 1.1. Faceurs exogbees. avant affecti la mise en oeuvre du proLet ............................ ..................... 4
3.1. 2. Caractere multi-sectoriel du proie .................................................. 5
3.2. CADRE Di. GEBSriON DU PROJET .............................                       , .                5
3.2. 1. Cellue de coordlination ........................S
3.2.2. Gestion des activiles dans les r6eions el sous-reions ............................................ 5
3.2.3. Raprorls avec le bajileur de fondzs ...........................................                 6
4. REALISATIONSIRRSULTATS ET ACQUIS                                                           ------- 6
4.1. R;AISSATnONS}T RkSULTATS ..........................................                                 6
4 .2. Acotns ............................................ 9
4.2. 1. Acauis   rre   nral .............................................                              9
4.2.2.  cauissecifigues aur dilerentescomposantes .............................................        9
S. LES LECONS A TIRER POUR LE FUTUR..  .___._______. __________1-
6. CONCLUSION {GENERELE.I ._ __-  __                                                                  1
7. RECOMMANDATIONS EN VUE DE LA CONSOLIDATION ET LA PERENNISATION DES
ACOUIS DU PROJETO.                                                                               ....___2
7.1. R.COMMANDATIONS EN VUE DE LA CON OUll)A11ON/PlRF.NNISATnON DES ACS DU PROjET POPULATION.... 12
7.2. RcOMMANDATONS SUR LmS STRATtOlES FurmFs ..................................... 13
7.2. /. Stra"gies ,our rehoasser Ic niveau de revenus e tla aulfiM de We de la po2mation nigmrtenne ....... 13
7.2.1.1. PorsWuitc et cmnsolidatiou des micro.nilisatioam ct iniiatives conunautrs .............. ............................ 13
7.2.1.2. Mise n nlace deun fonds d*mui aux ONG. wnatjons et auX oclits actW= du scdeu r . ................... 14
7.3. RENIVRCF,MFN rINSTTrloNNI. FTTFcHNiUE DU MDS/P/PF/PE ........................................................... 14
ANNEXES



1.    Introduction
Le projet population qui a demarre en 1992 est arrive a son terme. Le
gouvenemnent a engage le processus d'effectuer son evaluation finale. Celle-ci a et
abord6e suivant tne approche participative englobant aussi bien les beneficiaires que
les prestataires des services et autres partenaires et ce a travers rorganisation des
ateliers aux diffirents niveaux d'execution.
Une equipe composee de representants de radministration aux differents
niveaux: central, r4gional et sous regional, a Wte cbargee de l'6valuation interne qui a
retrace la contribution et le bilan des diff6rents travaux.
En plus de l'evaluation inteme, une evaluation exteme a e  conduite par des
consultants ind6pendants et a eu pour objectif une appreciation externe des resultats
du projet.
Le present rapport presente les resultats issus de l'ensemble du processus de
1'6valuation finale, et en particulier de ceux des evaluations interne et externe.
1.1. Contexte de I'eIaboration du Droief DoDulation
Le projet population a ete e1abore en 1990-92 dans un contexte de crise
econoTnique et sociale profonde qui se caracterise par des indicateurs de
developpement et des indicateurs socio-sanitaires parmi les plus faibles du monde: un
reve:nu moyen par tete de 290 dollars, un taux de mortalite-matemelle d'environ 7 pour
mille (70/c); un taux d'alphabetisation des adultes de 14% (le taux le plus bas au
monde); un taux de scolarisation au niveau pfimaire de 30/c, le plus bas de toute
l'Afrique. Cette situation est plus prononcee chez les femmes : I'fge du ler mariage est
de 15 ans; 91% des femmes sont analphabetes
Cette situation economique et sociale grave, va pousser le gouvernement
nigerien a integrer la dimension population dans la problematique de developpement
du pays. C'est ainsi que seront mises en place des 1988 des mesures legislatives et
reglementaires facilitant l'accis a la contraception modeme et que la declaration
nationale de politique de population sera adoptee en 1992.
1.2.  Proiet population
Le Niger, dans sa volonte de trouver un equilibre entre ses modestes ressources
et la progression rapide de sa population, a adopte en Fevrier 1992 une Politique
Nationale de Population.
Le projet a ete conqu pour appuyer le gouvernement du Niger dans ses efforts
de mise en oeuvre de son programme national en matiere de population.



2
1I2.1. _)biectifs et stratesies
Le projet population concourt a la rda1isation des principaux objectifs suivants:
- la reduction de la mortalite matemelle et infanfile;
- 1'encouragement a radoption de comportements favorables a la
r6duction de la taille de la famille;
- le renforcement de la capacit6 des femmes a participer au
developpement socio-4conomique du pays.
Pour atteindre son but le projet s'appuie sur une triple strategie d'aide aux
politiques et investi ssements consistant A:
- renforcer les prestations des services de sante maternelle et infantile et
de planification familiale;
- promouvoir le bien etre familial et le statut de la femmne;
- renforcer la capacite d'analyse, de la recherche et de la coordination en
matiere de politique de population.
Chacune de ces trois strategies constitue une composante du projet. Et les
diff6rents domaines d'intervention de ces composantes representent des sous-
composantes (C.F. annexe I sur les interventions du projet par sous composante) .
1.2.2. Zones d'intervention
* Son aire drintenrention est d'envergure nationale pour la troisieme composante
et est circonscrite pouir les deux autres composantes aux departements A forte densite
de population qui sonit Tahoua, Tillabery et Zinder oui vivent plus de 60% des
nig6riens mais ne beneficiant que d'un faible ratio population/formation sanitaire et
d'un soutien relativement bas.
1.2.3. Duree, Budget et eestion
La duree de vie du projet est de quatre annees, a compter du ler Janvier 1993.
Toutefois, la periode de d6caissement des fonds sWtendjusqu'en Avril 1998.
Le budget qui lui est alloue s'6kve a 24,1 millions US $ comprenant un credit
IDA de 17,1 millions, les contriblltions du gouvemement nigerien, des ONG, du
secteur prive et des communautes d'une valeur de 3 millions, un apport de la Belgique
de 2,5 millions et une contribution de I million de la part de l'UNICEF. Le
financement escompte diti gouvernement beige n'ayant pas e  foumi, recours a e  fait
aux services des Volontaires de Nations Unies (VNU) pour combler la lacune.
Selon le budget de base, le secteur sante beneficie d'environ 46% des fonds
destines aux 3 composantes. La promotion du bien etre familial et statut de la femme
en mobilise 29%/o alors qlue 6% vont a la composante politique de population.



3
L'administration et 1'execution des differentes composantes du projet sorft
assurees par les Ministeres suivants: la Sante Publique (MSP); le Deve1oppement
Social, la Population et Promotion de la Femme (MDSPPF); Finances et Plan (MFP).
Une Cellule de coordination, .compos6e de contractuels cadres et personnel
d'appui et renforcee par de I'assistance technique internationale en gestion, est chargie
de la coordination des activit6s quotidiennes du projet, des questions admninistratives et
financieres, du suivi et dvaluation.
2.    Evaluation finale du projet population
Menee par les differents acteurs du projet population (Directions nationales,
regions, sous-r6gions, populations beneficiaires, ONG et associations, projets et
institutions intervenant dans le domaine de la population) et comportant lewus
contributions respectives, l'evaluafion finale a pour but de faire le bilan des
realisations et des resultats atteints, d'apprecier la pertinence des politiques et
strategies niises en oeuvre et de tirer les le,ons en vue de degager les perspectives
d'avenir.
Les contributions des differents niveaux ont et faites au cours des ateliers
respectifs.
2.1. Obiectifs de Pe valuation finale
L'evaluation finale du projet devrait permettre de:
- inventorier et analyser les realisations du projet;
- verifier le degre d'execution des objectifs par composantes et apprecier
la pertinence de ces objectifs et des strategies mises en oeuvre;
- mettre en evidence les elements cles et les problemes fondamentaux
rencontres en cours d'execution;
- apprecier la conception, I'organisation, la geshion, le fonctionnement et
la coordination du projet;
- evaluer les performances et l'efficacit6 des interventions du projet;
- tirer les le,ons de I'execution du projet et des autres programmes et
projets de population;
- proposer des mesures en vue de la consolidation et la perennisation des
acquis du projet;
- identifier les domaines et strategies prioritaires pour le futur.
2.2.  Mthodologie
Au plan m6thodologique le processus de 1'evaluation finale a consiste en unme
serie d'ateliers organis6s aux niveaux sous-regional et regional de chaque dEpartement
b6n6ficiaire du projet, au niveau central pour toutes les activites du projet executees



4
par les directions centrales et par un atelier final organist au niveau national (C.F.
amnexe N3 sur les objectifs, la methodologie et les ateiers d'evaluation).
L'atelier national de 1'evaluation finale du projet population s'est tenu a Niamey
du 09 au 14 F6vrier 1998. La reflexion a.6te organis6e selon les th&nes suivants:
- les r6sultats/acquis, problenes rencontr6s et lecons a tirer;
- I'approche multisectorielle et d6centrahis6e et cadre institutionnel
appropnr pour la mise en oeuvre d'une telle approche;
- la consolidation et p6renuisation des acquis;
- les domaines et strategies prioritaires pour le futur.
Le present rapport est le resultat de l'ensemble des etapes du processus de
l'evaluation finale du projet.
3.    Cadre d'execution et de qestion du Drolet
3.1.   Cadre d'execution du Drojet
Dans son ex6cuton le projet population a dui faire face a certaines contraintes
qui etaient en dehors de son controle et qui n'ont pas souvent facilite la mise en oeuvre
des activit6s. Pour bien appr6cier les resultats du projet, il est donc essentiel de situer
d'abord le poids respectif de ces facteurs sur la mise en oeuvre du projet.
3.1.1. Facieurs exog-nes avant afTecte ila mise en oeuvre dup Droiet
a) l,'environnement socio-Dolitique
Le Niger a connu un grand nombre de changements politiques pendant la
periode de mise en oerivre du projet population (C.F. annexes N4 sur les differents
evenements qui ont marque le projet). Les diff6rents 6v6nements, qui en ont suivi,
caractenises par des nombreuses instabilites institutionnelles (changement de 7
ministres, 5 S.G. au niveau du Ministere dti Developpement Social, de plusieurs
directeurs dans les regions etc...) ont fortement perturbe le deroulement du projet.
b) Le contexte socio-economigue
L'impact de F'instabilit& politique a et aggrav6 par les troubles sociaux et
gr6ves des les premieres annees du projet ainsi que la recession economique et les
consequences de cette demiere, notamment le paiement irregulier des salaires des
fonctionnaires et les retards dans la mise en place des contreparties de l'Etat au projet
ont limite sa mise en oeuvre. La devaluation dii franc CFA intervenue en 1994 a eu un
impact determinant sur le d6roulement du projet, en particulier a cause du
rencherissement des coats d'acquisition du materiel et des equipements, et
cons6cutivement par le retard tres important accuse par les dossiers en cours (l'accord
pour la reevaluation du budget du projet n'a ete obtenu qu'apres un an et 1/2),.



5
La mise en oeuvre du projet a egalement e  marquee par 1'emergence des
nombreuses associations religieuses a partir de 1990.
c) Les nouvelles dispositions institutionnelles et politigues
inises en place
Pendant ka periode du projet, le gouvernement a pris plusieurs mesures et
decisions destinies a consolider le cadre institutionnel et donc faciliter la mise en
oeuvre de politique nationale de population C.F. annexe N4).
3.1.2. Caractere multi-sectoriel du Droiet
Le caractere multisectorel et multidisciplinaire du projet constitue une premiere
pour le Niger ainsi qu'un defi tant sur le plan de la coordination des interventions que
pour cultiver et developper une vision globale d'un programme mt6gri (C.F. annexe
N05).
Ainsi, grace aux missions integrees et aux reunions de coordination a tous les
niveaujx d'execution, un veritable effort collectif s'est etabli entre ministeres et
departements. Ceci a rendu, les responsables, plus sensibles aux differents aspects
relatifs au domaine de la population.
3.2.  Cadre de gestion du proiet
Afin d'assurer une gestion efficace et transparente, il a et mis en place une
strictuire autonome de coordination de la gestion financiere et de la mise en oeuvre du
projet, appuyee par des comites de coordination places aux differents niveaux
d'ex6ciution (central, regional, sous-rTgional) et comprenant les representants des
differents ministeres imp]iques danis 1rex6cution dii projet.
3.2.1. Cellule de coordination
Une cellule de coordination, autonome, chargee de la gestion administrative et
financiere, du suivi et de l'evaluation devrait assurer la gestion diu projet.
Son autonomie de gestion lui a permis de faire face a ses engagements malgre
les bouleversements qu'a connus le pays pendant la pe'node d'execution du projet, et
maigre son effectif tres reduit
3.2.2. Gestion des activites dans les resions et sous-re2ions
La mise en place d'equipes multi-sectorielles et multi-disciplinaires pour
l'execution et le suiivi du projet a constitue un facteur important pour la reussite du
projet.. Outre, le fait de partager une vision commune, les membres de ces equipes ont
ainsi la conscience de travailler tous pour la realisation d'un meme objectif global,
bien que par le biais d'activites tres differentes. Cette situation a ete renforcee par la
realisation de missions integrees.



6
3.2.3. IRaDDorts avec le bailleur de fonds
La CelUule de coordination du projet a travaille en etroite collaboration avec la
mission residente et les Tasks Managers bases aux Etats Unis. Cependant, la mise en
oeuvre du projet a parfois souffert du fait des relations avec la Banque, notaunment par
la lourdeur des procedures de la Banque Mondiale exacerbee par les differents
changements mtervenus a son niveau (changement de Task  Managers) et la
devaluation du firncs CFA intervenue en 1994.
Cette lourdeur de procedures a e  aussi la cause des retards accuses dans
I'approbation des diffirents elements du processus d' valuation finale.
4.    RealisationslResultats et Acquis
4.1. Realisations et resultats
A. Les rftuItats   baux
L'analyse de l'evolution de la situation financiere du projet du ler Janvier 1993
a3i 12 Decembre 1997 telle qu'elle ressort dti tableau en annexe N2 montre que
l'ensemble des ressources pr&vues ont et effectivement depensees avec un taux de
realisation depassant les previsions en ce qui concerne la plupart des composantes sauf
la composante promotion du bien etre familial et du statut de la femme avec un taux
de 20% pour 29% prevus.
On notera d'aultre part un fort depassement des depenses de fonctionnement de
la cellule qui passent de 5% prevus a 20% soit quatre fois plus. En outre, 1'analyse de
Ia situation des decaissements fait ressortir que 1'ensemble des bailleurs de fonds
engages dans le projet, a l'exception de la Cooperation Belge et de l'UNICEF, ont
largement depasse les montants programmes dans le budget de base (C.F. annexe 2).
Cette forte augmentation est essentiellement due aux appuis logistiques et mateinels
apportes aux differentes structures du Ministere de tutelle.
Tableau sur les d6caissements (millions de francs CFA) *
Decaissements par:            Previsions         Realisations          Taux
IDA                                  4.787,2              5.057             105,6%
Gouvemement du Niger                   734,4              841,4             114,5%
Gouvemement Beige                      680,0                  0                 00/a
UNICEF                                 272,0               52,3              19,2%
ONG, sectcur privc                      54,4                 56             102,7%
Communaute                              27,2               31,9             117,3%
Total                                6.555,2            6.043,1             92,12%
Ainsi globalement, par rapport au budget de base, le projet a ete execute a
hauteur de 92,3% par rapport a ses previsions.
* Annotation de la Banque mondiale: les donnees financieres du Gouvernement sont calculees et presentees dans ce
rapport en FCFA; elles n'ont pas pris en compte les differents taux de change en vigueur au cours de la vie du projet,
notamment la devaluation du FCFA. Par consequent, ces donnees ne sont pas en totale coherence avec les etats
financiers presentes dans le chapitre dcrit par la Banque, ou avec les tableaux de decaissements officiels de celle-ci.



7
Au plan des couts rcurrents, le projet a ainsi depense pour assurer son
fonctionnement regulier, la  somune  de  1  341  millions  de  francs  CFA.
Comparativement a la contrepartie nigerienne, les charges r6currentes representent
160% des sommes debloquees par le Gouvemement du Niger (1 341 millions contre
841 millions de FCFA).
L'analyse ci-apres des resultats par composante permettra de bien apprecier le
dMtail des resultats globaux.
B. Resultats de Ia Comrpsante renforcement des services SMIIPF
-n ressort de l'analyse comparative entre les activites progrdxnmes et celles
realisees que le taux d'execution a 6te relativement ilev6 pour cette composante (C.F.
annexe N6). Cette performance, qui s'explique par la flexibiWite du projet, a permis
d'atteindre des resultats importants.
La reforme du secteur de la sante a ete rendue effective grace au redeploiement
du personnel que le projet a suscite et au niveau tres eleve des realisations effectuees
en matiere de formation du personnel de sant.
Au plan de I'amelioration de la qualite et de I'acces aux services de SMI/PF, la
contribution du projet a et sensible grice a la construction et/ou a la r6habilitation des
infrastructures de soins, la mise en place de la logistique necessaire au fonctionnement
des formations sanitaires et la redynamisation d'un nombre important d'agents de sante
villageois (C.F. annexe N6).
C Resullats de la comWosanhe : Promotion du bien etre familial el du
sltlul de la femme
c. ]) Resultats en matiere d'IEC
Meme si le manque de suivi et evaluation n'a pas pernis d'evaluer l'impact des
activites d'IEC sur le changement de comportements des populations, les differentes
r6alisations du projet ont, tout de meme, permis de mettre a la disposition des services
concernes des capacites et des competences necessaires pour assurer la production des
differents messages (C.F. annexe 7).
c.2) R6sultats en matiere des micro-realisations feminines
Ces interventions ont permis:
- la mise ne place de 147 groupements dont 70 ont beneficie des
financements;
- la mise en place de 53 micro-realisations au profit d'environ 3 600
familles;



8
- la fonnation d'environ 4 158 femmes en gestion associative, en
techniques d'embouche, en techniques de tansfonnation et de
conservation des produits maraichers et en alphab6tisation fonctionnelle;
- le recrultement et la formation de 9      rmatrices urles.
Les activites cr6atrices de revenus pour. les femmes ont connu un taux de
r6alisation impressionnant (C.F. tableaux sur les micro-realisations en annexe N8).
L'analyse des r6sultats montre que ces activit6s ont procure aux femmes
b6nificiaires des revenis forts appreciables dans le contexte rural.
Ces micro-r6alisations ont constitue, en outre, pour les b6n&ficiaires l'occasion
de participer, grace aux revenus ainsi cTi6s, aux diff.eentes depenses de la famille
(mariage des enfants, habillement, ordonnances), de soutenir leur mari dans l'achat des
vivres particulirement en annee de mauvaises recoltes et de renforcer la solidarite
dans les villages.
D. Resultais de la composante: Renforcement de I'analyse de la
recherche et dte la coordination en mafiere de poliziitle de pouldation
d. 1 Etat civil et etudes et recherches
Les interventions du projet dans ce domaine ont contribue a une certaine prise
de conscience des diff6rents acteurs (popillation, administration, autorites
traditionnelles) sur l'importance de la declaration des faits d'6tat civil, meme si
beaucoup reste a faire en mati&re de sensibilisation pour -atteindre les objectifs vises
(C.F. annexe 9). Enfin plusieurs etudes thematiques et monographiques ont et&
Tealisees en vue de renforcer les connaissances socio-d&mographiques du pays.
d.2 Fonds population
L'analyse des realisations effectu6es sur le fonds fait Tessortir que pres de 36%
de 45 micro-projets reallises sont localis6s A Niamey tandisque dans les departement
d'Agadez et de Diffa aucun projet n'a vu le jour. Or c'est dlans ces zones defavorisees
en termes de conditions de vie de la femme, et oii les actions de developpement sont
rares que ces interventions auraient et utiles et susceptibles d'avoir un impact
significatif.
Cette distorsion s'explique surtout par la faible portee de canaux de
communication qui ont et actifs plutot A Niamey que dans les autres departements.
D'autre part il a 6th constate que les r6alisations sont desequilibrees par rapport
a l'ordre de priorite etabli pr6alablement (C.F. annexe 10). Plus de 50'/6 de 1'enveloppe
globale ont et destinees aux activites de promotion de la femme au lieu de 20%
prevus; IEC 15% au lieu de 30%; SMIUPF 33% au lieu de 50% prevus.



9
4.2   Acquis
4.2.1. Acauis d'ordre Leneral
D'une mani&re generale, le Projet Population a favorise la mise en place d'une
dynamique permnettant a diffirents secteurs de se Trunir et de collaborer pour la mise
en a:uvre de la politique nationale de population. Le defi maintenant consiste d2
traduire celle dynamique rendue possible par un Projet en une dynamique
permanenle en vue de la mise en muvre dune politique nationale de population
4.2.2. Acquis speciripues aux dilferentes composantes
a) Composante S/WIPP'
* Les differentes infrastructures realisees etlou rehabilitees mnises en place dans les 9
districts couverts par le projet constituent des acquis durables.
* Les formations dispensees au personnel de la sante (mndecins, infirniers, sages-
femmnes etc..) et la disponibilit6 de ce personnel au niveau des differentes
formations sanitaires touchees par le projet constituent des acquis significatifs dans
le renforcement des capacites de ces formations et dans l'amelioration de la qualit6
de leurs prestations.
* Enfin, le materiel logistique acquis dans le cadre du Projet a permis au personnel
d'cncadrcment et des agcnts de la sant6 dc disposer dcs outils indispensables pour
la bonne execution de leur travail.
b) Compa>sanle promotion du bien-etre familial et due statut de la femme
b. 1) Communication de masse et Communication
inferpersonnelle/jeunesse
. Le renforcement des capacites et des competences en matiere de production de
messages dont ont beneficie les diff6rentes structures grice aux equipements et aux
formations requs constitue un acquis solide.
b.2) Micro-nalisations feminines
* Grace au volet micro-r6alisations, les femmes beneficiaires de ce volet du Projet ont
pu ameliorer le niveau de leurs revenus et, par consequent, mieux subvenir aux
besoins de leurs familles. Cette strat6gie peut jouer un r6le important dans le
programme de lutte contre la pauvrete au Niger.
* Le renforcement qualitatif des capacites des beneficiaires a se prendre en charge
gracc aux diff6rcntes fonnations acquises ct Icur participation active dans la prisc
des decisions au niveau villageois constituent des acquis durables en vue de la
creation d'une dynamique inteme, fondement d'un veritable developpement local.



10
b..3) ADpUi institutionnel o la Direction de la Promotion de la
Femme
* Le Projet a mis a la disposition des cadres du mministere et en particulier ceux de la
Direction de la promotion de la femme et les services departementaux de la
promotion de la femme des d6partements cibles des outils et comp6tences leur
permettant de mieux assurer leurs taches.
c) Composante Renforcement de la recherche et de la coordination en
matire de politique de population
* I'amelioration de la tenue et de 1'enregistirerent des faits d'etat civil.
* Le renforcement de la base de connaissances en matiere de donnies socio-
ddmographiques grIce aux differentes etudes monographiqucs et thnmatiques
realisees.
* L'appui logistique et technique au Secr6tariat Permanent de la Commission
Nationale pour la Population.
* La misc en placc du fonds population qui a pernis de creer un m&canisme financier
qui a assure l'implication des associations, des ONG, du secteur prive dans la mise
en oeuvre de la politique nationale de population. La forte demande enregistr6e
pour les micro-projets du fonds population constitue une preuve de la pertinence du
mecanisme.
5.  LES LECONS A TIRER POUR LE FUTUR
L'analyse quantitative et qualitative des realisations du Projet Population a
perrnis de tirer des lecons qui devraient etre prises en compte dans toiJs les
programmes et projets aLfin d'eviter de commettre les memes erreurs.
* Afin de multiplier les chances de reussite d'un projet, il est indispensable
d'irnpliquer dans sa conception et dans sa gestion les beneficiaires et les agents de
terrain qui connaissent bien les contextes, habitudes, besoins et priorites des
populations.
. Pour permettre le stivi et l'evaluation des actions r6alisies, il est indispensable
d'ctablir des indicateurs de perfornance ct d'impact au moment de la conception du
Projet et d'assurer son evaluation tout au long de son deroulement.
. Pour pouvoir apprecier aussi bien son utilit6 que son impact tout progamme de
formation doit etre accompagne d'un plan dc suivi en vuc d'assurer la misc en
ceuvre des competences acquises sur les lieux du travail, ainsi que d'un plan
d'evaluation pour mesurer l'impact de la formation sur la qualit6 et la frequentation
des senices, dans le cas de la sante reproductive par exemple.
* L'experience du Projet a demontre que pour rendre la d6centralisation effective, il
est necessaire d'assurer les conditions suivantes:
- l'operationnalite des structures de coordinations en place;



II
- la d6centralisation de la gestion;
- une formation des cadres sous-regionaux en matiere de gestion financiere des
projets et leur sensibilisation sur l'importance du decaissement des fonds et la
remise des pi6cesjustificatives dans les delais prevus;
a Les bailleurs de fonds devraient &re plus flexibles et s'adapter au contexte et aix
capacites des differentes structures chargees de la gestion et de la mise en aruvre
des projets.
* Pour assurer la longevite du materiel et des equipements, il est indispensable de
concevoir et de mettre en place utn syst6me approprie de maintenance ainsi qu'un
dispositif pour la fourniture des consommables impliquant toutes les parties
prenantes (en partenariat).
* Pour bien fonctionner et assurer sa mission ime cellule de coordination de projet a
besoin d'etre dotec des competences techniques et logistiques adequates.
* Developper une Synergie entre les secteurs charges de la mise en cauvre de la
politique nationale de population car la population etant un domaine couivrant
plusieurs secteurs il est indispensable de developper une collaboration entre les
diff6rents intervenants et une certaine coherence dans les actions afin d'en ameliorer
leur eftficacite et d'largir leur impact.
Pour assurer la reussite des micro-realisations et des micro-projets il est
important qiie les conditions suivantes soient remplies:
l la realisation d'une etude diagnostique prealable du contexte socio-economique des
micro-rTalisations et des micro-projets;
* ia definition des criteres precis de selection des projets;
* J'implication des beneficiaires dans les choix des activites a financer;
* la d6centralisation des procedures de selection des projets et d'octroi de cr&eit;
Ia mise en place d'un systeme de formation appropriee;
* 'organisation, la responsabilisation et la participation financiere des b6n6ficiaires;
Ia mise en place d'un systeme de suivi et d'evaluation des activites
6.    Conclusion generale
L'analyse des realisations effectuees et des diff6rents resultats atteints monlre
que le projet est pertinent car ses objectifs s1int6grent parfaitemnent dans les
preoccupations et orientations nationales dans les domaines de la sante maternelle et
infantile, de la planification familiale, de promotion du bien etre familial et statut de la
femme et de la politique nationale de population.
En depit d'une somme de contraintes, de retards et de difficultes inherentes a sa
complexit6, une execution conjointe assur&e avec plus ou moins de bonheur par
diverses structures et un contexte d'instabilit6 institutionnelle, de crise socio-
economique, peu propice au traitement des questions aussi complexes, le projet



12
population, compte tenu de la pertinence de ses resultats, peut etre considere comme
une expenence reussie.
Meme s'il parait tres t6t pour apprecier limpact du projet par rapport aux
objectifs qui lui sont awsign6s, des nombreuses actions, initiees et executees par le
projet, constituent des acquis indeniables, a savoir:
- la construction et/ou la r6habilitation des infiastructures socio-
sanitaires indispensables a l'am6lioration de l'acces et de la qualite des
soms;
- les mnicro-realisations feminines et les groupenents mis en place;
- I'int6gration au plan conceptuel et ideologique de la question de la
femme et de la population dans la problematique de d6veloppement.
- I'appui instutionnel logistique et materiel apporte aux differentes
structures et le large eventail des formations dispens6es au personnel a
differents  niveaux  ont  contribue  a  renforceT  les  capacites
institutionnelles des services ayant particip6 A 1'ex6cution du projet de
meme que lIes competences de leur personnel;
- le caract6re multisectoTiel et I'approche decentralis6e irnpliquant les
services techniques, les communautes villageoises et la societe civile
(ONG, associations, groupements etc...) ont contribue a mettre en place
le debut d'un partenariat, cadre indispensable a la mise en oeuvre d'un
processus de developpement autocentre et durable;
- enfin, le projet, grice a certains instruments mis en place (plans
d'action), a consfitu6 in cadre de mnobilisation des nombreux
financements (organismes des nations unies: UNICEF, PN1JD, FNUAP;
ONG(: ALAF'IA; Coop6ration bilaterale  Cooperation Beige; Projets:
PASP).
7.   Recommandations en vue de la consolidation et la
nerennisation des acauis du projet
7.1. Recommandations en vue de la consolidation/Derennisation des
acquis du projet population
Au vu des resultats de l'evaluation interne, le projet population a donne lieu a
deux acquis majeurs:
- I'extensioii des infrastructures sanitaires accompagnee de la formation
du personnel sanitaire pour assurer des services de sante de qualite;
- l'am6lioration de revenus et du niveau de vie de la fanille par la
promotion des activit6s r6muneratrices des groupements et la mise en
oeuvre des micro-projets dont l'impact est non negligeable sur le
probleme de pauvrete en general et sur la participation de la femme dans
la prise des decisions concemant le developpement de la communaute en
particulier.



13
*La consolidation et la perennisation du premier de ces acquis est assuree par la
prise en charge de cette strategie par le projet sante 2.
Afin de ne pas perdre les acquis- obtenus grice aux activit6s des groupements
f6minins, des mesures internndiaires sont indispensables. Ces mesures devraient
comprendre:
- le maintien en place des animatrices pendant une per.tode allant de 12 a
18 mois afin de bien encadrer les groupements deja en place;
- une appreciation des besoins des groupements (formation,
alphabetisation, procedures) et la mise en place d'un programme d'appui
pour assurer leur continuite et leur d6veloppement,
- la poursuite des efforts de formation et de recyclage pour les membres
des differents groupements, en fonction des r6sultats de l'appr6ciation
des besoins, afin de garantir le fonctionnement efficace de ces
groupements;
- la mise en place de fonds de demarrage pour les groupements deja
crees et non pourvus en fonds et 6ventuellement pour leur extension.
Afin d'assurer les conditions d'une prise en charge suffisante et assez durable,
un m6canisme de fmnancement avec la contribution de toutes les parties prenantes
devrait etre mis en place.
7.2. Recommandations sur les strategies futures
7.2.1. Strategies your rehausser le niveau de revenus et la qualite de vie
de la population ni2erienne
Le secteur public ne peut pas tout faire, qu'il s'agisse de la prestation des
differents types de services necessaires pour ameliorer la condition socio-sanitaire de
la population ou des autres interventions visant cet objectif A cet effet Le
MDS/P/PF/PE est particulierement bien place pour mobiliser et orienter les
interventions des ONG et associations en vue de leur contribution a la realisation de
ces prestations en particulier et aux actions de lutte contre la pauvret6 en general.
Z21.1. Pounsuite et cnsoidation des micro-rialisons et initiativex
cm,flunautaires
11 s'agirait de poursuivre et de consolider 1'experience entamee dans le cadre du
projet population pour accroitre les revenus et le niveau de vie des familles
nigeriennes, par le renforcement et le developpement des activites r6muniratrices des
groupements feminins, la promotion des activites socio-educatives et sanitaires au
niveau des groupements feminins (mobilisation de la population, notamment les
femmes en faveur des comrportements nouveaux en mati6re de sante et d'education et
les initiatives en faveur des jeunes).



14
7.2L2 Aftse en place d'un fonds dapuai aux ONCG. ssociations et
ax VeMs aceurs du secteur ,rnvi
Un mecanisme financier devrait etre mis en place pour appuyer et dcvelopper
les actions des ONG, associations et petits acteurs prives.
7.3.  Renforcement institutionne etf technique du MDSIP/IPF/E
Le MDS/PPF/PE1 sera le catalyseur et l'initiateur des diff6rentes activites et
apportera I'appui n6cessaire aux ONG/associations. Cet appui pourrait imclure la
fon=atton/encadrement en gestion de projets, en melhodes participatives
d'identification des besoins, de d6tennination de la <cIient6le>> de
l'ONG/association, etc...
Afin de jouer efficacement son role, le MDS/P/PF/PE aurait lui meme besoin
d'un appui en materiel, logistique et formation de ses cadres nationaux et regionaux.
Les annexes de ce rapport sont disponible sur requete aupres du Task Team
Leader.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Niger
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
exPected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                           disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                         Purpose
No.                                                                                IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 40
Active Loansl
NE-PE-35608   IDA30260      1998   GOVERNMENT                         TRANSP. INFRA. REHAB               0.00       28.00            0.00         27.42         0.00       0.00
NE-PE-1974    IDA29390      1997   REPUBLIC OF NIGER                  PUBLIC SECTOR ADJ.                 0.00       30.00            0.00          0.00          .27       0.00
NE-PE-l999    IDA29150      1997   GOVERNMENT OF NIGER                HEALTH II                          0.o0       40.00            0.00         35.22         -.21       0.00
NE-PE-49691   IDA29570      1997   GOVERNMENT                         URBAN INFRAS. REHAB.               0.00       20.00            0.00         19.58          .36       0.00
NE-PE-1967    IDA27960      1996   GOVERNMENT OF NIGER                NATURAL RES. MGMT                  0.00       26.70            0.00         19.73         3.31        .13
NE-PE-1994    IDA27070      1995   GOVERNMENT                         PILOT PRIVATE IRRIG                0.00        6.80            0.00          4.44         3.76       3.14
NE-PE-1980    IDA26180      1994   GOVT OF NIGER                      EDUCATION III - SECA               0.00       41.40            0.00          18.07        3.62       0.00
NE-PE-199s    IDA23550      1992   GOVERNMENT                         AG. SERVICES                       0.00       18.00            0.00          2.85         3.41      -1.70           >
NE-PE-1968    IDA21220      1990   GOVERNMENT OF NIGER                AGRIC. RESEARCH                    0.00       19.90            0.00           7.17        5.79       3.65
NE-PE-1963    IDA18900      1988   GOVT OF NIGER                      SMALL RURAL OPERATIO               0.00        9.30            0.00            .66         .16        .08
Total                                                                                                    0.00      240.10            0.00        135.14        20.47       5.30
Active Loans         Closed Loans            TQa 
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA);                 100.19              542.44               642.63
of which has been repaid:                   0.00               31.19               31.19
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 240.10              484.36               724.46
Amount sold                      :                0.00                 3.15                3.15
Of which repaid               :                0.00                3.15                 3.15
Total Undisbursed                :              135.14                 7.23              142.37
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (NS - highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) ; see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note;
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on March 17, 1998



MAP SECTION



k ALGERIA 4   8'  2                                                                    iGER
MALI   NlGE                                                           POPULATION PROJECT
,/CHAD                                        PROJET POPULATION
 9NIGERISj  
.AR                 ENDP MEROO,L RErT I
NATIONAL HOSPITAL
5)    HOSPITAL NATIONAL                                                                                                                                                                         SILMATA
DEEARTMENTAL HEALTH DIRECTORATE
U:                   N DEPRTEMENTAE O LA SANTE                                                             A      
f   PROJECrDISTRICTS                                                        /                                                                                                                                 s  _~~WIT  AADE
Ak          MEIRCAL CENTER
Ow~ in -W  f Ihn 39 dW,ktc(AsnndnneE
_______ PAYED ROADS                                                                          AI
ROUTES PERMANENRES                                                                                                                                                             0 /  sno
_______ _E_ EARTH ROADS
ROUTES EN TERRE
..._,E...    RIVERS1 I
TIvERS/E
F EUVES >/ 
o          SeUECTED TOWNS
VIU ES SELECTIONNEES                         -
DEPARTMENTCAPITALS                           -                                   AGADEZ
CHEF LEU OF DEPARTEMENT
1 4L1 ~~~~~NATI NAL CAPITAL   JCH,D
*    eCAPrTALENATIONALE                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CHAD
AI         EARR ONDISSEMENT  DARIES
A tS~~~~~~LMTE OLA'PRONDfSSEMfNT                                                                                           \                                                                               Z ZDIFFAI/
LW                   ~~~~~~LIMITE DE DEPARTEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                              1     6-
6^  _              ~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                      |A                                 
^\ F~~~~RONTIERES INTERNATIONALES                                 T> AHOUA   \ 
r____<-HIhrTAEARA-se eIn p/)  .,<\gAivOvr    tZiNDFh    GOURE                                                           NGUIGMIfor
ond  is  oonlosie      for  The
QUALLAM                                                                                                                                                                                            W e,uol!a -  -   Dakor Nui  pf The World -ank
HOUA  DAKOR                                                                                                           6'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ro -The den-oin-i-n  unod
A  TAHO                                                                                                                                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~od  the   b-n,dr,ies  show-
oolhsn                          -    -                  MAFiADI              SOISOSSIOSII ~~D.k.                                                    Ng.igmni                    -nthi- n~  do-no in     thb . o
SINE  sZl~~~ 0                        onedonseenet or on-pt--n of
sor  boond-ni-o
~~~WAWYE                                                                                  Nw~~~~~~~AE ROO)N
EIU P  T                                                                         To Kcmo                                           KILOMETERS  _____________________KWT
BURKINA                             ~~~~~~Sob-ngni                                                                                               MILES                                         0 
FASO                                                                                               N I G E R I A
3ENIN       X0 ET 12 I                                                                                                                                                                                  {>            16' 2
Ka



