Wc,  ZL%c' - A///2- .   7
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10047-NIR Type: (SAR)                              Report No. 10047-NI
BROWN, EDW/ X34834 / J9064/ Ab5PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
POPULATION PROJECT
APRIL 3, 1992
Population and Human Resources
Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
bhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniy in the performance of
their officbil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALKNT
Currenoy Unit = CPA Franc (CFAF) / USSI - CFAF 272 (February 1992)
WEIGIITS AND MEASUiRES
Metrio system
AflJEVIfAONS AND ACRONYMS
APN             Association des Femmes Nigdriennes (Nigerlen Women's Assoeathon)
AGCD            Agence GEdnerat de la Cooperation au Ddvcloppencnt (Bclgian Agency for Cooperation and Develop-
ment)
CDR             Crude Birth Rato
CDR             Crude Death Rate
CERPOD          Centre d'Etudes ot de Recherche aur la Populations en Ddveloppement (Center for Studies and Research
in Population Development)
CESAG           Centro Africain d'Etudea Supdricures en Gastion (Afriean Center for Management Studies)
CHD             Centro Hospitalier Ddpartomcntal (Departmental Hospital)
CIDA            Canadian International Devolopment Agency
CIMEFOR         Centre Mddical de Formation cl do Recherche (Centor for Medical Training and Research)
CM              Centre Medical (Medical Centcr)
CNSF            Centre National do Sant6 Familialo (National Center for Family Health)
CONAPO          Commission Nationale do Ia Population (National Commiasion on Population Activities)
CPR             Contraceptive Prevalence Rato
DAP             Direction des Activitds do Population (Directorate of Population Activities)
DAS             Direction des Affaires Sociales (Directorate of Social Affairs)
DCF             Direction do la Condition Fdminine (Directorate of Women's Affaira)
DDP             Direction Ddparteinentale du Plan (Departmental Planning Directorate)
DDS             Direction D4partementale do la Sante (Departmental Health Directorate)
DEP             Direction des Etudes ct do la Programmation (Studies and Programming Directorate)
DFEPS           Direction do la Formation et do l'Education pour la Sante (Directorate of Training and Health Education)
DIS             Direction des Infrastructures Sanitaires (Directorate of Health Facilities)
DPF             Direction do ia Planification Familiale (Directorate of Family Planning)
DR              Dispcnsaire Rural (Rural Dispensary)
DSD             Ddpartement de la Statistique et do la Demographic (Dcpartment of Statistics and Demography)
DSMI            Direction de la Smnto Matcrnellc et Infantile (Directorate of Maternal and Child Hcalth)
ENICAS          Ecolc Nationale des Infirmicra et des Cadres de l Action Sociale (National School for Nurscs and Social
Workers)
ENSP            Ecole Nationale do la Santm Publique (National School of Public Health)
EPI             Expanded Program of Immunization
FAC             Fonds d'Aide ct de Coopdration (Frcnch Bilateral Aid Agency)
FED             Fonds Europden de Ddveloppemcnt (European Devclopmcnt Fund)
FP              Family Planning
GTZ             Deutsche Gesellschaft mr Technische Zusammenarbeit (German Technical Cooperation Agency)
IC              Infirmier Certifid (Certified Nurse)
IDE             Infirmier Diplomd d'Etat (Rcgistered Nurse)
IEC             Information, Education, and Communication
KAP             Knowledge, Attitude and Practice (survey)
MCCJS           Ministbre do la Communication, dc ia Culture, de la Jeuncsse et des Sporta (Ministry of Communication,
Culture, Youth and Sports)
MCH             Matemal and Child Health
MDSPPF          Ministcre du Ddveloppcmcnt Social, de ia Population et de la Promotion Fcminine (Ministry of Social
Devclopment. Population and Womcn's Promotion)
MEF             Minist&rc do l'Economic ct des Finances (Ministry of Economy and Finance)
MSP             Minist;re de Ia Santd Publique (Ministry of Public Health)
NGO             Nongovernmental Organization
ONPPC           OlTice National des Produits Pharmaccutiques ct Chimiques (National Burau of Pharmaceutical and
Chemical Products)
ORTN            Office de Radiodiffusion et TelEvision du Niger (Radio Broadcasting and Television Bureau of Niger)
PCAN            Projet Conjoint d'Appui I la Nutrition (UNICEF-funded Community Nutrition Initiative)
PCU             Projcct Coordinating Unit
PHC             Primary Health Care
PM              Poste MEdical (Health Post)
SAP             Service d'Arrondissement du Plan (District-level Ofrice of tho Ministry of Economy and Finance)
SERAM           Service d'Entretien des Apparcils Mddicaux (Medical Equipmcnt Maintenance Service)
SERMEX          Serviec d'Entrctien des Matdricis d'Exploitation (Laboratory Equipmcnt Maintenance Service)
SERPA           Scrvice d'Entrcticn du Parc Automobile (Vehicle Maintenance Unit)
SNIS            Systmem  National d'lnformation Sanitaire (National Health Information System)
SOE             Statement of Expenditure
STD             Sexually Trnsmitted Disease
TBA             Traditional Birth Attendant
TFR             Total Fertility Rate
UEDD            Unitc des Etudes Ddmographiqucs pour k Ddveloppement (Population and Development Studies Unit)
UNFPA           United Nations Population Fund
USAID           U.S. Agency for Intemational Development
VHT             Village Health Team
WHO             World Helith Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
POPULATION PROJEC
TABLE OF CONTEITS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PRO.ECT SUMMARY   ....................................   i
1.      INTRODUCTION  ............................................    1
II.     SECTORAL CONTEXT  ........................................    1
A.   Socioeconomic Background ....................                                                1
B.      Overview of the National Population Program   .... ......... .                            4
C.   Institutional Arrangements ...... ..............                                             5
D.      Sector Development Issues  ..................................    7
1.      Weak Service Delivery and Information Dissemination Systems ...           ....   7
2.      Sector Management Planning and Coordination Constraints  ...             ......   9
3.      Sociocultural Impediments to FP ..........................  11
E.      The Government's Populaiir. and FP Strategy  ......................  11
F.      The Bank Group's Role            .................            ...................   15
III. THE PROJECT                                 . . .18
A.  Project Rationale and Objectives                 ..18
B.      Project Description                 .......................................   19
1.      Strengthening of Maternal Health and FP Services   ..............  19
2.      Promotion of Family Welfare and Women's Status  ..............  23
3.      Strengthening of Population Policy Analysis, Research and Coordination .  28
C.      Project Cost and Financing'Plan  ...............................  30
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATlON  ..................................  30
A.      Status of Proaect Preparation and Readiness ........................  30
B.      Project Coordination and Management, Monitoring and Evaluation  ...              ......  31
C.      Procurement  ...........................................   34
D.      Disbursements ..........................................   37
E.      Accounting, Auditing and Reporting  ............................  38
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ................................ 39
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ...................  40
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Niger in June/July 1991 comprising: Messrs./Mmes.
Edward Brown, Mission Leader; Anwar Bach Baouab, Population Specialist; Malonga Miatudila, Public Health Specialist; Paul
Geli, Implementation Specialist/Consultant; Lise Pomerleau, WID Specialist/Consultant; Dr. Catherine Geissler, Nutrition
Specialist/Consultant; and Christian Rey, Architect/Consultant. A post-appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. Edward Brown
and Anwar Bach Baouab visited Niger in November 199i, following a change in Government, to follow up on conditions
precedent to negotiations. The missions were assisted by Mr. Francis Mody and Mr. Pierre Nignon of the Resident Mission.
The report was prepared by Mr. Edward Brown with thc assistance of Messrs./Mmes Anwar Bach Baouab, Paul Geli, and
Sabrina Huffman. It was processed by Ms. Sylvie Giroux-Polasky. Ms. Katherine Marshall and Mr. Birger Fredriksen are the
Department Director and the managing Division Chief, respectively, for the operation; and Dr. Jacques Baudouy and Mr.
Michael Azefor were the peer reviewers.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance 
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World llank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES                                                                                 Page Ng.
1      Basic Data Sheet and Comparative Indicators  ............................  43
2-1    The Public Health System         ...............................   45
3-1    The Village Health Team Program   ...............................                      50
3-2  The Family Planning Program ................................  3
3-3  The Proposed Training Program ................................ 61
3-4    List of Selected Departments and Medical Centers to be .68
Rehabilitated, and Medical Equipment
3-5    The Program to Strengthen and Expand the Information .81
Education and Communication Activities
3-6  The Women in Development Program ............... 93
3-7  The Vital Registration Program .104
3-8    Strengthening the Institutional Framework for the
National Population Program   .    .................................... 108
3-9    The Population Fund .......................................... 111
3-10   Detailed Project Cost Estimates .   .................................... 115
4-1    Specialist Services ...........................................   120
4-2    Supervision Plan and Annual and Mid-Term Evaluation Criteria .....        ........... 121
4-3    Disbursement Profile ............................................ 125
M :    IBRD 23562



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
POPULATION PROJECT
CREDIT ANI) PROJECT SUMMARY
FWErq :   Republic of Niger
B=flgjries: Ministries of Public Health, Social Development, Population and Women's Promotion;
Economy and Finance; and Communication, Culture, Youth and Sports
Amount:      SDR 12.9 million (US$17.6 million)
Iems:       Standard, with 40 years maturity
Uffigription:  The project would assist the Government in implementing an effective national population
program, with the primary objective of accelerating the onset of fertility decline by
increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate as rapidly as possible, reducing maternal
mortality, promoting attitudes favoring a reduction in family size norms, and enhancing
the capacity of women to effectively participate in socioeconomic development. To this
end, the project supports policies and investments designed to:
(a)    Strengthen the delivery of maternal health and family planning (MCH/FP) services by:
(i) supporting policy reform in the areas of essential drugs and cost recovery, and
strengthening departmental and district capacities in sector management, planning,
monitoring and evaluation; and (ii) increasing access to and improving the quality of
MCH/FP services at all levels of service delivery (village, canton, district and
department), and providing support for the participation of NGOs, including community
groups and other private sector agencies, in MCH/FP service delivery and information,
education and communication (JEC) activities;
(b)    Promote family welfare and women's status by encouraging behavior favoring a reduction
in family size norms, and by enhancing the capacity of women to effectively participate
in socioeconomic development, through support for: (i) a nationwide IEC program;
(ii) promoting the status of women; and (iii) nutrition interventions; and
(c)    Reinforce the capacity for population policy analysis, research. monitoring and
coordination by: (i) improving the capacity for sociodemographic data collection,
analysis, research and evaluation; (ii) strengthening the institutional capacity for the
promotion and coordination of the national population program; and (iii) establishing a
Population Fund to encourage active private sector and NGO involvement in the
population program.
Benerits
and Risks:   Project benefits would be widespread, especially in five areas. First, between 0.8 to 1.0
million women of reproductive age would gain direct access to MCH/FP services. Pre-
and post-natal consultations would be significantly increased, thus directly affecting
maternal and infant mortality rates. FP service consultations, the number of new
acceptors, and continuity of contraceptive use would rise significantly, resulting in a
estimated contraceptive prevalence rate of between 25% and 30% in urban areas, and



ii
between 5% and 10% in rural areas by the end of the project perlod. In addition, the
efficiency and quality of service delivery of the health care system at the regional, district
and village .ivels would be greatly improved. &&QnW, she IEC sub-component is
expected to have a far-reaching qualitative impact on the socioeconomic well-being of the
Nigerien population. IEC activities would cover the whole country through mass media
(about 95% of the population h ,e access to radio and 25% to television), and would
enhance the awareness of the population with regard to health, FP and environmental
issues, thus facilitating the Government's efforts to implement more aggressive and
effective policy reforms to promote fertility decline. 3iArd, the WID sub-component,
through its support for energy- and time-saving technologies, expansion of microenterpri-
ses, functional literacy programs, and nutrition surveillance would have a far-reaching
impact on women's health and nutrition, as well as on family weifare, and would help
reinforce the FP objectives of the project. Fourth, the population policy analysis,
research and coordination component would significantly enhance the Government's
abilitv to promote and coordinate broad-based program implementation. The establish-
ment of a permanent secretariat for the National Commission on Population Activities
(CONAPO) will provide the needed institutional leadership, and help strengthen the
political commitment essential for establishing a stable, sustainable, and legitimate
national population program. By the end of the project period, the quality of overall
development and sectoral planning would have significantly improved, as a result of
improved analytical work, the availability of a more reliable and comprehensive data
base, and a body of technical expertise in relevant ministries able to integrate demograph-
ic factors into development planning. Fifth, the Population Fund would help expand the
capacity to deal with social sector issues by encouraging increased private sector and
NGO involvement in the population program.
There are three main risks. Eirst, if the current unstable political situation were to
persist, the population and family planning program may not continue to receive the same
attention and visibility that it has enjoyed so far. However, the open attitude that has
come to prevail in the discussions of these issues, as well as the track record of strong
and broad-based support for FP throughout the country, are reasons to believe this is now
a well-accepted item on the nailonal agenda. Furthermore, the support provided by this
project for the establishment of a nationwide IEC program should help maintain
population issues as a high priority national concern. Second, the implementation of the
decentralization strategy at the departmental and district levels may be slow to
materialize. It is expected that project interventions aimed at improving the management,
administrative and technical capacities of health personnei at the provincial levels will
mitigate this risk. 3lird, the redeployment of health personnel from the central to the
regional and district levels may not be achieved effectively. To help minimize this risk,
a personnel recruitment and redeployment plan was discussed and agreed at negotiations;
Government's adoption of the agreed plan is a condition of ef&e'giveness.



liii
REPUBLIC OF NIGMR
POPULATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND PROj.ECT COST ESTIMArES
(US$ Million') 
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS hk
LOCAL       FORETIGN       TOTAL
1. Strengthening the delivetry of
Maternal Health and PP Services               4.5           6.5          11.0
2. Promoting Family Welfare and the
Status of Women                               4.4           2.6           7.0
3. Reinforcing Population Policy Analysis,
Research and Coordination                     0.6           0.7           1.4
4. Project Coordination and Management          0.5           0.6           1.1
5. Refinancing of PPF                           0.1           0.3           0.4
Total Base Costs                             10.2          10.7          21.0
Physical Contingencies                        0.6           0.8           1.4
Price Contingencies                           0.9           0.7           1.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          11.8          12.3          24.1
Financing Plan  (US$ million)
IDA                                      8.0           9.6          17.6
Govermnent                               2.7           0.0           2.7
NCO/Private Sector                       0.1           0.1           0.1
Communities                              0.1           0.0           0.1
Belgium                                  0.5           2.0           2.5
UNICEF                                   0.5           0.5           1.0
TOTAL                                   11.8          12.3          24.1
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
-US$ million--------    -
IDA FY               93     94    25      96    97      98
Annual              0.8    2.0    5.5    5.0    3.0    1.3
Cumulative          0.8    2.8    8.3   13.3   16.3   17.6
a/ Totals may not add up due to rounding.
hi Net of taxes and duties.
Economic Rate of Return:           Not applicable.



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
POPULATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTI
1 .1         The Government of Niger has requested IDA's assistance in financing a project designed
to. help implement Its National Population Program, now in the early stages of implementation. The
proposed project would assist Niger in expanding the provision of family planning services and safe
motherhood interventions; supporting associated programs to improve the status of women and their role
in the economy, and strengthening the country's population planning, management and coordinating
capacities at the central and regional levels.
1.2         Total project costs are estimated at US$24.1 million equivalent (net of taxes and duties),
with a foreign exchange component of US$12.3 million. Contributions from the Govermnent, private
agencies, nongovernmental organizations and communities total US$3.0 million. Cofinancing is expected
from the Belgian Government (US$2.5 million), and UNICEF (US$1.0 million); and the remaining
US$17.6 million would be financed by IDA.
1.3          The project would be IDA's first free-standing population project in the Sahel. The
policy measures and investments included in the project have been developed through dialogue with the
Nigerien authorities based on IDA's Population Sector Memorandum for Niger (December 1988); the
Government's draft Population Policy Document (April 1991); the draft family planning and safe
motherhood policy documents (1988 and 1989, respectively); and extensive discussions during the
supervision of the ongoing Health Project (Cr. 1668-NIR) as well as during the course of project
preparation. The basic data sheet and comparative indicators are found in Annex 1.
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Socioeconomic Background
2.1          Economic situation. With a population of 7.5 million inhabitants and a per capita income
of US$290, Niger is one of the least developed countries in the world, with only modest physical and
human resources at its disposal. The environment is harsh: the population lives in persistent poverty
stemming from low and erratic rainfall, poor soils, underdeveloped human resources, population pressure
on limited arable land, sparse infrastructure, and a severe lack of safe water. Subsistence farming is the
mainstay of the population, 82% of whom live in the countryside, but uranium mining remains the main
revenue-earning activity in the economy. For a brief period in the late 1970s, favorable climatic
conditions and a worldwide uranium boom ushered in a period of strong economic growth; however, the
boom came to an abrupt end in 1980, heralding a fundamental change towards worsening economic
prospects for the country. At the same time, climatic conditions again began to deteriorate, culminating
in drought that only over the last few years has lessened in severity.
2.2          Due to its severely constrained resources, Niger faces limited prospects for long-term
growth. Since 1983, faced with mounting domestic and external financial imbalances aggravated by the
weakened world demand for uranium, Niger has pursued adjustment policies aimed at overcoming the
structural constraints to growth and aligning aggregate demand with available resources. The adjustment
effort was undertaken with financial and technical support from the IMF and the Bank, as well as other



2
multilateral and bilateral donors. So far, progress has been made in rationalizing the public sector
enterprise sector, and reducing direct subsidies to the sector from nearly 25% to 7% of current budpt
outlays between 1983 and 1989; liberalizing the economy by eliminating most price controls auid
abolishiiug some state trade monopolies; and strengthening the rural sector by freeing up internal trade
in cereals, eliminating export duties for agro-pastoral products, and reducing subsidies.
2.3           These adjustment efforts have, however, been less effective than expected. Atihough a
noticeable shif. in the allocation of public expenditures towards priority sectors such as agriculture and
education occurred during the initial phase of the adjustment program, in recent years this has stagnated.
The arnicipated supply response has not taken place, and domestic financing of investment has gradually
dried up. Moreover, the situation has be,n exacerbated by considerable natural and structural constraints.
The limited amount of arable land, rapidly increasing population, vulnerability of the agro-pastoral sector
to fluctuating weather conditions, and the country's landlocked position constitute major natural
constraints. Furthermore, the slack in the world market for uranium since the early 1980s, difficulties
in developing appropriate technology for rainfed agriculture, and the limited supply of skilled labor have
made the quest for a viable solution to the country's economic crisis even more difficult. Developing
the human resource base and strengthening social sector interventions are, therefore, key elements in the
Government's long-term development strategy.
2.4           Demographic situation. The demographic situation in Niger is characterized by a very
high and relatively constant level of fertility, a high but declining level of morta!ity, extremely high
mobility of the rural population, and an ever increasing tendency towards sedentarization among the
nomads. For several decades, Niger's fertility level has remained high by world standards and may, in
fact, be increasing. The crude birth rate (CBR) is estimated at 51 per thousand, up from 48 in the mid
1960s. Total fertility rate (TFR), estimated at 7.1 live births per woman, has remained relatively constant
over the past two decades. Mortality has fallen significantly over the past two to three decades. The
crude death rate (CDR) for 1965 and 1989 were 29 and 20 per thousand, respectively, suggesting a 31%
decline. Life expectancy at birth increased from about 35 years in 1965 to 45 in 1989, and infant
mortality declined from  180 per thousand live births to 130 per thousand over the same period.
Nevertheless, the mortality rate remains high when compared to that of neighboring countries, and is
much higher than in countries with similar levels of income in Sub-Saharan Africa (Annex 1).
2.5           Health and social status. The health status of the Nigerien population is among the
poorest in the region. Poverty, ignorance and widespread malnutrition are the underlying factors in the
high mortality and fertility rates. Infant and child mortality account for 60% of all deaths. Maternal
mortality remains very high: nearly 700 out of 100,000 live births result in death of the mother. Despite
good progress over the last several years in improving primary health care, preventable and treatable
diseases such as malaria and diarrhea, combined with inaccessibility to potable water, poor sanitation and
malnutrition, continue to be the primary causes of high mortality, especially among infants and children.
With regard to maternal mortality, hemorrhage and rupture of the uterus account for over 40% of all
deaths due to obstetrical complications, many of which could be averted under an effective prenatal care
and efficient referral system. Mothers under 19 years of age and high parity women have the highest
relative mortality and morbidity rates. Almost two thirds (60%) of all maternal deaths occur to
primiparae, with a third of these deaths occurring among mothers under 19. Although nationwide data
on induced abortion is inadequate and unreliable (the fatality rate is unknown), records from the national
hospital in Niamey indicate that a high percentage of pregnancy complications, particularly among young
mothers, is the result of botched abortion and vaginal fistulae. Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) also
contribute to maternal morbidity, as indicated by the relatively high level of sterility recorded in the
region of Diffa. Furthermore, although official data is inadequate, there is evidence of increasing



3
Incidence of AIDS, particularly in the large urban areas of Niamey, Maradi and Zinder 1/, As the
AIDS epidemiological situation deteriorates, its impact and that of other STDs on maternal and child
health are beginning to be felt in terms of resource needs In the public health sector.
2.6            Malnutrition, especially among children, and pregnant and nursing mothers, is a serious
problem in spite of the theoretical availability of sufficient food in normal rainfall years. About 25% of
children aged 12-23 months and 22% of children aged 24-35 months are chronically malnourished. In
addition, about 33% of pregnant women suffer from moderate to severe anemia, with hemoglobin levels
of less than 11 grams per deciliter, and micronutrient deficiency, particularly vitamin A deficiency among
children aged 0-6 years, is also common in many parts of the country. The level of malnutrition
fluctuates with the availability of food,
2.7           Niger's adult literacy rate of 14% is one of the lowest in the world. Its current primary
school enrollment ratio of 30% is one of the lowest in Africa, and girls account for only one third of this
enrollment (36%). Enrollment growth in urban areas is severely constrained by limited capacity as
manifested by overcrowdin-, and restrictions on new admissions at the start of each school year. In rural
areas, low population density resulting in part from the rural exodus makes the provision of education
quite costly.
2.8           The low status of women in the society exacerbates their poor health conditions by
limiting access to health care, education, and economic opportunities that could help to reduce the high
fertility rate and increase women's participation in the socioeconomic development of the country. The
very early age at first marriage (currently estimated at 15 years) and the high level of illiteracy among
women (91 %) further encourage early childbearing, significantly increasing the risk of maternal death
and severely limiting the options available to women to realize their full potential.
2.9           The dynamics of Niger's population. Niger's population is growing at an annual rate
of 3.4%. This high rate is likely to continue or even ir.crease slightly before the turn of the century.
With about 49% of the population under age 15, there is built-in momentum for rapid growth as larger
cohorts of women enter childbearing age. Given the universality of marriage, the strong preference for
large families, and the low literacy rate, it is likely that the currently high level of fertility will be
maintained for several years. Current estimates based on the Bank's standard projection assumptions
suggest that the TFR would increase to 7.3 live births per woman, and total population from its current
level of 7.5 million to 11 million by the year 2000. Even under the standard fertility decline assumption,
which implies a modest increase in contraceptive prevalence, Niger's population would more than double
over the next 20 years.
2.10          These demographic trends do not augur well for the future.  Already, the growing
encroachment of the desert and the attendant rapidly increasing sedentarization of the nomadic population
are contributing to higher population density on arable land, which has almost doubled in the last 25 years
to as high as 44 inhabitants per km2 2/. About 75% of the population occupies less than 12% of the
land area, with the largest concentration along the borders with Nigeria and Burkina Faso. Increasingly,
more people are moving to the urban areas, causing mounting pressure on limited urban resources. The
urban population, which constituted only 7% of the total population in the mid-1960s, has more than
L/     The estimate of sero-prevalence in a 1989 study of the city of Niamey was about 0.5% among
prostitutes, with HIV-2 being the most prevalent. STD prevalence is estimated at about 20%.
2/     Social and economic tensions resulting from the growing sedentarization of nomads has been creating
major political problems on a national scale.



4
doubled in the last two decades to its current level of 15.3%. The average annual urban growth rate in
the 1980s has been estimated at 7.7% -- up from 7.2% in the 1970s -- and is doubling every nine years.
2.11         Under present circumstances, it has become increasingly difficult for the economy to cope
with the needs of the population. Since the mid 1960s, GDP growth has averaged only 1% per annum,
while population growth exceeded 3%, resulting in a decline iln per capita income by about 2% annually
over the period. The primary school age population has been growing at a rate higher than that of the
total population, dwarfing efforts to achieve substantial increases in a-cess to education through policy
reform and efficiency measures. Furthermore, the combination of a stagnant economy and a labor force
growth that is in excess of 2.6% per annum, is causing rapid growth in youth unemployment. The
detrimental effects of the present virtual stagnation of human resources development and growing
unemployment rate on the country's long-term development prospects are exacerbated by the continuing
rapid rate of population growth which, in addition, is imposing severe constraints on the environment and
on the fulfillment of consumption needs for food, energy, water, housing, and health 3/. Slowing the
population growth rate is thus an essential element of Niger's medium- to long-term strategy to reverse
declining per capita Income and increasing poverty.
B. Overview Of the National Population Program
2.12         Although the Nigerien population program is in an early stage of development, good
progress has been made over the last five years with regard to family planning (FP) promotion and
serv9;:e delivery, as well as broad-based policy and program development. There has beer steady
expansion in the provision of FP services since the inception of an organized program in 1984. Use of
FP services has increased rapidly, particularly in the major urban areas of Niamey, Zinder and Maradi,
where contraceptive prevalence levels were estimated at 18% in 1989. The contraceptive prevalencs rate
(CPR) at the national level, however, continues to be very low; only about 2-3% of women currently use
modern contraceptive methods. The Government's Five-Year Action Plan (1988-93) proposes to extend
FP services to all urban areas in the country's eight departments by the end of the Plan period and to
gradually expand these services to the rural and peripheral health centers nationwide.
2.13         To provide policy guidance an I institutional focus for the program, the Government:
(a) in April 1988, enacted an ordinance on contraceptive practice, abrogating the 1920 French law
forbidding the sale and advertising of contraceptives; (b) created in the same year the Department for
Family Planning and, in May 1989, established the Ministry of Social Affairs and Women's Promotion.
In November 1991, this Ministry was given the additional function of population planning, coordination
and monitoring and renamed the Ministry of Social Development, Popuiation and Women's Promotion
(MDSPPF); and (c) in April 1990, created a national technical committee on population responsible for
the development of a national population policy. The draft policy document - which proposes the
creation of a National Commission on Population Activities (CONAPO) to provide overall policy
guidance and coordination for the population program -- was completed in April 1991, and has been
submitted to the new Government for consideration. It is expected that the policy document will be
approved during the first half of 1992.
2.14         These policy and institutional changes have created a favorable environment for the
expansion of FP services and an increase in progr?.ns aimed at improving women's status. Greater
attention is now given to women's iss,'es, and work is underway to develop the institutional and legal
-.:   A detailed analysis of the socioeconomic ar  Smogrtphic interrelationships under different scenarios of
population growth can be found in the Niger Population Sector Memorandum (December 1988) prepared
by the Bank.



framework to deal with these issues. The debates and consensus-building efforts continue on such
sensitive issues as the "code de famille" and the " code rural" which, among other objectives, aim at
address the sociocultural and religious impediments to improving women's status.
C. institutional Arrangements
2.15          Three major government institutions share the main responsibilities for population
activities: (a) the newly established Ministry of Social Development, Population and Women's Promotion
(MDSPPF) has the overall responsibility for broad-based population policy/programn development and
coordination and also for management of tl national family planning program; (b) the Ministry of Public
Health (MSP) has responsibility for the l. -inal and child health (MCH) program and clinic-based FP
services; and (c) the Ministry of Economny and Finance (MEF) has overall responsibility for
socioeconomic and demographic data collection and research.   Other ministries -- such as
Communication, Culture, Youth and Sports, Education, Agriculture, and Justice -- are becoming
increasingly active in the national population program, as representatives from these ministries
participated on the interministerial technical committee which prepared the draft population policy
document.
2.16         -Fgily   in1ijdnnerviAe. FP services are provided as an integral part of the MCH
program. Three directorates share responsibility for the program: the Directorate of Family Planning
(DPF) and the Directorate of Scv'!al Affairs (DAS) in MDSPPF, and the Directorate of Maternal and
Child Health (DSMI) in MSP. Although seemingly separate at the central level, these services are fully
integrated at the delivery level. Service expansion is, however, taking place mainly through the public
health facilities, with little effort devoted to extending services through private sector channels. DPF is
directly responsible for program planning, coordination and evaluation of all FP activities, in
collaboration wih a number of other directorates in MSP. At the policy and planning levels, DPF
coordinates its activities with DSMI, DAS and the Directorate of Women's Affairs (DCF) in MDSPPF,
the latter being responsible for special programs for women, such as the "foyers feminins" and related
activities. At the implementation level, in addition to the three directorates mentioned above, DP!
coordinates with the Directorate of Training and Health Education (DFEPS) and the other service delivery
directorates under the Secretary General of MSP: i.e., the Directorate of Health Facilities (DIS),
responsible for hospitals and health centers, and the Departmental Health Directorates (DDS), responsible
for all service facilities at the departmental and district levels.
2.17          The National Center for Family Health (CNSF), established in November 1984 and now
under DPF, provides both intellectual leadership and research support for the national FP program. It
functions as a national center for training, research and referral. The center is staffed by a Director, two
WHO experts, and a Resident Advisor/Physician, as well as a number of nurse midwives, social workers
and support personnel. In addition to FP services, the center offers counselling and treatment of sub-
fecund and sterile couples, monitors high-risk pregnancies, and organizes "well-baby" clinics and prenatal
screening. Given that the center does not have the capacity to support a nationwide FP program, it would
greatly benefit from the creation of a second center to cover the eastern region of the country and allow
for the decentralization of some of its functions.
2.18          Health srvices. Since independence in 1960, the Government's policy in the health
sector has emphasized primary health care (PHC) and preventive medicine, and has accorded priority to
the delivery of basic health services to rural areas, where the great majority of the population live. A
network of 249 rural dispensaries (DR) and 5,375 village health teams (VHI) form the base of the health
care system, serving as its first entry point. The key health providers are the nurses who staff the rural
dispensaries; they are responsible for a variety of curative and preventive services, supervision and in-



6
service training of the VHTs, health and nutrition education, and record-keeping. Health problems that
cannot be resolved at the viliage or dispensary level are referred to the 39 medical centers (CM), which
constitute the first level of referral and are usually located in the district capital (arrondissement level).
These centers, the majority of which are managed by registered nurses (IDE), are designed to provide
out-patient and limited in-patient services, as well as to supervise the dispensaries. Also, at the district
level below the CMs, are 76 maternities and 54 MCH care centers. Five departmental hospitals (CHD)
located in the departmental capitals constitute the second level of referral. Three national hospitals (two
in Niamey and one in Zinder), the Niamey Central Maternity, the National Center for Family Health,
the Anti-leprosy Center, and the National Center for Tuberculosis complete the national referral system.
Drug procurement and distribution are handled by the Office National des Produits Pharmaceutiques et
Chimiques (ONPPC) -- a state-owned company under the jurisdiction of MSP. ONPPC operates a
network of 19 pharmacies and produces some drugs. Three private pharmacies, together with an informal
network of ambulatory private merchants (drug "d6p6ts"), complement the ONPPC network. Annex 2-1
gives a detailed description of the public health system.
2.19         The private sector, with the exception of the drug "depots," plays a relatively insignificant
role in the health care system. In 1982, there were reportedly six private physicians and four private
maternities in the country. Current assessments indicate that there are four small private hospitals, two
private clinics, and three private physicians, for the most part located in Niamey and the mining towns.
Although local private initiatives constitute an insignificant part of health service delivery, there are about
20 international nongovernmental organizations (NGO) collaborating with the Government in the health
sector. Two of these organizations -- Africare and Care International -- are active in the provision cf FP
services.
2.20         Promotional aetivities (the mass media). The Ministry of Communication, Culture,
Youth and Sports (MCCJS) is responsible for diffusion of the programs developed by the other ministries
-- i.e., Public Health; and Social Development, Population and Women's Promotion. The Office of
Radio and Television of Niger (ORTN) and the two main newspapers, Le Sahel and Sahel Dimanche,
are under its jurisdiction. Radio is estimated to cover 95% of the country, and there are approximately
400,000 radio receivers nationwide. Moreover, given the multiple listeners per receiver, radio is an
effective mass medium in Niger. ORTN has stations in Niamey and in the departmental capitals of
Zinder, Maradi, Tahoua and Agadez. So far, the experience of MSP in effective radio programming,
as well as in the use of the existing potential for television, has been very limited.
2.21.        Demographic research and analysis. The Department of Statistics and Demography
(DSD) in MEF has primary responsibility for demographic research and analysis. To effectively respond
to the increased focus on population issues, ,4EF in 1984, with support from UNFPA, established the
Population and Development Studies Unit (UEDD), with a Resident Adviser in DSD. As part of its
overall program objectives, the Unit aims to: (a) improve knowledge of Niger's demographic situation
and strengthen the data base for planning; (b) strengthen the analytical capability of MEF to integrate
population parameters into development planning; (c) stimulate public and private sactor Interest in
population issues; (d) assist in the establishment of the Secretariat to CONAPO to provide leadership and
guidance on population matters; (e) formulate appropriate population policies; and (f) design and execute
appropriate population programs. While good progress has been made in a number areas, DSD's weak
institutional capacity and, in particular, its bifurcated responsibilities -- namely, data collection and
analysis on the one hand, and policy development and coordination on the other - have limited its
effectiveness. The latter functions are now being taken over by newly established Department of
Population Activities (DAP) in MDSPPF, thus allowing DSD to concentrate on the technical functions
of data collection, research, and analysis. DAP, on the other hand, would require considerable resources
in order to effectively assume a leadershiD role in policy formulation and coordination.



7
D. Sector Development Issues
2.22         The issues confronting the national population program can be divided into three broad
areas: (a) weak service delivery and information dissemination systems: (b) management, planning and
coordination problems; and (c) sociocultural impediments to behavior favoring smaller family size. Each
of these areas is discussed below.
1. Weak Service Delivery and Information Dissemination Sytems
2.23         Access to MCH and FP services. Access to public MCH/FP services is very limited.
Only about 30% of Nigeriens live within 5 kilometers of a health facility, and more than 50% of the
villages lack the services of a VHT. Only 17% and 20% of all births in 1988 and 1989, respectively,
took place in public health facilities; and only about 6% of the cesarian operations required to ensure an
acceptable level of safe motherhood were performed. The rate of prenatal consultations is only 32%,
with marked differences between urban and rural areas (93.2% in Niainey for first visits and 18.4% in
the rural areas).
2.24         Only about 30% of public health facilities, located mainly in urban areas, provide FP
services. In 1990, there were only some 26,000 users of modern contraceptive methods, i.e., 2.1% of
women of reproductive age. Although efforts ars, underway to accelerate service expansion through the
existing MCH centers, FP service delivery will have to go beyond the existing network of facilities in
order to achieve any significant impact. The Government's strategy of extending FP setvices to the
majority of the rural population has not been fully articulated. Even if FP services were integrated into
all existing public health facilities, only 30% of the population, i.e, those living within a five kilometer
radius of a public health facility, would be covered. Furthermore, the poor distribution anid limited
number of trained service providers (para 2.34), coupled with the limited outreach capacity of the public
health system, constitute major bottlenecks to effective service expansion, particularly at the district level
and below, where the majority of the population live.
2.25         Weak health referral systtn. The effectiveness of the referral system is hampered by
a weak support system, and a lack of trained personnel and adequate logistical and material support. The
structure at the district level, i.e., the health center (CM) - typically a 20-30 bed facility, a pharmacy
and a laboratory -- is very weak. These centers are designed to function as the first level of referral for
urgent MCH/FP clinical services, including technical supervision and logistical support for the
dispensaries and rural health posts. However, in practice, the centers are incapable of responding to
simple but urgent medical complications due to a limited number of staff in general as well as to
inadequately trained personnel, shortages of supplies and equipment, and poor maintenance and logistical
support. Consequently, most high-risk pregnancies result in maternal fatalities, since mothers are often
referred too late to a departmental hospital several hundred kilometers away.
2.26         Also at the district level, inadequate training and supervision of nurses at the rural
dispensaries, as well as poor linkage with the VHT, prevent early detection and referral of high-risk
pregnancies and other medical complications. The performance of the VHT system, which could
potentially be an effective vehicle for improving the quality and availability of basic health care and FP
services ir Niger, has been less than satisfactory. The system as currently designed is largely maintained
through a vertical program of support and supervision from the central level. Among the problems
experienced are: (a) irregular and ineffective supervision by central-level health personnel; (b) lack of
interest in and commitment to the program on the part of communities, as a result of their noninvolve-
ment in the selection, planning and management of community health; (cl continuous resupply problems
of drugs and other commodities; and (d) a high number of dropouts due to aging among the traditional



8
birth attendants (rBAs) (rplated to the selection process) and a high level of migration among PHC
workers due to the nonprofitability of services. These problems, in addition to the vertical management
system, have rendered the VHT system ineffective and financially unsustainable. However, alternative
approaches to health service delivery at the village level, such as mobile services, have proven mors
costly and less attractive. A recent evaluation of the system indicates the need to strengthen the capacities
of the CMs and dispensaries to provide the necessary backup and material support for the VHTs in order
to improve their effectiveness (Annex 2-1)
2.27         Poor quality of services. Not only is the impact of the MCH/FP program impeded by
its limited coverage and the weak referral system, the availability of the services does not by itself
guarantee their full utilization. In addition to the behavioral and attitudinal concerns related to FP
acceptance and matermal health (para 2.40), underutilization of existing MCHIFP services also results
from numerous deficiencies inherent in the health care system, which lead potential users to purposefully
limit their contact with these services. Among the most often cited problems are: (a) poor attitudes of
service providers; (b) frequent disruption of drug supplies; (c) poor staff performance resulting in
repeated therapeutic failures; and (d) inconvenient operating hours. These problems clearly indicate a
need for the Government to increase its efforts to reinforce and reorient in-service training programs, and
to improve management, supervision and logistical support in order to ensure delivery of better quality
services and thus greater receptivity by the population. While a good foundation for such improvements
has been established under the ongoing IDA-funded Health Project (Cr. 1668-NIR), more resources are
needed to accelerate the process.
2.28         Underdevelooed FP promotional activities. Current EEC activities for FP in Niger
consist primarily of a diffuse presentation of messages produced through the activities of CNSF, with
technical and financial support from UNFPA, UNICEF, USAID, and the ongoing IDA-funded Health
Project. Message content has generally emphasized the generic concept of child spacing for maternal and
child health reasons; and group education sessions have been the principal vehicle for message diffusion.
Use of radio, television and qualitative research activities, such as focus groups, for message definition
has been extremely limited. As such, the content of EEC activities to date can be characterized as service
publicity through the classic mode of clinic-based education sessions.
2.29         Moreover, programmed IEC activities do not address the secondary group of FP users,
i.e., those who follow the early adopter group. Messages directed to this segment of the population
should be based on an in-depth sociocultural analysis of the determinants of contraceptive use; formative
research activities are essential in order to obtain requisite information for this level of message
development. Future IEC research should anticipate this projected need and begin to undertake more
profound ethnographic studies, whicA would assist in targeting audiences and developing communication
strategies and messages for promoting contraceptive use among the more resistent segments of the
population (e.g., men), as well as in preparing for a major expansion of IEC activities outside of the
public health system.
2.30         With regard to mass communication, the experience of MSP and MDSPPF in effective
radio programming has been very limited. Radio programming has reflected the general themes of
ongoing health activities rather than selected topics for target population groups. ORTN has provided
some support for activities in health education, particularly the diarrheal disease control program and the
oral rehydration therapy program (funded by UNICEF, UNFPA, USAID and IDA). Increased use of
the network has been hampered by the high cost of broadcasts and television emissions, rendering the
impact rather modest. ORTN's extensive network and the diversity of languages in which it



9
communicates messages offer potentially an effective channel of increasing public awareness of the FP
program. A meaningful partnership between ORTN and MSP, as well as other relevant government
agencies, is needed in order to realize the full potential of this indispensable channel of communication.
2. Sector Management Planning and Coordination Constraints
2.31         Inadequate health sector planning, management and financing. The health sector
continues to face severe management and logistical constraints, due to inadequate planning, a limited
resource base, and overcentralization of sector management. Staffing norms are not clearly defined, nor
is the standard package of services for each service delivery level. Planning is highly centralized, with
the departmental and district health offices playing a minimal role in making decisions as regards resource
allocation in such critical areas as infrastructure development, personnel deployment, and distribution of
material inputs. Personnel with essential management skills are lacking at all levels of the system. At
the central level, there continues to be a limited capacity for resource management, particularly in
management information, planning, policy analysis, and program coordination. The situation is even
more pronounced at the departmental and district levels, where personnel have received little or no
management training.
2.32         Inadequate resource allocation has also been a major constraint to effective service
delivery. Health sector financing is characterized by: (a) a modest contribution from the Government
through the public health services; (b) large contributions from clients in the form of drug purchases
through the private pharmaceutical market and private consultations - contributions which have been
inefficiently harnessed due to the absence of nationwide policies and programs for cost recovery and
internal resource mobilization; and (c) almost complete dependence on external assistance for investments
and, increasingly, for recurrent expenditures. Since the early 1980s, total recurrent public sector
expenditures for health have remained at 5% of the Government's total recurrent budget. In 1989,
recurrent public sector expenditures on health totaled CFAF 9.4 billion, representing about US$4 per
person and by far the lowest in the region. The Government's recurrent expenditures have increasingly
been focusse(, on salaries, leaving fewer resources for essential operating costs. While donors are helping
to provide funding for essential operations and maintenance, this support is generally within the context
of specific operations and does not address operations and maintenance issues on a nationwide basis.
Similarly, donors bear a major share of investment expenditures which, in 1989, totaled CFAF 4.3
billion, only 2% of which was contributed by the Government.
2.33         Cognizant of its declining role in health financing and recognizing the increasing pressures
on public financing with a dwindling revenue base, the Government has, over the last two years,
accelerated efforts to implement cost recovery measures in the public health sector. To this end,
experimental projects, initiated during the mid-1980s are being expanded to a larger number of districts.
Support for this effort is being provided under the ongoing Health Project, the USAID Health Sector
Grant, the Belgian Agency for Development (AGCD), the French Government (FAC), and the European
Community (FED). Furthermore, over the next five years, the Government intends to pursue a number
of key policy measures, the most important of which concern the decentralization of health management
and administration, and the expansion and strengthening of the drug distribution network.
2.34         Underdeveloped and inefficient use of human resources.  In addition to the
management and financing issues discussed above, effective MCH/FP service delivery is constrained by
the limited number of technically trained health personnel and their inappropriate distribution. The lack
of appropriately trained health personnel, particularly in the rural areas, is the single most important
factor constraining the effort to rapidly extend MCH/FP services to the majority of the rural population.



10
In line with the Government's safe motherhood and FP strategies (para 2.46), the proposed staffmng norms
require at least two physicians per CM and two nurses per rural dispensary (DR). However, only one
third of the 39 CMs have a trained doctor, and most of the DRs are staffed by only one nurse perfoiming
all tasks, including back-up support for the VHTs. With regard to FP, only 18% (371) of health
personnel (namely, midwives and nurses) have received basic training in FP.
2.35         The maldistribution of critical health personnel, particularly midwives and physicians, is
a major constraint to effective service delivery. As of June 1991, public health personnel employed in
the key skill areas totalled: 140 doctors, 232 miidwives, 1,641 registered and certified nurses, and 219
social workers. Of these numbers, only 16% of doctors, and about 57% of nurses, 79% of midwives
and 70% of social workers are effectively at post (see AUnnex2J1). Physicians and midwives are
particularly overrepresenteO 'n administration, tying down valuable resources. Moreover, over one third
of all health personnel are located in Niamey, which has only 6% of the total population. The
maldistribution is particularly acute among female staff, with over 40% of the already limited number
of midwives located in Niamey, mainly at the Niamey Hospital and Central Maternity. The geographical
allocation of female personnel is governed by job allocation and transfer policies in sectors in which their
husbands are employed. These policies are, in turn, largely driven by personal and political interests of
central-level authorities, without due regard for the actual needs of the perirheral health facilities.
Finally, the maldistribution problem is exacerbated by the high mobility of personnel in general, with
staff assigned to the field often remaining less than two years on post. While the current health
manpower is inadequate to satisfy the overall personnel needs of the system, a redistribution of the
personnel, particularly of doctors, nurses and midwives, would be a major first step in addressing the
personnel needs of the peripheral health facilities.
2.36         Inadequate linkage of FP management with MSP.  While the key planning,
management and administration responsibilities for family planning rest with DPF in MDSPPF and not
in MSP as would be expected under an integrated MCH/FP program, it is envisaged that this institutional
arrangement would provide the needed impetus for the program to expand beyond the public health
sector. There are concerns, however, regarding DPF's ability to coordinate and manage activities that
for the most part are implemented through another public agency. Given the polyvalent nature of public
health providers, DPF has had difficulties in the past in coordinating its activities with those of MSP.
Conflicting schedules have sometimes relegated DPF's activities to second-order priorities in MSP. The
Government is cognizant of these problems and has established a planning and coordination mechanism
which, seemingly, is functioning well. Moreover, it was agreed during negotiations to review this current
institutional arrangement at mid-term, assess its efficiency and, if need be, agree on any corrective actions
required to remedy the shortcomings that may have become apparent in this regard (para 4.10).
2.37         Weak institutional framework for population policy and program implementation.
The absence at the central level of a core institutional framework for overall planning, coordination and
monitoring of population-related activities has been major constraint to the rapid expansion of the national
population program. Recognizing this constraint, the Government, in its draft population policy, has
proposed the establishment of a National Commission on Population Activities (CONAPO). This
commission will consist of high-level, interministerial personnel with decision-making authority, headed
by the Prime Minister, and will serve as the advisory organ responsible for coordinating all policy matters
relating to population. CONAPO will be served by a Secretariat responsible for planning and
coordinating its activities. It is expected that the newly established Department of Population Activities
in MDSPPF will fulfill this secretarial function. Technical support for population and development
planning will be provided by the Department of Statistics and Demography (DSD) in MEF.



11
2.38         Weak data base for policy analysis and research. Although the sociodemographic data
base has improved significantly over the last few years, as evidenced by the numerous surveys (including
the 1988 census) recently completed, DSD's technical capacity to effectively exploit data for policy
analysis and program development needs to be strengthened. Donor support, including that from IDA,
has focused on periodic retrospective data collection exercises, such as the census and other national
surveys, heavily supported by external technical assistance but involving a very limited transfer of know-
how. Furthermore, while preliminary analyses of surveys and census data are usually undertaken, in-
depth analyses are seldom pursued, often due to the iimited technical capacity of DSD staff. Thus, the
substantial investments made over the last few years in data collection could be wasted if no further
support is given for their full, in-depth exploitation.
2.39         Moreover, the overdependenee on periodic surveys has diverted attention from addressing
the fundamental problem of building an institutional base for continuous recording of vital events -- an
essential element of any mature population program. The vital registration system, which has been in
place since the colonial era, records less than 30% of annual deaths and 50% of births. The system needs
to be strengthened and expanded to ensure the availability of reliable and current demographic data. In
addition to strengthening the registration of vital events, it is essential to have an effective mechanism for
regularly updating the characteristics of localities through the establishment of a national register of
localities. Financing from UNDP and UNFPA is being sought to establish such a register, which would
serve as a data bank on localities and thereby alleviate the burden of expensive periodic mapping
exercises undertaken to develop sampling frames for surveys and censuses.
3. Sociocultural Impediments to FP
2.40         Increasing demand for FP services faces several sociocultural impediments, the most
important of which is the low status of women. As in other Sahelian countties, women in Niger
contribute substantially to the economy and to the well-being of their families. Yet their ability to earn
an income and improve their own welfare and that of their children is greatly constrained, primarily by
deeply ingrained societal attitudes and practices toward women that: (a) emphasize their domestic and
reproductive roles (i.e., strong traditional preferences for large families, very early age at marriage, and
the widespread practice of polygamy); (b) limit their access to education; and (c) exclude them from
effective access to the use of land and ownership of resources. Furthermore, the strong patriarchal
system and male-centered decision-making - reinforced by tradition and religion - render couples and
particularly men less responsive and passive, if not negative, in their attitude vis-4-vis FP. Unless major
changes in attitudes and behavior occur, availability of FP services cannot by itself help achieve the
country's demographic objectives. These attitudinal changes would have to come about through:
(i) promoting a strong multisectoral and multidimensional communication program to alter existing
behavior patterns and help to bring about more favorable attitudes to smaller family size; and
(ii) empowering women to realize their full economic potential and satisfy their social needs through
increasing their access to formal and nonformal education, and improving their access to productive inputs
and markets. The interventions envisioned under the current program would assist the Government in
its efforts to address these constraints, and to improve women's welfare and opportunities.
E. The Government's Population and FP Stratey
2.41         The Government's commitment to addressing population issues has evolved rapidly over
the last few years. The Five-Year Development Plan (1987-91) identifies the rapid population growth
(3.4% per annum), as a major constraint to medium- and long-term economic and social development.
Subsequently, the national FP strategy (1988-93), including the national safe motherhood strategy
(resulting from the Safe Motherhood Conference for Francophone Sub-Saharan Africa, Niamey, 1989),



12
and the demographic action plan (1991-95) spell out the Government's priorities and strategies in
population and FP, which aim to: (a) provide broader access to FP services over the Plan period;
(b) reduce maternal and child mortality; (c) support programs to improve the status of women; and
(d) improve demographic data collection, and population policy analysis, program planning, management
and coordination.
2.42         Expanding FP service delivery. The Government proposes a three-pronged approach
to expanding FP services: (a) accelerating the integration of services into the existing PHC/MCH
program at the district and canton (sub-district) levels; (b) integrating FP services into the package of
services provided by the Village Health Teams (VHT) and outreach program; and (c) encouraging the
participation of NGOs, communities and private agencies in FP service delivery and IEC activities. The
objective of the program is to increase the contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) in urban areas from the
current 18% to 40%, and in rural areas from 0% to 8% by the year 2000. Although FP services are
provided in almost all public health facilities in the major urban areas, coverage in the rural areas is very
limited and constitutes the next phase of the program.
2.43         The Government's decision to address FP through a broader program of maternal health
will facilitate receptivity to the use of modern contraceptive methods and ensure better targeting of those
in most need of the services. Training of health personnel at all levels in FP (motivation, counselling,
monitoring and evaluation) will be the key element of the service strategy. In this regard, MDSPPF, in
collaboration with MSP, has developed training modules for incorporation into the curriculum of the two
schools of public health (Ecole Nationale des Infirmiers et des Cadres de l'Action Sociale (ENICAS)) and
Ecole Nationale de la Sante Publique (ENSP)) and for the new in-service training program to be
implemented under the proposed project. During project preparation, norms and standards for the new
services, as well as revised job descriptions for medical and para-medical personnel, were developed.
The strategy, therefore, seeks to extend coverage to all facilities at the district level and below. It is
envisioned that the MCH/nutrition outreach program managed by the CMs will be strengthened to include
FP motivation, counselling, and contraceptive delivery.
2.44         Recognizing the current limitations of the public health care system to provide an
expanded program of FP services through its fixed facilities, MSP seeks to adopt a complementary
strategy of extending services through integration into the VHT program. To extend services to the
village level, MSP plans to further liberalize the decree on contraceptive supply and distributionto permit
the "matrones" (TBAs) and "secouristes" (PHC worker) to distribute condoms, spermicide, and refills
of hormonal contraceptives, upon completion of appropriate training. This strategy, however, implies
addressing the limitations of the VHT system (para 2.26).
2.45         While the Government's decision to address FP through the broader program of maternal
health has substantial benefits, the strategy also recognizes the need to explore other channels of FP
service delivery outside the maternal health program in order to achieve maximum impact. Reaching men
(a particularly resistant group), teenagers, and single women cannot be addressed solely through an
integrated public health care system. Although the Government does not have an explicit strategy to
promote the role of the private sector and NGOs in FP service delivery, it has introduced on an
experimental basis a number of initiatives exploring alternative channels of service delivery. These
include operational research, funded by USAID, to supply contraceptives through the VHTs, as well as
a "social marketing" project. The Government has also decided to invite the International Planned
Parenthood Federation to establish an affiliate in Niger as soon as possible Xl. The proposed project
4/    It is expected that the affiliate would be established during the first half of 1992.



13
would provide further assistance to the development of FP initiatives by local NGOs as well as the private
sector, using the network of numerous private pharmaceutical outlets.
2.46         St_gthening and expanding the MCH progm. The national population program
is based on the strong premise that effective reduction of the high maternal and infant mortality rates is
an essential prerequisite for the reduction of fertility and for improved family welfare. Thus, the
country's MCH program is seen as an important element of the national population program. Its primary
objectives are to reduce, by the year 2000, the maternal mortality rate by 50% - from the current 700
per 100,000 deliveries to 350 per 100,000, and infant mortality to 100 per 1,000 live births - from the
current 130 per 1,000 live births. During the same period, the program envisions: (a) an increase in
the rate of identification and referral of high-risk pregnancies of 25%; (b) an increase in prenatal
consultations from the current 32% to 46%; (c) an increase in the coverage of obstetrics care from 20%
to 35%; and (d) an increase in the rate of post-natal consultations from 20% to 100%.
2.47         Although these mortality and morbidity reduction objectives are feasible, they are,
nevertheless, very ambitious and require a concerted effort in policy reforms to streamline sector
management, rationalize personntl, reallocate resources, as well as seek alternative mechanisms of health
financing. Over the past three years, a number of seminars and workshops have been organized to
reassess performance in the health sector and, subsequently, propose appropriate reforms. While a
rearticulation of the overall strategic orientation for the sector has yet to materialize, a number of major
policy reforms to that end have been initiated. Wider application of cost recovery, which started on a
small scale in two districts, is now being pursuea. Under the cost recovery plan, six more districts will
be included in the pilot program over the next year, thus bringing to about one-third the total number of
districts with cost-recovery programs. Nationwide implementation of the cost recovery program is
envisaged over the next few years. Furthermore, in accordance with the Government's decentralization
policy, MSP has initiated a phased plan to develop departmental health plans and budgets. Departmental
plans have already been developed for Zinder and Dosso, with technical assistance from the French and
Belgian Governments, respectively. MSP's strategy is to assist each Departmental Health Directorate
(DDS) in developing regional health plans and budgets, and to initiate actions to devolve personnel
management, planning, and budgetary responsibilities to the DDS and the districts in line with the
decentralization program.
2.48         With regard to the expansion of MCH services, the Government's strategy is to satisfy
the medical and para-medical staffing requirements of the district-level health structures to enable them
perform their functions effectively (para 2.34). To this end, the Government has prepared a new set of
norms and standards defining the role and functions of each level of service delivery, which include,
among others: (a) staffing of all CMs over the next several years with a minimum of two physicians
trained in simple obstetric and surgical operations; (b) adding to all CMs an operation theater with the
essential equipment and a laboratory; (c) adding an additional certified nurse aC) or midwife to the
certified nurse currently running the DRs and PMs; (d) strengthening the VHT system; and (e) extending
the drug distribution network to underserved areas. This strategy would have far-reaching resource
implications, and its realization depends on the Government's commitment to addressing the personnel
distribution problem as well as its ability to mobilize additional resources to finance recurrent costs such
as drugs, medical supplies, and operating and maintenance expenditures. The Gcrrfnment has prepared
a medium-term plan for the redeployment and recruitment of health personnel which entails: (i) the
redeployment of about 50 physicians and the recruitment of 17 new ones; and (ii) the redeployment of
about 69 midwives, 501 nurses and 43 social workers. While there is a need to recruit additional
personnel in order to satisfy the overall staffing needs of the sector, the medium-term plan would focus
primarily on rationalizing personnel allocation, thus reducing the short-term financial burden on the
sector.



14
2.49         Strenathenlng IEC under MCHLFP programs. The Government's strategy in this area
calls for an all-out effort to meet the substantial unmet needs of several segments of the population for
information and education in FP, safe motherhood practices, AlDS/STD prevention, nutrition, and
improving women's status. The strategy proposes to achieve the following quantitative objectives by the
year 2000: (a) to inform at least 90% of the population on the use and availability of MCH/FP services;
and (b) to provide FP services and information to at least 40% of the 15-24 age group. These objectives
are to be achieved through a concerted effort of all concerned Ministries, using a multi-media approach
along with stepped up interpersonal communication programs at health facilities and other community
networks. The strategy seeks to enhance the role of radio and television for message dissemination, and
increase the use of specific audio-visual and print materials in support of face-to-face communication by
health and social workers. The strategy has identified the population in rural areas as a priority target
for this expanded effort. The strategy also emphasizes the need to train several categories of health
personnel in counselling techniques, and in the design, implementation, and evaluation of IEC programs.
2.50         Recognizing the cultural and linguistic diversities of the various regions of the country,
as well as the logistical constraints inherent in coordinating IEC activities from the capital, the
Government proposes to decentralize the planning and implementation of certain IEC activities to the
departmental level by creating regional IEC teams. DuringprojectpreparationtheGovernmentdeveloped
a comprehensive national IEC plan which: (a) assesses the communication needs identified under each
of the project's components; (b) defines and prioritizes target audiences, defines JEC topics to address
their needs, and selects appropriate media channels for message production and dissemination; and
(c) delineates the responsibilities of each partner in the IEC program, as well as coordination and
monitoring mechanisms (Annex 3-5).
2.51         Improving the status of women. The national population program recognizes that major
changes in maternal mortality and fertility levels require radical changes in women's behavior,
particularly in taking decisions regarding reproductive health and family size. To this end, the program
emphasizes the need to improve women's status through: (a) increasing their access to productive
resources, including credit; (b) improving their level of schooling and literacy; (c) promoting the
development of their technical and professional skills; (d) increasing their awareness, as well as that of
men, on these and other related issues; and (e) diffusing technologies to alleviate the burden of their
domestic and agricultural tasks. The creation, in May 1989, of a separate Ministry of Social Affairs and
Women's Promotion (now the MDSPPF - para 2.13) to coordinate, facilitate and monitor activities
concerning women's affairs provided the institutional locus for the promotion of women's concerns and
needs.
2.52         Significant progress has been made over the past three to four years in creating a
favorable environment for progressive implementation of the Government's WID objectives. Many
donors and NGOs have played a significant role in bringing about these changes by maintaining a policy
dialogue with the Government and providing financial support for relevant activities. MDSPPF's short-
term objective is to facilitate adoption of the "code de famille" and "code rural", as it is envisioned that
these legislative reforms will provide the necessary framework for addressing a number of issues relating
to women's role and position in Nigerien society. The Govermnent recognizes the need for a phased
approach to addressing these issues and has adopted a strategy based on broad-based consensus, prior to
consideration of any legislative action. In tandem with this effort at legislative reform, MDSPPF's
medium- to long-term objective is to continue strengthening its efforts to ensure complete integration of
women's concerns into ongoing activities of the sectoral ministries, and to develop an enabling
environment through advocacy, communication, and education.



is
F. :[hs Bank Group's Role
2.53         The Bank Group's involvement in the population and health sectors in Niger includes the
ongoing Health Project (Cr. 1668-NIR), effective in November 1986, as well as assistance for
development of the national population policy under the PPF advance for the proposed project. There are,
however, other Bank-financed projects with important implications for the national population program.
The Primary Education Development Project (Cr. 1740-NIR), effective in May 1987, and the proposed
Education III Project aim to increase female primary school enrollment, and Improve female literacy
through strengthening the nonformal education programs of the Ministry of Education. Moreover, under
the Small Rural Operations Project (Cr. 1890-NIR), effective in December 1988, a number of women's
groups are benefiting from extension services, training and technical assistance provided to farmers in
bottom-land improvements, small irrigated perimeters, soil conservation, and watershed management.
2.54         Experience with implementation of the Health Project. The ongoing Health Project
(scheduled for completion in November 1993) is the Bank's first intervention in the health sector in
Niger. ThU project has a direct linkage with the national population program and has contributed
substantially to advancing the development of the program. Its objectives are to help the Government
implement sectoral reforms through studies and programs aimed at improving investment planning,
allocation of recurrent expenditures, cost recovery and availability of essential drugs, and to strengthen
priority health programs and services through: (a) maternal and child health care, including control of
malaria, communicable diseases and diarrhea, and FP and nutrition activities; (b) health, hygiene and
nutrition education, and community initiatives in health and nutrition; and (c) training of health personnel.
2.55         The Health Project has had mixed results. Performance has been particularly weak under
the policy -9form component, implemented in close collaboration with USAID through its Health Sector
Grant. :   zomponent consists primarily of a series of studies to be undertaken to guide and inform
policy chaii6es. Execution of the studies has been slow, largely due to a lack of commitment on the part
of key officials to introduce the expected reforms, such as cost recovery, essential drugs, cost
containment, and efficiency measures. However, through continuing dialogue with MSP, there is now
a greater recognition of the urgency for these reforms. Cost recovery has been recognized as an essential
instrument for restoring the integrity of the public health care system and for increasing access to basic
health services. In collaboration with other donors, namely, USAID, AGCD, FED and the German
Government (GTZ), the Health Project is helping the Government to advance its experimental cost-
recovery programs. Furthermore, a new essential drugs list has been developed and adopted by MSP,
and recommendations of the IDA-funded drug distribution study are being reviewed for implementation.
2.56         It is perhaps in the area of specific program interventions that the Health Project has made
the most impact. The project, in collaboration with USAID and UNFPA, has contributed in a major way
to the expansion of FP services from the initial start-up in the community of Niamey only, to other major
urban areas. Selected CMs in all eight departments have beqn provided with essential equipment,
specialized training, and logistical support. About 25 midwives have been trained in intrauterine device
insertion; these midwives are located mainly in Niamey where the demand for this contraceptive is
greatest. However, funding under the project for FP services is very limited and has been rapidly spent.
The proposed project has, therefore, been designed to complement and reinforce this element of the
ongoing project.
2.57         Cons'derable progress has also been made in the MCH preventive services, especially
under the Expanded Program for Immunization (EPI) and the diarrheal disease and malaria control
programs. EPI coverage has increased from a trifle (5%) to 30% in 1990. Although still low by



16
comparison to neighboring countries, a major effort is being made to increase coverage as quickly as
possible.
2.58         Manpower development has been another key element of the ongoing Health Project. The
project has trained about 20 physicians at the specialist levels in public health, gynecology, pediatrics,
epidemiology, family health and FP, and nutrition. Also, about 85 other health personnel are undergoing
training in paramedics, sanitary engineering, and management (including statistics and planning); over
60% of these have been trained and are posted to the relevant sectors. The in-service program has,
however,. been less successful due to the selection of training activities largely on an ad hoc basis rather
than as part of an integrated program based on a well-defined strategy. During the preparation of the
proposed project, the overall in-country and in-service training needs were reexamined, and a
comprehensive plan based on the manpower needs for health and FP has been developed (Annex 3- ).
The initial phase of the training plan will be implemented during the last two years of the Health Project,
with the proposed Population Project taking over in the third project year.
2.59         Another key element of support under the ongoing Health Project which is of direct
relevance to the population program is the substantial support being given to health education, and IEC
in general. The Health Education Unit (DFEPS) in MSP has been reinforced through the training of key
staff and the reequipping and renovation of its facility. A nationwide Knowledge, Attitude and Practice
(KAP) study on health and FP was conducted to help develop a national IEC/health education program.
DFEPS has played an important role in developing the IEC program for the oral rehydration, EPI and
AIDS programs, all of which are supported in varying degrees under the Health Project. To assume a
more active role in the rapidly expanding national population program, DFEPS would be further
strengthened under the proposed project.
2.60         With regard to broad-based population planning, the Health Project financed a major part
of the costs of the May 1988 national census, which provided essential demographic data for the
formulation of the population policy, and constitutes the basic data for the preparation of the next Five-
Year Plan. The proposed project would build on these achievements and provide the necessary follow-
up.
2.61         Despite the above achievements, however, overall project performance has been less than
satisfactory, for three main reasons: (a) weak financial management and ineffective coordination of
project activities by project management staff; (b) weak sector management, planning and coordination;
and (c) insufficient commitment on the part of the Government to sectoral reform, exacerbated by the
frequent changes in the leadership of the Ministry of Health. For over two years, due to the problems
relating to the taxation of external technical assistance under all IDA-financed projects, the Project
Management Unit has been without the expected technical assistance required to strengthen project
management and planning. This issue was recently resolved, and the Project Unit will be reinforced in
the coming months by the recruitment of a management specialist and a civil works supervisor.
Inefficient procurement of civil works has been a major source of delay in project execution (Para 4.18).
With regard to sector management, there is a concerted effort on the part of key donors, in particular
USAID, WHO, and IDA, to help MSP improve its budgetary planning and financial management
capacities. Moreover, in support of the decentralization program, the ongoing Health Project is financing
the analysis of the department- and district-level health sector budgets. The proposed project will further
facilitate these initial activities through support for the decentralization effort (para 3.6). Finally, with
respect to point (c) above, the transition Goveinment has expressed strong commitment to improve
project execution, especiallv as regards the policy component.



17
2.62         Rationale for IDA's invol'ement. There is consensus between the Government and IDA
on the importance of the "population factor" in the long-term development goals and strategies for Niger
and on the need to act now. 'ihis consensus has been achieved through a continuing dialogue with the
Goverrnment over the past few years, and has contributed to the recent development of a national policy
on population. IDA's strong position in influencing the Government's plans and strategies in the
population sector, as well as its ability to help mobilize financial support for the sector, is recognized by
both the donor community and the concerned government agencies. This places IDA in a position to
continue playing a catalytic role in assisting the Govermment in its efforts to further this process, and to
help build on the current momentum for increased population and FP activities. The proposed project
is consistent with IDA's human resource development objectives in the Sahelian countries and with the
Bank-wide policy objective of poverty alleviation in Sub-Saharan Africa.
2.63         Donor assistance and coordination. Several donors are active in the population sector
in Niger. USAID, UNFPA and UNICEF have some of the most active programs in terms of technical
and financial input. USAID is providing substantial support for FP in selected departments, focusing
mainly on technical assistance, training, and contraceptive supplies. USAID is also financing a
demographic and health survey to provide baseline data for project monitoring and evaluation. Under
this project, DPF is testing the distribution of barrier methods by VHTs in the Department of Tillabery,
and there are plans to initiate a social marketing project by using the "pharmacies populaires." Besides
its support for the MCH/FP program, UNFPA provides support for demographic work, particularly in
the area of census analysis and supplementary census inquiry. UNICEF has been a major actor under
the EPI program and has actively supported nutrition interventions, including WID activities. UNDP has
been active in developing the socioeconomic data base through support for a series of household income
and expenditure surveys. Moreover, UNDP has been a major actor in support for the SDA program in
Niger. 5/
2.64         Also among the donors active in Niger are France and Belgium which are supporting
MSP's efforts to initiate a decentralized health management and administrative system in two departments
(Dosso and Zinder). Canada has concentrated primarily on WID activities, such as women's literacy
programs and income-generating projects at the community level. The African Development Bank is also
a major player in the health sector, having recently appraised a project to strengthen the public health care
system in the Department of Maradi, one of the most populated areas in the country. WHO and other
donors, such as GTZ, Italy, FED, the Netherlands, and a number of NGOs, are also contributing directly
or indirectly to the MCH program and, to a lesser extent, to the FP and population programs in general;
USAID and UNFPA remain the two main sources of external financing and technical assistance in these
areas.
2.65         As in many other dev'wloping countries, the population and health sectors in Niger are
characterized by a diversity of donors which often results in fragmented and sometimes conflicting
approaches. This situation places a heavy burden on Niger's limited institutional capacity. Therefore,
throughout the preparation of the proposed project, particular attention was paid to seeking a consensus,
coordinating with other donors, and ensuring complementarity with interventions pursued by other donors
in the design of project activities. Discussions on cofmancing have advanced very well with the Belgians
(AGCD) for support in health sector management (para 3.9); and firm commitment has been obtained
from UNICEF for the WID and nutrition interventions.
St    Unlike the programs in other countries, the UNDP SDA sponsored effort in Niger does not involve data
collection, given the ongoing household expenditure surveys. Instead, the program envisions hamessing
and helping to channel donor resources toward targeted groups.



18
III.  3ZL       QM
A. Prolect Rationale and ObWeetives
3.1           Prolect rationale. Niger's high and accelerating rate of population growth imposes
severe constraints on this resource poor country's long-term development prospects. Cognizant of this
fact, the Government has developed a comprehensive national PP program which sets ambitious targets
for coverage to be achieved by the year 2000 (para 2,42). These targets are'feasible but require a
concerted effort by the Government and donors. The average annual expenditures for achieving the
expected program objectives over the period (i.e., until the year 2000) are estimated at US$4.0 million,
including contraceptives (Annex 3-2). Total development assistance specifically for FP services over the
next four years, excluding IDA, is not expected to exceed US$8.0 million, or US$2.0 million per annum.
Total funding for FP under the ongoing IDA-funded Health Project was only US$1.9 million (para 2.56).
This amount was spent rapidly, and there has been increasing pressure to reallocate resources from the
project's other sub-components in favor of FP and MCH initiatives. In view of the unfavorable public
finance situation in Niger, the Government is not expected to be able to finance more than 10% of total
annual program costs, while current donor commitment for the next four year could satisfy about 50%
of required resources. Therefore, about 40% of the expected expenditures in FP could go unfunded
unless additional resources are found.
3.2           The proposed project is designed, in part, to fill this financing gap by providing the
complementary resources for FP services. The ongoing FP program, while very successful, has
concentrated mainly on major urban areas during its first five years. The time is now ripe for a rapid
expansion of the program to other urban as well as rural areas, where unmet needs for services are
rapidly growing, but where the program a.so confronts more resistant groups living in an environment
where effective service delivery requires greater investments in logistics, supplies, management, and
human resources. Efforts would thus have to be geared not only to satisfying the growing unmet needs
for FP services, but also to addressing the greater concerns of demand generation and behavioral change.
The latter would require increased initiatives in other priority areas under the national population
program; namely, MCH, WID, nutrition and youth programs.
3.3           Proiect obiectives. The project would assist the Government in implementing an
effective national population program, with the primary objective of accelerating the onset of fertility
decline by increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate as rapidly as possible, reducing maternal mortality,
promoting attitudes favoring a reduction in family size norms, and enhancing the capacity of women to
effectively participate in socioeconomic development. To this end, the project supports policies and
investments designed to:
(a)    Strengthen the delivery of maternal health and family planning (MCH/FP) services by:
(i) supporting policy reform in the areas of essential drugs and cost recovei'y, and
strengthening departmental and district capacities in sector management, planning,
monitoring and evaluation; and (ii) increasing access to and improving the quality of
MCH/FP services at all levels of service delivery (village, canton, district and
department), and providing support for the participation of NGOs, including community
groups and other private sector agencies, ir. MCHI/FP service delivery and IEC activities;
(b)    Promote family welfare and women's status by encouraging behavior favoring a reduction
in family size norms, and by enhancing the capacity of women to effectively participate
in socioeconomic development, through support for: (i) a nationwide IEC program;
(ii) promoting the status of women; and (iii) nutrition interventions; and



19
(c)    Reinforce the capacity for population policy analysisa regearch. monitorIlng an
coordination by: (i) improvIng the capacity for sociodemographic data collection,
analysis, research and evaluation; (ii) strengthening the institutional capacity for the
promotion and coordination of the national population program; and (iii) establishing a
Population Fund to encourage active private sector and NGO involvement in the
population program.
B. Project Description
3.4           Prgject 6op. In view of the broad nature of the national population program, the scope
of project support is also broad in terms of types of interventions proposed. However, the geographic
coverage of project support under the MCHtPP service expansion and WID/nutrition Initiatives would
be limited to three of Niger's eight departments. There are two reasons for this. First, inputs from other
donors in the other departments are substantial. Second, given the institutional and management
constraints on effective service delivery, it is deemed prudent to concentrate efforts on a few well-selected
interventions in well-defined geographic areas in order maximize the impact of project interventions. The
selected Departments -- Zinder, Tahoua and Tillabery - have been chosen in agreement with the
Government on the basis of the following criteria: (a) their high share of the total population (60%) and
high population density; (b) good potential for expansion of PP services; (c) low population/health facility
ratio; (d) ongoing efforts to implement decentralization and cost recovery measures; and (e) relatively low
level of donor financing. The IEC interventions, particularly media coverage, would be on a national
scale, while specific interventions at the district and village levels would be limited to the three selected
Departments. Finally, the population policy analysis component would largely be implemented at the
national level, with support from the departments and districts in research and data collection.
1. Strengthening of Maternal Health and FP Services (US$11.0 million)
3.5           This component would complement ongoing and proposed activities, notably those
financed under the ongoing IDA Health Project (Cr. 1668-NIR), the USAID Family Health and
Demography Projects, and UNFPA's Maternal Health and Child Health Project. It would focus on
improving the efficiency, effectiveness, and coverage of PP and safe motherhood interventions at the
departmental, district and village levels in the three selected Departments. It has two sub-components:
(a) supporting policy reforms in the areas of essential drugs and cost recovery, and strengthening
management capacities at the departmental and district levels; and (b) increasing access to and improving
the quality of MCH and FP services.
3.6           Supporting sectoral reforms and strenEthening management capacities at th
departmental and district levels (US$4.6 million). This sub-component would help to implement
MSP/MDSPPF's strategy to: (a) decentralize health and PP services by supporting sectoral reform
designed to develop regional personnel and financial management capabilities, and establish cost recovery
measures and an essential drugs program at the departmental and district levels; and (b) strengthen the
departmental- and district-level capacities for technical and managerial in-service training.
3.7          Supporting sectoral reform. To set the stage for implementation of the proposed project
investments, a number of key policy changes are necessary. MSP's decision to decentralize its
administrative, personnel and financial management functions, in line with the civil service-wide
decentralization program is a first step. However, the process has been slow and has lacked clear
guidelines defining the functions and responsibilities of the different levels of the health administration.
To advance this process, the Government will adopt the following policy measures governing key
elements of the decentralized health system: (a) an Arr8te defining the structure of the regional health



20
system, including the roles and functions of the departments and districts in the administration and
management of the decentralized health syL_<m; and (b) a policy document defining the personnel
recruitment and redeployment plan for 1993-95 (para 2.48). Publication of the Arr8te and adoption of
the personnel recruitment and redeployment plan, as discussed and agreed at negotiations, are conditions
of credit effectiveness. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will implement:
(a) the decentralization program in accordance with the norms and standards defined in the Ar_rM; and
(b) the agreed personnel recruitment and redeployment plan for 1993-95, to be reviewed and revised at
mid-term (para 4.10).
3.8          Experimentation with cost recovery at the district level and below is well advanced, and
nationwide implementation is envisaged during PYl. Under the ongoing Health Project, an analysis of
district- and community-level health services, including expenditures and budgets of health facilities, is
being undertaken to provide the basis for devolution of financial management and budgetary authority to
the departments and districts. In addition, a number of policy recommendations emerging from the
recently completed IDA-funded study on the extension of the drug distribution network would be ready
for implementation by PYI. To set the stage, therefore, for nationwide implementation of these
activities, the Government prepared an action plan establishing: (a) guidelines for the extension of the
drug distribution network at the periphery; and (b) procedures for the introduction of the recently adopted
national essential drugs list. Official adoption of the plan, as discussed and agreed with IDA, is a
condition of credit effectiveness. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will:
(i) implement the guidelines for the extension of the drug distribution network and the procedures for the
introduction of the national essential drugs list; (ii) prepare and implement guidelines for the establishment
of a nationwide cost recovery program by the end of PYI; and (iii) based on the results of the district-
and community-level financial analysis, prepare and implement by the end of PYl, a five-year plan for
the financing of department and district health operations, including directives for budgetary allocations
by department.
3.9          Implementation of these policies and programs would be advanced through management
training, coordination and facilitation activities described below. Specialist services are being requested
from the Belgians (AGCD) in line with their support in the Department of Dosso. At least two physicians
would be provided to each of the selected departments: a health management specialist to assist the
directors of the departmental and district health offices in expediting the decentralization process through
technical advise and training in budget planning, logistics and management information systems; and a
physician gynecologist to help set up the supervision and referral systems (para 3.17). With regard to
cost recovery and essential drugs, adequate funding has been assured from key donors (outside the present
project), i.e., USAID, AGCD and FED, including some support from the ongoing Health Project.
Financing of drugs and other me. ical supplies has been assured by the FED for the next five years.
3.10         Strengthening Technical and Management Training Capacities. In line with the new
service delivery norms, the project would help implement the revised departmental in-service training
modules for MCH/FP and nutrition developed during project preparation (Annex 3-3). The revised
modules, including the detailed in-service training plan for the first two yeaib of the project (1993-94),
were submitted to IDA at negotiations. Official adoption of the modules and in-service training plan, as
discussed and agreed at negotiations, is a condition of credit effectiveness. The proposed program builds
on the initiative started under the ongoing Health Project, with the development of regional training
teams. The decentralized training system would take advantage of the institutional capacities of the
departmental hospitals and district health centers, the two interregional reference centers for family health
(para 3.15), and tfi; two national public health schools. Less than one fifth of the personnel in the
departments has had any kind of FP training, and less than one third of MCH staff have had adequate
training in risk management. The training program would therefore be offered to the majority of



21
persoanel currently present and newly assigned to the departments. However, the proposed rate of
training is not expected to be maintained at the same level beyond the project period. The adopted and
tested training modules would be used to update the curricula of basic training courses at the two national
public health schools. The level of in-service training activities would gradually be phased down as the
basic training courses at the schools are strengthened.
3.11         Management training of departmental and district staff would also be limited to the three
selected Departments. The other departments, as proposed by the Government, would be phased-in with
other donor support over the next few years. The Department of Dosso has already made significant
progress in streamlining sector management at the departmental and district levels, with support from
AGCD; and FAC recently concluded a program of support for the Department of Zinder in the
development of a departmental health plan. Furthermore, with USAID's assistance, MSP has developed
a national health information system (SNIS), now being implemented at all levels of the health care
system.
3.12         The project would build on the experience gained in the department of Dosso in
management training, and in the preparation of regional health plans and the health information system.
It would finance the training -- at the Center for Medical Training and Research (CIMEFOR) in the
Department of Dosso -- of 18 departmental- and district-level health administrative personnel in basic
health management, including personnel, financial and assets management, health information systems,
and monitoring and evaluation techniques. The Departmental Health Directorates (DDS) of Zinder,
Tahoua, and Tillabery would be furnished with computers with appropriate software to enhance their
financial and health information management capabilities. At least two staff members of each of the
DDSs would be given both formal and on-the-job training in computer programming and data processing.
By th- end of PY1, all three departments would have produced a three-year rolling health plan and
budget.
3.13         This sub-component would finance: (a) specialist services (three man-months local and
two man-months interniat..G.al to assist, initiate and evaluate the training program; (b) the production of
training materials and operational guidelines; (c) the cost of participation in training workshops; and
(d) equipment and vehicles for department and district offices.
3.14         Increasing access to and improving the quality of M!CH and FP Services (US$6.4
million). This sub-component would provide support to: (a) improve the in-patient care capacities and
the quality of MCH/FP services at the departmental and district levels; (b) strengthen the capacity of the
canton-level dispensaries to provide a wider range of MCH/FP services; (c) strengthen the village health
team (VHT) system and organize adequate back-up care and supervision by paramedical personnel in the
dispensaries; and (d) encourage NGOs' and private sector agents' participation in the provision of
MCHIFP services, including community participation (see para. 3.49 on the Population Fund).
3.15         At the departmental level, the capacity for dealing with MCH/FP referrals would be
reinforced through the construction, equipping, and staffing of the interregional family health center in
Zinder. This center would serve as the eastern counterpart to the National Center for Family Health in
Niamey (CNSF), covering the Departments of Zinder, Maradi, Agadez and Diffa, which together
constitute about 60% of the country's population. It would serve as a referral center for FP and a
training site for MCH/FP, and would have the lead responsibility for operational research in family health
in the region. The center would take an active part in the development of FP training programs and the
elaboration of norms and standards for the MCH/FP program, including monitoring and evaluation. A
draft statute, governing the center and giving details of its organizational structure, role and functions,



22
as well as a proposed staffing plan, was discussed and agreed at negotiations. Official adoption of the
statute is a condition of effectiveness.
3.16         At the district level, the capacities of the nine selected CMs in the capitals to deal with
emergency ob/gyn and maternal services would be strengthened through the construction and equipping
of operation theaters, renovation and extension of laboratories, and construction of 15 new staff houses
and renovation of 12 existing staff houses for the additional staff to be posted to these centers (Annex 3m
4). The range of services to be delivered at these centers would be greatly increased in accordance with
the new service delivery norms, and would include pre- and post-natal services, FP services (including
sterilization and IUD insertion), nutrition rehabilitation, and nutrition and health education. Each
upgraded CM would be staffed by a minimum of two physicians, two midwives, and four other
paramedical personnel, such as registered and certified nurses and social workers. The draft Arrete
defining the norms and standards for the provision of MCH/FP services at each service delivery level was
discussed and agreed at negotiations; publication of the Arr&t is a condition of credit effectiveness. The
list of selected CMs is found in Annex 3-4.
3.17         Under the project, CM physicians would receive six months of training in obstetrics and
gynecology, and in minor surgery at the Central Maternity and the National Hospital in Niamey. Also,
selected nurses and all midwives would receive six weeks of technical training in "risk management" and
in clinical and other contraceptive methods, as well as FP counselling. MDSPPF has developed a
standard set of FP training modules in collaboration with the USAID/INTRAH project; these modules
would be used by the training program developed under the proposed project. The Belgian Government
has agreed to provide the necessary technical assistance during the first three years of the project to
backup and facilitate service delivery during the transition period. An essential element of the proposed
training for the physicians would be improvement in the performance of tubal ligation, vasectomy, and
JUD insertion. The training of midwives in IUD insertion already initiated under the ongoing Health
Project would be stepped up. To strengthen supervision of the dispensaries, senior-level CM staff (two
physicians, one or two midwives, and three or four nurses, including at least one social worker) would
constitute a supervision team to provide the necessary backup care, on-the-job training, and supervision
of dispensary staff.
3.18          The project would finance the training costs for 18 physicians, 45 midwives and nurses,
including specialist services (one ob-gyn specialist - 36 man-months); training materials, medical
equipment, vehicles and furniture for staff houses and CMs; and medical supplies. To alleviate the
perennial problem of inadequate supplies of equipment, loss and improper maintenance, each trained
midwife, nurse and physician would be provided with a medical kit containing the basic equipment for
daily operations. The kit would be maintained and kept in the possession of the staff. (The list of
equipment is found in Annex 3-4). With regard to contraceptive supplies, USAID and UNFPA have
made a commitment to meet the total needs of the program for the next five years. At the request of the
Government, however, the project would earmark about US$500,000 for the procurement of
contraceptives, in the event either of these donors has difficulty fulfilling its commitment.
3.19         To increase the capacity to deliver FP, particularly at the district and village levels, the
current regulations which do not allow nurses (ICs) and auxiliary workers to deliver contraceptive
services other than barrier methods, i.e., condoms and spermicide, and which also imposes a standard
medical examination and laboratory test prior to prescription of hormonal contraceptives, need to be
amended. During project preparation, the Government indicated its intention to relax these restrictive
regulations and introduce a series of measures to achieve a greater degree of flexibility in the provision
of contraceptives, and to expand the use of a checklist for screening new FP acceptors. Publication of
an Arrat : (i) authorizing newly-recruited auxiliary workers (in particular village health workers), to



23
provide refill - for hormonal contraceptives, as well as supplies of barrier methods; and (ii) defining the
checklist to be used to screen new FP acceptors and other modalities for its utilization, is a condition ot
credit effectiveness.
3.20         At the canton level, about 61 DRs would benefit from the project's interventions.
Because of the extensive civil works already undertaken under the ongoing Health Project, only about
30 facilities require some rehabilitation to ensure their physical adequacy. In accordance with the new
norms, the functions at the canton level would be expanded to incorporate early detection of high- risk
pregnancies and their referral to the CMs, and provision of hormonal contraceptives and barrier methods.
The DRs would also be responsible for the resupply of contraceptives for the VHTs within their
catchment area. To fulfill these new responsibilities in addition to their preventive and curative functions,
the DRs would be staffed by at least two nurses, trained in FP and maternal health, and skills to supervise
the VMTs. The project would finance the training of 108 nurses, and the provision of equipment and
motorcycles.
3.21         The capacity to provide FP and MCH services would be extended to the village level by
streamlining the VHT system, and eXtending the system to underserved areas in the selected Departments.
To improve the effectiveness of the VHTs and to restore the communities' confidence in the system, the
project would help to eliminate the current vertical supervision and back-up system, conferring back-up
care and supervision responsibilities on the two nurses staffing the dispensaries. These nurses would be
trained in community health, supervision skills, group management, and effective record-keeping
procedures. Logistical support would also be provided to enable them to make adequate follow-up visits.
The communities would be encouraged to play a more active role in the selection and support of the
VHTs through the village health committees. Training and retraining of the VHTs would be organized
on a more structured timetable, accompanied by continuous feedback during supervision.
3.22         The project would finance: (a) training costs for 300 TBAs and 300 PHC workers and
related specialist services; (b) training materials; and (c) equipping and re-equipping of the VHTs with
kits. The provision of drugs and other supplies would continue to be obtained through existing channels.
2. Promotion of FamilX Welfare and Women's Status (US$7.0 million)
3.23          This component aims to support activities encouraging behavior favoring a reduction in
family size norms and improvements in the status of women.  It has three sub-components:
(a) developing a nationwide IEC program; (b) promoting the status of women; and (c) improving nutrition
interventions.
3.24         Developing a nationwide IEC program (US$3.9 million). The primary objective of this
sub-component is to significantly increase the knowledge and awareness of the population at risk (i.e.,
the procreating age group) of key issues relating to family welfare including, in particular, the use of
modern contraceptive methods and safe motherhood practices.  This would be achieved through:
(a) expanding mass media communication by strengthening the institutional capacity of MSP's Health
Education Unit (DFEPS) and building a strong partnership with ORTN; (b) strengthening interpersonal
communication organized through para-medical personnel and social workers in the selected Departments;
(c) organizing listeners' groups at the village level in the selected Departments; and (d) expanding IEC
activities of voluntary associations such as women's associations and youth groups, and other community
action groups, including NGOs and the private sector. A detailed description of the proposed program
of support is given in Annex 3-5.



24
3.25         The strategy adopted Is based on the results of several studies and attitudinal surveys
conducted during the last four years, which confirmed the substantial unmet needs of the population for
more information and education in FP and preventive health. To address these needs, the strategy calls
for an integrated approach which combines stepped-up interpersonal cotnmunication activities with a
multi-year mass media campaign focussing on: (a) creating demand for FP services; (b) encouraging safe
motherhood practices (including STDs/AIDS), and improving nutrition education; (c) promoting women's
role in the society and responsible parepthood, particularly among the youth; and (d) developing a broad-
based population/development awareness program. The strategy identifies three priority target groups
for IEC, namely, women of reproductive age (i.e., 15 to 49 yea.s), men and young adults, and
decisionmakers and opinion leaders. Regional plans defining in detail the role and responsibilities of each
of the partners in the design and implementation of IEC activities at the departmental level would be
prepared by the beginning of PYI for each of the three Departments in the project zone. The national
and regional plans would form the basis of all IEC activities to be supported by the project. These plans
would be evaluated and adjusted annually to respond to the changing needs of the population.
3.26         Support for increased use of mass media communication would build on the increased
capacity of DFEPS in the design and execution of an JEC program. Under the ongoing Health Project,
DFEPS is currently upgrading its audio-visual and video production equipment, and its staff will be
reinforced with technicians returning from training abroad. The proposed project would liaise with
ORTN in the production and broadcasting of health and FP messages. Moreover, ORTN recently
expressed interest in developing its participation in public service advertising, and it is expected to play
a key role in the implementation of MCH/FP IEC activities. The project would finance: (a) extension
of DFEPS's central production facility; (b) audio-visual and graphic equipment; (c) mass media
productions (radio and television-- ORTN); (d) design and production of audio-visual and print materials;
(e) specialist services for message development and production (66 man-months local, and two man-
months international); (f) an IEC specialist (12 man-months); and (g) training of 40 journalists during
PYI and PY3.
3.27         Project support for Interpersonal communication would complement ongoing activities
under the IDA-financed Health Project supporting training of health personnel in interpersonal
communication skills. The proposed project would finance in the three departments: (a) annual training
and retraining of 50 midwives, 200 nurses, and 140 auxiliary staff in MCH/FP IEC, and nltrition
education, and 20 facilitators for WID interventions; (b) development of evaluation instruments to
measure the impact of IEC activities; (c) beneficiaries assessments conducted by the staff in the health
districts, using focus group and in-depth interview techniques to define target groups, develop a better
understanding of users' perspectives on FP and health information needs, and pre- and post-test messages;
and (d) provision of audio-visual equipment (VCRs and monitors) at the nine selected CMs for rediffusion
of MCH/FP (including STDs/AIDS) and nutrition messages and programs produced for television, and
for showing pre-registered video cassettes to clients in waiting areas or gathered for health education
sessions.
3.28         As concerns interpersonal communication, emphasis would also be placed on youths. The
Ministry of Communication, Culture, Youth and Sports (MCCJS) is preparing a long-term youth strategy
with assistance under the IDA-financed Health project. This assistance, however, is currently limited to
the funding of a nationwide survey on knowledge, attitude and practice (KAP) of youth regarding family
health issues and other relevant topics, such as employment, vocational training, and labor market issues.
The proposed project would support the development and organization of follow-up to the national
seminars to discuss and disseminate the results of the survey, and would finance: (a) training for eight
focus group moderators and a program of qualitative research to complement and substantiate data
gathered under the KAP survey; (b) training in IEC techniques for 200 education agents of MCCJS in



25
all the departments; and (c) development of a series of audio-visual and printed messages based on the
research findings on family health/FP issues. The youth program would focus on family life education
and other messages including FP, STDs/AIDS, family welfare, and responsible parenthood. The project
would provide logistical support to MCCJS for interpersonal communication through its network of youth
clubs and youth education agents in the three Departments covered by the project. The conception and
testing of messages would be conducted by MCCJS. The production of audio-visual and mass media
nfterials would be coordinated by DFEPS in close collaboration with ORTN.
3.29         Furthermore, the IEC strategy places particular emphasis on satisf4ing the IEC needs of
the rural population. This would be achieved through, among other things, the establishment of listeners
clubs at the village level. These clubs would be organized so as to reinforce mass media messaging and
interpersonal communication activities conducted in the health facilities and other community centers.
About 700 listeners clubs would be organized in the catchment areas of the 61 dispensaries in the three
selected Departments, i.e., in four to six villages within a 10 kilometer radius of each dispensary. The
project would finance tl.e procurement of 800 simple radio cassettes, 10,000 audio cassettes, and
recording equipment. The activities of the listeners clubs are described in detail in Annex 3-5.
3.30         NGOs and other associations, such as the Association des Femmes nigeriennes (AFN)
and the Samariya, have already developed considerable expertise in a variety of social programs, but their
activities in MCH/FP promotion are currently limited owing largely to financial constraints, and a lack
of training and encouragement to venture into this area. The proposed project, through the Population
Fund (para 3.47), aims to intensify and broaden the FP IEC program of selected NGOs, especially the
International Planned Parenthood affiliate whose establishment is expected to take place during PYI
(para 2.45). To this end, the Population Fund would provide grants to those NGOs expressing interest
in including FP IEC in their activities. Participating NGOs will have access to materials produced under
the project; and funds would also be made available for a limited number of small projects for the
delivery of contraceptive services (pills, barrier methods) at the community level.
3.31         Promoting the status of women (US$2.8 million). This sub-component would assist
the Government in its efforts to increase opportunities for women and to promote their participation in
economic and social development programs through: (a) promoting women's income-earning capacity
through community initiatives and microenterprises; (b) extending successful ongoing action programs
aimed at increasing functicnal literacy; and (c) strengthening the institutional capacity of the Ministry of
Social Development, Population and Women's Promotion (MDSPPF) to plan, coordinate, monitor, and
evaluate women's programs at both the central level and in the three selected Departments. A detailed
description of the proposed interventions is given in Annex 3 .
3.32         The project's support for community initiatives and microenterprises builds on the
success and significant impact already achieved under a number of such programs in the country, namely,
the FED-funded microenterprise project for women managed by AFN, and the UNICEF-funded
community nutrition initiatives (Projet Conjoint d'Appui I la Nutrition (PCAN)). The proposed project
aims to expani these community initiatives and microenterprises in the selected Departments, through
improving women's access to appropriate production technologies and reinforcing their capacity for self-
management of income-generating activities. The project would provide the initial capital for start-up
activities for about 60 community initiatives or microenterprises. The maximum funding would not
exceed CFAF 5 million (US$20,000 equivalent) or 80% of the total cost of the enterprise. Proposed
UNICEF financing for these initiatives would be US$450,000; total IDA funding would not exceed
US$500,000, with community conaribution in cash and kind of at least US$140,000. The eligible
activities fall into two broad categories: (a) labor-saving equipment such as food processing mills, manual
water pumps, and animal carts; and (b) activities -- such as livestock, market gardening and horticulture,



26
and cereal banks -- aimed at increasing women's income-earning capacity and improving the nutritional
and food security situation of the communities. Included among these initiatives would be support to
Increase the communities' capacity for monitoring the nutritional status of children, namely through the
establishment of community-level growth monitoring groups.
3.33         The projects would be selected on the basis of their expected impact and sustainability.
To ensure sustainability of these enterprises and to ensure their capacity for duplication in the villagg,
training would be provided to key members of the selected groups in simple bookkeeping anid accounting
procedures, in order to build self-reliance in fund management and accountability. In conjunction with
this type of training, other functional literacy courses would be included covering a wide range of topics,
such as equipment maintenance, as well as themes relevant to the population program, such as FP,
nutrition surveillance for village teams (growth monitoring), and safe motherhood initiatives. Technical
back-stopping would be provided through recruitment of local facilitators (animatrices) by the Department
of Women's Condition (DCF) in the MDSPPF. These facilitators would be trained in project design and
evaluation at the community level.  In addition to the initial capital, the project would finance:
(a) recruitment and training of five facilitators; (b) management training for about 60 group members;
(c) specialist services -- twenty-four man-months/local (principal facilitator/programmer); and (d) training
materials, equipment and operating costs. UNICEF would provide growth monitoring equipment
(balances, tables and registration forms) for the accompanying nutrition surveillance activities at the
village level. UNICEF would also provide support for the technical supervision and monitoring of these
activities.
3.34         The functional literacy program supported under this project would be limited to women
between the ages of 15 and 25 -- most of whom have had no formal education or who have dropped out
at an early age to get married. This group contributes over 60% of the annual births in Niger. Thus,
the objective is to reinforce the MCH/FP activities being financed under the project through a targeted
literacy program. The training sites will be the network of "foyers feminins" of the AFN in the three
Departments. The program would build on lessons learned from current literacy courses conducted in
the MCH centers of Niamey, implemented with UNICEF's assistance. To this end, the program will be
designed in collaboration with the target groups in order to address key constraints, such as timing,
language of instruction, and any other important factors which could inhibit continuity in the attendance
of participating women. The functional literacy program would be reinforced by a post-literacy program
of reading materials on health, nutrition and FP, and on topics directly related to the income-generating
activities. During PYI and PY2, MDSPPF -- in collaboration with the concerned ministries -- would
receive technical assistance, on a periodic basis, to establish the program and develop the modalities for
its implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and to develop its own managerial capacity for the
strategic planning of literacy training activities. In addition to technical assistance at the central level,
the project will encourage the participation of NGOs, particularly in IEC activities and the identification
and dissemination of relevant educational materials; NGO involvement in motivating communities and
local associations in support of the literacy program will also be encouraged. Funding for the NGOs
could come from the Population Fund (para 3.47).
3.35         The project would finance: (a) the renovation of six "foyers feminins" in the three
Departments; (b) specialist services (10 man-months/international) for the development of training
materials and the program, and 16 man-months/local for post-literacy and formative research;
(c) production of functional literacy and post-literacy training materials; and (d) training costs, equipment,
and furniture. Additional financing of US$85,000 would be provided by UNICEF to complement IDA's
support for equipment, materials and training.



27
3.36         With regard to institutional support, the national population program gives MDSPPF
a central role in the facilitation, coordination, and monitoring and evaluation of WID interventions. In
addition, MDSPPF has the mandate to advance legislative reforms for improving women's status.
However, the increasing number of activities being undertaken to promote women's status places a heavy
burden on the limited and poorly trained staff at the central level, who are ill-equipped to promote,
monitor, and evaluate field activities. This situation is even worse at the departmern level, where
MDSPPF disposes of only one individual to coordinate all WID activities. The project, therefore, aims
to reinforce the institutional capacity of MDSPPF by training a selected number of central and regional
staff to enhance their knowledge and efficiency. Staff secondment from other ministries is proposed to
alleviate the shortage of personnel at MDSPPF. Furthermore, working groups would be created with
technical ministries to share responsibilities for program coordination and facilitation.
3.37         Given the substantial support being provided by CIDA for central-level administration,
the proposed project's support would be limited mainly to the departments: (a) eight DCF departmental
staff would receive training in management, planning and evaluation; and (b) office furniture, equipment
(a computer and a photocopier) and one vehicle for each of the three DCF in the departments. At the
central level, the project would finance a computer and required accessories, as well as operation and
maintenance costs. UNICEF financing would include support for libraries in the schools of public health
and the district-level MEF office (SAP).
3.38         Strengthening nutrition interventions (US$0.3 million). Given the multisectoral and
integrative nature of nutrition initiatives, the major elements of the proposed interventions are being
addressed under the relevant project components. Nutrition education and community nutrition initiatives
are included under the IEC and WID sub-components, respectively, with cofinancing from UNICEF
which would emphasize consolidation in zones it currently supports. Support for micronutrition,
especially vitamin A deficiency and iron fortification, is included in the essential drugs list, and would
be part of the pre- and post-natal programs. In addition, UNICEF would finance the supply of
micronutrients during the first two years of the project. Furthermore, UNICEF, FAO and other donors
are supporting a program of food security and nutrition surveillance. It is also expected that the sector
work on food security currently under preparation by AF5AG would set the global strategy for future
interventions.
3.39         However, given the lack of nutrition specialists at all levels and MSP's limited capacity
to facilitate and coordinate nutrition interventions, the project would finance the training of selected health
personnel at the department and district levels in nutrition program planning, coordination, monitoring
and evaluation; this training is in addition to training being provided under the ongoing Health Project
for nutrition specialists. These individuals would constitute the focal points for nutrition programming
at each level of service delivery. At the district level, 25 persons of the proposed CM technical
evaluation team would receive ten days of intensive training in nutrition. The selected member of the
team would have overall responsibility for nutrition programming at the district level and below. Under
the ongoing Health Project, two manuals for nutrition education and growth monitoring were developed,
and the curricula of the two public health schools were revised to include basic training in nutrition, thus
allowing for a buildup, over the next several years, of health personnel with basic knowledge in nutrition.
These skills would be reinforced through in-service training in specific areas of nutrition education
integrated into the general in-service training program (para 3.10). Moreover, UNICEF will finance two
computers for the Nutrition Division of MSP.
3.40         Furthermore, training in nutrition and nutrition education would be advanced through
integration of these topics into the primary and secondary school curricula and textbooks. These activities



28
are being undertaken under the ongoing Primary Education Project and would be reinforced under the
next education project.
3. Strenethening of Population Policy Analysis, Research and Coordination (US$1.4 million)
3.41         This component would help the Ministries of Economy and Finance (MEF) and Interior
to strengthen their capacities for population policy analysis, research and coordination. It has three sub-
components: (a) improving data collection, research and analytical capacities at the central level;
(b) strengthening the institutional capacit.- to facilitate and coordinate the national population program at
the central level; and (c) encouraging private sector and NGO initiatives in populat'on and FP programs
through the operation of a Population Fund.
3.42         Data collection, research and analytical capacities (US$0.5 million). To reduce the
need for the numerous periodic retrospective data collection exercises, the project would assist MEF and
the Ministry of Interior in strengthening their capacities for basic demographic and socioeconomic data
collection on a regular basis by financing improvements in the coverage of the vital registration system.
The project will also help maximize the use of the numerous retrospective studies already undertaken,
but whose exploitation and analysis have been limited due to lack of resources and pressure to continue
to gather data. Finally, it would assist the Government in the effective application of demographic data
for development planning by supporting key sectoral ministries in the use of demographic information.
3.43         Under the vital registration system, the project would complement support from UNFPA
in data processing through assistance for: (i) in-service training and retraining of registration agents of
the Ministry of Interior; (ii) motivation campaigns and awareness building among local administrators and
community leaders, and the communities in general; and (iii) improving the quality of data obtained from
the nomadic population by developing special registration forms in the local languages. The project
would finance: (a) training costs for about 1,800 agents of the Ministry of Interior; (b) specialist services
for translation of registration forms for the nomadic population (three man-months/local); (c) production
of registration forms, posters, and village-level publicity; and (d) three vehicles for supervision and local
campaigns. The proposed project activities are described in detail in Annex 3-7.
3.44         Furthermore, to improve the information base for planning as well as build up an
analytical capacity at the central level to undertake quality research, the project would support second
generation analysis of existing data. During PYI, a workshop would be organized to spell out priority
research themes to be pursued during the next five years. The project would finance research proposals
submitted by various government agencies on these themes. Evaluation and approval of these studies
would be provided by the Secretariat to CONAPO (para 3.46). To encourage individual scholarship and
in-country capacity for analytical work, the project would also finance short-term fellowships for about
ten key professionals in governmental and nongovernmental agencies submitting individual research
proposals on the themes acceptable to the secretariat. Researchers with approved proposals would be
encouraged to collaborate with leading research institutions in the region, such as CERPOD or CESAG,
or institutions elsewhere. The total fellowship fund per proposal would not exceed US$5,000. The
project would also finance the production of monographs on the 1988 census for each of the eight
Departments.  These monographs would provide a detailed analysis of the demographic and
socioeconomic situation of each department as derived from the census.
3.45         Integrating demographic variables into sector plans is an essential element of effective
development planning; however, the limited knowledge in the sectoral ministries of the importance and
use of demographic data has prevented this from happening. To this end, the project would strengthen



29
the capacity of the planning units (DEPs) in key ministries (Economy and Finance; Public Health;
Education; Social Development, Population and Women's Promotion; Interior; and Agriculture), both
at the central and departmental levels, in the application of demographic data in their sectoral plans. The
project would complement activities under the proposed USAID/Option II Project by financing:
(a) training for at least two personnel from the planning unit in collaboration with CERPOD (in total,
about 80 personnel from the planning units of key ministries at both the central and departmental levels
would benefit from this training); and (b) one workshop at the central level and follow-up missions to
sensitize planning unit directors and secretary generals on the importance and use of demographic data,
in order to ensure internalization of the process once the technical staff have acquired the requisite skills.
3.46         Strengthening instiltutional capacity for population planning and coordination (US$0.2
million). This sub-component would provide support for the establishment of the proposed National
Commission on Population Activities (CONAPO) to coordinate, monitor and evaluate the national
population program (para 2.37). Already, the Government has established the Department of Population
Activities (DAP) which will, in addition to other responsibilities, serve as Secretariat to CONAPO. In
order that DAP assume this leadership role in policy implementation, coordination and monitoring, its
capacity would be strengthened. To this end, the project would complement the technical assistance to
be provided by USAID and UNFPA for the establishment of the permanent secretariat by financing
hardware needs -- i.e., two computers, software and other materials; and one vehicle -- and specialist
services (IEC specialist: 12 man-months-international and jurist: two man-months/local. A detailed
description of proposed program of support is given in Annex 3-8.
3.47         Population Fund (US$0.5 million). The project would establish a Population Fund, with
an amount set at US$0.5 million equivalent, to provide grant financing for activities and programs that
would contribute to the implementation of the population program. Since the objective of the Fund is
not to duplicate but complement and enhance government interventions, the beneficiaries of the grants
would be NGOs, associations, private organizations and individuals. Activities that could be financed
would be: (a) those aimed at expanding MCH/FP services, such as the establishment of a national FP
association or private FP and health facilities (priority would be given to projects that seek to expand the
contraceptive distribution network, such as social marketing and community distribution projects) (50%
of the Fund); (b) those aimed at improving women's income-earning capacities (20% of the Fund); and
(c) IEC activities in the field of MCH/FP (30% of the Fund). Within the limit of US$50,000 per
beneficiary, the Population Fund would finance up to 80% of the project cost for the following types of
expenditures: local consultants, vehicles, equipment and supplies, including contraceptives, rehabilitation
of buildings, training, mass media airtime, and essential operating expenses. The remaining 20% would
be covered by counterpart financing from participating NGOs and private agencies.
3.48         The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) (para 4.6) would be responsible for administration
of the Population Fund. An independent "project selection committee" consisting of about six persons
from both the public and the private sectors would be established, under terms and conditions agreed
upon with IDA, to review and approve financing proposals. An outline of the functioning of the
Population Fund, including a list of eligibility criteria to be used, is found in Annex 3-9. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that: (a) it will make available to the benuficiaries portions
of the amount allocated to the Population Fund, in accordance with agreements entered into between the
Government and the beneficiaries on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA; and (b) IDA will review
and approve any grant in excess of CFAF 3.0 million before contract is signed. The draft by-laws and
regulations governing the administration of the Population Fund, together with a procedures manual and
a standard contract to be entered into with the would-be beneficiaries of the Fund were discussed and
agreed at negotiations. Official adoption of these by-laws and regulations, as well as the establishment



30
of the committee for the selection of sub-projects to be financed under the Fund, are conditions of credit
effectiveness.
C. Project Cost and Financing Plan
3.49         The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at US$24.1 million equivalent, with
a foreign exchange component of US$12.3 million (51%). Base cost estimates are US$21.0 million at
February 1992 prices. The costs exclude direct taxes and import duties. Physical and price contingencies
are estimated at US$3.1 million (13% of total cost) with physical contingencies representing 7% of base
cost. Price contingencies assume: (a) an annual domestic inflation rate of 2% during the life of the
project; and (b) foreign inflation rates of 3.9% (average for the period 1990-2000). The project would
be financed by IDA (US$17.6 million or 73% of total cost); contributions from the Government, NGOs,
private agencies and communities (US$3.0 million, or 13% of total cost); the Belgian Government
(US$2.5 million, or 10% of total cost); and UNICEF (US$1.0 million, or 4% of total cost). Detailed
project cost estimates are given in Annex 3-10.
3.50         Recurrent cost implications. Given the very limited physical expansion envisaged under
the project, the expected incremental recurrent costs to be directly generated by project investments would
be minimal. The only real addition to the health infrastructure would be the Regional Center for Family
Health in Zindcr; however, as with the other project components the center's -personnel requirements
would be primarily provided through the proposed personnel redeployment exercise. Hence, minimal
incremental salaries are expected. Recruitment of the five outreach social workers for the WID sub-
component and the PCU staff would all be undertaken on a contractual basis.  However, the
implementation of revised service delivery norms and standards would add about CFAF 60 million
(US$221,000 equivalent) to annual personnel costs, which represents about 0.6% of the 1990 recurrent
budget for the health sector. The proposed upgrading of the CMs is expected to generate a modest
increase in the operations and maintenance budget, which is currently underfunded. The estimated annual
recurrent expenditures (operations and maintenance) for a typical upgraded CM would be in the order
of CFAF 22 million, compared to the current actual budget of CFAF 18 million -- an increase of about
CFAF 4 million per facility or CFAF 36 million (US$132,000) for the nine upgraded CMs. This amount
represents less than 0.4% of MSP's 1990 recurrent budget. Thus, incremental recurrent expenditures
(personnel and operations and maintenance) are not expected to exceed 1 % of the total recurrent budget
for the health sector. The increment in the operations and maintenance budget would result primarily
from increased drug procurement which, however, would be entirely funded during the next five years
by FED. Although it cannot be quantified at this time, the proposed cost recovery program is expected
to ensure sustainability of drug procurement as well as other commodities, and generate enough savings
to finance maintenance costs which are likely to increase slightly due to increased procurement of medical
equipment for the CMs. However, the expected increase in maintenance costs is likely to have a minimal
impact on the recurrent budget because of the improved maintenance capacities of MSP's three
maintenance units, i.e., the medical equipment, laboratory equipment and vehicle maintenance units
(SERAM, SERMEX and SERPA, respectively). These units were recently reinforced under the ongoing
Health Project.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Proiect Preparation and Readiness
4.1          Project preparation was conducted by an interministerial technical committee consisting
of representatives of the five ministries involved, led by MEF. Financing of preparation activities,



31
including studies, specialist services and materials, was provided under a PPF advance of US$420,000
and a Japanese Facility Grant of US$240,000. UNICEF provided a consultant and participated in
defining of the nutrition and WID elements of the project.
4,2          The preparation process served two pivotal functions. First, it helped to accelerate the
development of the national population policy (recently presented to the Government for review and
approval) by financing, through the PPF, consultative seminars and studies aiming to build consensus on
policy issues. Second, the participatory planning process involving departmental-level personnel helped
to engender greater understanding and commitment to issues relating to FP and to population in general.
To ensure effective project implementation and sustainability, emphasis was placed on critical policy
reforms to enhance the absorptive capacity of the public sector, and the potential roles of NGOs and the
private sector.  Particular attention was also devoted to issues relating to implementation of the
Government's policy of decentralizing public administration and management, and to the attendant
personnel policy reform and resource mobilization at the comnmunity level. Throughout project
preparation, considerable attention was given to ensuring effective collaboration and coherence of
approaches among donors. Both the interministerial technical committee and IDA actively involved
donors -- i.e., USAID, UNFPA, FED, FAC, GTZ, AGCD and CIDA -- in the different stages of project
preparation. There is, at this time, sufficient delineation and coherence in donor support for the national
population program.
4.3          The recent political changes and the continuing evolution of the democratic process in
Niger has had some effect on the processing timetable. A post-appraisal mission was undertaken in
November 1991 to follow up on the status of project preparation, in particular the fulfillment of agreed
conditions for negotiations. A hiatus of two-three months in project preparation was experienced during
the national conference, when there was no "functioning" government and no decisions could be taken
on key issues. The pace has since picked up, with the transition government showing keen interest and
desire to proceed on with the project. Barring developments in the country which could delay Board
presentation, the project is expected to be presented to the Board as scheduled, on April 30, 1992.
B. Proiect Coordination and Manaeement, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.4          The project's components would be managed and implemented by the three key
Ministries: MSP, MDSPPF, and MEF. The role of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) is to ensure
effective interagency and intersectoral linkages and coordination of resources in order to facilitate the
smooth and timely implementation of the project (para 4.6). The breakdown of responsibilities of each
of the three ministries would be the following:
(a)    The MCH/FP component would be the responsibility of MSP, in collaboration with the
Department of FP of MDSPPF. The Departmental Health Directorates (DDS) and
district-level health offices in the selected Departments of Tillabery, Tahoua, and Zinder
would play a central role in the implementation of this component;
(b)    The IEC sub-component would be implemented by MSP under the direct leadership of
its Department of Training and Health Education. Elements of the IEC program that deal
with youth, promotion of women's status, and population awareness programs would be
organized in close collaboration with the responsible departments in the concerned
ministries; namely the Department of Youth and Culture of MCCJS, and the Departments
of Women's Promotion, and Population Activities of MDSPPF;



32
(c)    The sub-component on WID and nutrition would be implemented, respectively, by the
Department of Women's Promotion of MDSPPF and Department of Maternal and Child
Health of MSP;
(d)    The Population Policy Analysis. Research and Coordination component would be directly
implemented by the Department of Population Activities of MDSPPF, in close
collaboration with the Department of Statistics and Demography of MEF and the
Department of Vital Registration in the Ministry of Interior. The Population Fund sub-
component would, however, be implemented by the PCU.
4.5           Because of the importance of JEC activities in all the project components, an
Interninisterial JEC Technical Committee would be established. This committee would include
representatives of MDSPPF, MCCJS, MSP, MEF, and MEN, as well as a representative of ORTN,
which would produce, under contract, some of the mass media materials. The Coordinating Committee
will approve annual work programs for IEC activities and provide a forum for discussing the scheduling
of campaigns and media production; the Committee would also supervise the overall technical progress
of IEC activities. A description of these institutions' capacities in the IEC field and of the status of their
activities is presented in Annex 3-5. The adoption of an Arrete establishing the Interministerial IEC
Technical Committee would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
4.6          Day-to-day coordination of project activities, administrative and financial matters, as well
as monitorlng and evaluation, would be the responsibility of the PCU, located in the Ministry of Social
Development, Population and Women's Promotion, and reporting directly to the Minister. The PCU
would: (a) assist in the preparation and consolidation of annual work programs and budgets prepared by
the ministries responsible for project components; (b) be responsible for the procurement of works, goods
and services, the recruitment of consultants, and the implementation of training programs; (c) ensure that
expenditures correspond to project activities and that resources acquired for the project are effectively
used; (d) maintain the project accounts, and manage the Special Account to be opened at a commercial
bank; (e) prepare the necessary documentation for withdrawal of the proceeds of the IDA credit; (f) make
arrangements for the audit of project accounts and SOEs; (g) be responsible for the Population Fund;
(h) be responsible for the preparation and submission of semiannual, annual and project completion
reports to IDA and to cofinanciers (if applicable); (i) serve as secretariat for the Interministerial IEC
Technical Committee; 0) organize annual reviews of project implementation as well as the mid-term
review, and supervise and coordinate project monitoring and evaluation activities; and (k) liaise with all
cofinanciers (if applicable), and maintain dialogue and collaboration with the key donors on ongoing
interventions to ensure continuing complementarity of donor inputs.
4.7           The PCU would be headed by a Project Coordinator with a good knowledge of
administrative procedures and experience in management, and would include a Deputy Project
Coordinator, an internationally recruited management and project implementation specialist, two
accountants, a procurement officer, and support staff. The Deputy Project Director would serve as the
Population Fund administrator. For the PCU, the project would finance: (a) vehicles, furniture and
equipment; (b) specialist services (project implementation: 24 man-months/international; procurement
specialist:  three man-months/international; establishment of the accounting system:  four maii-
months/local; and annual audits, mid-term review, and monitoring and evaluation studies: 18 man-
months/international); (c) training (fellowships, study tours, and annual programming workshops); and
(d) operating costs, including salaries of local contract personnel, travel and subsistence expenses,
utilities, operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment, documentation, and office supplies.



33
4.8           A full-time Project Coordinator with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA was
recruited prior to negotiations. Also, during negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the
higher-level positions of the PCU will be filled at all times with personnel whose qualifications and
experience are satisfactory to IDA.
4.9          Monitoring and evaluation would be carried out during the life of the project by the
implementing ministries and by the PCU. Each ministry would monitor activities under its respective
components and submit progress reports to the PCU which, in turn would report to the Minister of Social
DIvelopment, Population and Women's Promotion. The PCU would have an overall view of problems
and issues in project implementation and be in a position to recommend any correct>ve actions that may
be required. Plans for the progress reporting system and the impact evaluation program (including
indicators for inputs, outputs, effects and impacts) were discussed during the post-appraisal mission and
were finalized during negotiations (see Annex 42 for the supervision plan). By October 31 of each year,
beginning in 1993, the Government would organize an annual implementation review workshop, to be
attended by PCU staff and representatives of the implementing ministries and IDA, in order to evaluate
the year's activities and consolidate the proposed work program for the coming year for each project
component. The draft annual work program and budget for activities to be undertaken during the next
fiscal year should be reviewed and approved by MDSPPF no later than December I of each year. The
flnal versions of the annual program and budget for the project would reflect comments rmade by IDA.
4.10         At mid-term, the Government and IDA would undertake a more comprehensive and
detailed evaluation of the progress of implementation and of the extent to which the project is achieving
its expected development impact. The evaluation would aim to: (a) verify the continued validity of the
design assumptions in light of implementation experience; and (b) assess whether this experience suggests
adjustments in the design or other aspects of the project. In particular, the efficiency of the current
institutional arrangement governing MCH/FP would be assessed. One of the outputs of the review would
be an action program spelling out the agreements reached on changes in objectives or performance; a.J
how the remainder of the project should be implemented, including monitorable targets and a timetable
for implementation. In view of the nature of this review and as an input to it, an evaluation would be
undertaken by independent outside consultants. Other donors would be invited to participate in the joint
Government/IDA review. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will organize:
(i) by October 31 of each year, beginning in 1993, a joint Government/IDA review of project
implementation; (ii) no later than October 31, 1995, carry out jointly with IDA and any other donors
interested in participating a comprehensive mid-term review of the project's progress covering, inter aia,
the items and topics described in Annex 4-2; and (iii) no later than four weeks prior to such review,
submit to IDA a report by consultants evaluating the progress of the project and covering the same items
and topics, and soon after the mid-term review, imnpr-ent the recommendations in accordance with an
agreed action plan.



34
C. Procurement
4.11            The table below summarizes the project elements, their estimated costs, and proposed
methods of procurement.
Summary of Provosed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent, including contingencies)
Category of Expenditures     ICB            LCB          OTHER              NBF             TOTAL COST
1. Works
1.1 New Construction        -               2.9              -               -              2.9
-              (2.9)            -               -              (2.9)
1.2 Rehabilitation          -               1.0             -                -               1.0
-              (1.-0)                                          (1.0)
2. Goods
2.1 Vehicles                0.9             -                -               -               0.9
(0.9)            -               -               -              (0.9)
2.2 Equipment               2.0             -               0.2             0.1 a/           2.3
(2.0)            -              (0.2)            -              (2.2)
2.3 Furniture               0.3             0.5              -               -               0.8
(0.3)           (0.5)            -               -              (0.8)
2.4 Contraceptives          0.6              -               -               -               0.6
(0.6)                            -                              (0.6)
2.5 Materials & Supplies    0.1             0.2             0.1             0.1 b/           0.5
(0. 1)          (0.2)           (0 1)            .              (0.4)
3. Service Contracts           0.6             -               0.4 e/           -               1.0
(0.6)            -              (0.4)            -              (1.0)
4. Consultancies
4.1 Studies, Evaluation     -                -              0.6              -               0.6
& Supervision             -                              (0.6)            -              (0.6)
4.2 Technical Assistance    -                               0.7             2.5 1           3.2
-               -              (0.7)                           (0.7)
4.3 Training                                 -              0.3              -               0.3
-               -              (0.3)            -              (0.3)
5. Other
5.1 Refinancing of PPF      -                -              0.4              -               0 4
-              -               (0.4)            -              (0.4)
5.2 Training Costs          -               -               3.2             0.2 _/           3.4
-  -           (3.2)            -              (3.2)
5.3 Population Fund         -               -               0.5             0.1 e/           0.7
-               -              (0.5)            -              (0.5)
5.4 Micro-projects          -               -               0.5             0.5 f/           1.0
-               -              (0.5)            -              (0.5)
5.5 Operating Expenses      -                               1.5             2.9 gI           4.4
Total Costs                 4.5             4.6             8.5             6.5             24.1
Total Financed by IDA      l4 
Note:   Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Figures in parentheses represent amounts financed under the IDA credit.
NBF = Not Bank Financed.
*1      Service contracts for ORTN production costs US$0.4 million.
Footnotes indicate amounts financed by other donors and procured under their procedures.
a/      UNICEF US$0.1 million.          C/      NGOs/Privae Agencies US$0.1 million.
b/      UNICEF US$0.1 million.          f/      UNICEF US$0.4 million; Communities US$0.1 million.
c/      AGCD US$2.5 million.            gI      Govemment US$2.7 million; UNICEF US$0.2 million.
d/      UNICEF US$0.2 million.



35
4.12         The civil works included under the project are: construction of the interregional family
health center at Zinder (at a cost of about US$400,000); construction of 15 houses for physicians (unit
cost of about US$43,000); renovation of another 12 houses (unit cost of about US$16,000); construction
of nine laboratories (unit cost of about US$46,000) and nine surgical units (unit cost of about
US$123,000) for medical centers; renovation of 30 dispensaries (unit cost of about US$10,000); and
renovation of the EPS A/V unit. With the exception of the renovation of 12 physicians' houses and 15
dispensaries to be carried out in PY3, the other civil works would be carried out in PY2. Because the
contract values are small and the works are geographically scattered, foreign bidders are not expected to
be interested; and all civil works contracts of a total value of US$3.9 million equivalent including
contingencies would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally (LCB) in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
4.13         Goods financed under the project would include vehicles, furniture, office, medical, and
other equipment, contraceptives, and materials and supplies, for a total value of US$4.9 million
equivalent including contingencies. Most of these goods would be procured in the first year of the
project, and would be grouped into bid packages of at least US$100,000 each and procured through
international competitive bidding (CB) in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1985). Where ICB procedures are used, a preferential margin of
15%, or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less, over the c.i.f. prices of competing goods would
be given to domestic manufacturers in accordance with IDA Guidelines. Contracts for goods procured
through ICB would total US$3.9 million, representing about 80% of the total value of goods financed
by IDA. Goods procured under contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent each which,
in the aggregate, would not exceed US$0.7 million equivalent and which would represent about 14% of
the total value of goods financed by IDA, would be suitable for procurement through LCB under
procedures acceptable to IDA.
4.14         The remaining 6% of the total value of goods, mainly materials and supplies, which
cannot be grouped into bid packages of at least US$30,000 equivalent would be procured on the basis
of price quotations from at least three suppliers, provided that the aggregate amounts of such procurement
do not exceed US$0.3 million equivalent.
4.15         Service contracts for a total value of US$1.0 million would be for IEC activities,
functional literacy program and community initiatives. The production of public service advertising
campaigns on radio and television would be contracted directly with the Office de Radiodiffusion et
Television du Niger (ORTN); the value of those contracts, covering essentially incremental operating
costs (production costs), would be about US$400,000 equivalent over the project period. Costs of radio
and television diffusion would be borne by the Government. It was deemed, however, necessary to have
a contractual arrangement with ORTN in order to ensure effective management and monitoring of these
resources. Because of the nature of the services to be provided, the production must be done locally, and
ORTN (now separate from the Ministry of Communications and generating the revenues needed to cover
its operating costs) is the only organization in Niger that has the necessary equipment and capacity to
deliver these services. The direct contracting to ORTN would reinforce its capacity to produce and
deliver public service advertising campaigns. The remaining service contracts financed under the IDA
credit, for a total value of US$600,000 equivalent for the conception and production of pedagogic
materials and training manuals, would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA.
4.16         Consultants financed by IDA, totalling US$1.6 million, would be contracted in accordance
with IDA's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. The nature of these consulting services would be
mostly technical assistance fof WID and JEC activities and the Population Fund, but would also include
specialist services (such as for procurement) for the PCU and for training activities. The cost estimates
for consultancies are net of taxes. Consultancy services to be financed by IDA would total about 308



36
man-months, of which about 261 man-months would be for locally-recruited specialists whenever the
expertise required exists in Niger and whenever there would be no particular advantage to resort to the
more costly use of international specialists. Details on consultancies are given in Annex 4-1.
4.17         The procurement methods to be followed for items financed under the microenterprise
initiatives and the Population Fund cannot be defined in advance. The appropriate committee/agency
appointed for the purpose of reviewing and approving the activities (para 3.33 and 3.48, respectively)
will decide on the methods of procurement appropriate for each project, such as ICB, LCB, prudent
shopping (with at least three price quotations). The managing agencies will ensure that the methods of
procurement are incorporated into agreements with beneficiaries and, in addition, monitor the consistency
of the procurement procedures agreed. Funds will only be released on the basis of expenditures incurred
and authorization for direct payment on behalf of the beneficiary to the supplier. IDA will undertake
sample checking of such transactions. Items or groups of items not exceeding US$50,000 or 80% of total
costs per project, and up to an aggregate of US$0.5 million will be financed under the Population Fund
(para 3.47). Under the microenterprise initiatives, items or groups of items not exceeding US$20,000
or 80% of total costs per project, and up to an aggregate of US$0.5 million will be financed under the
IDA credit (para 3.32).
4.18         Procurement status of the on_oing Health Project (Cr. 1668-NIR). The disbursement
lag under the ongoing IDA-funded Health project as of December 31, 1991, was 25.7%, partly the result
of poor procurement practices, i.e., poor planning and slow progress in civil works due to inadequate
supervision and the Government's cumbersome procurement procedures. The limited capacity of the
Project Management Unit to plan and closely supervise IDA-financed procurement has also been a major
constraint to the timely execution of project activities. A number of remedial actions have, however,
been taken and others are in the process of being implemented:
(a)    The Deputy Project Manager participated in a six-week training course in procurement,
organized by the International Labor Organization, in Turin, Italy;
(b)    A detailed procurement action plan is being prepared for the remaining goods and
services to be procured under the project. This would ensure timely processing of all
actions required;
(c)    Supervision of civil works is being contracted out to a local consulting firm due to the
limited capacity in MSP to supervise these activities;
(d)    The Project Director has been replaced by a more dynamic person, and project
management will have in place, by April 1992, long-awaited financial management
specialist, whose recruitment had been delayed for over two years due to the
Government's practice of imposing tax liability on foreign consultants. This issue has
now been resolved.
4.19         Procurement arrangements under the proposed project. The Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU) in MDSPPF would be responsible for procurement. The PCU, having not yet been
established, has no track record on procurement matters. However, it would be able to draw on the
experience of implementing ministries (as well as that of the Ministry of Equipment for the civil works
included under the project), most of which are familiar with IDA guidelines for procurement. Moreover,
the PCU would employ a full-time internationally-recruited management and implementation specialist,
and a procurement officer, who will be periodically supported by a procurement consultant as would be



37
required during the first three years of the project). Under PPF financing, the procurement officer would
prepare a procurement implementation schedule prior to credit effectiveness.
4.20         A Country Procurement Assessment Report was completed in October 1985. At that
time, the laws and regulations which had been enacted over the last four decades, remained somewhat
outdated and sometimes contradictory. With IDA's assistance (under the Public Enterprise Institutional
Development Project (Cr. 1838-NIR)), the Government prepared new comprehensive procurement
regulations and, in April 1989, promulgated a new public procurement code. In general, Niger's current
procurement laws and regulations do not conflict with IDA Guidelines, with a few exceptions. Regarding
ICB, no special exemptions, permits or licenses need to be specifled in credit documents because Niger's
procurement practices, as well as Article 5 of the new procurement code, allow IDA's procedures to take
precedence. In order for LCB procedures to be acceptable to IDA, the credit documents should include
a waiver of the regulation that grants preference to local contractors and suppliers, and should specify
that: (a) foreign bidders should be allowed to participate; (b) all evaluation criteria should be specified
in quantitative terms in the bidding documents; (c) the time period allowed for bid preparation must be
at least 30 days; and (d) negotiated contracts may not be attempted without IDA's prior approval.
4.21         A procurement officer for the PCU was recruited as a condition for negotiations. To
encourage prompt action on the part of the Borrower, preparation of a draft procurement plan, with a
timetable to be included in the project file, and submission to IDA, for review and com;nents, of draft
bidding documents for all bid packages in the first year of the project are conditions of credit
effectiveness.
4.22         IDA-financed contracts for works, goods and services above a threshold of US$100,000
equivalent each would be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review process would cover
about 70% of the total value of the amount contracted for works, goods and services financed by IDA.
Selective post-review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels would apply to about one in three
works contracts, and one in six goods and services contracts.
4.23         With the assistance of the management and project implementation specialist, and of the
procurement consultant, the PCU would develop a capacity to collect and record procurement
information, as follows: (a) prompt reporting of contract award information; (b) comprehensive semi-
annual reports to IDA, indicating (i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project,
including best estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies; (ii) revised timing of procure-
ment actions, includixg advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts;
and (iii) complianLr ._ h aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement; and (c) a Project Com-
pletion Report prepared within six months of the credit closing date.
4.24         During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will apply the procurement
procedures and arrangements outlined above.
D. Disbursements
4.25         The project is expected to be completed over a four-year period, and the IDA credit
would be disbursed over a six-year period, compared to Niger's standard disbursement profile of seven
years. The estimated disbursement profile is found in Annex 4-3.



38
4.26.        The IDA credit would be disbursed on the basis of the categories shown below.
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Category of Expenditure          Proposed IDA Allocations    % of Expenditures
(US$ Million)         Financed by IDA
1. Civil Works                         3.5                    100%
2. Vehicles, equipment, furniture,
materials & supplies, contraceptives  4.4                   100%
3. Service Contracts                   0.8                    100%
4. Consultancies                       1.5                     100%
5. Training costs                      2.9                    100%
6. Population Fund                     0.5                     80%
7. Micro-Projects                      0.5                     80%
8. Operating Costs
(a) PCU                           0.5                    100%
(b) Other                         1.0                     75%
9. PPF                                 0.4
10. Unallocated                        16
Total                    17.6
4.27         Disbursement of the IDA credit would be fully documented except for expenditures valued
at less than US$20,000 equivalent, which would be against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
Documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be retained at the PCU for review by IDA staff during
supervision missions and for regular semiannual audits.
4.28         To facilitate disbursement, the Government would open a Special Account at a
commercial bank to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures to be managed by the PCU. The
authorized allocation for the Special Account would be CFAF 300 million; IDA would make an initial
deposit of that amount from the proposed credit immediately upon credit effectiveness. IDA would
replenish the Special Account upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible expenditures.
Replenishment requests would be accompanied by up-to-date bank statements and reconciliations of the
Special Account. All applications for direct payments, reimbursement or request for special commitments
would be for contracts above the equivalent of US$20,000.
E. Agcounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.29         While each implementing agency would keep its own accounts for project-related
activities, overall responsibility for the project's financial management would rest with the PCU, which
would maintain the consolidated project accounts. The PCU would submit to IDA: (a) semiannual
progress reports on project implementation; (b) annual financial statements on project expenditures;
(c) annual work programs and budgets for the following year; and (d) a project completion report within
six months of the credit closing date. Project accounts, including the Special Account, would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; all disbursements under SOEs would be audited
semiannually. The audit reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal
year. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will submit to IDA an annual audit
report, of reasonable scope and detail, within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year and,



39
in the case of the Special Account and SOEs, that it will submit semiannual reports wlthin three months
after the end of each audit period.
4.30         Transmission to IDA of the evaluation report on the selection of the auditor to be
employed under a three-year contract was a condition of negotiations. The terms of reference for the
auditor would include the prepiuation and implementation of the system of accounts and of a management
information system, the preparation of a procedures manual, and the training of staff as well as the audits
of accounts and SOEs. The finalization and signature of the contract with the selected auditor is a
condition of effectiveness.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1          Benefits. Project benefits would be widespread, especially in five areas. First, between
0.8 to 1.0 million women of reproductive age would gain direct access to MCH/FP services. Pre- and
post-natal consultations would be significantly increased, thus directly affecting maternal and infant
mortality rates. FP service consultations, the number of new acceptors, and continuity of contraceptives
use would rise significantly, resulting in a estimated contraceptive prevalence rate of between 25% and
30% in urban areas, and between 5% and 10% in rural areas by the end of the project period. In
addition, the efficiency and quality of service delivery of the health care system at the regional, district
and village levels would be greatly improved. Second, the IEC sub-component is expected to have far-
reaching qualitative impact on the social and economic well-being of the Nigerien population. The IEC
activities would cover the whole country through mass media (about 95% of the population have access
to radio and 25% to television), and would enhance people awareness of population, environmental,
health and FP issues, thus facilitating the Government's efforts to implement more aggressive and
effective policy reforms. Third, the WID sub-component, through its support for energy- and time-saving
technologies, expansion of microenterprises, functional literacy programs, and nutrition surveillance
would have a far-reaching impact on women's health and nutrition, as well as on family welfare, and
would help reinforce the FP objectives of the project. Fourth, the population policy analysis, research
and coordination component would significantly enhance the Govermment's ability to promote and
coordinate broad-based program implementation. IlTe establishment of a permanent secretariat for the
National Commission on Population Activities (CONAPO) will provide the needed institutional
leadership, and help strengthen the political commitment essential for establishing a stable, sustainable,
and legitimate national population program. By the end of the project period, the quality of overall
development and sectoral planning would have significantly improved, as a result of improved analytical
work, the availability of a more reliable and comprehensive data base, and a body of technical expertise
in relevant ministries able to integrate demographic factors into development planning. Fifh, the
Population Fund would help expand the capacity to deal with social sector issues by encouraging
increased participation of the private sector and NGO involvement in the population program.
5.2          Risk. There are three main risks. Eirst, if the current unstable political situation were
to persist, the population and family planning program may not continue to receive the same attention
and visibility that it has enjoyed so far. However, the open attitude that has come to prevail in the
discussions of these issues, as well as the track record of strong and broad-based support for FP
throughout the country, are reasons to believe this is now a well-accepted item on the national agenda.
Furthermore, the support provided by this project for the establishment of a nationwide IEC program
should help maintain population issues as a high priority national concern. Second, the implementation
of the decentralization strategy at departmental and district levels may be slow to materialize. It is
expected that project interventions aimed at improving the management, administrative and technical
capacities of health personnel at the provincial levels will mitigate this risk. Third, the redeployment of



40
health personnel from the central to the regional and district levels may not be achieved effectively. To
help minimize this risk, a personnel recruitment and redeployment plan was discussed and agreed at
negotiations; Government's adoption of the agreed plan is a condition of effectiveness.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDAQN
6.1          The following documents were discussed and agreed at negotiations:
(a)    Aa8  defining the structure of the regional health system, including the roles and
functions of the departments and districts in the administration and management of the
decentralized health system; and a policy document defining the personnel recruitment
and redeployment plan for 1993-95 (para 3.7);
(b)    Action plan establishing guidelines for the extension of drug distribution network at the
periphery, and procedures for the introduction of the recently adopted national essential
drugs list (para 3.8);
(c)    Revised departmental in-service training modules for MCH/FP and nutrition, including
a detailed in-service training plan for the first two years of project implementation (1993-
94) (para 3.10);
(d)    Statute governing the proposed interregional family health center in Zinder and giving
details of the center's organizational structure, role and functions, as well as a proposed
staffing plan (para 3.15);
(e)    Arr defining the norms and standards for the provision of MCHIFP services at each
service delivery level (para 3.16); and
(f)    By-laws and regulations for the Population Fund, together with a procedures manual and
a standard contract with the would-be beneficiaries of the Fund (para 3.48).
In addition, prior to negotiations, the Government: (i) established the PCU and appointed a full-time
Project Coordinator with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA (para 4.8); (ii) recruited a
procurement officer (para 4.21); and (iii) transmitted to IDA the evaluation report on the selection of the
auditor to be employed under a three-year contract (para 4.30).
6.2          During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will:
(a)   Implement the decentralization program in accordance with the norms and standards
defined in the ArXr8e and the personnel recruitment and redeployment plan for 1993-95
(para 3.7);
(b)   Implement the guidelines for the extension of the drug distribution network and the
procedures for the application of the national essential drugs policy (para 3.8);
(c)    Prepare and implement guidelines for the establishment of a nationwide cost recovery
program by the end of PYI; and, based on the results of the district- and community-
level financial analysis, prepare and implement, by the end of PYl, a five-year plan for



41
the financing of department and district health operations, including directives for
budgetary allocations by departnent (para 3.8);
(d)    Make available to the beneficiaries portions of the amount allocated to the Population
Fund in accordance with agreements entered into between the Government and the
beneficiaries on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA; and that IIDA will
review and approve any grants in excess of CFAF 3.0 million prior to signature of the
contract (para 3.48);
(e)    Fill the higher-level positions of the PCU at all times with personnel whose qualifications
and experience are satisfactory to IDA (para 4.8);
(t)    By October 31 of each year, beginning in 1993, organize a joint Government/IDA review
of project implementation (para 4.10);
(g)    No later than October 31, 1995, carry out jointly with IDA and any other donors
interested in participating, a comprehensive mid-term review of the project's progress
covering, inter AU, the items and topics described in Annex 4-2 (para 4.10);
(b)    No later than four weeks prior to such review, submit to IDA a report by consultants
evaluating the progress of the project and covering the same items and topics; and soon
after the mid-term review, implement the recommendations in accordance with an agreed
action plan (para 4.10);
(i)    During project implementation, apply the agreed procurement procedures and
arrangements (para 4.24);
(;)    Submit to IDA an annual audit report, of reasonable scope and detail, within six months
of the end of the Government's fiscal year; and in the case of the Special Account and
SOEs, submit semiannual reports within three months of the end of each audit period
(para 4.29).
6.3          The following are conditons-of credit effectieess:
(a)    Publication of the Arrt defining the structure of the regional health system, including
the roles and functions of the departments and districts in the administration and
management of the decentralized health system; and adoption of the policy document
defining the personnel recruitment and redeployment plan for 1993-95 (para 3.7);
(b)    Adoption of the action plan establishing guidelines for the extension of the drug
distribution network, as well as procedures for the introduction of the national essential
drugs list (para 3.8);
(c)    Adoption of the revised departmental in-service traini  modules for MCH/FP and
nutrition, including a detailed in-service training plan for the first two years of project
implementation (1993-94) (para 3.10);
(d)    Adoption of the statute governing the proposed interregional family health center in
Zinder and giving details of the center's organizational structure, role and functions, as
well as a proposed staffing plan (para 3.15);



42
(e)    Publication of the ArrAt deflning the norms and standards for the provision of MCH/FP
at each service delivery level (para 3.16);
(f)    Publication of an Arr  (i) authorizing newly-recruited village health workers to provide
refills for hormonal contraceptives, as well as supplies of barrier methods, and
(ii) defining the revised checklist to be used to screen new FP acceptors and other
modalities for its utilization (para 3.19);
(g)    Adoption of the by-laws and regulations governing the administration of the Population
Fund, together with a procedures manual and a standard contract to be entered into with
the would-be beneficiaries of the Fund; and establishment of the committee for the
selection of sub-projects to be financed under the Fund (para 3.48);
(h)    Publication of the Arr8t establishing the Interministerial IEC Technical Committee
(para 4.5);
(i)    Submission to IDA, for review and comment, of draft bidding documents for all bid
packages in the first year of the project (4.21); and
(j)    Finalization and signature of the contract with the selected auditor (para 4.30).
Also, as a condition of credit effectiveness, the Government will have satisfied IDA that it has concluded
appropriate agreements with other cofinanciers in view of securing all complementary financing required
for the execution of the project, and has satisfied all the conditions precedent thereof other than any such
conditions related to the effectiveness of the IDA credit.
6.4           Recommendation. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for an IDA credit of US$17.6 million equivalent on standard IDA terms.
t:ni,jsar.flnl



43
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OFNIE
Basic Data Sheet and Comparativa Indicagr 1\
GNP per capita (1988)                                                          US$290
Annual growth rate of GNP (1965-88)                                              -2.3%
Land area                                                              1,267 million km2
Population density                                                              5.6 km
Population growth rate
(1980-89)                                                                     3.4%
Crude birth rate (per thousand)                                                    51
Crude death rate (per thousand)    .                                               20
Maternal mortality (per 100,000 live births)                                      700
Infant mortality rate (per thousand live births)                      C            130
Life expectancy at birth (both sexes)                                               45
Total ?ertilty level                                                               7.1
Modem methods prevalence rate                                                     2-3%
Percentage of pregnant women
receiving prenatal care                                                   33.2%
Percentage of babies with low birth weight (1985)                                 20%
Children 0-11 months compl. immunized (Dec. 1990)                                 25%
Children 12-23 months compl. immunized (Dec. 1990)                                18%
Population within 5 km of health facility                                         30%
Population within 10 kom of health facility                                       50%
Heath Personnel Ratio
Physicians                                                           1/53,571 inhabitants
Registered nurses                                                     1/3,675 inhabitants
Midwives                                                                   1/1,400 births
Source:      World Bank Development Report 1991
Ministere de la Sante Publique du Niger: Rapports annuels
Ministere du plan: DEclaration de Politique Nationale de Population, mai 1991
Ministbre du Plan: Annuaire statstique, edit. 1988-89
'\ Figures refer to 1989 except where stated otherwise.



44
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
5Cmuaiv. Uaef.eteoono    sndteetorem (1969) IN
MII  USKIUM         COT!    UIA COTL    VIGERIA  fEOEaAL
TOTAL POPULATION (NILLIC2)                     7.4       8.8        11.7   23.5    8.2        113.0       7.2
URtNPOPULATION(Z)                                19        9          48      23      19         35        38
CIUDE 3IRTN RATE                                St        50          50      46      50         47        45
CRWE OEDATN RATE                                20        19          14      10      19         15        16
AVERAGE ANNUAL ROWNTH
POPULATION (1960-1989)                         3.4       2.6         4.1    3.9    2.5          3.4       3.0
TOTAL FERTILITY RATE                           7.1       7.0         7.3    6.7    7.0          6.5       6.5
INFANT NORTALITY RATE                          130       135          92      68    167         100        87
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT U1RTN                        45        48          53      59      48         51        48
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN (1964) a'          39,670   55,760               10,150 25,390       6,440
POPULATION PER NMSE (1964) *%                3,582    3,070            -           1,350        900    2.030
DAILY PER CAPITA CALORIES SUPPLY
AS X OF REQUIREMENT (1966)                   2,340    2,061        2,365  1,973  2,181        2,039    1,989
ADULT ILLITERACY RATE tX)                       86        87          57      41      a3         50        72
PER CAPITA INCOME                              290       320         790    360    270          250       650
AVERAGE GROWTN COP 1965-1969) (1)              -2.4       1.4        0.8    2.0    1.7          0.2      -0.7
HEALTH EXPENDITURE AS X Of CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE (1968) '                5.1       5.2           -    6-1    2.6          0.8       4.6
SURCE: WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT, 1991
C:XI-1.NIR
' FIGURES REFER TO 1969 EXCEPT UNERE TATID OTHERWISE
fRICOhfS m  NMI 1U10,000
RCOIN  NOM 1/5,000
4' WHO RECOMI6D  ALEOCATION 18 10X



45
ANNEX 2-1
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
POPULATION PROJECT
The Public Health System
1.           With the exception of a few private sector facilities the public health sector is the sole
provider of basic health services, including family planning. The sector is organized in accordance with
the country's administrative unit and forms a five-tier pyramid: (i) at the apex are the country's three
national hospitals (the Niamey Hospital, the University of Niamey Hospital and Zinder Hospital) and two
national reference centers (central maternity and the CNSF, both of which are located in Niamey); (ii) at
the     m1-Ua level, with exception of the departments of Niamey and Zinder with national hospitals
and Tillabery without a hospital, the remaining five departments have regional hospitals (centre hospitalier
departemental - CHD). Each of the country's eight departments also has a Departmental Health
Directorate (DDS) responsible for managing the Ministry's health program at the departmental level;
(iii) at the district level (i.e., arrondissement), there are 39 Medical Centers (Centre Medical - CM)
corresponding to the 39 districts of the country. Also at the district level below the CMs are 76
maternities and 54 MCH units (Protection Maternelle et Infantile -- PMI). The maternities and the MCH
units are usually geographically contiguous to the CMs, thus providing a good opportunity for the
integration of FP services at this level of service delivery; (iv) below the district is the canton levell/,
consisting of 26 medical posts (Poste Medical -- PM) and 249 rural dispensaries (Dispensaire Rural --
DR), most of which are staffed by one nurse. Details of the functions and training of health personnel
and their allocation within the public health system are found in Annex 3-4.
2.           At the village level, there are village health teams (VHT), reportedly in about 45% of the
villages. Each health team is composed of one or two "secouristes" (standard primary health care (PHC)
volunteers, usually), and at least two "matrones" (Traditional Birth Attendant -- TBA). Some 5769 PHC
volunteers and 6380 TBAs have received a two-week training program in modern methods of attending
child birth. A recent evaluation of the system indicates that there has been a decline in the number of
functioning teams in recent years due to inadequate supervision and continuity in training and recruitment.
The potential remains, however, for extending FP services to the periphery through the existing field
structure. The VHT system is described in detail in Annex 3-2.
3.           The Pharmaceutical Sector.  The sector consists of 19 pharmacies (pharmacies
populaires), owned by the parastatal Office National des Produits Pharmaceutiques et Chimiques
(ONPPC), and three private pharmacies. There are also 82 "ddpots prives de medicaments" (i.e., small
private drug outlets which depend upon ONPPC for their supplies). At the community level, a number
of pharmaceutical outlets also exist; there are 917 school pharmacies, 4017 village pharmacies, and 64
cooperative pharmacies.   Many ef these facilities are, however, not functioning adequately;
administrative, management, logistic and procurement difficulties hamper service availability. A detailed
pharmaceutical sector review was recently completed with financing from IDA under the ongoing Health
Project (Cr. 1668-NIR), and efforts are underway with donor support to reform the drug sector, and
increase the network of pharmaceutical outlets. The Government recently adopted a essential drug list
and is in the process of developing a national drug policy aimed at addressing the problems of
prescription, distribution, procurement and quality control. The wide drug distribution network constitutes
a potential cost-effective channel for contraceptive social marketing in the country.
L/ Each dispensary or medical post usually services five or six villages within a 5-10 kilometer radius.



46
ANNEX 2-1
Page 2 of 5
4.               The Private Sector. With the exception of the drug "d6p6ts" the private sector plays a
relatively insignificant role in the healt, sector in Niger.  In 1982, there were reportedly six private
physicians and four private maternities in the country. Current assessments indicate that there are four
private hospitals (two in Arlit, one in Tchirozerine and one in Tahoua), two private clinics (in Niamey),
and three private physicians (in Niamey). Although local private initiatives constitute an insignificant part
of health service delivery, there are about 20 international nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)
collaborating with the Government in the health sector. A number of these organizations have begun to
provide family planning services.
TABLE 1                       REPARTITION DEPARTEMENTALE DE FORMATIONS SANITAIRES FIXES 1987/88
CENTRE        I             '                                                     I EQUIPE DE
DEPATEEN'HOSPITALIER  CENTRES   POSTES                                            CENTRE                       SANTE
DEPARTEMEN'iHOPITAUX DEPARTEMENTAL MEDICAUX NEDICAUX DISPENSAIRES MATERNITES  DE PMI  PHARMACIES DEPOTS VILLAGEOISE
,..........   ........ ..... ............ ............. ...........
'AGADEZ             2              1         3        4           15          7          2           2      1
IDIFFA                             1        3         31          10          4          1           2      2        2881
'DOSSO               -                      6         3           31          9          4           2     11        769 1
IMARADI                                      6 1  7   2           40         11          5          2       6        805 1
'NIAMEY     1       3                        1        -I          23          5 11                   6      -        917 
ITAHOUA             1               1        i7       5!          35          0 1        3          3       3        693
ITILLABERI                         .                  71         S3|         141         71          3     14        881
'ZINDER     !       *!                       6        2!          45 *       11 !        6!          2!     8!       880
1.................................. ............. .......... .....................   .....
ITOTAL      I       81             S1      391       261         249 j       71 1       291       22 1   451       5.375 I
SOURCE:          ANNUAIRE STATISTIQUE EDITION 1988889, AVRIL 1990. REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER, CONSEIL SUPERIEUR D'ORIENTATION NATIONALE.
DIRECTION DE LA STATISTIQUE ET DE LA DEMOGRAPHIE, MINISTERE DU PLAN
8AiLE 2                        POPULATION PAR INFRASTRUCTURES SAN!TAIRES PAR DEPARTEMENT
==w============ =  =====t==s=U=E===== =5== =========         =_=== ====~========
DEPARTEMENTI   DDS  I  DR         I  DO   I  PM   I    Cm    t  PMI   I COMMUNE1    NI I
.............. ...................................................................................
AGADEZ   '  203.6'          9.6      50.2     51.3         51.3      16.7         0          0
DIFFA       189.3           16         0     58.6         58.6     189.31        0 
DOSSO       1,020           32      27.1      331        198.6      27.1         0 1
KARADI       1,389         35.4      28.2    425.3        182.31     22.6         0          o
TAHOUA     1,306.61          38     51.61   209.2         179.3'     17.2         O          0
TILLABERI   1,329.71          27         01   188.7        209.21        01          
Zi'NDER    1,410.8|          301    40.3       645          215,     20.1,        O,         0
CONIAHEY           j                23.41        i      398.31         l    66.40         0j
1 10.. HEN    1,035.61                 24:8!   243.71       m       .81  20.31    66.4,     36.21
---- =- ---------U2.
A:DATASASE.WK1
TABLE 3                             REPARTITION DU PERSONNEL DE SANTE AU NIGER. 1990
DEPARTEMENT               MDC      PHA      INF     S-F      AS/ASO  LAB       ING      A/NY    AUT      TOTAL
AGADEZ                    4        1        100      16       9        6        1        6        24     167
DIFFA                     3        0        75       7        5        7        0        9        20     126
0OSSO                     6        1        148      16       5        7        0        7        29     219
NARADI                    7        0        166     21        6       15        0       11        31     257
NIAMEY                    59a/    4         551      122     70       68       12       11       165     1062
TAHOUA                    6        1        166     19        8       11        2       11       35      259
TILLABERRI                3        0        135     25        4        5        0        5        17     193
ZINDER                    7        1        271     30       25       18        2       12        45     412
DIVERS                    49b/    6         160      14      27        8        2        6        37     310
NIGER                     140      14       1771    270    159        t45      19       78      404      3005
a/ Y con ris 4 dentist; bl y coarls I dentist;  ING: fngenleurs; A/HY: Agent de t 'hygiene; AS/ASO: asst sante, Act Soc.



47                                     ANNEX2-
Page 3 of S
COUVERTURS SANITAZRE OU NHIM  PAR LES FORMATIONS FIXES, NICER-190
t0 ARRONOZSSSIEMV             POPULATIN           POPULATION      POPULATION <5KM
1980               1990         FORMAT. SANZT.
10 AGADEZ DEPART.               203,959             218,964                 80.93
11 AOADEZ               .       126,493             135,241                 64.73
12 ARUT                          58,625              82,879                 88.58
13  ILMA                          8,841               9,452                 88.96
20 DIFFA                        169,316             202,408                 29.57
21 DIFFA                         78,493              t1,763                S1.93
22 MAINE-SORDA                   82,9e4              88,839                 60.57
23 N-QUICMI                      29,917              31,986                 29.S7
30 DOSSO DEPART.              1,019,997           1,096,536                 25.42
31 SIRNI-N'CAOURE               265,638             219,657                 26.95
32 OCOON-DOUT041                317,036             338,96e                 20.29
33 OOSSO               -        245,618             282,616                 22.29
34 CAYA                         164,022             375,366                 30.s8
3S LOCA                          67,480              93,538                 25.42
40 MARADI                     1,388,998           1,48S6,08                 26.12
41 ACUtE                        173,151             186,l26                 17.69
42 DAKONO                       268,091             275,94                  11.19
43 OUIDAM-ROUSDJ!               211,418             220,039                 17.34
44 MADAROUFA                    193,161             207,220                 39.37
46  IARADO                      112,965             129,777                 97.9
46 MAiWAYI                      226,760             242,446                 11.03
47 TESSACUA                     212,791             227,se7                 25.52
50 TILLASERI                  1,332,396           1,424,541                 28.52
61 FtU.2NOUE                    286,113             330,936                 26.65
52 KOLLO                        234,826             251,966                 33.91
63 CUALLAM                      190,671             294,071                 12.44
64 SAY                          284,279             175,648                 13.92
S6 TERA                         294,463             314,343                 34.46
66 TILLABSER                    169,82              170,860                 46.34
60 TAHOUA DEPART.             1,306,652           1,397,01S                 22.71
01 SIRNI-KONNI                   253,848            271,S87                 19.69
62 BOUZA                         179,363            191,754                 23.69
63  IFLA                         174,349            186,941                 16.34
64 KEtTA                         156,328            169,272                 24.32
6S MADAOUA                       210,963            231,967                 16.39
48 TAHOUA                        240,629            257,279                  34.36
67 TCHIN-TABARADVE                82,669             66,621                 16.92
70 ZINDER DEPART.             1,410,797           1,608,362                 26.11
71 COURE                        Is,681             169,548                 18.61
72 MACARIA                       364,239            376,737                 18.44
73 MATAMEYE                      164,911            176,316                 24.53
74 MIRRIAH                       420,325            449,393                 20.44
7S TANOUT                        191,349            206,117                 22.29
78 ZINDER                        120,692            129,2S2                 86.90
61 NIAMEY C.U.                   398,266            425,H67                    199
NICER TOTAL                7,249,596           7,760,949                 30.95



REPU LIC OF NIGER
POPULATION PROJECT
IIINISTRE DE LA SANTE PUBLIU I
|SECRETMIATI
11CNERa 
DIRECTION       DIRECTION      DIRECTION          CION    DIRECTION                                INSPECTION       INSPECTION
DES AFFAIRES       DES            DE LA           DE           DE LA     DES ETUDES                    DE LA            DES
ADMINISTRATIVES   ETAMLISSEN.    FORMATION      L'HGIENE         SAUTE      & DE LA         SANTE       EDECINE       PHARMACIES
a              DE                            DE        NATERNELLE   PROGRAUIAT.   PULUQUE    W  TRAVAIL             &                            &-
FIU CIERES        SOINS       LIE9UCATION      EDECINE     INFANTILE                                             ULBORATOIRES                      OD
SMNITAIRE      MOBILE
DIVISION DE LIEPS          DIVISION DE LA
DIRECTNUTRITION
IDPATENETALESI
; DE   SANrTE (NEN)
t NE DANS CNAOUE DEAKTERENT



REPUSLIC OF NIGER
POPtIJATION PtOJECT
I PNIS1fE DU DEYELOPPE ENT SOCIAL
DE LA POPILATION ET OF LA
PRaNDTONil DE LA fEl@I                        .. 
|SECRETAlIt:lqA
IIGENERAL I
DIRECTION DCS         DIRECTION DE LA        DIDECTION DES         DIRECTION DES         DIRECTION DE LA      CENTRE NATIONAL       DIRECTION DE
AFFAIRES SOCInLES         cWI1ION              AFFAIRES  D13N1.    |  ETUDES & OE           PLANIFICATION         DE LA SANTE             LA
FE"ININE           a FINANCIERES       IA PROGRAMNATION           FANILIALE             FANILIALE          POPULATION
C:NZ-1 .lll
IOQ B
mm
N
0I1
ft..-
UV



50
ANNEXE 3-1
Page 1 sur 3
REPUBLIOUE DU NIGER
PROJET POPULATION
Le Programme des Equipes de Sante Villageoises
1.           DMs l'accession du pays a l'independance, et dans le souci de reduire les taux excessifs
de mortalite maternelle et infantile, les autorites sanitaires du Niger ont cherche 4 organiser des services
de soins de sante au niveau des communautes en formant des agents dans le cadre des services de
l'animation rurale. Engagee avec l'assistance de la Croix Rouge en 1962, la formation "d'agents
d'animation sanitaire" a ete interrompue en 1964. L'une des cause majeures de cette interruption a ete
le fait que le programme n'etait pas mene en association avec les structures sanitaires locales dont le
personnel refusait de collaborer avec ces agents.
2.            Une deuxieme experience a ete entreprise en 1966, dans le departement de Maradi, avec
cette fois l'adh6sion du personnel medical. Cette experience a donne de bons resultats, amenant ainsi le
Ministbre de la Sante a prendre la decision d'elargir a tout le pays l'approche de sante communautaire
lancee a Maradi. Celle-ci consistait en la creation d'6quipes de sante villageoises (ESV) constituees d'un
secouriste et d'une matrone travaillant au village en association et sous la supervision de l'infirmier du
dispensaire le plus proche.
3.            Rdalisable au niveau d'un seul departement, cette approche a connm de grandes difficult6s
lors de son expansion a tout le pays. Le nombre des ESV passa rapidement de quelques centaines en
1970 pour atteindre plusieurs milliers dans les annees 1980 (en 1989 il existait 4458 ESV) et leur gestion
fut centralisee. Par ailleurs, le choix du secouriste et de la matrone qui devait A l'origine se faire par la
communautd villageoise, devint progressivement du ressort du chef de village lui-mOme souvent nomme
par les autorites politiques. L'absence ou le manque de participation conimunautaire allie a un mode de
gestion vertical a dans une large mesure contribue b l'inefficacite du systeme. Une autre cause majeure
de la desaffection des ESV fut le retrait de l'assistance etrangere dont les subventions au programme
couvraient pratiquement la totalite des coOts.
4.            Malgre les efforts du gouvernement pour remddier 4 cette situation et etendre le nombre
des ESV 4 tous les villages du Niger qui ne disposent pas de structures fixes, (Ie Niger compte plus de
10000 villages) le programme ne couvre a I'heure actuelle que moins de la moiti6 des villages et les ESV
qui existent sont fortement handicapees par une longue liste de contraintes. Au nombre de ces dernieres
figurent:
(a)    l'irregularite ou l'absence de supervision efficace, par suite notanmment de l'ignorance des
techniques de supervision par les ccrres sanitaires charges de cette activite et de l'absence
de moyens de deplacement;
(b)    le manque dtintdr& des villageois pour le programme des ESV, desintdressement qui
s'explique en grande parlie par l'exclusion des bendficiaires non seulement dans le choix
des op6rations et des strategies du programme des ESV mais aussi lors de la selection des
agents;
(c)    le bas niveau des agents, entretenu aussi bien par les facteurs enumeres ci-dessus que par
le manque de formation et de rdapprovisionnement en m6dicaments qui contribuent I



51
ANNEXE 3-1
Page 2 sur 3
reduire la credibilite de la population dans le systeme et rend encore plus ingrat le travail
des agents;
(d)    le taux eleve de deperdition des agents du notamment a la vieillesse (surtout pour les
matrones) et a l'exode (surtout des secouristes iu fait de leur benevolat).
5.            Nonobstant, les progres qui ont ete accompli dans l'amelioration du taux de mortalite
infantile, tomb6s de 250 en 1960 a 134 en 1988, la mortalite maternelle quant a elle, continue a se situer
au alentour de 700 pour cent mille accouchements et demeure l'une des plus elevee dans le monde. Les
problemes majeurs de morbidite et de mortalite maternelle demeurent les hemorragies, les infections et
les toxemies associees aux accouchements en milieu hors-hospitalier oit les conditions d'asepsie sont trbs
limitees et a la mauvaise gestion des cas de grossesses a risques.
6.            L'accessibilite physique des services de SMI et de PF est encore loin d'atteindre des
niveaux satisfaisants surtout dans les zones rurales. Les infrastructures sanitaires existantes dans ces
zones etant tres peu nombreuses pour realiser une couverture optimale de la population qui vit dans ces
zones et qui constitue plus de 80% de la population du Niger. A cet effet, le systeme sanitaire du Niger
ne peut se permettre de se passer des ESV. Sans proceder I un investissement majeur en infrastructures
et en personnel, actuellement incompatible avec les capacites economiques du pays. Les ESV devront
toutefois etre renforcdes afin de pouvoir ameliorer leur performance et les agents qui les composent
devront recevoir la formation en qualite et en quantite necessaire ainsi qu'un encadrement addquat de la
part du personnel medical et paramedical operant dans leur zone.
7.            C'est dans cet esprit que le Projet de Population apportera aux responsables regionaux
aussi bien au niveau de la direction ddpartementale qu'au niveau de l'arrondissement, les outils
ncessaires a une mobilisation des communautds autour des ESV par le biais des actions suivantes:
(e)    Constitution de Comit6s villageois pour la selection ou le renouvellement des ESV.
(f)    Formation reguliere des secouristes et des matrones.
(g)    Rorganisation des activites de suivi et de supervision des ESV par le personnel des
dispensaires et du medecin de l'arrondissement medical.
8.            Une fois constitues les comitls de sante villageois seront invites a participer a
l'identification de solutions locales susceptibles de permettre et de promouvoir le bien-8tre du village et
notamment de reduire la morbidite et la mortalite maternelle et infantile, et au choix des operations
sanitaires qui seront gerees au niveau du village. Les comites auront la responsabilite de designer les
ESV selon des criteres de stabilite, de credibilite et de disponibilite et de veiller a leur encouragement
et a leur reapprovisionnement en mddicaments et materiel medical.
9.            L'equipe cadre de chaque centre medical d'arrondissement sera responsable de
l'organisation et de l'execution de la formation des ESV. Cette formation essentiellement pratique, fera
appel aux techniques modernes audio-visuelles d'enseignement et sera basee sur des manuels elabores
specifiquement pour repondre au profil de ces ESV. La duree de la formation initiale sera de deux
semaines et sera suivie de seances de recyclage regulibres lors des visites d'encadrement et de
supervision.
10.          Les infirmiers du dispensaire auront la responsabilite de superviser mensuellement les



52
ANNEXE 3-1
Page 3 sur 3
ESV qui se situent dans un rayon d'action de 10 kms autour du dispensaire. Les cadres du CM, soit le
medecin soit la sage-femme effectueront au minimum une visite des villages tout les trols mois.
11.          Le projet Population veillera egalement a stimuler et a entretenir la motivation de la
population villageoise en encourageant dans le cadre des autres composantes du projet des activitds
connexes d'education et d'information et de generation de revenu en faveur des femmes.
C:X3-2.NIR



53
ANNEXIt] 32
Page i sur 8
REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER
EROJET POPULATION
Le Programme de Planiflcation Familiale au Niger
1.           Le programme de planification familiale du Niger a obtenu des resultats remarquables ces
dernieres annees. Ces resultats ont pu Otre rdalises grace aux efforts du Ministere de la Sante Publique
et du Ministbre du Ddveloppement Social, de la Population et de la Promotion de la Femme, pour
augmenter la couverture des services de planiflcation familiale dans les structures sanitaires, et sensibillser
davantage le public sur les methodes modernes de contraception. Ainsi, solon les statistiques recueillies
pour l'annee 1989, la prevalence contraceptive dans les grandes concentrations urbaines du pays atteint
en moyenne 16% et culmine I Niamey a 18%. La connaissance des mthodes contraceptives modernes
chez les femmes a connu une augmentation substantielle allant de 41% a Maradi et Zinder jusqu'a 79%
A Niamey. Relativement elevee chez les femmes, le pourcentage de connaissance des methodes de PF
reste assez faible chez les hommes avec une moyenne de 75% parmi les hommes ayant regu une
scolarisation plus poussee.
2.           Le fait le plus signiflcatif qui ressort de l'examen des etudes menees recemment au Niger
pour mesurer le degre de receptivite de la population I la planification familiale est le pourcentage
impressionnant, 76% des non-utilisatrices a Niamey et 54% b Maradi et a Zinder, qui ont declare avoir
l'intention d'utiliser la contraception moderne dans un proche avenir.
3.           Si, au niveau de la capitale et des grandes villes le programme a realisd des progres
substantiels, il n'en est pas de meme dans les zones rurales du pays ota continue de vivre la majeure partie
de la population. Ainsi dans ces zones, le taux de prevalence contraceptive demeurent tres bas et se situe
A 1%, ramenant le taux moyen pour la totalite du pays a environ 3%. II y a lieu aussi de mitiger les
chiffres recueillis dans les zones urbaines par le taux d'abandon des methodes qui reste tres elevE. Au
cours d'une enqufte menee en 1990, moins de 50% des femmes interrog6es ont utilise une methode
moderne pendant plus d'un an. Les donnees annuelles sur la distribution des produits contraceptifs (voir
tableau ci-dessous) permettent d'estimer le nombre de couples proteges par le programme national a
15000, ce qui en soit, demeure tres modeste en egards au nombre de femmes mariees en age de procreer.
La pilule reste la methode la plus utilisee (8 300 acceptantes) suivie du dispositif intra-uterin (4 235).
Le reste etant partage entre les methodes dites de barribre, (condon et gelees) et les injectables. La
ligature des trompes est quant a elle tres peu repandue.
4.           Accessibilite aux services. L'examen des statistiques de services fournies par le MSP
montre clairement que l'accessibilite de la population des zones rurales aux soins de sante maternelle et
infantile auxquels sont integres les services de PF demeure sensiblement plus faible que ne l'indiquent
les donnees brutes d'accessibilite physique aux structures sanitaires. Dans la plupart des cas, la
couverture effective de la population est reduite par l'absence frequente d'un personnel qualifie, la
carence en medicaments, et le manque d'un plateau technique suffisant. Ce sous-equipement materiel et
humain contribue:
(a)    I limiter les capacites d'intervention des equipes de sante;
(b)    I reduire la credibilite du systeme sanitaire; et



54
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 2 sur 8
(c)    a demotiver aussi blen les utilisateurs que les prestataires de services.
A titre d'exemple, au niveau des ESV et des dispensaires les activites de PF restent tres limitees sinon
inexistantes et la PF n'est integrd que dans 30% des formations peripheriques. Cette situation rdsulte en
partie du fait de la mauvalse repartition du personnel sanitaire qui favorise largement les zones urbaines.
Ainsi 27% des medecins, 30% des infirmiers, et 42% des sages-femmes exercent dans la ville de
Niamey. Malgre l'immensite de leur rayon d'action et l'importance de la population qu'illes desservent
les formations sanitaires regionales n'ont pas actuellement la capacit; de fournir la somme de services
minimale en matiere aussi bien de PF que de soins de SMI. Cette situation est aggravee par le manque
de qualite dans la prestation des services, celle-ci n'est pas encore suffisante pour un suivi correct des
utilisatrices et assurer des taux de continuation acceptables. D'autre part l'absence de supervision
r6guliere constitue un frein I l'amelioration de la prescription n6cessaire pour minimiser la frequence des
effets secondaires et assurer un bon depistage des contre-indications. La qualite et l'efficacit6 de la
prestation de service de PF sont aussi rdduites par la faiblesse des programmes de formation, ainsi, de
1981 a 1990 seuls 371 cadres medicaux et paramedicaux (soit 30% des professionnels de la sante) ont
recu une formation en matiere de PF.
5.           Conscient des ddsequilibres profonds qui existent entre les zones urbair.es et rurales du
pays dans la couverture des besoins de la population en matibre de PF, et de la situation demographique
du pays qui se caracterise notamment par un indice de fecondite de 7 enfants par femme contre une
moyenne de 6,3% pour l'Afrique, et un taux de croissance annuel de la population de 3,49% les autorites
sanitaires du Niger ont decide de mettre en oeuvre un certain nombre d'actions prioritaires consacrees:
(d)    a promouvoir le planning familial a differents segments de la population;
(e)    a etendre la prestation des services aux zones rurales du pays; et
(f)    a intdgrer le PF au services de SMI fournis par les structures sanitaires de premiere ligne
au niveau de I'arrondissement et du village.
Les objectifs spdcifiques du programme pour 1996, ont ete fixes comme suit:
(g)    Augmenter le taux de prevalence contraceptive de 18 a 30% dans les zones urbaines et
de I a 8% dans les zones rurales.
(h)    Augmenter le taux de connaissance des methodes contraceptives de 60 a 90% dans les
zones urbaines et de 30 a 70% en zone rurales.
ki)    Augmenter la couverture obstetricale de 206 a 305% et le taux de consultation de PF de
30% a 70%.
6.           Concernant les trois departements de Tillabery, Zinder et Tahoua qui constituent la zone
d'intervention du projet Population, la strategie pour assurer la disponibilite d'un ensemble de services
de PF de qualite repose sur la mise en oeuvre des actions qui suivent et sur lesquelles un large consensus
a EtE constate:



55
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 3 sur 8
Au niveau des services:
(j)    Etendre la prestation des services de PF I toutes les structures sanitaires peripheriques
au niveau de l'arrondissement (Centre medical, dispensaires et equipes de sante
villageoises) afin de rapprocher ces services des communaut6s peu ou pas du tout
desservies.
(k)    Assurer l'integration de ces services au activitds de SMI et plus particuliarement aux
consultations pre et post-natales.
(I)    Favoriser la participation du secteur non-gouvernemental et du secteur prive a la
prestation des services et a l'information et a la sensibilisation du public aux bienfaits du
PF.
(m)   Promouvoir l'adoption d'attitudes favorisant la mattrise de la fertilite et l'utilisation des
moyens contraceptifs par le renforcement des activites d'IEC congues de maniere I
repondre aux besoins d'information de differentes audiences dans le cadre d'une approche
"multimedia".
Au niveau de la gestion:
(n)    Ameliorer la conception, 1'execution et l'evaluation des programmes de PF par l'adoption
de normes et standards de qualite des services et de systemes de gestion efficaces.
(0)    Assurer une meilleure repartition du personnel dans les trois departements et des normes
minimales de personnel par type de structures.
(p)    Assurer une meilleures coordination des activites de suivi et de supervision afin de
pouvoir garantir I'appui logistique et technique aux structures peripheriques.
7.            Les activltes prioritaires de PF se repartissent comme suit:
(q)    Au niveau du village l'equipe de sante composee d'un secouriste et d'une matrone, sera
chargee de la sensibilisation en PF, de la distribution des methodes de barrieres (codons
et spermicides) et du reapprovisionnement des acceptantes en contraceptifs oraux.
(r)    Au niveau des postes medicaux et des dispensaires ruraux, un quota de deux infirmiers
a ete adopte. Ces infirmiers gereront ces centres et seront responsables de l'organisation
du travail des ESV, de leur suivi et de leur evaluation. Les infirmiers pourront prescrire
et distribuer touts les produits contraceptifs, et proceder aux insertions des dispositifs
intra-uterins s'ils ont reCu une formation ad6quate qui puisse les habiliter I ddlivrer cot
acte. Ils seront refdres au Centre MEdical de leur circonscription les utilisatrices qui
presentent des complications et los acceptantes de la ligature des trompes, et participeront
de maniere active I la realisation des campagnes d'information et de sensibilisatlon de la
population en matibre de PF dans la zone desservie par leur dispensaire et I fournir aux
femmes qui visitent le dispensaire une information sur les differentes methodes
contraceptives et leurs indications ou contre indications.
(s)    Au niveau des Centres medicaux, le personnel de ces centres aura pour tlches principales



56
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 4 sur 8
la coordination de toutes les activites ayant trait au programme de PF dans
l'arrondissement ainsi que l'organisation de la collecte de donnees et des rapports
statistiques. En ce qui concerne la prestation de services, le personnel medical et
paramedical fournira, au sein du centre, la gainme complete des mdthodes contraceptives
ainsi que la gestion des cas qui lui sont r0feres par les dispensaires. II referera a son tour
les cas qui ne relevent pas de sa competence, aux Centres Hospitaliers Departementaux,
ou au Centre Regional de la Sante Familiale. Par ailleurs, le personnel des centres
medicaux sera responsable de la supervision des dispensaires et leur apportera un appui
technique dans 1'exdcution de leurs taches.
La realisation de ces objectifs necessitera la mise en oeuvre de programme de formation en contraception
et en techniques de gestion des programmes de PF suffisamment substantiels, qui permettront d'obtenir
une amelioration qualitative et quantitative des services existants et de renverser la tendance actuelle
aupres de la population de ne pas s'adresser aux structures peripheriques et meme de les contourner pour
requdrir des services a un niveau plus eleve de la pyramide sanitaire. II est aussi indispensable de faire
en sorte que le personnel de sante a tous les niveaux, accorde l'attention necessaire au besoin
d'information des femmes et des hommes en matiere de contraception afin de les amener a prendre une
attitude plus positive vis-a-vis de cette question et l'adoption d'habitudes procreatrices en equation avec
leur capacit6 economique. II est par consequent primordial que le personnel recoive une formation
adequate en matibre de 'counselling" et de communication inter-personnelle et de groupe en vue d'assurer
une meilleure qualite des programmes d'education et puisse disposer des supports audio-visuels et
imprimes necessaire & leur action. Quant a l'integration de la PF a tous les postes d'activites de SMI,
celle-ci ne pourra se faire que dans le cadre de l'etablissement de normes de prestation de services et de
profils de taches suffisamment clairs pour qu'ils ne pretent pas a confusion lors de l'organisation de la
gestion des services de la formation et de l'evaluation de la performance du personnel a la consultation
de PF.
8.           11 est evident que l'ampleur de la tache et telle que l'action des services publics ne peut
a elle seule resoudre tous les problames et atteindre la totalite des objectifs qui ont ete fixes au
programme national de PF. A cet effet les autorites sanitaires nigdriennes se sont engag6es A promouvoir
l'action des organismes non gouvernementaux et du secteur priv6 aussi bien dans le domaine de l'IEC
que dans la prestation de service.  De m8me, le potentiel du secteur pharmaceutique dans la
commercialisation des produits contraceptifs ne devrait pas 8tre neglige ainsi d'ailleurs que la mobilisation
des rdseaux communautaires (cooperatives, groupements de femmes, associations, foyers dejeunes, etc.,).
Le reseau de pharmacies et relativement assez developpe au Niger; ce rdseau comprend les pharmacies
populaires de l'ONPPC (au nombre de 22 en 1990); les pharmacies privdes (10 en 1990); les pharmacies
gdrees par les cooperatives ou les villages (4 150 en 1990), et les depOts prives (110 en 1990). La
formation des operateurs de ces officines pour distribuer les produits contraceptifs et apporter des conseils
k la population en matiere de PF et d'dducation sanitaire pourrait s'averer un atout majeur dans la reussite
de 1'expansion des services souhaitds.
9.            C'est dans ce cadre que le projet Population finance par un credit IDA apportera un
soutien au programme de PF, dans ses orientations nouvelles, afin de lui permettre de les mettre en
oeuvre et de contribuer A la rdalisation des objectifs demographiques du pays. Le Projet viendra
completer et renforcer les actions en cours notamment celles financees dans le cadre du Projet Sante
(Crddit IDA 1668-NIR), USAID (Projet Sante familiale et Demographie) et UNFPA (Projet d'Appui a
la Sante Maternelle et Infantile). Le projet Population contribuera par un apport financier et technique
A I'dquipement et a l'organisation de la gestion des centres de sante, a la formation du personnel et a la
realisation d'un programme national d'IEC.



STRATEGIE ACTUELLE DE PRESTATION DES SERVICES PF
S O U R C E  DE  S E R V I C E                                          TYPE DE PRESTATEUR
INFIRMIER
CENTRES               CENTRE   PH/            PHARMACIES/   SECTEUR             SAGE  D ETATI&  ASSIST.   MATRONE/
SERVICE            HOPITAUX MEDICAUX  4ATERNtTES DE P.M.1 OR If ESV 2/ DEPOTS             PRIVE      NEDECIN  FEMME CERTIFIE SOCtALE   SECOURtSTE
1. STERILISATION  X             - .                                                                    X                         -   - .
2. DIu                X         X         X 3/                  -     -         -            -                  X         -
3.  INJECTABLE        X         X                             -                 -            -          X       X         -   -   -         -
4. PILUtE             X         X          X                            -              -                X       X       -      -      -    -
5. AUTtE              X         X          X          -        -      -         -            -          X       X      -   -   -   -    -
6. NOTIVATION &
ASSISTANcE        X         X          X          -        -      -         -            -          X      X        -   -   -   -    -
7. IOTIVATION SANS
ASSISTANCE        -         -
I/ PH -- POSTES IEDICArXA OR -- DISPENSAIRE RURAL
2V ESV -- ECUIPE SANtE VILLAGEOISE
31 PAS TOMWS LES OSM
RESPONSISILITES:
1) NEDECIN:   A) PRESTATION DE TOUTES METHCES Y COMPRIS COUNSELLING
B) RESPONSASLE DES CAS REFERES, PARTICCULIERENENT LES
CAS PROSLENATIaOES
2) SAGE FEMSE: A) EXAMNE ET COUNSELLING
8) PRESCRIPl zi% DE CONTRACEPTIFS HORMONAUX
C) PRESCRIPTION ET POSE DIU
D) DIAGNOSTIOUE ET GESTION DES EFFETS SECONDAIRES
uLM
co W
C03



LA STRATEGIE PROPOSEE POUR LA PRESTATION DES SERVICES PF
S O U R C E  DE  S E R V I C E                                               TYPE OE PRESTATEUR
INFIRHIER
CENTRES               CENTRE   PH/           PHARMACIES/   SECTEUR                   SAGE   D'ETATA   ASSIST.   MATROME
TYPE DE SERVICE   HOPITTUX  NEDICUUX  HATERNITES DE P.H.1 DR I/ ESV 2/ DEPOTS            PRIVEE/ONG     HEDECIN  FEWNE  CERTIFIE  SOCIALE  SECOURISTE
1. STERILIZATION      X                   -                                    -           X4/             X        -        -
2.Out W               X                   X                                    -            X              X        X      X S/
3. IJECTALE           X         X         X          X               -         -           X               X        X        X
4. PILUE              X         x         X          X        X    X 31      XX3            N              K                 K       X 3/        X 31
S. AUTRE              X         X         X          X        X    X          X            X               X        X        X       X           X
6. MOTIVATION S                                                                             X
ASSISTAUCE        X         X         X          X        X                                            X        X        X
7. MOTIVATION SANS
ASSISTAUCE                                                       X         X                                                       X          X
1l PM - P03Sb MEDICAUX, ON - OSPDiSNE RURAL                                                                                                                n
21 /SV - EWIUE SANTE VWlAGEtISE
31.
41 MEDEMNS PS
5/PARTICIKAEREMWfflA4W ERS
It MEDECIN:  Al FPOIWR TOVxnES METhOS ET COUNSEUNG
11 NESPOSLE DES CAS REFERES, PARTCUUERfMEAT LES CM PROBLEMATIQUES
Zl SAGE FEMWEA  COWNSLNG Er EXAMEN
I) PHESCUPTION OE CONTRACEPTfS H0ORMAUX
Cl PFESCPTIION El POSE OIU
31 IEUWs
CERTIFE   A) EXAME Er COtMSaLING
B5 PRESCRPTION DE COTRACEPTWS HOIWO AUX
C) SUPEINIS{I DES MATRONS IT DMS SECOURISTES
Di PRESCRNPTION Er POSE DOI
41 ASST. SOC. A) DIsuENMON OES blETHOOB SAMIERES
Bl REAPPROVINEIMD  DE CONTRACEPflfS HORMONAUX 
Cl MOTTVAnoN ET REFERENCE DES CUEDrS POTENnELS
WR ATI DRNTRCES                                                                                                                               >C
WSV      Al ISTRHmUO  DES METHOOES BAIERES                                                                                                           C  I
C1 OTATPRSION T OE  CNTD COR  UINTRS 1OTWfU.I
ClltMMVAnOH ErFEFERENCE DES CUEMtrSF P7flhELS                                                                                               CO
FPMOOEL.WC1



PROJECTED PAWKR OF CONTRACEPTIVE USERS (MOERN IMETH9DS, INCLUDINC STERILIZATION) 1990-2000
PROJECTED NWJ ER OF USERS BY METHOD (1000) 1/
PROJECTED
PREVALENCE       FEMALE
ALL METHODS   STERILIZATION                INJECTABLES                                          ALL
YEAR           (X OF MMR4)                       ILA)                   PILL      CONDOM       SPEMICIDES     METHODS
190            2.10             1.20          2.20           5.10       13.80        3.00          2.90       27.20
1991            3.88             2.30          4.60          10.00       25.30        5.70          3.80       51.70
1992            5.65             3.40          7.40          15.60       36.50        8.70          5.90       77.50
1993            7.41             4.70         10.90          21.90       47.20       11.80          8.30      104.80
1994            9.16             6.10          15.00         28.90       57.40       15.20         10.90      133.50
1995           10.90             7.60          19.60        36.60        67.10       18.80         13.90      163.60
1996           12.62             9.20         25.10         45.20        76.30       22.70         17.20      195.70
1997           14.33            11.00         31.20         54.70        84.90       26.70         20.90      229.40
1998           16.03            12.90         38.20         65.10        92.80       26.90         24.90      260.80
1999           17.72            14.90         46.00          76.50       99.90       31.30         29.40      298.00
2000           19.39            17.10         54.80          89.00      106.10       41.10         34.20      342.30
1/ METHOD MIX DERIVED FROM DEMOGRAPHIC AND HEALTH SURVEY 1987
(INSTITUTE FOR RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT/ WESTINGHOUSE)
THE PROJECTION IN BASED ON WORLD BANK STANDARD FERTILITY DECLINE SCENARIO.
oJZzj
SD 
p1t'M



ESTIMATED EXPECTED EXPENDITURES ON FAMILY PLANNING
REQUIRED TO ACHIEVE CPR OBJECTIVE.
COST PER COUPLE YEARS OF PROTECTION BY METHOD (USt1000) 1/
FEMALE                      INJECTA-                                                                AVERAGE
STERILIZI-      IUW AT      ABLES AT       PILLS AT      CONDON        SPERMICIDE     ALL           ANNUAL COST
ZATION AT      USS10        USS10          US$10         AT USS15      AT USS15       HODERN        (5-YEAR
YEAR         (USS80/CYP)    PER CYP       PER CYP       PER CYP        PER CYP      PER CYP         METHODS       AVERAGES)
1990          96.00        22.00         51.00         138.00         45.00           28.50         380.50        1,173.05
1991         187.68        46.92         102.00        258.06         87.21           58.14         740.01        1,604.93
1992         282.99        76.99         162.30        379.75        1:*.77           92.08       1,129.87       2,087.31
1993         399.01       115.63        232.32         500.70        187.83          132.12       1,567.61        2,619.48   2,663.00
1994         528.23       162.18        312.47         620.61        246.79          176.98       2,047.25       3,188.88
1995         671.26       216.15        403.63         739.99        292.54          216.29       2,539.90       3,812.92
1996         828.85       282.34        508.43         858.27       383.45           290.55       3,151.89       4,523.40
1997       1,010.87       357.99        627.63         974.14        460.04          360.10       3,790.76       4,866.27
1998       1,209.15       447.07        761.90       1,086.08        472.76          437.61       4,414.57       5,224.78   5,267.30
1999       1,424.55       549.10        913.19       1,192.51        561.10          527.04       5,167.49       5,629.88
2000       1,672.72       667.23       1,083.64      1,291.85        751.49          625.33       6,092.27        6,092.27
1/ COST FIGURES ARE DERIVED FROM THE AVERAGE OF A NUMBER OF AFRICAN COUNTRIES.
COST ADJUSTED AT AN AVERAGE ANNUAL RATE OF INFLATION OF 2% FOR THE PERIOD.
CC m
c
OLT



61
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 1 sur 7
REPUBLIOUE DU NIGER
PROJET POPULATION
Le Programme de Formation Propose
1.           Le Niger a accompli des jrrogres remarquables dans le domaine de la formation, de
l'acquisition et de la gestion du personnel. Cependant, des contraintes persistent encore dans la maltrise
des effectifs. Parmi celles-ci on note une insuffisance numerique aggravee par une grade mobilite du
personnel creant un desequilibre chronique entre zone urbaine et r'trale. Cette situation est prejudiciable
a l'organisation et la mise en place d'un systeme medico-sanitaire rationnel ainsi qu'h la mise en oeuvre
de programmes de formation relatif a ce systeme. En 1990, 3282 agents de toutes categories exercent
dans le secteur de la sante en terme de ration il existe:
-      1 medecin national pour 46.000 habitants
-      1 sage-femme pour 1.400 naissances attendues
-      1 infirmier d'Etat pour 23.225 habitants
I technicien superieur pour 7.325 habitants.
Mais, ces ratios doivent etre pris avec r6serve. En effet, en 1984 les estimations de la Banque Mondiale
ont permis d'etablir la repartition du personnel comme etant la suivante: 35% pour les h6pitaux;35% pour
les centres medicaux; 10% seulement pour les dispensaires. La seule communautW urbaine de Niamey
concentre:
-     55% des m6decins
*     41% des sages-femmes
-     37% des infirmiers
C'est a la Direction de la Formation et de l'Education pour la Sante qu'incombe la responsabilite de
gestion de la formation du personnel au Ministbre de la Santd Publique. A cet effet, ses attributions sont
entre autres: (a) la conception, I'dlaboration, la gestion et 1'6valuation des plans, programmes et projets
de formation; (b) la conception, I'6laboration, 1'execution et l'evaluation des programmes d'education
pour la sante. Elle collabore avec le Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur de la Recherche et de la
technologie qui a la charge de la formation de base des medecins; elle represente le Ministere de la Sante
au Conseil de la Facultd. Le personnel para-medical (infirmiers, techniciens sup6rieurs, sages-femmes,
techniciens de laboratoire, d'assainissement, assistants sociaux, et agents d'hygiene) est formd a l'Ecole
Nationale de Sante Publique de Niamney et a I'Ecole Nationale des Infirmiers et Cadres de l'Action Sociale
de Zinder qui dependent du MSP.
La formation a l'Ecole Nationale de Sante Publique
2.           Elle est organisee depuis 1965 date de creation de l'etablissement avec le concours de
l'OMS et du PNUD. Dans un premier temps elle formait uniquement des infirmiers dipldmes d'Etat en
deux ans. Puis a partir de 1970 les etudes ont ete protdoa a 3 ans et la formation s'etendrait aux sages-
femmes, assistants sociaux, techniciens de laboratoire et techniciens supdrieurs. L'Ecole a forme depuis
sa creation A ce jour 1.531 agents toutes categories confondues. 33 enseignants constituent le corps
permanent de pedagogues et encadreurs, 124 professeurs vacataires assurent les enseignements thdoriques
et pratiques dans les differents disciplines. Au cours de la rentree academique 1990-91, 557 elMves sont
inscrits dans les cinq sections de l'Ecole (techniciens superieurs de l'Action Sociale, techniciens de
laboratoire, assistants sociaux, infirmiers diplomes d'Etat et sages-femmes d'Etat).



62
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 2 sur 7
Formation I I'Ecole Nationale des Infirmiers et Cadres de l'Action Sociale de Zinder
3.            Etablissement de formation professionnelle qui a vu le jour en 1975 et qui a forme a ce
jour 1.543 agents (infirmiers certifies et infirmiers diplOmds d'Etat, aides assistants de l'Action Sociale,
techniciens et agents d'assainissement). L'Ecole dispose de 20 enseignants permanents et de 62
professeurs vacataires pour un effectif de 363 dtudiants.
Formation en cours d'emploi
4.            Ce volet s'est rapidement intensifie au cours de ces deux dernieres annees grace, d'une
part I l'obtention d'importantes aides firancitres et d'assistance technique, des organisations
internationales, des ONG et des pays amis et d'autres part a la mise en place des programmes nationaux
de sante necessitant des activites de formation du personnel. C'est ainsi que des bourses d'etudes
superieures et de specialisation sont regulibrement attribuees aux personnels de la sante. Des seminaires
et ateliers de formation/recyclage I l'etranger et au Niger donnent egalement la possibilite aux differentes
directions centrales du Ministbre, aux institutions et aux programmes nationaux de sante d'ameliorer la
competence des agents et la performance des services. Pour 1990, 38 sdminaires ont 6te organises au
profit de 521 cadres et agents de sante. Ces activites seront renforcees par le ddmarrage tres prochain
des activites de formation du centre national de developpement sanitaire qui fera partie integrante de
I'ENSEP, et dont les objectifs sont: (a) de parfaire la formation des cadres nigdriens de la sante tout en
Eiargissant le champs de capacites de formation de ce personnel et (b) de renforcer I'adaptation des cadres
de la sante a la mise en oeuvre de la politique nationale en matiere de sante. Enfin,l la crdation d'un
Centre Regional de Sante Familial, et la creation d'equipes departementales de formation ainsi que
l'elaboration du nouveau plan de formation 1991-95 augurent un developpement certain des activitds de
formation au benefice des cadres et agents des institutions sanitaires regionales.
Formatior. en matiere de Sant6 Maternelle et Infantile (SMI) et Planification Familiale (PE)
5.            Malgre les efforts realises en matiere de formation ceux-ci restent en deca des besoins
et ne parviennent pas par consequent I agir positivement sur la situation des services de SMI/PF. En
effet, la SMI continue d'etre caracterisee par un fort taux de mortalite maternelle et infantile qui est
respectivement de 7 (sept) pour mille et 134 pour mille. Quant a la maternit6, elle est caract4risee par:
-      Unt taux brut de natalite de 52 pour 1.000
-      Une descendance moyenne par femme qui est de 7 enfants
-      Un Age moyen .u mariage qui est de 15,6 ans (recensement de 1988).
Ainsi le rapport 1989 de la Direction de la Santd Maternelle et Infantile relWve que 20% des
accouchements seulement se font dans les formations sanitaires fixes contre 96% pour la ville de Niamey.
II convient de remarquer egalement que 52% des accouchements sont effectues par des matrones. Le taux
de mortalit6 maternelle qui est l'un des plus eleve du monde a conduit les responsables de la SMI a
l'analyse de ces deces en milieu urbain notamment I Niamey, centre de rEfErence pour les zones rurales
peripheriques. C'est ainsi que quatre grandes Etiologies ont pu etre relevees:
Hemorragie           21%
-      Ruptures ut6rines    20%
Infections           18%
-      Eclampsies           15%



63
ANNEXE3-3
Page 3 sur 7
Une etude faite sur une periode de quatre annees (1985 & 1988) a montre que 63,8% des deces
d'enregistr6s a la maternit6 centrale sont des femmes evacuees de la peripheric. La couverture prenatale
susceptible de deceler les femmes enceintes I risque reste faible sur l'ensemble du territoire national. En
1990 elle etait de 32,8%. Ces donnees montrent lacuite du problime et l'urgence des solutions a
trouver. Si des gros efforts ont ete fait tant sur le plan des personnels que celui du developpement des
services de sante, il n'en demeure pas moins que les femmes de la zone rurale, n'ont pas encore une
accessibilite aux structures sanitaires, comparable a celle de leurs consocurs urbaines. Cela suppose la
mise en place de strategies efficaces et efficientes en matibre de formation de base et de formation
continue du personnel sanitaire. Ces strategies devront etre congues pour faire en sorte que le personnel
sanitaire que ce soit le medecin, la sage-femme ou l'infirmier puisse r6pondre aux besoins des femmes
vivant dans les zones rurales. Par consequent il apparait clair qu'une place beaucoup plus importante
devrait Otre consacree I l'enseignement des activites de maternite et de planification familiale, aussi bien
dans les programmes de formation de base, que dans les activitEs de recyclage. Une fois form6 ce
personnel sera en mesure d'ameliorer la prestation des soins de sante dans les structures sanitaires de
l'arrondissement et du village et facilitera la mise en place du programme d'identification et de traitement
des femmes ayant des grossesses I risques et l'incorporation des services de planification familiale I tous
les programmes de SMI, envisages dans le cadre du Projet Population.
6.            Les programmes de formation devront porter un accent particulier sur les activitds de
consultations pre- et post-natales et les consultations de PF; non seulement sur leur aspects cliniques mais
aussi sur leur organisation et leur evaluation. Durant la phase de preparation du Projet Population, une
sdrie d'ateliers organises respectivement par la Direetion de la Planification Familiale et s'appuyant sur
les travaux d'un groupe d'experts nationaux ont permis de definir dans un premier temps les taches qui
incombent au personnel des structures pdripheriques et leur repartition selon le type de structure et, dans
un deuxieme temps, le contenu, sous forme de module, de la formation requise pour satisfaire ces taches.
Ces travaux seront a la base de la revision du curriculum des Ecoles de Santd Publique et serviront aussi
,romme outil principal des programmes de formation continue et de recyclage.
A.   Liste des tacheS technigues et administratives devant Atre exEcutees ag niveau des diffErentes
formations sanitaires d'un d&3rtement.
-      Visites prdnuptiales du jeune couple, 4 la demande
-      Visites preconceptionnelles, 4 la demande
-      Accouchements
-      VVisites pre et post-natales
-      Consultations en SMI/PF
*      Consultations des nourrissons
-      P.E.V
*      Rehabilitation des enfants malnutris
*      Lutte contre les maladies (MST, diarrh6es, infections respiratolres aigugs, paludisme)
*      Visite de sante scolaire et universitaire
-      Visite de travailleurs d'entreprise
*      ActivitEs de promotion nutritionnelle des collectivitEs
-      Activites de recherche sur la santd de la mare et de 1'enfant.



64
ANINEXE 3-3
Page 4 sur 7
B.   La repartition des tAches identiflies en A) est la suivante par type de formation (DR.CM)
7.     Le dispensaire rural (DR). Le DR est une formation sanitaire situ6 au niveau du chef-lieu de
canton ou d'un village. Le DR a pour fonction de promouvoir la sante des populations desservies en
particulier en SMI et en PF. II est le centre de reference des ESV qui lui sont rattachees. 11 retbre les
malades depassant sa competence au poste medical, centre mEdical ou CHD le plus proche. Activit6 au
ijniva du DR. Dans le domaine de la SMI/PF le DR a I realiser, entre autres, les activites suivantes:
(a)    Activites curatives.
-      Soigner ou referer a une formation sanitaire plus dquipee les femmes enceintes, les post-
partum malades, les enfants malades, les malnutris ainsi que depister et traiter les MST.
(b)    Activites de maternite.
-      sBien surveiller les femmes en travail
-       REffectuer :es accoguchements normaux
-      Assurer la vaccination BCG/polio a la naissance
-      Faire counseling de PF aux meres A risque et pour un intervalle intergenesique d'au
moins 36 mois
-      Donner rendez-vous pour une consultation post-natale A la seme semaine apres
accouchement
-      Evacuer les cas de dystocie I temps vers des centres plus specialisds: CHD ou maternite
de reference
REferer les cas de sterilite au CNSF ou a une maternite de reference
-      Declarer les naissances
- Faire un suivi des deces maternels et perineaux (culcul des taux et identificationl des
causes)
Collecter les donnees d'activites de la maternitd
Faire le rapport periodique
(c)    Activitds de consultations prenatales.
Motiver les m4res a se presenter aux trois consultations prElventives (3, 6 et 8bme mois
de grossesse)
-      De'pister et surveiller ou rdfdrer les grossesses A risque A un centre plus equipe
-      Assurer le suivi de la femme cnceinte
*      Former et recycler les matrones et femmes-relais au suivi et A I'evacuation des femmes
A risques
*      Motiver les meres A risque A accoucher & une maternitd plus equipde, & suivre une
m6thode contraceptive aprbs accouchement
*      Vacciner les femmes enceintes
*      Effectuer des causeries aux meres par petits groupes sur des thtmos prioritaires (dont la
prEvention du pkludisme pendant la grossesse, I'alimentation, l'hygine, I'allaiteinent
maternel. la PF, etc..)
*      Assurer la collecte des donnees.



65
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 5 sur 7
(d)    Activites de consultations post-natales.
-      Refdrer les meres prdsentant une maladie gdndrale ou affection gyndecologique ou carence
nutritionnelle grave
-      Faire un entretien tete-a-tete en vue de la prescription d'une methode contraceptive
-      Referer les demandes de ligatures de trompes
-      Bien examiner l'dtat sanitaire et nutritionnel de l'enfant, verifier son calendrier vaccinal
(e)    Activite de consultations de EF.
-      Distribuer les methodes de barribre (condoms, spermicides)
-      Prescrire les pilules pour depister les contre-indications
Prescrire les injectables et poser les DIU
Referer les cas de sterilite au CNSF t une maternite de reference ou du CHD
Former les ESV et femmes-relais
-      Faire des causeries par petits groupes aux mbres
-       'Tenir des reunions avec les autorikes emmene des campagnes dans les quartiers selon
objectifs fixes
-      Entreprendre avec autoritEs et CM des recherches pour la distribution communautaire des
contraceptifs
*      Assurer des reunions periodiques de sensibilisation du personnel (y compris ESV)
-      Collecter les donnees et faire les rapports periodiques
-      Effectuer des visites a domicile.
(f)    Activites de consultations des nourrissons.
-      Pour les enfants de moins de I an: une consultation une fois par mois sauf si l'enfant
risque
-      Pour les enfants de 13 a 24 mois: une consultation tous les trois mois sauf si I risque
-      Pour les enfants de plus de 24 mois: une consultation tous les six mois sauf si a risque
Peser, toiser l'enfant et porter les chiffres sur la courbe de croissance
-      Discuter du regime de l'enfant, de son calendrier de vaccination, le vacciner le cas
echdant
-      Informer la mere sur la TRO, La SMI/PF
-      Faire un counseling de SMI/PF en vue de l'espacement des naissances afin de respecter
un intervalle intergdnesique de 36 mois
-      Assurer une bonne chatne de froid aux vaccins (bon stockage, bon transport, bonne
manipulation)
(g)    Activites de rehabilitation et d'6ducation nutritionnelle.
-      Suivre la courbe de croissance des enfants malnutris avec les mbres
-      Faire faire aux meres des demonstrations d'aliments de sevrage enrichis b partir de
denrees ;ocales auxquelles elles ont acces assez facilement
-      Voir pratique des conseils i domicile
Former les femmes-relais I encadrer les meres
-      Repartir les dons et expliquer l'utilisation dans les repas de l'enfant malnutri
-      Promouvoir l'allaitement maternel prolongd
-      Faire entretien pour PF ou referer selon methode choisie



66
ANNE,XE 1-3
Page 6 sur 7
Encadrer le stagiaire
(h)    Activitds de consultations foraines Wdans les villages sans formation sanitaire ou ayant peu
de personnj  pr SMI/PF.
-      Assurer les consultations des nourrissons
-      IeDpister les cas I convoquer, a rdferer
-      Assurer les consultations prenatales: ddpister et convoquer les grossesses I risque pour
surveillance
-      Former des femmes-relais et matrones afin de renforcer le suivi et l'evacuation I temps
des grossesses I risque
-      Faire des causeries de SMIIPF sur des themes prioritaires
-      Donner rendez-vous pour PF
-      Creer des postes de distribution des methodes de barribre (condoms et spermicides)
(i)    Activitds de gestion du programme de SMI/PF.
-      .Faire des rapports pdriodiques do toutos les activitEs de SMI/PF
Tracer les courbes de suivi (en batons) des activitds
:-    Tenir des reunions periodiques de retro-information, d'etude des guides-manuels,
d'evalhation
Elaborer un plan d'action annuel
-      Encadrer les ESV (equipes de sante villageoises)
8.            Le centre medical (CM). Le CM est une formation sanitaire situde au niveau d'une
commune ou d'un chef-lieu d'arrondissement. 11 a pour mission de promouvoir la sante des populations
desservies. II est le centre de reference des dispensaires et postes medicaux. Le CM refbre le malade
grave au centre hospitalier le plus proche. 11 sert de cadre a la recherche et a la formation du personnel
et des etudiants. Activ;tes au niveau du CM. Dans le domaine de la SMI/PF le CM a I rEaliser, entre
autres les activites suivantes:
(j)    Activites curatives.
-      Soigner les femmes enceintes, les post-partum malades, les enfants malades, les malnutris
-      DEpister et traiter les MST
(k)    Activites de consultations post-natales (6 semaines apres l'accouchement).
-      Depister, traiter ou refErer les maladies generales, affections gynecologiques et carence
nutr,tionnelles
-      Faire un counseling PF et prescrire une methode de PF
-      Referer ou effectuer les poses de DIU
-      Referer les demandes de ligatures de trompes
-      Adresser lIenfant I la consultation des nourrissons aprbs examen.
(I)    Activites de consultatioQns de PF. Elles doivent Otre quotidiennes et discrttes selon la
demande et consistent h:



67
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 7 sur 7
Distribuer les methodes de barribres aux diff6rents postes d'activites de la formation
sanitaire
Insdrer DIU ou ref6rer, et assurer les visites de contrOle
Refrer les demandes de ligature des trompes
Prescrire les pilules et les injectables et assurer le suivi des clientes (examen des seins,
examen gyneco et gendral), referer pour bilan si necessaire
Faire des entretiens individuels a toutes nouvelle acceptante ou celles qui ont des
problemes
Faire des causeries-discussions aux meres par petits groupes selon une liste de themes
Elaborer un programme avec les autorites et entreprendre des campagnes dans les
quartiers pour atteindre to nombre de nouvelles accepuntes I enrOler par mois selon les
objectifs en rapport avec l'importance du groupe-cible de la zone d'action
Referer les cas d'infdcondite au CHD, a la maternit6 de reference, au CNSF
Remplir et transmettre au CHD les fiches de SNIS du district sanitaire
Effectuer des visites I domiciles pour relancer les abandons.
(in)   Activites de consultations foraines (dans les villages sans formation sanitaire ou ayant peu
de personnel pour SMI/PF).
Assurer les consultations des nourrissons
Depister les cas I convoquer, a referer
Assurer les consultations prenatales: depister et convoquer les grossesses a risque pour
surveillance
Former des femmes-relais et matrones afin de renforcer le suivi et I'evacuation a temps
des grossesses I risque
.Faire des causeries de SMI/PF sur des themes prioritaires
Donner rendez-vous pour PF
Crder des postes de distribution des mEthodes de barriere (condoms et spermicides)
(n)    Activites de suivi du programme de SMI/PF.
Faire des rapports pdriodiques de toutes les activites de SMIIPF
Tracer les courbes de suivi (en bAtons) des activites
Tenir des reunions periodiques (au moins mensuelles) de retro-information (oi en
sommes-nous?), d'evaluation et etude des guides-manuels
Elaborer un plan d'action annuel
Superviser les postes mddicaux et les dispensaires ruraux



68
ANNEXE 3-4
Page Isuri  13
LISIE DES DEPARTEMENTS ET aRRONplSSEME.NTs SELECTIONNES
POURCENTAGE
DE POPULATION
POPULATnON (1988)   DU O.EA.MENI
A/ pEPARTEMENT DE TILLABERY         1,331,611
Arrondissement de FILLINGUE          288.113                22
- BONKOUKOU
-CHIKAL
- DAMANA
- FANDOU MAYAKI
- MAICHILMI (renovd sur Projet Sant6)
-SANAM
- ITCHIGUINE
- TABLA
*TOUKOUNOUS
Afrondissement de OUALLAM            19Q0871                14
- DINGAZI BANDA
- FARKA
- MANGAIZE
- SIMIRI
- TILOA
- TUIZIGOROU
Arrondissement de SAY                16i.279                 12
- BOLSI
- GUELADIO
- MAKALONDI (r6nove sur Projet SantE)
- TAMBOLE
- TAMOU
TOTAL DES TROIS ARRONDISSEMENTS  643 263                     48
B/ DEPARTEMENT DE TAHOUA            1,306,625
Nombre de DR implique : 16
Arrondissement de BIRNI N'KONNI     253,646                 19



69                                ANNEXE 3-4
Page 2 sur 13
POPULATION ConS'
- ALLELA
- DOGUERAOUA (rdnovE sur Projet SantE)
- GOUNFARA
- GUIDAN IDER
- TSERNAOUA
Arrondissement de BOUJZA              479,353                    14
- BABAN KATAMI
- DEOULE
- GARADOUME
- TABOTAKI
T TAMA
Arrondissement de MADAOUA             216.963                    17
-ARZERORI
- BANGUI
-MANZOU (rEnovd sur Projet Sante)
- OURNO
- SABON GUIDA
- TAKORKA
TOTAL DES TROIS ARRONDISSEMENTS W2.2a                           S0
S DEPARTEMEN= DE ZINDER (total DR = 25) 1,410,797
Artondissement de MAGARIA              354 232                  2S
- BANDE
- BANGAZA
DAN TCHIO (rbmove sur Projet SantE)
- DUNGASS
- GOUCHI
- MALAOUA (rEbov sur Projet SantE)
- OUACHA (rEnovd sur Projet Santw)
*SASSOUMBROUM (renovd sur Ptojet Sante)
- YEKOUA
Arrondissement de MATAMEYE             164.911                   12



70
ANNEXE 3-4
Page 3 of 13
- DAN BARTO
- DOUNGOU
- KANTCHE
- DARATCHAMA
Arrondissement de MIRRIAH               420.325                   30
- BABOUL
- DOGO (rdnove sur Projet Sante)
- DROUM
- GOUNA
- GUIDIMOUNI
- KASSAMMA
- RAFA
- TAKIETA
- TOUMNIA
-ZERMOU
- KOLERAM
-MAZAMNI
TOTAL DES TROIS ARRONDISSEMENTS 939,475                            67
POURCENTAGE PAR RAPPORT AU PAYS                                    55
Nombre total de DR existant: 61
Nombre de DR deja renovd    9
Nombre de DR restant    : 52
Nombre I rdnover dans le Projet 30
COut probable pour la rdnovation d'un  ispensaire Rural:
3 millions de F/CFA ou 10.000 USS
C;X34.NIR



ANNEXE 3-4
71                      Page 4 sur 13
NIGER
PROJET POPULATION
MAISON SAGE FEMME OU MEDECIN POUR C.M.
PROGRAMME DE CONSTRUCTION
COUT
SEJOUR                                                   30.24
CUISINE                                                   9.16
RESERVE                                                   3.60
CHAMBRE 1                                                14.02
CHAMBRE 2                                                10.59
CHAMBRE 3                                                12.00
SALLE DE BAINS                                            3.02
SANITAIRES                                                1.00
TOTAL SURFACES UTILES                                    83.09
TOTAL SURFACE HO                                        112.17
ESTIMATION BATIMENT (S.HO X 150.000 F/CFA)          16,825,500
VRD 10%                                              1,682,550
TOTAL                                               18,508,050
CENTRE DE SANTE SANITAIRE DE ZINDER
PROGRAMME DE CONSTRUCTION
REZ DE CHAUSSEE                                          17.50
SALLE DE CONSULTATIONS 1                                 17.50
SALLE DE CONSULTATIONS 2                                 12.25
SALLE DE CONSULTATIONS 3                                 25.60
SALLE DE CONSULTATIONS 4                                 20.00
LABORATOIRE                                              13.65
ECHOGRAPHIE                                              14.25
PHARMACIE                                                16.00
ATTENTE PATIENTS                                         16.00
BUREAU 1                                                 16.00
BUREAU 2                                                 16.00
ASSISTANTE SOCIALE 1                                      16.00
ASSISTANTE SOCIALE 2                                      16.00
LOCAL EPS                                                20.80
SALLE DE FORMATION                                       60.00
ENTREE RECEPTION                                         49.60
CAFETERIA                                                49.60
DEPOT                                                    10.00
TOTAT, SURFACES UTILES                                  365.70
REPORT SURFACES UTILES REZ DE CH.                       365.70
ETAGE
GESTIONNAIRE                                             16.00
ECONOME                                                  16.00
DIRECTEUR                                                20.80
SECRETARIAT COMMUN                                       16.00
DIRECTEUR ADJOINT                                        16.00
SALLE DE REUNION                                         16.00
TOTAL SURFACES UTILES                                   485.50
TOTAL SURFACE HO                                        655.42
ESTIMATION BATIMENT (S.HO X 150.000 F/CFA)                    0
VRD 15%                                             14,746,950
TOTAL                                               14,746,950



72                        ANNEXE 3-4
Page 5 sur 13
BLOC OPERATOIRE POUR C.M.
PROGRAMME DE CONSTRUCTION
SALLE D'OPERATION                                         25.00
STERILISATION                                             17.00
DEPOT                                                     15.00
SALLE DE REVEIL                                           30.00
SALLE DE GARDE                                            20.00
BUREAU RESPONSABLE                                        15.00
ATTENTE COUVERTE                                          25.00
TOTAL SURFACE UTILE                                      147.00
TOTAL SURFACE HO                                         198.45
ESTIMATION BATIMENT (S.HO X 160.000 F/CFA)           31,752,000
VRD 15%                                               3,175,200
TOTAL                                                34,927,200
LABORATOIRES POUR C.M.
PROGRAMME DE CONSTRUCTION
LABORATOIRE                                               22.50
BUREAU 1                                                  15.00
BUREAU 2                                                  15.00
STOCKAGE                                                   6.00
TOTAL SURFACES UTILES                                     58.50
TOTAL SURFACE HO                                          78.97
ESTIMATION RATIMENT (S.HO X 150.000 F/CFA)           11,845,500
VRD 10%                                               1,184,550
TOTAL                                                13,030,050
GCVPOP



73                                            ANNEXE 3-4
Page 6 sur 13
PROJET POPULATION / NICER
Licto dov C.M. touchoo por Il  projot dsnn  Ion depart.monts do Zinder, Tillobery at Tahouc
TILLABERY             Bloc           Labo           Log S.F.       Log Modec (1)          Log Medec (2)         P. Santo
ay                   Construe       Construc       Ronov          Ronov                 Construe
usoiam               Contimrue      Constrec       R.nov          Ronov                 Construc
-------------------------------------------------------------__------------- __------------------------                               ____------
ZINDER
________------------------_------------------------------------------__-----__-----------------------------_______
Irrinh              Construe        Construe       Ronov         Renov                  Construc
ngoris               Construe       Construc       Ronov          Renov                 Construc                     s
atameyg              Construe       Construo       Construe       Construe              Construc
________--------------------------------------------------__-----------_----__-----------------------------_______
TAHOUA
-------------------------------------------------------------_-------__-----__-----------------------------------.
oni                  Construc       Construc       Construe       R.nov                 Construc                     a
adeous               Construe       Construc       Construc       Ronov                 Construc                     *
ouzo                 Construc       Construc       Construc       Construc              Construc
----------------------------------------------------------__----------------__---------------------------------
onstruct: Construction (15)
.nov: R.novatlon (12)
og MUdoe: Logeomnt edecinn (18)
. Santo: Projet Santo
abo: Laboratoir.
oc
i dop.prn



74                             ANNEXE 3-4
NIGER                     Page 7 sur 13
PROJET POPULATION
EQUIPEMENT / MOBILIER DE C.M
------_________----------------- --- --------------
:A.  MATERIEL MEDICAL                            QUANTITE
:-----------------------------_--_--:
:Bascule pese-personnes
:avec toise force 120 Kg                                3
:Bouilleur a instruments
:Poissoniere inox 10 ltres                              2
:Sterilisateur a vapeurs humides 50 itres               1
:Seau a pedale                                          5
%plateau inox 28 * 15                                   8
:Plateau inox 22 * 14                                   8
:Pese-bebe force 15 Kg
:type Seca                                              2
:Pese-bebe force 15 Kg
:type Salter                                            5
:Seringue jetable 2cc                               10000
:Seringue jetable 5cc                               10000
:seringue jetable lOcc                               2000
:Lampe a alcool                                         1
:Tubee a essai                                         20
:Support tubes a essai                                  2
:Pince bois pour tubes
:a essai                                                 5
:Urinal                                                20
:Pissettes                                               5
:Lampe a alcool                                         2
:Tube a essai                                          50
tPince bois pour tubes a essai                         10
:Bassin de lit                                         15
:Tambour                                                5:
:Table d'operation                                      2
Scialitique suspendu                                    2
:Potence + Panier                                       3
aMicroscope solaire binoculaire                         2
aLame porte-objet                                    1000:
sLamelles vouvre-objet                               1000
:Bec Bunsen                                             1.:
:Centrifrigeuse manuelle                                1
:Aiguille a ponction lombaire                          20
:Aspirateur chirurgical electrique                       1
:Aspirateur chirurgical manuel                  s        1
:Bain marie electrique                                   1
:Balance de preciaion type trebuchet                     1
:.---_- ---_----_---.-_--_---_----_-_--------------:-------



75                               ANNEXE 3-4
EQUIPEMENT I MOBILIER DE C.M            Page 8 sTr 13
MOBILIER DE LOGEMENT
QUANTITE
:Lit 2 places largeur 140                                 1
:Hatelas largeur 140                              :       1:
:Traversin largeur 140                                    1:
:Lit une place largeur 0,90                               4
:Matelas largeur 0,90                             :       4:
:Traversin largeur 0,90                           :       4
:Armoire penderie 2 portes                        :       3
:Table salle a manger                             :       1:
:Buffet salle a manger                            :       1:
:Chaise salle a manger                                    6:
:Table basse de salon                             3       1:
:Fauteuil salon                                           4:
:                                                     ----------------------------------__  ---------
EQUIPEMENT DE LOGEMENT
QUANTITE
:                                                     ---------------------------------_----:--__-____:
:Refrigerateur gaz petrole electricite            :       1
:Cuisiniere a gaz                                 :       1:
:---------------------_---------------------------------:
:B.   MOBILIER MEDICAL                             QUANTITE
:-------------------------------------- ---------__--__:
:Table d'examen a tetiere reglable
:avec matelas                                             1
:Escabeau 2 marches                               :       5:
:Gueridon de soins                                        2:
:Tabpuret hauteur variable                        :       3
:Table de soins                                   :       4:
:Lit dhopital largeur 0,80 m                      :      30
;Matelas mousse 0,80 avec housse plastique    :          30
:Travesin largeur 0,80 recouvert aleze blanche:          30
:Table de chevet                                         30
:Paque porte feu$ile temperature                  :      30:
:Table metallique 100 * 50 hauteur 76 cm          :       5
sArmoire metalliquo 190 * 100 *5                  :        4:
:Table d'accouchement                             :       2:
sArmoire vitrine 2 portes                         :       2
-----------------------------------------------------:



76                                  ANNEXE 3-4
Page 9-sur 13
MOBILIER DE BUREAU
QUANTITE
----------_ _,__------------_---- ------_-
Bureau metallique                                             2
:Fautouil Bureau                                      t        2:
:Chaibe metallique                                            10
:Banc d^attente longueur 2 m                          s        2
:-------------------------_-------_              -- -:
EQUIPEMENT DE BUREAU
QUANTITE
--- --------------------------------------I---------
:Hachine a ecrire mecanique                                    1
:Machine a calculer solaire                                    1
____----_____-    --- ---------   ---------   ---     -------
MATERIEL D'EXPLOITATION
QUANTITE
---------------------------------------------:---------
:Refrigerateur 280 Itres                                       1
:Laanpe a pression a petrole                          :        1
:Rechaud a petrole                                             1
tCouverture une place                                         20
:Drap                                                         36
----------------------------_----------------------- a: cml prn



77                               ANNEXE 3-4
Page 10 sur 13
NIGER
EQUIPEMENT DE ..R
-------------------l------_-__-----:-           -
sA.   MATERIEL MEDICAL                              QUANTITE:
I--------------------------------------------_____*_-----
:Bascule pese-personnes
:avec toise force 120 Kg                                   1
:Bouilleur a instruments
:Poissoniere inos 10 Itres                                 1
:plateau inox 28 * 15                                      2
:Pese-bebe force 15 Xg                                     1
:type Seca
:Pese-bebe force 15 Kg                                     2
:type Salter
sSeringue jetable 2cc                                    500
sSeringue jetable 5cc                                    500
sUrinal                                                    1
:Tambour                                                   2
:Potence panier                                            1s
s-------  _---_---------------- ------------- ------------
iMOBILIER  MEDICAL                                t QUANTITEt
----------------------------- -------- _._ ___________
:Table d'examen a tetiere reglable                         1
:Escabeau 2 marches                               s        1
s--------------_--_--------------------------------------
:MOBILZER DE BUREAU                               : QUANTITE:
:-----_---__---------------------------------------------
:Bureau avec 2 tiroirs                            s        2 :
:Chaise                                                    2:
:Banc dtattent. longuour 2m                                2 t
sCalculatrice solaire                                      1:
.------.--a--------*-. .         _____-- ._..----------------
sHATERIEL D'EXPLOITATION                          : QUANTITEt
.----------------------.-- -.._.._----------------
:lampe a petrole                                           1
tRechat4 a petrole                                         1
:-- ---------------.-------------------------------------
:B.   MOBILIER MEDICAL                              QUANTITE:
I......a-----.t.......        ...a --------------
STable d'examen a tetiere reglable
tavec matelas                                              1
:Escabeau 2 marches                                        5
CGueridon de so$ns                                         2
:Tabpurst hauteur variable                                 3 s
tTable de soin                                    :        4:
:Lit d'hopital largeur 0,80 m                     s       30
sHatelas mousse 0,0 avec housse plastique                 30
tTravesin largeur 0,80 recouvert aleze blanche:           30
STable de chevet                                          30:
sPaque porte feuille temperature                          30
:Table metallique 100 * 50 hauteur i6 cm           s       5 s
:Armoire metallique 190 * 100 *5                          4
Table d'accouchement                                      2:
sArmoire vitrine 2 portes                                  2
----___---______--_--_--_- ---_- -----___--------



78                             ANNEXE 3-4
Page ll sur 13
EQUIPEMENT DE D.R
MOBILIER. DI BREAU                              : QUANTITE:
s-- _------------- -w-----------------------_ ---------
slureau metallique                                      2
t*sutsuil Bureau                                        2
ChCaee metallique                                     10s
:Sanc dattente longueur 2 m                     s       2
:--------------------------t-------------------:---------:
,EQUIPEMENT DE BUREAU                           t QUANTITE:
:---------------------------------------.------s---_--.--s
sMachine a *crire mecanique                            1I
sMachine * calculer golaire                     s       1
I-'-------------- _t -----------___---------------_--------:
tAHTERIEL D'EXPLOITATION                        t QUAMTITE:
s.--------------------------------------*----------- :
sRefriger.teur 280 ltres                                1
Laumpe a pression * petrole                             1
:Rechaud a petrole                                      1:
:Couverture une place                                  20:
tDrap                                           s      36s
--------------e--------------------------------------e
AtDR PRN



79                                   ANNEXE 3-4
Pae12 sur 13
PROJET POPULATION / NIGERs
COMPOSITION DES DOITES D'INSTRUVENTS DE CHIRURIE
___________-__------------         --__-------------s!--------------------------------------------:---------
BOXTE ACCOUCHEMENT SIMPLE                    sUANTtTE  80tTE CESARIENNE                               :QUANTITE
oits inox 21   10 * 6                                1 80its  inox                                   ;       1
Pances do peon 29 cm                                 2 :Manche de bistourl                                   1
Cicsoux mousses couebe  1S cm                        1 Clooaux Mayo 10co 
sondo vesicalo metal                                 1 Cisoaux Mayo 17cm                                     1
Pinces do Kocher 14 em                               2 :Plnc* dlseection 14 am                               1
Alguille d  toverdin courbe                          1 Pincs dilsectlon 14 cm                                1
ClOp do br                                           1 :Plnc  de Kochr 14cm                                  6
Perce-_rmbn-a _                                      1 :Plncoo do Kelly 14cm                                 o
Incutleur do RPlbsond                                1 :Pnneop do Kelly 14co
:Plnc4. dO Sackhous 12e:                              4
--------------------------------------------  --------- Place * ponseomnt  24 an                      :      1
3O0TE DE CURETAGE                            :QUANTITE :Ports alguulle Mayo Hegr 1oco                        1
---------------------------------------:--------- :Port  alguille do Doyen 14 cm                            1
Bolte  nog wols?7                            :       1 Polro gcartour Farabeut 12cm                          1
Ciseoiu mouse" courbee 10 e%                         I :Pa1ir  cartae-e Farpbsuf 1em                         1
Hyaterooetro Valley                                  1 Volve do Kelly                                        1
Speculum de Collin                                   1 Valvos do Doyn                                        2
Pinces do Possi                                      2 :Plnce dissocotion 29cm                               1
Pinces do Museux                                     3 :Pinco dissoction 25 cm                               1
Pines do Ioxeman                                     1:
Planeo  a faux germ                                  2 :------------------------------------------- ---------
PInce do JL faure                                    1 tBOlTE POUR INFXRMIER                          sQUANTITE
PInce Rocheter dreito 22cm                   3       1           ----  -           --------------------------
Pane de Cheren 24cm                                  1  ote Inox 1x
Plncoe. do orsoter 24cm                              2 aClosaux llotOr 1to "                                  1
Curette  do Sld e                            s       2 :Place Peon 1Cm                                        1
Curettee do (ourdet C                                2 :stourl loam fixe                                      1
Curettee do Slmon                            I       I :ftoir  ntIrmier                                       1
Curette do Volk"on loneu                             I :Plane dsasetlon 14ce                                  1
Porte coten  yneco so cm                             1 :Sonde cannele                                         1
:Stylet elivlre                                       1
eee-----------------------------P-------------I---------  orte eoton 14cm                                    1
5OTE VAGIOL                                 :*QANTZTE s
.... _  -_--_----                    -----. ee-_--s-----------                        ------------f----s--a---
Speculum dO Collin 25cm                      s       I  OO2TE A PANSENWT                             aQUANTITE
Speculu  dO Collin $4I m                             I :.-e eaf                                    e ----------e
P2nce a peneem_t uterln drolto               s       I :solts 17                                             1 : 0  s
;nceo Musoux a were 7cm                              I sClseaux drolts mousses 14 co                  s      1
sondo motallilquo f*am  12 co                        1 :Closeux Lister                                       1
bolt. lanox                                          1 :Sonde conneil le                                     1
sPinceo dIssection */q                                1
PiPnce dissection  /g                         s       1:
:         :Pince Peon                                           1
s         allatourl drolt                                       1



80                                    ANNEXE 3-4
Page 13 sur
-_------_----,-------------------------------:------     :-----* ---------------------         :   --:---
BOlTE UROENCE GYNECOLOOsQu                    .QUANTITE  BOITE A LAPAROTOMIE                    QUANTITE
_____________----------------------:------------- ------:-------------------------------------:---------
Valve Doyon                                           1 :Boito 49*21.9                                 I
Spoculum do Cueco                                     1 :Pin:eo Bongola drolts n/g le/ -e              3
Pico a Paenementa                                     1 :Pineo  Bongolo courbes o/g 16 cm              3
Spoculum do Collin                                   1 Plnce  kelly droites 16c              :       3
Places do Museux                                      2 :courbrs 16em                                  3
Pinco de Poszi                                        2 :Pincoo dissection */g l9ce                    1
Pinces do Kocher 16cm                                 3 :o/0 1ocm                                      1
Cioseux Moussoe 18 cm                                 1 :Pince disetion o/g 25 cm                      1
Pince J.L.Floure                                      1  Cioaux Iryo droits lcm                       1
port. coton gyneco                                    1 :Ctovaux Mayo courbes 18cm                     1
Ctooaux MItzembaus 18 cm                              1  Cloaux Metzmbaum courbes 26 cm                1
:Porte alguille Mayo Hpgar 2Jcm       :       1
Pinceo Koehor                                6
__________________________----------- --------- :Plncee T.rrter 1Icm                                   3
BOITE APPENDICE HERNIE                        :QUANTITE :Valvw Kelly 2cm                               1
-------------------------------------------- ---------  Aguillo Roverdln                              1
:Plnceo  BackhaOe
Oolt. inox 40*2*9                                     1 :Hytorolabe do Dartgue 1s
Stylet boutono                                        1 :Plnceo Pean 14ce                              4
Sonde cannelos                                        1 :Ecart.ur do Farabeuf                          1
Manch, No 4                                           1 :Pnce d'Allio                                 2
Cisoaux do Mayo 17cm                                  1 :Pineos de Sabcock 29fc                        2
Cioeaux Mayo 1cm                                      1 :Sonde connolo. 1ce                            1
Pineoa do Choput                                      2 :Uanche bixtouri No4                           1
Pines de Bozo.mnn                                     1 :Epingloo a instruments                        2 2
Pince  deo Beckhaus 9cm                               4
Ptaces diesetlon lcm                                 2:
Pinces Crill 14cm                                   If
Pine* Peon 16cm                                       2
Pair?   ecart.uro Fraabeut 13e                       1
Perto siguille Mayo Hogar lem                         1
Port  aiguille Doyon 14em                             1
V lve de Kelly 14cm                                   1
Pince do ditsoctlon s/c 16cm                          2
Plneo do dlseection fine 29 cm                       2
Ecartour Goseot valve medilne                         I
Aiguilloe  Reverdin Moyenn.e                          2
Aiguilles Rwverdin inteotinale                        1
A: CH1R



81
ANNEXE 3-5
Page 1 sur 12
REPUBLIOUE DU NIGER
PROJET DE POPULATION
Le Renforcement et l'Expansion des Activites d'Information,
d'Education et de Communication en matiere de Population
1. INTRQDUCTION
1.            Dans le cadre du projet de population une place particulibre est consacree aux activites
d'IEC, afin de rdpondre aux besoins importants d'information et d'education des differents segments de
la population en matiere de sante maternelle et infantile et de planification familiale. Dans un souci de
coherence et de complementarite le programme de communication envisagee sous cette rubrique du Projet
intbgre les activitds d'IEC liees au rOle et a la promotion de la femme, a la sensibilisation de la jeunesse
A la vie familiale et a la parente responsable, ainsi qu'a l'information des leaders et des cadres nationaux
et regionaux sur les questions ayant trait a la population et au developpement.
2.            L'objectif principal etant d'amener la population en Age de procreer a une meilleure
perception de toutes ces questions et de leur impact sur le bien etre de la famille et par voie de
consdquence susciter en elle un changement de comportement favorisant par la maltrise de la fecondite
un ddveloppement harmonieux de la famille et un equilibre entre la croissance demographique et les
capacites de developpement economique du pays.
11. OBJECTIFS SPECIFIOUES
3.            Les objectifs spdcifiques vises par le programme d'IEC sont les suivants:
(a)    Fournir aux femmes une information complete sur la maternite sans risque, les
sensibiliser b I'ltilisation des services de soins de sante maternelle et infantile et de
planning familial, et les informer sur la disponibilite de ces services.
(b)    Informer la population en general et les hommes en particulier sur les bienfaits de
l'espacement des naissances pour la sante de la mere et de l'enfant.
(c)    Informer et eduquer les jeunes b la vie familiale et a la parente responsable.
(d)    Informer les femmes sur leur droits, leurs rOle et les services qui leur sont offerts.
(e)    Obtenir le soutien des hommes dans le processus de changement en faveur de la
promotion de la tnime.
(f)    Informer et sensibiliser les leaders d'opinions et les cadres de la nation sur les questions
de population, de croissance demographique et de dEveloppement.



82
ANNEXE 3-5
Page 2 sur 12
111. STRATEGIE
4.            La strategie adoptee s'appuie sur les resultats de plusieurs etudes et enquetes de type CAP
mendes aupres de la population durant les cinq dernieres annees. Ces etudes ont ddmontre la necessite
d'entreprendre des actions d'envergures d'information et d'education portant particulibrement sur la sante
maternelle et infantile et la planification familiale. La stratdgie consiste en:
(a)    I'elaboration par une commission nationale d'un plan int6grE en matibre d'IEC, dans le
cadre d'une approche multi-mddiatique;
(b)    I'elaboration de plan rEgionaux adaptes aux realitds communautaires et la creation
d'equipes regionales d'IEC responsables de la conception et de la realisation de ces plans.
5.            Dans le cadre des fonds rEserve t la preparation du projet de population, le plan d'action
d'IEC a ete elabore par la Commission Nationale regroupant les responsables des differents Ministbres
concernes directement ou indirectement par l'action de communication en matibre de sante et de
population. La commission s'est reunie en atelier pour:
(a)    etablir les grandes lignes de l'action en matiWre d'JEC en vue de mettre en oeuvre les
strategies et objectifs adoptes.
(b)    fixer les modalites d'application et le calendrier detaille de l'execution des activites
retenues, pour ia premibre annee du projet; et
(c)    definir la contribution de chacune des parties prenantes a la realisation de ces activites.
6.            Les audiences generales identifiees sont les hommes et les femmes maries en Age de
procreer vivant en milieu rural et urbain ainsi que la jeunesse dans le groupe d'age de 15 a 25 ans. Le
plan repose sur:
(a)    la communication inter-personnelle par le personnel para-medical et social ainsi que par
les auxiliaires volontaires des associations telles I'AFN, la Samaria, et les autres groupes
communautaires.
(b)    l'utilisation de la radio et de la tElEvision pour la communication de masse par la
diffusion d'une serie de messages courts et cibles et par des dmissions plus longues sur
des themes specifiques.
(c)    l'organisation de club d'ecoute dans les departements. concernds par le projet, pour
renforcer l'action de communication interpersonnelle et des masse-medias.
7.            Le plan s'articule notamment autour des themes principaux suivants:
(a)    Sante Maternelle et Infantile et Education Nutritionnelle.
(b)    Pianification familiale et methodes contraceptives.
(c)    Role et Promotion de la femme dans la societe.



83
ANIEX,
Page 3 sur 12
(d)    Responsabilite parentale et bien-ftre de la famille.
(e)    Population et developpement.
8.            La formule datelier annuel pour lVeaboration des plans d'actions consecutifs a ete adopt6e
comme Etant la plus apte I faciliter la production d'un programme suffisamment detaille pour que chaque
partenaire a l'action de communication puisse identifier les tAches et la responsabilitd qui lui incombe dans
le succbs de sa r6alisation. Ces plans mettront en action:
(a)    Les mecanismes de recherche qualitative et quantitative pour le testing et I'evaluation des
messages ainsi que pour I'evaluation de l'impact du programme.
(b)    La conception et Ia production de matdriel mediatique (messages courts, Emissions, pieces
de theatre, etc...)
(e)    La conception et la production de support auditvisuel et imprime approprie aux besoins
du personnel para-medical et social pour la communication inter-personnelle.
(d)    L'organisation de "Clubs d'ecoute" au niveau des villages.
A. Organisation des Equipes Regionales d'IEC
9.            Le projet de population apportera son appui aux Directions Departementales Sanitaires
(DDS) pour reunir les ressources disponibles au niveau du ddpartement et former leurs equipes rdgicnales
d'IEC. Ces equipes regrouperont les cadres regionaux du MSP, du MDSPPF et du MCCJS ainsi que
les reoresentants de lORTN, des associations tels que la Samaria et l'AFN. Une fois formee l'equipe
serait chargee de la formulation des strategies et du developpement des programmes d'action d'IEC en
matiere de SMI/PP et de promotion de la femme et de la Jeunesse adaptes I la rdalitd et au contexte
locaux. Une attention particuliere sera accordee aux moyens a mettre en oeuvre pour mieux informer
et sensibiliser la population au niveau du village sur les question qui touchent a la sante de la mbre et de
l'enfant, A la planification familiale et a Ia parente responsable. L'accent sera porte aussi sur une
amdlioration qualitative et quantitative de I'activitd de communication inter-personnelle des agents sociaux
sanitaires operant au niveau de la communaute, par le biais de leur formation et par la mise a leur
disposition des supports didactiques et audio-visuel necessaires I leur action.
10.           Une cellule IEC au niveau des DDS composde du coordinateur SMIIPF, de l'antenne
regionale de I'EPS et du representant de I'action sociale sera crdee pour coordonner les travaux de
I'equipe rdgionale pour l'IEC. Cette cellule aura aussi pour tAche de:
(a)    Ddvelopper un programme de communication par masse-medias en collaboration avec les
reprdsentants des stations rdgionales de l'ORTN.
(b)    Participer a la conception des messages et tester le materiel de support audio visuel
ndcessaire a l'action des agents de terrain.
(c)    Assurer le suivi et l'evaluation des actions d'IEC mendes en collaboration avec les autres
ministbres et associations.



84
ALN-EXE 3-5
Page 4 sur 12
(d)    Mener des activites de recherche qualitatives aupres de la communaute au niveau de
l'arrondissement ainsi qu'au niveau du village pour tester et mesurer l'impact des
initiatives en IEC entreprises ou envisagde dans le cadre du plan regional.
11.           La reussite de ce programme dependra dans une tres large mesure de l'organisation
efficace du travail et de la compldmentarite entre les differents partenaires, et de la mise en oeuvre des
mecanismes de planification et de gestion tant au niveau central qu'au niveau regional. Les autres
elements importants etant le suivi, 1'encadrement et la motivation des agents animateurs et des auxiliaires
qui interviendront au niveau du terrain. Les efforts en matiere de formation du personnel et le
renforcement des capacites du personnel dans les techniques d'IEC seront par consequent eux aussi
determinants dans le succes du programme.
B. Les Clubs d'Ecoute
12.          En vue de renforcer le programme de communication par les masse-medias, obtenir un
effet multiplicateur des activites de communication inter-personnelle et assurer l'acces de la population
rurale et en particulier les femmes aux emissions radiophoniques, le projet soutiendra la creation de clubs
d'ecoute dans les trois departements d'intervention. Ces clubs se verront confies un poste radio-
magnetophone et une sdrie de cassettes pre-enregistrees I partir des emissions de l'ORTN et des
programmes d'education sanitaire. Au dell de maximiser l'impact du programme mediatique au profit
de la population villageoise, un autre avantage de cette formule est qu'elle permet de renforcer les liens
entre le reseau des agents de communication inter-personnelle et la population en dehors des structures
sanitaires. Les clubs seraient visites a intervalles reguliers par ces agents pour tester la rdceptivit6 et la
reaction de la population aux messages vehicules et animer des seances d'educations. L'organisation des
reunions des clubs d'ecoute et leurs activites sera laisse A l'initiativ. du groupe une animatrice choisie par
le groupe assurera le relais avec les animateurs. Autour des 130 dispensaires qui existent dans les trois
ddpartements d'intervention du projet, quatre a six villages seront selectionnes dans un rayon de 10 Km
de chaque dispensaires pour organiser ces clubs environ sept cents clubs d'ecoute seront organisds durant
la duree de vie du projet.
C. Renforcement et amelioratic a des activites d'lEC dans les services SMI/PF
13.           Les objectifs spdcifiques de l'action d'lEC au niveau des structures sanitaires sont de:
(a)    Sens.biIiser les femmes a la vaccination des enfants et aux consultations neonatales.
(b)    Eduquer et informer les femmes sur les risques eleves lis aux grossesses precoces et
tardives.
(c)    Promouvoir 1'espacement des naissances et informer les femmes sur les methodes
contraceptives ainsi que sur la disponibilite des services de planning familial.
(d)    Encourager les femmes 4 venir aux consultations prd-natales et a accoucher en milieu
hospitalier.
(e)    Assurer l'education nutritionnelle des femmes et les inciter a surveiller la croissance du
nouveau-ne et de 1'enfant.



85
ANNEXE 3-5
Page 5 sur 12
14.           La realisation de ces objectifs necessitera une extension quantitative et qualitative de la
couverture de la communication inter-personnelle par les agents para-medicaux et sociaux, la disponibilit6
de supports audio-visuels approprie et en quantite suffisante et une plus grande utilisation de ce materiel.
Dans le souci d'une meilleure promotion des services de SMI/PF et en egard I leur expansion dans le
cadre du volet "expansion des services SMI/PF" du projet. Le projet apportera son soutient a l'extension
des activitEs de communication inter-personnelle par le renforcement des capacites de gestion des activites
d'IEC, au niveau des departements. Les agents Para-medicaux et sociaux operant dans les centres
medicaux et les dispensaires des arrondissements ainsi que leurs auxiliaires operant au niveau des villages,
disposeront de support audio-visuels diversifi6s et plus fournis et seront encadres par les membres des
cellules d'IEC constituees au sein de la DDS. Ceux-ci apporteront leur concours au directeur du centre
medical dans la gestion et la supervision des activites d'IEC dans les formations sanitaires de l'arrondisse-
ment.
15.          Dans le cadre du Projet Sante en cours d'exdcution, il est prdvu que dans les trois
departements couverts par le projet 40 Sages-femmes et 200 Infirmiers Dipl6mes d'Etat et Certifies ainsi
que 140 assistants sociaux, secouristes et matrones recevront un formation en IEC qui leur permettra
d'ameliorer leur compdtences en matibre de communication avec la population. La formation de ce
personnel Etant ainsi assuree, le projet Population completera cette formation par:
(a)    Le financement d'activites ponctuelles de recyclage et de mise I jour des competences
acquises par le personnel pour une amelioration constante de leur m6thode de travail.
(b)    Le developpement des instruments d'evaluation de l'impact des activites d'IEC, et
l'utilisation de la recherche qualitative (mini-sondages/groupes dirlges) pour mieux cibler
les audiences, choisir les themes a aborder, et adopter l'approche de communication la
plus adequate.
(c)    La formation et le soutien logistique (vdhicules de terrain, materiel didactique) ndcessaire
au fonctionnement des cellules d'lEC a la DDS.
D. Activites d'education nutritionnelle
16.          Dans ie domaine de l'IEC en matiere de nutrition la situation actuelle est caracterisee par
une grande diversite des strategies d'intervention selon les formations sanitaires, un personnel peu forme
a l'education nutritionnelle et la quasi inexistence de support educatifs. La division de la Nutrition au
sein de la Direction de la Sante Maternelle et Infantile du Ministere de la Sante Publique a elabore un
programme national d'education nutritionnelle pour ameliorer cette situation et a recemment entame sa
mise en oeuvre.
17.           Dans ce cadre, la division de la Nutrition a produit un manuel d'education nutritionnelle
a l'intention du personnel para-medical ainsi qu'un guide d'instruction sur la surveillance de la croissance
et la rehabilitation nutritionnelle. Toutefois, la division de la Nutrition dispose de tres peu de moyens
pour former le personnel para-medical dans l'utilisation de ce materiel et mettre a sa disposition les
supports audio-visuels ndcessaires I l'animation des seances d'education. A cet effet cette composante
du Projet Population apportera un appui a la Division de la Nutrition pour la rdalisation de son
programme. Le projet financera notamment:



86
ANNEXE 3-5
Page 6 sur 12
(a)    I'elaboration et la production des fiches techniques d'utilisation du guide d'instruction
pour l'animation des sdances d'dducation.
(b)    L'elaboration et la production des supports audio-visuels.
(c)    Le ddveloppement et la diffusion des messages d'education nutritionnelles destine au
grand public et a l'intention des meres en particulier.
(d)    La formation ou le recyclage des agents para-mddicaux et sociaux et des agents villageois
de sante en matiere d'education nutritionnelle et d'utilisation des diffdrents supports
congus.
18.          Dans le cadre du Projet Sante un module nutrition sera dlabore en vue d'intdgrer et
d'intensifier l'enseignement des activites de recupdration et d'education nutritionnelle dans les
programmes des trois dcoles de formation des cadres sanitaires (ENSP-ENICAS-FSH).
E. Activitfs d'IEC en atibre de population et developpement
19.          L'interOt manifestd par le gouvernement pour les questions demographiques s'est accru
au cours des dernibre annees, particulierement a la lumibre des rdsultats du premier recensement de la
population de 1977 et des premiers 6l6ments de celui de 1988. Cet intdret s'est traduit par l'intdgration
dans le plan quinquennal 1987-1991 d'une section trbs detaillee sur les incidences socio-economiques de
I'accroissement rapide de la population au Niger et par la crdation au mois de mai 1990 d'un comite
Technique Interministeriel de la population (CTIP) chargd de l'dlaboration d'une politique de population,
basee sur les besoins et problemes en matibre de population et sur le plan d'action recommande par le
sdminaire en population et Developpement organise a Kollo en 1986. Le CTIP a d6jk eiabore un projet
de ddclaration national de politique de population.
20.           Suite a l'approbation de la politique de population, il sera necessaire de la diffuser et de
sensibiliser 1'ensemble des Nigdriens (aussi bien les cadres et responsables administratifs que la masse
populaire) quant a la ndcessitd de sa mise en oeuvre pour atteindre une meilleure addquation entre la
population et les ressources du pays. Par ailleurs, afin de maintenir cet elan et de sensibiliser les cadres
de faqon continue quant a l'evolution des tendances demographiques au Niger et leur impact sur le
developpement socio-dconomique, il faudra leur fournir des informations de maniere continue. A cet
effet les objectifs de ce programme ont ete fixd comme suit:
(a)    Faire prendre en compte l'inter-relation population et ddveloppement par les membres du
gouvernement, les cadres et les leaders d'opinion.
(b)    Instaurer un dialogue permanent entre les chefs traditionnels, les reprdsentants des
associations socio-professionnelles et la population sur les questions de population.
21.           Le projet de population apportera I'appui necessaire a la rdalisation de ces objectifs et
contribuera a la mise en oeuvre d'un programme de diffusion de l'information en matibre de population
et de sensibilisation des Nigdriens b tous les niveaux aux questions demographiques. Ce programme a
deja ete aborde, et a dejk vu une premiere definition, dans le "programme National d'actions dans le
domaine de la Demographie", elabore par la Direction de la Statistique et de la Demographie (DSD) du
Ministere du plan en cooperation avec le FNUAP.



87
ANNEXE 3-5
Page 7 sur 12
S
22.          Un centre de documentation a ete egalement crMe au sein de la DSD avec I'appui du
FNUAP. La DSD a deja mis en place un reseau de 40 communicateurs constitue principalement de
journalistes de la presse ecrite et parlee qui seront charges de la diffusion d'information et de la
sensibilisation. Ce reseau s'etend entre Niamey et sept centres regionaux. Les communicateurs seront
charges de la communication de messages dans un langage et par les moyens appropries. Les journalistes
membres du reseau a Niamey ont dljj redige et publie, en collaboration avec la DSD, les deux premiers
numeros d'un bulletin demographique intitule "Population -information". Ce bulletin est destine aux
cadres et aux techniciens. Par ailleurs, la DSD a egalement organise un seminaire a l'intention des
techniciens afin de les sensibiliser aux questions demographiques.
23.          Le programme d'information et de sensibilisation en matibre de population prevoit trois
volets qui s'adressent a trois groupes cibles:
(a)    aux decideurs et aux cadres charges de la planification et de la mise en oeuvre de la
politique de developpement (decideurs, cadres centraux et regionaux);
(b)    aux masses populaires, dont la prise de conscience des facteurs demographiques est une
condition premiWre pour s'interesser et participer activement aux politiques et aux
programmes de population; et
(c)    aux eleves et aux etudiants en vue de les sensibiliser et d'enliser leur soutient actif.
24.          Le projet de population soutiendra le volet I et 2 dans ce programme et le FNUAP
apportera son appui au programme destine aux eleves et aux etudiants par l'introduction de l'enseigne-
ment de la vie familiale dans toutes les ecoles et Iycees du pays.
F. Activite d'IEC oour la promotion du role et du statut de Ia femme
25.          Ce programme s'integre dans la programmation plus large de l'information-education au
sein du projet. II repose sur l'hypothese que l'approche de mobilisation au developpement ne couvrira
pas seulement des activites IEC en matibre de planification familiale mais aussi des programmes/activites
presentant et renforgant les thMmes d'appui a la promotion feminine, notamment:
(a)    L'importance de la scolarisation feminine;
(b)    Les droits des femmes (en relation avec l'appui au cadre juridique);
(c)    La correlation age au mariagen7ante maternelle et infantile;
26.          Le jrogramme vise deux objectifs spdciftques: (i) informer les femmes nigeriennes de
leurs droits, de leur rOles et des services qui leur sont offerts; (ii) obtenir le soutien de la population en
general, et des hommes en particulier dans le processus de changement en faveur de la promotion de la
feminine.
27.          Pour ce faire, on s'assurera de cibler les activites en s'adressant aux specificites de chaque
clientele. Pour assurer une meilleure coordination de ce volet avec les autres sous-composantes, les
responsables de la DCF au sein du MDSPPF seront associes aux choix des thames et a leur suivi-
evaluation. Les activites principales consisteront en:



88
ANNEXE 3-5
Page 8 sur 12
(a)    L'elaboratlon des programmes solon des groupes-cibles specifiques (CGS)
(b)    La selection et I'tlaboration des strategies d'intervention selon les differents groupes-
cibles identifies;
(c)    La prestation des services IEC aupres des femmes:
(i)     Elaboration de programmes de communication en utilisant les emissions
d'information et les emissions de detente de la radio et de la television telles quo
le 'magazine de la Femme" et le theatre radio-diffuse.
(ii)     Distribution/diffusion/ des messages aupres des femmes et/ou des groupements
de femmes en assurant l'acces des femmes au materiel audio-visuel;
(iii)     Formation des animatrices aupres des groupements au support IEC (causerie,
materiel audio-visuel; etc.);
(iv)     Suivi de l'impact des messages (ajustements/renforcement selon le cas).
La prestation des services IEC aupres des hommes:
(v)      Choix des themes les plus percutants relatifs a la promotion feminine;
(vi)     Elaboration des messages et leur suivi;
(vii)     Ajustements/renforcements des strategies.
La prestation des services IEC aupres des jeunes:
(viii)     Elaboration de messages relatifs a la promotion feminine cibles sur les jeunes;
(ix)     Choix d'approches multiples: media; causeries;
H. Sensibilisation de la jeunesse en matiere de population
28.          Le projet de declaration de politique de population au Niger consacre une place importante
au developpement et I la valorisation de la jeunesse. En effet la population Agee de 15 a 24 ans est
estimde a 24% des 7,2 millions d'habitants du Niger. Cette proportion elevee d'enfants et dejeunes exige
de I 'Etat, de la Communaute et de la Famille des efforts considerables dans plusieurs domaines tels quo
l'Education, la Formation et la creation d'emploi. Le poids ddmographique de la jeunesse constitue une
charge qui continuera a s'accrottre pendant de nombreuses annees compte tenu du taux de croissance
demographique qui est passe de 3,1 a 3,4% par an.
29.          Parmi les mesures preconisees par le projet de politique de population, le ddveloppement
et la valorisation des ressources humaines dont la jeunesse constitue l'un des elements cle de cette
politique. II est ainsi prevu:



89
Page 9 sur 12
(a)    La mise en place d'un cadre institutionnel adequat pour le'ducation, le suivi et la prise
en charge des jeunes.
(b)    La mise en oeuvre de programmes de sensibilisation des jeunes I la vie active et a Ia
respcnsabilite parentale.
(c)    La mise en oeuvre de programmes pour faciliter l'acces des jeunes a l'emploi et
encourager la creation de groupements favorisant leur participation au developpement
national.
30.          Le programme d'IEC propose dans le cadre du projet population contribuera I mettre en
oeuvre une partie des strategies, des objectifs et des actions prevues par le projet de declaration de la
politique de population. Le projet apportera un soutien i la maise en application des deux stratAgies
suivantes:
(a)    Elaboration d'une politique nationale en nwatibre de jeunesse pour donner un cadre clair
et bien defini I toute action visant la valorisation du r6le et de l'apport de la jeunesse
dans le developpement.
(b)    Renforcement des capacites institutionnelles du Ministere de la Communication, Culture,
Jounesse, et Sport dans le domaine de la sensibilisation et de la mobilisation des jeunes
pour le developpement.
31.          A cet effet, le projet soutiendra par un apport technique et financier le MCCJS dans les
travaux de preparation de la politique de la jeunesse et l'organisation de seminaires d'information et de
sensibilisation I cette politique I l'intention des cadres nationaux et regionaux.
32.          Le projet appuyera le MCCJS dans le renforcement de ses capacites de conception et
d'execution d'un programme d'infornation, d'education et de communication destine aux jeunes dans les
milieux rural et urbain, afin de "tvoriser chez eux une meilleure apprehension des problemes de
population, de vie familiale et de parente responsable. Une information et un materiel educatif appropries
au contexte socio-culturel des differents segments de la population dans la tranche d'age de 15 1 25 ans
sera realise en vue d'ameliorer leurs connaissances sur les methodes contraceptives, les maladies
sexuellement transmissibles et les avantages de la planification familiale.
33.          Dans le cadre de l'Elaboration d'une politique de la jeunesse, le Projet SantE-IDA (Cr.
1668-NIR) financera la realisation d'une enquete nationale afin de pouvoir disposer des donnes
statistiques sur les besoins et les aspirations des jeunes. Cette enquete permettra de saisir:
(a)    La position des jeunes dans le circuit economique.
(b)    La situation des jeunes dans les structures sociales.
(c)    La situation des jeunes dans les institutions d'dducation et de formation.
34.          Afin de completer les donndes quantitatives qui resulteront de cette enquete et enrichir
la base de donnEes qui permettra au MCCJS d'etablir une politique rationnelle en matibre de jeunesse le
projet de population apportera son appui pour la realisation d'un programme de recherche qualitative basE



90
ANNEXE 3.5
Page 10 sur 12
sur la methodologie des groupes diriges pour valider la recherche quantitative et mieux ^erner les
attitudes, les aspirations et les prs.ccupations des jeunes de diffdrents groupes ethniques, regions et
milieux.
35.           Les rdsultats de cette recherche serviront aussi a l'elaboration des messages d'IEC destines
aux jeunes.
I. ForMation des AniMnateurs de 3eunesse en matiere d'IEC.
36.           La realisation des objectifs du projet pour la sensibilisation de la jeunesse f la vie
familiale et I la responsabilite parentale, dependra dans une large mesure de la capacite de mobilisation
des ressources humaines du MCCJS et des organisations ou associations a caractere social qui rassemble
la jeunesse en dehors du milieu scolaire, dans le but de fournir I ces jeunes une information complete
et adaptee a leurs besoins specifiques. 11 est par consequent essentiel d'ameliorer les competences ainsi
que les connaissances des animateurs de jeunesse et animateurs culturels dans le domaine de la sante
preventive, et du planning familial, afin qu'ils p,iissent jouer pleinement leurs rOles d'educateurs aupres
des jeunes et les amener a adopter une attitude responsable vis a vis de leur sante et de leur fecondite et
rEduire par consdquent le nombre de grossesse precoces, des avortements et des maladies sexuellement
transmissibles.
37.           Les structures d'accueil des activites de jeunesse dans le pays sont au nombre de 95 dont
41 maisons de la jeunesse et de la culture et 54 foyers feiminins. Ces structures disposent d'un personnel
de 200 animateurs et animatrices auxquels s'ajoutent une centaine d'auxiliaires volontaires appartenant
I diverses associations tels que l'AFN et la Samaria. 11 s'agit donc de former ce personnel dans le
domaine de la sante familiale et dans les techniques de communication inter - personnelle et de groupe
et de leur fournir les supports didactiques et audio - visuels ndcessaireo  leur travail en vue de contribuer
f etendre les activitds de sensibilisation des jeunes des deux sexes et a rdpondre I leur preoccupations
concernant la contraception et les avantages de l'espacement des naissances pour le bien-ftre familial.
38.           Compte tenu des aspects specifiques de cette formation il sera fait appel aux competences
des cadres regionaux et nationaux du ministbre de la sante publique et du ministere des affaires sociales
pour participer t la definition du contenu de ces ateliers de formation et A leur encadrement.
39.           Le materiel de support f l'IEC pour la jeunesse sera concu et rEaisE par la Division de
l'education pour la SantE au sein du MSP. II consistera essentiellement en une serie de posters, des
brochures/depliants destinds f la Jeunesse. Les cassettes audio et video ainsi que d"autre materiel produit
par 1'EPS dans le cadre de son programme seront mis I la disposition des agents et auxiliaires du MJS/C.
J. Renforcement des capacitEs do grodution et diffsion
1. Division do l,lucation pIour la sante
40.           La division EPS du Ministere de la SantE Publique aura un rOle primordial f jouer pour
soutenir les diverses actions d'IEC prdvues dans le cadre du Projet de Population. La Division beneficie
de l'apport financier du Projet SantE. Ella so verra dotee incessamment d'un equipement audio-visuel
et video qui renfbrcera ses capacites de production, et ses ressources humaines seront enrichies par le
retour prochain de trois techniciens de I'audio-visuel dont la fbrmation f long terme f I'Etranger, s'acheve



91
ANNEXE, 3-1
Page 11 sur 12
en 1991. Toutefois la DEPS ne peut assurer sa mission dans ses locaux actuels vu leur exiguYte, une
extension de ces locaux est onvisageable, et permettralt I'amenagement d'un petit studio, d'un magasin
de stockage, d'un atelier et des bureaux ndcessaires a l'quipe de production audio-visuelle. Les depenses
relatives a cet amenagement seront financds par le projet. Le Projet de Populatlon couvrira l'achat d'un
complement d'equipement de production pour satisfaire l'argumentation d'activitd cree pour le programme
d'IEC. Les cofits de production du materiel de support audio-visuel (film video, audio-cassettes,
depliants, brochures, posters etc..), ainsi que les frais d'assistance technique locale et internationale
requise pour l'elaboration des supports.
41.           Dans les trois departements d'intervention, le Projet equipera les Directions Departemen-
tales de la Sante, trois CHD et 18 centre rnedicaux d'un materiel de reroption video ( magndtoscopes et
moniteurs). Le Projet procddera aussi a l'acquisition de 800 radio-cassettes pour les clubs d'ecoute et
de trois vehicules tout terrain pour les cellules d'IEC de la DDS ainsi que les coats de ce fonctionnement
de ces cellules.
2. L'office de Ia radio-t6ldvisiondu Niger
42.           La realisation du Programme de communication par les mass-media sera realisee par
l'ORTN dans un esprit de partenariat avec les differents ministeres concernes par ce volet du projet
Population a cet effet, des representants de l'ORTN participeront en tant que membres a part entiere aux
travaux du Comite d'action d'IEC. Un plan annuel de productions mediatiques sera elabord et quantifie.
Son execution sera confie 4 l'ORTN et fera l'objet d'un contrat de sous-traitance entre l'ORTN et la
Cellule de coordination du Projet. Au niveau regional, les representants de l'ORTN ainsi que les equipes
de la radio-television regionale dans les trois departemerts du projet participeront aux travaux
d'elaboration des plans regionaux d'Elaboration des plans rdgionaux d'IEC et prendront une part active
leur rdalisatit,n.



PLAN GENERAL DE COMMUNICATIOX
MINISTERE DU DEVELOPPENENT
SOCIAL, DE LA POPULATION
ET DE LA PROMOTION DE LA
FEMME
CELLULE DE COORDINATINt DU PROJET
MINISTERE DE L'ECONOMIE ET                                                 .
ET DES FINANCES                      ..............                                  ................   MINISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLICUE
ICOMITE D'ACTION IEC|
MINISTERE DE LA CwUUIICATION, DEI
LA CULTURE, CE LA JEUNESSE ET            ......
DES SPORTS
| O R T |*0 *4*B B**Z@w ***@@****vv*****X@** II            M                                        5          P / E P S
VOLET I                                                                                                           VOLET 11
DIFFUSION DEPRODUCTION EEDIATISUE                                                                               SUPPORT ASV - VIDEO POUR COEMUICATIO
INTERPERSONNE U E
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ii
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RGAM COM   RPERSRELI
|ANTENNES REGIONALES DE RADIODIFFUSION 1                                                                         PRG       E COMUICALTION INTERESNLE |
I DFfUSION DES MESSAGES RAD ! TELEVISION I                                                                                            O  DS  
COMITE REG10KUUX D'IEC I> 3
M EOR S ATIONS                                  CUEONITEES
lS  ^                           ~~~~~~~LEA^D E RS  -DOE C    OEU R S  .  HO  MME S   -F E N N E S    -  J E U I E SI                                                           ,



93
ANEE3
Page 1 sur 11
REPU"IBLIQUE DU, NIGER
PROJET POPULATIQN
LEjnEmme  et le Developpement
1.           Les femmes constituent 50,4% de la population nigerienne actuelle e! pres des deux tiers
d'entre elles sont en Age de procrder. Le mariage et la maternitd reprdsentent le statut privildgie des
femmes et dans ce contexte, le nombre d'enfants acquiert une importante valeur sociale et economique
d'ob une moyenne de sept enfants par femme (moyenne Afrique 6,3) et un taux de fdconditd de 3,7%
(par rapport a 2,9%).
2.           Malgre la mise en place, au cours des derniBres annees, de mecanismes institutionnels
favorisant une participation accrue des femmhes au ddveloppement socio-economique du Niger, la situation
qui prevaut actuellement en regard de la condition feminine est handicapee par des contraintes majeures:
(a)    un statut juridigue restrictif qui limite son insertion sociale et economique a part entiere:
minoritd civile, accBs trBs restreinm a la propri6te, etc.;
(b)   la marginalisation de la femme dans le developpement du secteur moderne de l'dconomie
et sa quasi-exclusion des moyens de production: ainsi 94% des femmes sont productrices
agricoles, mais sans etre proprietaires des terres qu'elles cultivent; et
(c)    des mecanismes reduits de formation et d'education restreints: 96% des femmes sont
analphabbtes; 35% des filles sont scolarisees au primaire mais ces donnees connaissent
des variations importantes selon les regions.
3.           Les femmes sont au coeur de la politique nationale de population et dans le cadre du
Projet Population, elles seront rejointes par des strategies multiples. De fagon gdn6rale d'abord, a titre
de clientele prioritaire de l'ensemble des composantes du projet, puis de fagon spdcifique, pour renforcer
les objectifs retenus, par la mise en oeuvre d'une sous-composante "Femme et Ddveloppement" visant
a appuyer la creation de conditions favorables a des changements necessaires au regard des comporte-
ments socio-demographiques. De fagon generale:
(a)    une part importante du programme SMI/PF s'adresse a l'amelioration des services de
sante pour les femmes: couverture sanitaire amelioree, renforcement de l'dducation
nutritionnelle, meilleur suivi gynecologique, reduction des grossesses et des accouche-
ments a risque, acces accru aux moyens de contraception, etc.;
(b)    au niveau de l'analyse des politiques, qui supporte la mise en place d'un cadre
institutionnel et juridique optimal pour l'application de la politique de Population, une
attention particuliere sera portde aux mesures ldgislatives et juridiques relatives aux droits
des femmes, notamment dans le Code de la Famille et le Code Rural: I,_, au premier
mariage; acces aux moyens de production; modalites d'acces a la propridtd et heritage,
etc. L'importance de ce facteur juridique est reconnu comme facteur determinant sur les
conditions qui amenent les femmes a modifier leur comportement en matiere de
population; et



94
ANNEXli 3-6
Page 2 sur 11
(c)    le programme d'information/dducation/communication en matiere de population (IEC)
rejoint l? question des femmes a deux niveaux d'une part en s'adressant a elles en tant
que groupe-cible specifique des messages et des themes IEC et d'autre part en retenant
I1 theme de sensibilisation des leaders et de la population en general sur l'importance
d'ameliorer le statut, les conditions de vie des femmes et l'dquite de leurs droits.
4.            Le programme d'activltes Femme et Developpernent s'articulera autour des objectifs
specifiques suivants:
(a)    appuyer l'amelioration des cond' ions dconomiques de femmes nlgeriennes et leur
capacite d'autogestion des activites et des revenus generes;
(b)    ameliorer les conditions de sante des femmes en allegeant la penibilite et la duree de leur
travail et en ameliorant leurs conditions nutritionnelles;
(c)    appuyer la mise en place de mdianismes de formation non-formelle des jeunes de 12 a
25 ans juge comme groupe prioritaire par rapport a la Politique Population;
(d)    renforcer la Direction de la Condition Feminine dans sa capacitd de developper et de
mettre en oeuvre des services ameliores pour les femmes de trois departements.
Pour ce faire, les activites prevues pour mettre en oeuvre ces objectifs seront: (i) la ventilation trois
volets complementaires: (i) un volet d'appui aux initiatives communautaires; (ii) un volet d'appui aux
m-canismes de formation non-formelle; et (iii) un volet d'appui institutionnel.
Description sommaire des yolets:
AppUi aux initiatives communautaires. Ce volet en faveur de la nutrition permettra la rdalisation de
micro-projets a caractere economique ainsi que le developpement et le renforcement de groupements
fdminins habilites a controler la gestion de ces activites. Dans cette perspective, les femmes beneficiaires
seront assocides a toutes les etapes de l'identification, l'elaboration, 1'execution et le suivi de leur micro-
projet. Pour ce faire, elles se refereraient aux rdsultats de surveillance et la promotion de la croissance
a assise communautaire et appliqueraient l'approche "triple A". Les types d'activites admissibles au
support du projet seront des activites permettant d'agir a la fois sur la somme de travail des femmes
participantes, sur leur revenus et su. la qualite de la nutrition de leur famille: (a) la mise en disponibilite
d'dquipements favorisant l'allegement des taches, exhaure de l'eau, transformation alimentaire, transport,
etc.; et (b) I'appui k des activitds generatrices de revenus comme l'embouche ovine, les cultures
niarafcheres, la commercialisation de produits transformes, la creation de boutiques villageoises et de
banques de cereales.
Ces activitEs seront realisees par l'attribution de dons aux groupements feminins prdalablement formes
a la gestion des enveloppes financieres et des activites I realiser. Dans une perspective d'approche
int6greo, autour de ces activites-pivot, se grefferont des activites dites "activites d'accompagnement",
principalement des activites de formation; formation a la gestion, formation nutritionnelle, formations
techniques complementaires, formation a l'entretien et a la maintenance dans le cas des equipements.
L'alphab6tisation fonctionnelle pourra constituer un prealable a d'autres formations, particulierement pour
la gestion. La surveillance nutritionnelle comprendra la formation nutritionnelledes villageois, ainsi que
la surveillance de la croissance a partir de la pesee mensuelle de tous les jeunes enfants ainsi que par



95
ANNEXE.M"
Page 3 sur 11
I'evaluation par la communautd villageolse du bilan alimentaire familial et communautaire et les
ressources a la protee du village pour ameliorer ce bilan.
Appui aux mecanismes de formation non-formelle. Le projet appuiera un programme d'alphabetisation
fonctionnelle a travers le reseau des foyers fdminins destines aux jeunes femmes (16-24 ans). Ce volet
s'appuiera sur l1exterision du programme actuel actif dans les PMI de Niamey, en exploitant les locaux
et equipements des foyers AFN car la formation dans les PMI se heurte a un probleme important
d'inad6quation des locaux. Ce programme d'alphabetisation sera consolide par un appui a des
programmes de post-alphabetisation destines aux femmes alphabetisees dans les activites du Projet
Population et dans un souci de complementarite des actions de developpement, cette diffusion sera elargie
aux femmes (nouvellement) alphabdtisees dans des projets comme le Projet Petites Operations de
Developpement Rural (PPODR), le Projet Conjoint d'Appui a la Nutrition (PCAN), les rnicro-realisations
SDI-DCF ainsi que ceux idetntifies dans chaque departement retenu par les departementales de la DCF.
Pour l'ensemble du volet, la DCF recevra l'appui d'une assistance technique pour les deux premi4res
annees du projet de maniere a mettre en place les mecanismes de coordination et assurer les modalites
de conception et d'evaluation des programmes de formation. Finalement, le projet apportera un appui
ponctuel a la DCF dans l'amElioration de sa capacit4 d'analyse et d'intervention dans le processus de
formation non-formelle aupres des filles analphabetes et descolarisees de 12 a 25 ans en renforgant le
processus de planification strategique sur les objectifs, strategies et mdthodes de formation selon les
groupes-cibles retenus et en identifiant les moyens a mettre en oeuvre dans lune perspective realiste et
operationnelle. Cet appui ponctuel sera constitue d'une enveloppe de consultation externe qui pourra etre
utilisde selon les besoins d'expertise requise.
Appui institutionnel. Compte tenu de la concentration des interventions ddja prevues au niveau central,
de l'option prioritaire du projet a intervenir au niveau de trois departements et des besoins importants
identifies a ce niveau, c'est d'abord au niveau departementai que sera orientd le projet. 1! y appuiera la
mise en place d'equipes departementales renforcees et fournira des moyens logistiques et matdriels requis
pour remplir adequatement ses fonctions de suivi, encadrement, programmation, gestion et information.
Le projet appuiera aussi les unites departementales dans la mise en place et l'integration des outils
methodologiques et techniques necessaires pour repondre efficacement a ses differents mandats.
Appui au niveau central. Les activites prevues dans le cadre de ce volet seront essentiellement axdes vers
le renforcement de la capacite de coordination et de mise en oeuvre de la DCF en regard des activites
du ptoie et de fagon plus large, si cette dimension n'etait pas soutenue par d'autres intervenants, en
regard de la capacite de coordination et de programmation de la DCF par rapport a son mandat global.
A ces deux paliers, une importante portion du volet repose sur des activitds de formation et de recyclage
des intervenants. De fagon complementaire aux actions du projet en matiere d'IEC et d'appui a la mise
en place des politiques demographiques, la Direction sera aussi renforc6e dans sa capacite de suivre la
mise en application des conditions juridiques favorables aux droits des femmes, apres l'adoption du Code
de la Famille et du Code Rural prevues toutes deux pour un avenir immediat.
Appui aux initiatives socio-economigueg et communautaires
5.            Cinquante-sept pour-cent des Nigeriennes vivent dans les trois departements retenus par
le projet, la tres grande majoritd .'entre elles se consacrant, dans des conditions extremement difficiles,
a I'agriculture, en plus d'assurer l'entiere responsaijilite des taches domestiques et maternelles. Malgre
des efforts importants du Niger pour intensifier la production alimentaire, la situation agricole reste
structurellement deficitaire, souvent liee a des campagnes difficiles sinon desastreuses. Aussi, comme
l'economie agricole est fortement soumise aux aleas climatiques et que la degradation en valeur reelle du



96
ANNU5E 3--6
Page 4 sur II
revenu de la famille paysanne entratne un taux elevd de malnutrition chronique, il est important de
pouvoir favoriser I'amorce d'activites economiques complementaires pour ameliorer les sources de
revenus potentiels en milieu rural et ceci dtant, d'influencer sur les conditions de vie, notamment les
conditions nutritionnelles.
6.            Par ailleurs, il est reconnu quc la femme rurale ne jouit pas d'un statut correspondant I
l'importance de son role socio-economique: (a) acces difficile aux terres - ce qui constitue un facteur
restrictif pour les operations du PPODR auprbs de groupements feminins par exemple; (b) non accbs au
credit, faute de garantie suffisante; (c) sous-representation dans les structures organisationnelles existantes;
(d) ampleur et penibilite des taches qui relbvent de sa responsabilite exclusive (exhaure et transport de
l'eau, decorticage et pilage du mil, etc). L'ensemble de ses conditions constitue autant de facteurs
restrictifs qui limitent la participation des femmes a des programmes de formation et d'information en
matiere de sante et de population; rdduisent le temps et la qualite des soins qu'elles peuvent effectivement
consacrer A leurs enfants et a leurs conditions de sante, de nutrition et d'hygibne; et augmentent leur
propres epuisement et leur vulnerabilite sanitaire, notamment pendant la grossesse. Dans ce contexte,
une veritable politique de population visant a ameliorer la prestation de services et la qualitd de vie se
doit ndcessairement de cibler vers des activitds specifiques axees vers l'amelioration des conditions de vie
des femmes en milieu rural.
Strategies d'interventions
7.            La demarche retenue par le projet mise sur la compldmentarite de deux types de
programmes de developpement actuellement en oiAration au Niger et qui donnent des resultants probants
en regard des objectifs poursuivis. II s'agit notamment de l'expertise developpe par le MDSPPF dans les
projets de micro-rdalisations pour les femmes, ceux appuyes par le FED (en appui a l'AFN) et ceux
appuyes par la cooperation canadienne (SDID en appui au MDSPPF), mais plus particulierement
l'experience PCAN, appuyd par l'UNICEF, qui a centre ses activitEs sur l'amelioration de la nutrition
et dont le Projet Sante en cours (Cr. 1668-NIR) a tente une premiere reproduction. En plus de viser des
objectifs semblables a ceux poursuivis par le Projet Population, ces deux programmes relevent d'une
methodologie similaire: (a) la particijDaion continue des b6neficiaires a toutes les etapes de l'activite de
developpement (ddfinition-gestion-suivi/evaluation) de maniere a assurer l'auto-promotion et la pdrennitE
des actions; et (b) l'utilisation d'une approche dite de recherghe-action-formation qui s'appuie sur un
processus de definition de strategies et de plans d'action en fonction de la realite du milieu donne (Etudes
diagnostic) et en permettant les ajustements continus. De plus, les leoons degagees de ces programmes
mettent en relief la n6cessite de mettre en oeuvre un suivi rdgulier et rigoureux au plan technique et
methodologique si on veut assurer la portee reelle des actions entreprises.
8.            A cet effet, le projet developpera un systeme de surveillance de la croissance des jeunes
enfants a assise communautaire qui fournira les donnees de base ndcessaires a l'analyse de la situation
nutritionnelle aux niveaux communautaire et familial.  Par la suite, les ElEments fournis par la
surveillance de la croissance seront utilisds par la communaute pour l'application du "triple A", c'est I
dire: (i) appreciation de la situation nutritionnelle; (ii) analyse des causes de cette situation; et (iii) action
pour ameliorer la situation nutritionnelle. Ces processus reposent sur les communautes bEndficiaires, est
continu et permet d'apporter les corrections indispensables pour un developpement durable. En outre,
la surveillance et la promotion de la croissance interviendra comme outil de mobilisation des populations
pour la reduction de la malnutrition et constituera un element primordial pour mesurer l'impact du
programme.



97
ANN LE 3
Page 5 sur 11
9.            L'appui aux .nitiatives communautaires du Projet Population permettra la realisation de
micro-projets a caractere economique ainsi que le developpement et le renforcement de groupements
feminins habilites ' contr8ler la gestion de ces act'vites. Dans cette perspective, les femmes beneficiaires
seront assocides I toutes les etapes de l'identificat,on, I'elaboration et l'execution et suivi de leur micro-
projet. Les types d'activites admissibles au support du projet seront des activites permettant d'agir a la
fois sur la somme de travail des femmes participantes, sur leur revenus et sur la qualitd de la nutrition
de leur famille. Ces activites seront realisees par I'attribution de credits aux groupements feminins
prealablement formes a la gestion des enveloppes financibres et des activites a realiser. Le rembourse-
ment de ce crEdit sera par la suite alloue a une autre activite economique et/ou un autre groupement pour
amorcer une nouvelle activite ou une activite complementaire dans la m6me communaute (un principe
similaire a ete retenu par le PPODR). Dans une perspective d'approche integree, autour de ces activites-
pivot, se grefferont des activites dites "activites d'accompagnement", principalement des activites de
formation: formation a la gestion, formation nutritionnelle, formations techniques compl6mentaires,
formation a l'entretien et h la ri,aintenance dans le cas des equipements. Par ailleurs, I'alphabetisation
fonctionnelle ne sera pas offerte systematiquement mais pourra constituer un prealable a d'autres
formations, particulierement pour la gestion.
La gestion des activites
10.           Compte tenu du niveau actuel tres restreint en matibre de formation et d'association, le
projet favorisera un rythme misant davantage sur l'approche que sur les montants engages: une moyenne
de S millions Je francs CFA (US$20.000) par micro-projet (i.e., par activite socio-economique ou activite
communautaire) devrait respecter la capacit6 reelle d'absorption des groupements. II est a prevoir que
les activites axees vers l'accessibilite I un equipement seront eventuellement plus importants financiere-
ment que celles A caractere strictement economiques. Par ailleurs, I'etude diagnostic devra Otre
particulierement sensible a la capacite d'endettement/remboursement du groupement de maniere a degager
des enveloppes de credit-pret correspondant aux capacites locales.
(a)    Au niveau du village: pour assurer une veritable perennite des micro-projets, iI est
imperatif que la Restion des projets, y compris la gestion financiere, soit assuree par les
femmes elle-m8mes. Les autres intervenants doivent donc 8tre bien situes dans leur role
d'appui/encadrement et de services aux groupements et tout virement fera l'objet d'une
lettre expliquant les montants, les objectifs et la date du virement et expediee au comitd
de gestion, au responsable de l'arrondissement (SAP) et au sous-prefet. Un protocole
d'entente precisera les rOles et responsabilites des differents partenaires: groupements-
projet-services techniques. De plus, pour alleger le processus d'achat des equipements
tout en renforcant l'autonomie des beneficiaires, les equipements seront achetds par un
comite d'achat conjoint (compose equitablement de membres des groupements
beneficiaires et des services techniques) au m6me titre que cFAux requis par les activites
socio-economiques (ex: moutons). La formation a la gestion offerte aux groupements
sera explicite sur les besoins specifiques des piecesjustificatives (simplifides) requises par
le projet pour son suivi financier.
(b)    Au niveau de l'arrondissement: I'equipe d'animation (cf. point suivant) travaillera en
etroite collaboration avec les services techniques sous la coordination du SAP (service
d'arrondissement du plan). Celui-ci sera particulibrement responsable de la coordination
et de la mise en disponibilite des services techniques necessaires aux groupements: ex.
le service de l'Elevage pour la formation complementaire dans un programme d'embou-
che; le service de sante pour la surveillance nutritionnelle.



98
ANNEXEM
Page 6 sur 11
(c)    Au niveau du departement: le service departemental de la DCF est responsable de la
mise en oeuvre le l'activitd et du suivi-encadrement du programme, sous la coordination
du SGA, pour assurer une intdgration optimale des activitds du programme dans la cadre
general du plan regional, 1'ensemble des informations relatives au programme seront
transmises regulibrement 4 la Prefecture.
11.           Ressources humaines associees au programme. Comme la qualitd du suivi-encadrement
s'avbre primordiale, le projet ansurera la presence d'animatrices a plein temps (embauchdes et remunerdes
pour la duree du projet). Ces equipes d'animation, constitu6es de 3 personnes, seront reparties par
departement (3) pour assurer une meilleure prise en compte des realites regionales et un suivi plus
soutenu auprbs des groupements: elles seront responsables de l'appui-encadrement de chaque micro-projet
en respectant la methodologie de recherche-action-formation (RAF). Ces animatrices seront familibres
avec des techniques d'animation mais le projet assurera leur formation complementaires aux techniques
RAF et a l'education nutritionnelle. Comme une partie importante de la mise en oeuvre et de
1'encadrement des MR porte sur l'analyse du milieu, il serait approprie que chaque equipe compte, au
moins une ressource familibre avec ces techniques et methodologies de travail (ex: sociologie). Le
recrutement sera fait par le projet (comitd conjoint DCF/Cellule du projet) par appel public d'emploi sur
la base du mandat tel que defini et le profil optimal recherche pour la fonction. Il sera dtabli clairement
que les animatrices seront installees en rdgion pour la duree du projet et seront appelees a se ddplacer,
essentiellement dans le departement de leur attribution. Chaque equipe d'animation RAF relbvera de la
Departementale de Ia DCF. La programmation annuelle et les supports meteorologiques seront cependant
assures sur une base globale. A ce titre, une animatrice principale assurera la coherence technique des
interventions et le suivi-encadrement des equipes d'animatrices RAF departementales.
12.           Compte tenu de l'experience prealable requise pour cette fonction, le projet assurera, pour
Ia durde du projet, la presence d'une volontaire de type Volontaire des Nations Unies (VNU) pour mettre
en place les outils methodologiques, coordonner la formation des animatrices et assurer les liens
interregionaux du programme de maniere a miser sur les effets multiplicateurs des actions. Cette
ressource sera aussi responsable des liens avec le responsable national du programme nutrition pour
assurer une integration optimale de la dimension surveillance nutritionnelle dans les programmes de MR
et les formations. Au niveau de la surveillance nutritionnelle, la prise en charge sera assuree par un
comite villageois de gestion animd et suivi par les animatrices du projet avec l'appui des agents techniques
de la sante. Les rapports mensuels de pesee seront envoyes par l'intermediaire des agents techniques de
sante au .MSP dans le cadre de la surveillance nutritionnelle nationale. Le projet recourra aux services
de differents partenaires du milieu et offrira une formation prealable aux autres intervenants concernes
par le suivi-encadrement: Direction departementale DCF; femmes-relais AFN ou associations feminines;
cadres techniques des services concernds. De plus, au demarrage du projet, une session d'information
(seminaires de demarrage) reunira les differents partenaires concernes par la realisation du projet pour
preciser les objectifs poursuivis, les moyens d'action retenus et les rOles et responsabilites des differentes
parties. Le recours un services techniques s'appuiera sur une approche de remuneration a caractere
contractuel comme pour d'autres attributions de services: par exemple, un montant donnd pour assurer
la formation des femmes aux techniques de petit elevage; un pour le recyclage et le suivi; pour la
disponibilitd des produits phytosanitaires, etc.  Dans la philosophie du projet, les femmes des
groupements partenaires seront associees I l'evaluation de la qualite de prestation des services.
13.           Choix et selection des activites. Deux types de groupements seront admissibles a l'appui
du projet: (i) des groupements totalement nouveaux (i.e., qui n'ontjam.ais fait l'objet d'appuis extdrieurs)
si l'analyse prealable au demarrage de l'activite confirme la volonte reelle de participation et de prise en
charge de la MR; et (ii) des groupements appuyds antdrieurement par d'autres projets pour lesquels le



99
ANNE:XE 3&
Page 7 sur 1 I
projet appuiera des activites de consolidaign. On pensera notamment a une complementaritd potentielle
entre les actions du projet et celles entreprises avec certains groupements feminins par le PPODR. Dans
ce deuxibme groupe, pourra aussi etre admissible un second appui a un groupement ou un village deja
appuye par le programme, dans la mesure ot ce second appui s'inscrit dans l'objectif global du
programme qui vise a ce que l'appui a une premiere activite economique serve de "declencheur" et
permette l'amorce de nouvelles activites (ex: les revenus generes par une banque de cereales permettant
au groupement d'acheter une charrette). Compte tenu de la complexite technique de certains equipements
(par exemple, moulins), il seralt meme pertinent de considdrer qu'lls soient attribuds b ce type de
groupements, de fagon a reduire les facteurs de risque. 11 sera aussi opportun de saisir la capacite
d'endettement/remboursement de ces groupements partenaires de fagon a ne pas alourdir leur capacite
reelle de participation et de prise en charge en multipliant trop rapidement les activites.
Appui aux mecanismes de formation non-formelle
14.           Le groupe des jeunes femmes de 12 a 24 ans -- qui represente plus de 20%  des
Nigeriennes -- constitue un groupe-cible prioritaire en regard de la politique de Population compte tenu
de son impact a moyen terme sur les taux de reproduction et de prevalence de la contraception.
Cependant, malgre cette importance strategique, il n'a pas fait jusqu'a present l'objet d'une attention
privilegiec de la part des differents intervenants actifs dans le secteur Population. Selon le recensement
de 1988, la trbs grande majorite des je4aes femmes sont analphabbtes: 93% des filles de 6 a 14 ans, et
89% des filles de 15 a 24 ans. 11 apparait donc primordial d'appuyer tout programme d'action aupres
de ce groupe en favorisant d'abord un amelioration de la formation de base. Rappelons que la formation
des femmes constitue un facteur determinant reconnu sur l'amelioration des pratiques relatives a la sante
des femmes et des enfants, sur l'education des enfants ainsi que la PF. En corollaire, la strategie IEC
portera une attention privilegiee a ce groupe, a la fois a travers les programmes destines a la jeunesse
et aux femmes de age de procreer. 11 va de soi que cette approche d'appui a la formation de base
s'inscrit dans un processus de "rattrapage" par rapport a la formation feminine et ne saurait se substituer
A un programme elargi de scolarisation des filles au primaire et au secondaire (tel que prevu au Projet
Education III par exemple).
Strategies d'intervention
15.           Les mecanismes de formation non-formelle sont restreints. Au-dela des activitds
ponctuelles d'alphabetisation fonctionnelle, ils reposent essentiellement sur les foyers feminins, dont
l'impact est tres rdduit compte tenu du type de programmes offerts, du faible taux de frequentation des
etablissements disponibles et de leur manque de moyens humains et pedagogiques. Plusieurs d'entre eux
ont ete equipes par differents bailleurs de fonds, mais ces equipements restent rudimentaires. On compte
31 foyers dans les 4 ddpartements identifies, plus ou moins operationnels, se situent au niveau de chaque
arrondissement. Compte tenu de leur diffusion et des locaux dont ils disposent formellement, ils
apparaissent comme un reseau a exploiter pour rejoindre les femmes. 11 est important de noter que selon
leur lieu de localisation -- Maison des Jeunes et de la Culture (MJC) ou Samaria d'une part, local AFN
d'autre part, les clienteles rejointes sont trbs majoritairement constituees de jeunes filles (MJC) ou de
femmes mariees (AFN). Le clivage dans le comportement des femmes et les valeurs de la societe
nigerienne envers elles s'etablit fortement selon le statut marital. Le projet tiendra compte de cette
variable d'importance dans l'approche des clientMles-cibles. Dans une perspective similaire, les parents
et les maris seront associes a la clarification des objectifs vises par le programme de fagon a favoriser
son efficacite et la frequentation effective de continue des participantes.



100
ANNE7X 346
Page 8 sur 11
16.          Par ailleurs, compte tenu des ses objectifs specifiques deJa tres importants et du nombie
des partenaires institutionneis associes a la mise en oeuvre des activilt6s, le projet evitera de s'inserer dans
un processus d'appui institutionnel aux organismes et rdseaux responsables de la conception et de I&
realisation des programmes de formation. Le projet misera plutOt sur 1'experience acquise dans des
projets anterieurs ou an cours et recourra I cette expertise sur une base contractuelle par l'attribution de
contrats des services correspondant a un programme ou I un produit donne.
17.          Ainsi, pour l'alphabetisation ionctionnelle, le projet appulera l'extension du programme
actuellement mis en oeuvre par l'UNICEF dans 7 centres de PMI de Niamey et dont les premiers rdsultats
sont tres prometteurs: 68% des femmes inscrites dans le programme ont reussi le test final ce que est
largement excedentaire par rapport aux taux de reussite dans les autres programmes d'alphab@tisation.
Le projet utilisera en priorite 1'expertise et le materiel ddveloppe pour le projet en cours par le Bureau
d'alphabdtisation des adultes de la Direction de l'alphabetisation des adultes. L'approche methodologique
a deja ete elaboree et le materiel disponible en haoussa, zerma et frangais touche les themes retenus par
le projet. Cependant, pour eviter le recours a un contractant unique, ce qui pourrait eventuellement
entrainer des situations dysfonctionnelles, le projet pourra avoir recours, de favon generale ou
complementaire, a d'autre reseaux existants (par exemple le CLUSA comme l'a fait le PPODR ou le
GRAAP).
18.          Les foyers fdminins s'adressent aussi a une seconde clientele - les jeunes filles
analphabetes et les ddscolarisdes (i.e., ayant quitte l'ecole sans terminer leur cours). Les objectifs vises
par cette formation tentent de concilier la formation a la vie quotidienne (soins des enfants; gestion
domestique; etc.) et l'acquisition de techniques et de metiers permettant leur insertion au marche du
travail. La philosophie, les objectifs, les strategies de formation et les moyens actuels retenus par les
intervenants institutionnels demandent cependant une analyse stratdgique en profondeur et des
changements drastiques et fondamentaux si on veut intervenir efficacement aupres des jeunes filles. Tout
support direct aux foyers feminins dans le contexte actuel serait inapproprie. Cependant, dans un souci
de favoriser les mecanismes deformation aupres du groupe-cible prioritaire et en complementaritd avec
les objectifs poursuivis par le volet d'appui institutionnel, le Projet Population supportera une activite de
planification strategique essentielle en regard de l'ensemble du dossier "foyer feminin".
Population
19.          Le Projet Population appuiera un programme d'alphabdtisation fonctionnelle a travers le
reseau des foyers feminins destinds aux jeunes femmes (16-24 ans) dans les trois ddpartements. Ce volet
s'appuiera sur 1'extension du programme actuel actif dans les PMI de Niamey, en exploitant les locaux
et equipements des foyers AFN car la formation dans les PMI se heurte a un probleme important
d'inadequation des locaux. On s'assurera de la participation des femmes dans les modalites d'organisation
des programmes-calendrier de formation, garderie des enfants et surta,ut choix de la langue de formation.
20.           Ce programme d'alphabetisation sera consolid6 par uh appui a des programmes de post-
alphabetisation destines aux femmes de fagon I assurer la pdrennit6 des acquis neo-alphabetes. Le projet
appuiera la mise en disponibilite et la diffusion de documents et supports ecrits A l'attention des femmes
alphabetisees dans les activites du Projet Population (Sous-composantes Appui aux initiatives
communautaires et appui aux mdcanismes de formation). Dans un deuxibme temps et dans un souci de
complementarite des actions de developpement, cette diffusion sera elargie aux femmes (nouvellement)
alphabetisdes kans des projets comme le PPODR, le PCAN, les micro-realisations SDiD-DCF ainsi que
ceux identifies dans chaque ddpartement retenu par les departementales de la DCF. Dans ce contexte,



101
ANN=X 3-
Page 9 sur 11
lo proJet explorera particulibroment les modalites de cofinancement et les outils de concertation mis on
place par la DDCF.
21.          Pour 1'ensemble du volet, la DCF rocevra l'appul ponctuel dans l'amdlioration de sa
capacitd d'analyse et d'interventlon dans le processus de formation non-formelle auprbs des fllles
analphabbtes et ddscolaris6es do 12 a 25 ans en renforpant le processus de planification strategique sur
les objectifs, strategies et methodes de formation solon les groupes-cibles retenus at en tdentiflant les
moyens I mettre en oeuvre dans une perspective realiste et opdrationnelle. Cet appul ponctuel sera
constitu6 d'une enveloppe de consultation externe qui pourra etre utilisee par une ou des ressources
professionnelles selon les besoins d'expertise requise.
Appui iMtitlltionnel
22.          La direction de la condition feminine (DCF) assume le mandat d'entreprendre des actions
contribuant a la promotion de la femme au sein du MDSPPF, ministbre nouvellement crM6 (89) et que
est encore en phase d'implantatlon. Le cadre institutionnel actuel subit d'importantes mutations et les
nombreuses incertitudes que cela genbrent influencent le climat de travail et les orientations des activites.
Le MDSPPF beneffcie d'appui organisationnel par la SDID (Canada) qui permettra de proceder a une
planification strategique pour l'ensemble du ministbre, I'elaboration d'un plan d'action pour chaque
direction, et un plan de developpement des ressources humaines qui devraient Otre disponibles au moment
du demarrage du Projet Population.
23.          Jusqu'& recemment, la DCF recevait un part trbs reduite de ses appuis et la faiblesse
actuelle des ressources, des moyens logistiques et materiels et surtout des outils de gestion, de
programmation de coordinatior. tdmoignent de cette situation. Ses ressources humaines proviennent de
d'autres Ministbres (majoriteirement Education nationale) et n'ont pas de formations lides aux mandats
de la direction que restent d'ailleurs flous et trbs generaux. So'aAante dix-sept pour-cent de son budget
est affectE aux salaires. Les conditions logistiques et de travail sont difficiles (communication deficientes;
secretariat reduit; informatisation inexistaite). Devant l'ecart entre l'ampleur du mandat et les ressources
existantes, la DCF soit se consacrer essentiellement a des activitds I caractbre ponctuel.
24.          Les services darMentaug de la DCF sont peu structurds et aussi sans moyens: une
seule personne detachde du MEN, souvent sans bureau fixe et plus ou moins associ6e a 1'equipe
departemental. NEanmoins, elles sont fortement sollicitees par les differents responsables locaux et les
bailleurs de fonds qui les considbrent comme les informatrices privildgieos dans les projets et les activites
concernant les femmes. De plus, certaines sont trbs prises par les processus de suivi-encadrement des
micro-realisations mises en oeuvre dans le projet SDID-MDSPPF (ddpartement de Maradi et Zinder).
25.          La DCP fait cependant l'objet actuellement d'un grand intdr#t de la part de plusieurs
bailleurs de fonds, dont les interventions potentielles ne semblent pas I l'abri de certaines duplications.
Quoi qu'il en soit, I'appui du Projet Population k un cadre institutionnel favorable k une intervention
efficace en faveur des femmes nigdriennes devra necessairement s'inscrire dans la compldmentarite des
actions dEik entreprises et Sviter toute duplication qui s'avererait dysfonctionnelle.
Stratdgies d'inteMvention
26.          Compte tenu de la concentration des interventions deja prevues au niveau central, de
l'option prioritaire du projet & intervenir au niveau des trois ddpartements et des besoins importants
identifies & ce niveau, c'est d'abord au niveau dpartemental que sera oriente l'appui du projet. Dans



102
ANNEXE 3-6
Page 10 sur II
un souci d'effcacite accrue, on misera sur une concentration geographique qui jouera aussi au niveau du
volet d'appui aux initiatives communautaires. A ce niveau, le projet appuiera la mise en place d'qulpes
departementales renforcees et fournira des moyens logistiques et mat6riels requis pour remplir
addquatement les fonctions de suivi, encadrement, programmation, gestion et information. Le projet
appuiera surtout les unites d6partementales dans la mise en place et l'integ.ation des outils mdthodologi-
ques et techniques ndcessaires pour repondre efficacement A ses differents mandats.
27.           Les activJtds d'appui au niveau central seront essentiellement axdes vers ie renforcement
de la capacite de coordination et de mise en oeuvre de la DCF en regard des activites du projet et de
fagon plus large, si cette dimension n'etait pas soutenu par d'autres intervenants, en regard de la capacite
de coordination et de programmation de la DCF par rapport a son mandat global.
28.           Dans ce cadre, le projet appuiera le renforcement de points d'appui des activites de la
DCF dans une perspective de coordination interministerielle.  11 existe actuellement, au sein des
principaux ministeres concernes par la promotion fEminine, des responsables ddldgues pour "couvrir" le
relatif isolement et le manque de moyens et de support de ces "Points focaux", rdduisent l'impact de leur
action qui demande 4 etre dynamise.
29.           De fagon compldmentaire aux actions du projet en matiere d'IEC et d'appui a la misc en
place des politiques demographiques, la Direction sera aussi renforcee dans sa capacite de suivre la mise
en application des conditions juridiques favorables aux droits des femmes, apres I'adoption de Code de
la Famille et du Code Rural prevue pour un avenir immediat. Une importante portion du volet appui
institutionnel repose sur des activites de formation et de recyclage des intervenants. Cependant, a la
lumibre des resultats tres variables obtenus jusqu'a present par ce type d'activit6s au sein des projets, il
est essentiel d'accorder une importance primordiale aux choix des methodologies de formation utilisees.
On devrait notamment prioritiser deux types d'interventions, d'une part, pour les formations offertes au
personnel de la DCF (central et en region) et axer les formations sur des programmes concrets, orientes
sur I'adequation formation-mandat et vers les reemplois immediats. Pour les autres participants, des
formations de courte durde (une journee) axdes vers un theme specifique permettant, Ia encore, des
reemplois immediats et concrets.
Ressources humaines impliguges
30.           Au niveau departemental. Comme d6ja mentionne, chaque service departemental de la
DCF n'est actuellement constitue que d'une seule personne, detachee du MEN et dont 1'experience
professionnelle est souvent peu appropriee par rapport aux besoins. Le Ministere de i'Economie et des
Finances (MEF) d'abord sollicite pour degager des ressources de son service d'animation feminine aurait
refusd ce ddtachement. Pour remplir addquatement leurs fonctions les unites departementales doivent etre
renforcees. D'une part, chaque DDCF sera enrichi de deux ressources suppldmentaires, une adjointe a
la directrice ou chargee de projet, et une secretaire administrative. Dans le souci de miser sur l'expertise
acquise par le MEF, le Gouvernement nigerien devrait prioritairement assurer le ddtachement des
ressources de ce Minist8,re pour renforcer la DCF. L'"quipe departementale demande surtout a &tre
constituee de professionnelles d'experience pour repondre aux besoins multiples du mandat. Le diagnostic
organisationnel elabore par le projet SDID determinera les profils recherches pour la fonction et le projet
assurera les formations complementaires requises pour rdpondre a ces profils. A cette etape-ci, on peut
suggerer ', titre indicatif que la directrice assure la responsabilit6 globale de la gestion des activitds aux
niveaux ministdriel et departemental, par exemple, relations avec des enjeux departementaux pour les
femmes (planification strategique) et que la direction adjointe soit responsable du suivi et de la



103
ADINES 34
Page 11 sur 11
coordination des activltes communautaires lnitiees et rEaiisees en faveur des femmes dans le departement.
31.           Pour assurer une complementarite fonctionnelle des expertises de I'equipe departementale,
on visera a ce quo la directrice et la directrice adjointe alent des profils professionnels distincts. Pour
assurer l'acquisition de mecanismes organisationnels de programmation/planification, le projet fournira
sur une base ponctuelle un appul a la programmation annuelle pour les trois promieres annees du projet.
Les equipes d'animatrices RAP embauches dani le cadre du volet appui aux Initiatives communautaires
s'integreront a l'unite ddpartementale qui en as,  -a la coordination et le suivi. Cette unite sera reunie
dans des locaux communs de fa9on a assurer ui. 1circulation optimale de l'information et maximiser
l'utilisation des moyens et ressources disponibles. Le secretariat departemental devra Otre en mesure de
rdpondre aux besoins de la direction departementale et des dquipes RAF.
32.           Au niveau des arrondissements et des villages, la DDCF s'appuiera sur un rdseau de
femmes-relais et de leaders fdminins (notamment du reseau actuel do 1'AFN) qui serviront d'antennes-
terrain et de multiplicatrices aux operatiors d'information/formation/realisations mise en oeuvre par la
DCF. Le projet appuiera la formation et le recyclage des membres de ce reseau ainsi que des animatrices
associees aux differents services des arrondissoments.
33.           Au niyeag central, la r,ise en oeuvre de la sous-composante Femme et Developpement
sera assuree par la DCF. Une ressource professionnelle de cette unite sera affectde k plein temps aux
fonctions suivantes:
(i)      assurer les relations continues avec l'unite de coordination du projet;
(ii)     assurer la coordination, le suivi et la gestion de la programmation et de la mise
en oeuvre des activites de la sous-composante: volets appui aux initiatives
communautaires, mecanismes de formation et appui institutionnels;
(iii)     assurer la participation de la DCF aux sessions de coordination du volet IEC;
(iv)      assurer le suivi des travaux et dossiers requis par le cadre juridique relatif aux
droits des femmes; et
(v)      dtablir et maintenir des relations specifiques avec les autres ministbres et services
concernes ("points focaux").
Le projet fournira les moyens logistiques, techniques et materiels requis pour remplir addquatement ce
mandat de coordination, de suivi et de gestion, ainsi que les formations requises selon les besoins
identifiEs. cette unite de coordination sera appuyee par des ressources techniques pour les volets 1 et 2,
ainsi quo par des ressources ponctuelles. Compte tenu de la multiplicite des taches deja confldes a l'unitd
centrale, il faudra que la DCF assure un dldment de continuitE au niveau de la coordination, en affectant
une ressource permanente & ce mandat. Des experts court-terme stront associds de fagon ponctuelle au
personnel dej& identifie. La plupart des experts seront mandates pour des programmes/activites de
formation aupres des cadres DCP et/ou des partenaires de diffErents paliers. Par ailleurs, un expert en
planification/programmation sera retenu annuellement pour appuyer la DCF et les trois directrices
departementales dans I'Elaboration et la programmation annuelle des activites - et & partir de l'an 2 du
projet, dans le suivi-evaluation de la programmation realisee lors de I'annde prEcddente.
b:X3-6.NIR



104
ANNlEE 3-7
Page 1 sur 4
REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER
PROJET POPULATION
Le Proaramme d'Amelioration de la Collecte des Donnees
1.           A l'heure actuelle, le systeme d'etat civil est regi par une Ordonnance prdsidentielle (no.
85-005) parue le 29 mars 1985, completees par un dk-ret (no. 85-31/PCMS/MI), egalement date du 29
mars 1985, portant reglementation de la declaration, de la modification, de la delivrance des copies
d'actes, du controle et des sanctions en matiere d'enregistrement des faits d'etat-civil. Les evenements
(naissance, deces et mariages) sont enregistrds dans:
(a)    79 centres principaux etablis au niveau des communes, des chefs lieux d'arrondissement,
des postes administratifs oj, respectivement, le maire. le sous-prefet et le chef de poste
administratif font fonction d'officiers d'etat civil;
(b)    102 centres secondaires etablis au niveau des cantons et groupements, les chefs de canton
ou de groupement agissant en qualite d'officiers d'etat civil; et
(c)    718 centres auxiliaires crees au niveau des villages et des formations sanitaires oi chefs
de village oti responsables de formation sanitaire officient en qualite d'officiers d'etat
civil.
2.           Les evdnements sont enregistres sur 3 volets dont l'un est destine a la Direction de l'etat
civil au Ministere de l'Interieur pour exploitation statistique. Selon lIevaluation menee par les Nations
Unis en Novembre 1990, '\ "le systbme d'etat civil nigerien issue de la reforme de 1985 est en
conformite avec les normes internationales en la mati6re et est en theorie bien congue et bien structure".
3.           Les problbmes et contraintes. Malgre les efforts meritoires qui ont ete consentis par le
Gouvernement en mettant en place un vaste reseau de collecte et en menant, avec les moyens dont il
dispose, les taux de couverture de l'enregistrement des evenements d'etat civil tournent. actuellement
autour de 56% et 32% respectivement pour les naissances et les deces. II se stabilise a leurs niveau de
1988. Le Gouvernement esperait obtenir une couverture de 70% et 50% a la fin de l'annEe 1990. Bien
quie plus faibles que ceux escomptes, ils contribueront certainement a l'amelioration de la connaissance
continue les principaux indicateurs. lls completeront les donnees des recensements de population et autre
enquetes telles que celles entreprises aupres des mdnages.
4.           D'apres l'evaluation de l'ONU, plusieurs facteurs ont contribue a cette ftiblesse:
(a)   le manque de formation continue et recyclage du personnel. Aucune action de formation
n'a ete entreprise depuis 1985;
(b)   le manque de capacitd d'effectuer un programme efficace de sensibilisation -- certains
centres secondaires n'enregistrent que trois deces par an. Les difficultes rencontr6es par
'\ Voir le rapport d'6valuation du projet "Amelioration de l'enregistrement des faits d'Etat civil"
par Djamal-Eddine Benzine leda Siqueira, Departement de la Cooperation Technique pour le
Developpement, Nations Unis, New York, le 8 novembre 1990.



105
ANNEXE 3-7
Page 2 sur 4
les charges de mission sont surtout d'ordre administrative, financier et materiel. Elles
peuvent se classer comme suit:
(i)    inaddquation des moyens de transport et donc d'accbs a plusieurs regions du
pays;
(ii)   inexistence de moyens de communication dans certaines regions pour prevenir
la population de la date de la sdance de sensibilisation;
(iii)   absences frequentes des chefs de cantons;
(iv)   refus de cooperation de certains agents de l'etat civil qui n'ont pas pergu leurs
indemnit6s;
(v)    problmes d'horaires---les sdances sont anim6es a des heurs ob la population est
engagee dans des travaux aux champs; et
(vi)   diversite linguistique.
5.            Le rapport d'dvaluation a egalement souleve d'autres difficult6s qui ont contribue a
reduire l'impact de ces campagnes de sensibilisation. Elle sont liees a des problemes d'ordre culturel,
socio-economiques et demographiques, a savoir:
(a)    le taux d'analphabetisme trbs eleve et niveau bas d'instruction en general;
(b)    I'absence ou insuffisance de certains services publics, manque d'infrastructures (de sante,
d'education, de transport etc.), faisant parattre l'etat civil comme superflu;
(c)    taux de fecondite et de mortalite infantile et juvenile tres eieve, polygamie, meconnais-
sance des pratiques de planification familiale, I'attribution du peu d'importance h la mort
d'un enfant aussitot aprbs sa naissance, aux enfants illegitimes, a la mort d'une femme;
(d)    fanatisme religieux et superstitions:
(vii)  preseance des coutumes religieux sur les lois d'etat -- le fait que les cimetiWres
n'aient pas de clotures et que les marabouts puissent conduire les ceremonies
funebres rend les permis d'inhumer inutiles aux yeux de la population; le divorce
devient une complication pour les hommes qui peuvent tout simplement repudier
leurs femmes;
(viii) superatitions--dans la societe traditionnelle, il est malseant a une femme de
prononcer les noms de ses beaux-parents; les lieux de naissance des parents ne
doivent pas Wtre connus des enfants;
(e)    nomadisme--les difficultes de localiser les campements; de parler les langues de plusieurs
groupes; de connaitre la hierarchie de chaque tribu; d'obtenir la confiance des chefs;
d'expliquer que le lieu de naissance nest pas le lieu de rattachement de la tribu, etc.



106
ANNEXE 3-7
Page 3 sur 4
6.            Les objectif.   A long terme le projet vise d'une part i'etablissement d'un systeme
generalise et satisfaisant d'enregistrement des faits d'etat civil et d'autre part la collecte, le traitemer..,
I'analyse et la publication de facon continue des statistiques d'etat civil necessaires A une bonne
planification du developpement Economique et social. Autrement dit les objectifs I long terme doivent
permettre la refonte et la redynamisation du systbme d'Etat civil existant afin do le rendre exhaustif plus
fiable, universel et plus perforrnant.
7.            A court terme, le projet vise a etendre la couverture evnementielle a une moyenne de
80% pour les naissances et 50% pour les deces d'ici 1996. Pour se faire le projet dolt: (a) renforcer
l'efficacite des agents d'etat civil afin de les rendre plus aptes I assumer valablement leurs fonctions; (b)
sensibiliser de fagon continue la population, les autoritds administratives et les agents eux-meme sur
l'importance d'un systeme d'etat civil adapte; (c) ameliorer la qualitd des documents d'etat civil repondant
aux exigences des zones nomades et entreprendre la sensibilisation do ces zones pour une meilleure
couverture de ces zones.
8.            Le FNUAP a contribue de fagon substantielle au renforcement du systbme d'enregistre-
ment des faits d'etat civil en apportant une assistance financibre dans le cadre de deux projets: un premier
projet NER/80/P02 "AmElioration de l'enregistrement et des statistiques des faits d'etat civil"; un
deuxieme projet NER/88/P05, "Poursuites des missions de suivi du fonctionnement et amelioration du
systeme d'etat civil". Pour la troisieme phase, le FUNAP prevoit un appui pour exploitation et traitement
des donnees deja recueillis. Le projet population visera, donc l'appui aux efforts d'augmentation de la
couverture et l'enregistrement des evnements dans tout le pays.  Pour atteindre ce but le projet
renforcera le programme de formation continue et de sensibilisation.
9.            Programme do formation et rgcyclage. Le projet financera un programme de formation
continue. Pour une meilleure instruction des agents d'etat civil la formation doit Otre annuelle.  La
formation consiste 4 reunir les agents d'etat civil d'un arrondissement dans le chef lieu du dit
arrondissement et 4 leur dispenser des cours exhaustifs d'etat civil pendant quelques jours. Ces cours
peuvent etre suivis de quelques preuves pour verifier essentiellement sur l'organisation et le fonctionne-
ment, les textes juridiques qui regissent l'etat civil, le respect des ddlais de declaration et le comportement
d'un agent dans l'exercice de .es fonctions. Neuf cent agents des centres d'etat civil seront formes au
cours de la premiere et la deuxiBme anndes du projet.
10.           Sensibilisation. Les operations de sensibilisation se feront a deux niveaux:
(a)    au niveau national tous les mddias (radio, tElEvision, journaux) seront utilisds pour la
diffusion des programmes civils. Par ailleurs des affiches et des tee-shirts seront
confectionnds pour la publicite;
(b)    au niveau regional et local, la sensibilisation consistera pour les dquipes de sensibilisation
partout ot elles passeront a reunir les populations dans un lieu public et I leur expliquer
les rouages et enjeux de l'etat civil au Niger;
(c)    un accent particulier sera mis sur les zones nomades par la mise en oeuvre d'une
campagne de sensibilisation trimestrielle. Des documents doivent etre confectionnes en
frangais et Tamacheq (langue des touaregs) et les agents doivent etre designes en fonction
de la mattrise de l'Ecriture du dialecte.



107
ANDX   3-7
Page 4 sur 4
11.           Pour renforcer la capacite du suivi et de sensibilisation, le projet financera: la
confection des T-shirts; des vehicules tout-terrain pour la sensibilisation par les agents de la Direction
d'Etat Civil et la Population (Minist0re de l'Interieur), y compris l'entretien, reparation et carburant; la
publicite a la radio et a la television seront incluse dans le programme global d'lEC qui sera soustraite
avec ORTN; le recyclage des agents d'etat civil; l'impression des documents d'etat civil, y cempris pour
les zones nomades; et des equipements pour les services departementaux d'etat civil.
C:X3-7.NIR



108
ANNEXE 3-8
Page 1 sur 3
REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER
PROJET POPUVLATION
Le Renforcement du Cadre Institutionnel et Juridigue
de Mise en Oeuvre de la Politigue de Population
1.           Contexte. Depuis le milieu des anndes 80, le Gouvernement nigerien a pris des mesures
consid6rables pour assurer un cadre institutionnel propice a la mise en oeuvre de la politique ainsi que
du programme en matiere de population.  Ainsi, l'Unit6 des Etudes Ddmographiques pour le
Developpement a dte creee dans le but de mettre des donndes ddmographiques a la disposition des planifi-
cateurs et d'apporter sa collaboration a l'elaboration et a la mise en oeuvre de la politique de population.
La Direction de la Planification Familiale (DPF) a ete cree pour assurer la mise en oeuvre du
programme national de planification familiale, ,il collaboration avec la Direction de la Sante Maternelle
et Infantile. Afin de mieux assurer la mobilisation des femmes pour participer au d6veloppement
socio-dconomique du pays, le Gouvernement a cre6 la Direction de la Condition Feminine (DCF), tout
comme la DPF, est representde au niveau de tous les departement du pays. Enfin, la Direction de la
Statistique et de la Demographie (DSD) a place des agents a travers le pays pour la planification, et plus
particuliMrement celles relatives a la population. II est donc n6cessaire, h present, d'assurer la
coordination entre tous ces services charges, chacun de sa part, de la mise en oeuvre de la politique de
population afin de rentabiliser les efforts et de garantir la realisation des objectifs fix6s.
2.            Sur le plan du cadre juridique necessaire pour la mise en oeuvre de la politique de
population, il faut noter que le Gouvernement a commenc6 4 prendre les dispositions necessaires pour
introduire des textes lIgislatifs dans ce sens. Ainsi, en avril 1988 en plus de l'ordonnance No. 88-019
fut publi4e le ddcret complementaire ddfinissant les modalites d'execution de cette ordonnance. Le decret
donne l'autorisation aux sage-femmes et aux infirmi6res d'etat (ayant regu une formation appropriee)
d'administrer des contraceptifs hormonaux et injectables. II autorise egalement les medecins techniciens
superieurs de sante, les sages-fenumes, et les infirmiers diplomes d'etat ayant recu la formation appropri6e
de prescrire et de pratiquer l'insertion des dispositifs intra-uterins (DIU). Ainsi, le decret represente une
etape importante en vue de faciliter l'acces aux services de planification familiale. L'ordonnance abroge
la Loi frangaise de 1920 interdisant la contraception et autorise des m6thodes modernes de contraception,
aussi bien reversibles qu'irrdversibles. D'autre textes legislatifs, notamment le code de la famille et le
code rural, sont en cours d'4laboration.
3.           Objectifs. Le programme de renforcement du cadre institutionnel et juridique prevoit
deux objectifs visant a completer et h coordonner les structures d'encadrement de la mise en oeuvre de
la politique de population et a promulguer les textes complementaires. Pour atteindre ces objectifs, le
projet soutiendra l'etablissement d'un secretariat permanent pour la coordination de programme national
de la population; et actions d'accompagnement tels que le plan d'action et le programme d'investissement
prioritaire et l'elaboration et promulgation de textes juridiques.
4.           Secretariat permanent. Bien que tous les organes de concertation et leurs modalit6s de
collaboration en vue de la mise en oeuvre de la politique de population ne soient pas arr8tes
ddfinitivement, certaines structures sont plus ou moins identifiees. II s'agit du secretariat permanent qui



109
ANNEXE 3-8
Page 2 sur 3
sera en place sous la tutelle du Ministere du Plan. Ce secretariat: (a) assurera le rOle du secr&tariat de
la CONAPO (organe consultatif et conseiller du Gouvernement en matibre de politique de population);
(b) suivra l'execution et evaluation des programmes de population; et (c) promouvra et coordonnera les
activites de recherche en matiere de population. Etant donne la nature multisectorielle du programme
IEC, et le role cld joue par ce programme, il y aura au sein du secrdtariat permanent, un specialiste
d'IEC.
5.           Comme un organe de suivi de la mise en oeuvre de la politique de population, le
secretariat permanent aura besoin d'un appui au moment de son installation ainsi que pour la production
des rapports periodiques. Pour la prochaine phase de son appui, le FNUAP soutiendra les besoins en
assistance technique en informatif que et en gestion. Le projet prevoit: (a) I'assistance technique en IEC;
(b) l'assistance technique et ressources requises pour l'elaboration des programmes d'action,
d'investissement prioritaires en population, et l'elaboration et la promulgation de textes juridiques tels
que code de famille et code rural (voir Annexe 3-6 femme et developpement); et (c) le support logistique
et materiel, equipement et vehicules.
Integration des variables demographiques dans la planification du developpement
6.            Contexte. Au fur et a mesure de la disponibilite d'un plus grand nombre de donnees, les
autorit6s nigeriennes s'efforcent d'en tenir compte dans la planification du developpement. Le Plan
National de D6veloppement 1987-91 a ete le premier a integrer des donnees d6mographiques a la
planification de developpement. Il comporte un chapitre sur la demographie, avec des indicateurs tels
que le taux de fecondite, et le ta'ax de mortalite, et l'esperance de vie, de meme que les projections de
population. Les principaux secteurs ot les variables de population ont ete integrees au plan sont la
Sante, 1 'Education, et l'Agriculture.
7.           Pour sa part, le Programme National d'Action dans le Domaine de la Demographie donne
les grandes lignes des activites qui, menees dans le domaine de la demographie, entratneraient une
meilleure comprdhension des problWmes de population et une integration de ces derniers a la planification
du ddveloppement. Enfin, la DSD a realise un certain nombre de documents qui comportent une
presentation de plusieurs scenarios de croissance et leurs consequences pour le developpement dans
diffdrents secteurs (ex: education, emploi, autosuffisance alimentaire, environnement). Ces analyses ont
ete intdgrdes aux resultats du seminaire de Kollo et du Plan National de Developpement 1987-1991.
8.           Cependant, les donnees d6mographiques sont toujours peu utilisees comme outil de
planification du d6veloppement dans les differents secteurs. Ceci est dii a plusieurs facteurs tels que le
manque d'experience des planificateurs et utilisateurs au niveau aussi bien rdgional que national au sein
des Directions des Etudes et de la Programmation (DEP) des differents minist4res concernes, et le fait
que l'analyse et la diffusion des donnees ne se fait pas suffisamment en fonction des besoins specifiques.
Ajoutons a cela que les d6cideurs politiques tiennent peu compte des variables demographiques dans
1'6Iaboration des politiques de developpement.
9.           Les obiectifs du programme sont les suivants: (a) disposer de 50 cadres techniques au
sein des DEP des differents minist0res capables d'int6grer les donnees demographiques dans la
planification du ddveloppement; (b) mettre a la disposition des responsables et des agents techniques des
donnees socio-demographiques (education, sante, et agriculture) completes flables et facilement
accessibles; (c) appliquer des critbres d'appreciation syst6matiquement a toute intervention du



110
ANNEXE 3-8
Page 3 sur 3
developpement proposee; et (d) sensibiliser les membres du gouvernement et cadres du commandement
sur la necessite de prendre en compte des variables demographiques dans la planification du
developpement.
10.          Le programme d'intdgration des variables de population a la planification du
ddveloppement comporte des sous-programmes lids au processus, deja bien ddclenchd au Niger, visant
a garantir la disponibilite et la comprehension des donnes demographiques, d'une part, et leur prise en
compte dans la formulation des politiques d'autre part. Le projet soutiendra: (a) la conception d'un
module demo-economique adapte aux realit6s du Niger (cet aspect complbte l'appui dej3 apporte par
1'USAID pour la projection des populations utilisant le RAPID); et (b) I'analyse conjuguee avec les
donnCes specifiques sur la rdalite socio-economique du pays. Le projet prdvoit egalement l'elaboration
d'outils simples afin de faciliter la prise en compte des variables demographiques par les cadre charges
de la planification dans les differents secteurs. II y aura donc un semlnaire de presentation de modele
d'int6gration. 11 prevoit dgalement des cours de formation pour ces meme cadres afin de developper leurs
compdtences pour permettre d'exploiter les donnees dans leur travail. Ces cours auront un tronc commun
ainsi que des modules specifiques a chaque ministere. L'accent sera particulierement mis sur le cOtd
pratique plut6t que theorique. Quatre cadres du DSD du MEF, deux cadres de chaque DEP aux
Minist&res de la Sante Publique, du Developpement Social, de la Population et de la Promotion de la
Femme, de l'Education, et de l'Agriculture, et un de chaque service au niveau regional seront formes et
recycles. Le Service Demographique de la DSD ddveloppera les capacites d'utilisation de modele
d'analyse et de projection. Le modMle aussi servira egalement de moyen de sensibilisation des membres
du Gouvernement et des cadres de commandement. Ainsi, le projetprevoit des presentations de modeles,
des projections des differentes variables.
i1.          Par ailleurs, dtant donne le rOle primordial que jouent les decideurs politiques dans la
prise des ddcisions liees au d6veloppement, le projet prevoit la sensibilisation des membres du
gouvernement et des cadres de commandement sur la ndcessite d'integrer la variable population dans le
processus de developpement. A cet egard il est prevu des sdminaires de sensibilisation pour les hauts
cadres au niveau central ainsi qu'aux niveaux regional et sous-rdgional.
b:X3-8.NIR



111
ANNEXE 3-9
Page 1 sur 4
REPUBLIQUE BU_NIGER
PROJET POPULATION
Le Fonds de PopulatiQn
Considerations G6ndrales
1.           La mise en oeuvre de la nouvelle politique du gouvernement en matiere de population
necessite un vaste effort bien coordonne non seulement des organismes publics, mais aussi des ONG, des
associations et du secteur prive. Le Fonds de Population est un mecanisme congu pour financer, a titre
de subventions, des activites rentrant dans le cadre de la politique de population. Le fonctionnement de
ce fonds devrait permettre des interventions tres rapides et souples et la realisation d'activites ayant un
caractere novateur. Le coOt de base de ce Fonds serait de 500.00 dollars des Etats Unis, pour la periode
du Projet Population, finance par le Crddit IDA.
CritSres d'eligibilite et types de projets a financer
2.           Les projets que le Fonds pourraient financer seraient des activit6s ou programmes
contribuant a la mise en oeuvre de la politique ue population, et dans les secteurs normalement sous la
tutelle des Ministeres de l'Economie et des Finances; du Developpement Social, de la Population et de
la Promotion de la Femme; de la Communication, de la Culture, de la Jeunesse et des Sports; et de la
Sante Publique.
3.           Les projets eligibles peuvent 8tre classes en trois categories:
(a)    expansion des services de planification fainiliale pour completer et renforcer les services
fournis par le secteur public, conformement a la politique de l'etat en matibre de SMI/PF,
comme par exemple un appui a la creation d'une association nationale de bien-etre
familial, ou la creation de cabinets ou cliniques prives (a concurrence de 50% du Fonds);
(b)    activites tendant a ameliorer le statut socio-economique des femmes, comme la promotion
d'activites generatrices de revenu pour les groupements feminins ou la fourniture de
materiel et equipements permettant d'allbger la charge de travail des femmes et de leur
faire realiser des dconomies de temps (a concurrence de 20% du Fonds); et
(c)    activitds d'IEC utilisant des circuits formels (AFN, Associations de parents d'eltves,
associations d'agents de sante, etc.) ainsi que des moyens informels (groupes de femmes,
griots, pieces de theftre etc.) (a concurrence de 30% du Fonds).
4.           Les organismes pouvant beneficier de subventions du fonds sere=-; (a) des organisations
non gouvernementales (ONG) de developpement, telles qu'elles sont d6finies par la loi No 91-006 du
20 Mai 1991, dOment constituees et agrees et ayant leur siege social au Niger; (b) des associations
(femmes, jeunes, infirmiers, sages-femmes, etc.) Idgalement constituees; et (c) des priv6s.
5.           En ce qui concerne les prives, qui devront Wtre d'une integrit6 irrEprochable et ne pas &tre
debiteurs notoires vis-a-vis du systeme bancaire, il sera tenu compte dans 1'evaluation des projets propos6s
non seulement de la viabilite financiere du projet, mais aussi de la dimension sociale de leurs activites,



112
ANNEXE 3-9
Page 2 sur 4
de facon a bien privilegier les activitds de SMI/PF.
6.            Pour ce qui est des ONG et des associations, I'evaluation des projets proposes prendra
en consideration les facteurs suivants: (a) conformite avec la politique de population des pouvoirs publics
et avec leur strategie de SMI/PF; (b) bonne connaissance du milieu; (c) experience acquise dans le
domaine pour lequel le financement est sollicitd; (d) integration du projet propose dans le programme de
travail de l'ONG ou de l'association; (e) capacite a developper un partenariat avec les communautes de
base et a les associer aux prises de decision et a la mise en oeuvre du projet; (f) presentation et
justification du projet dans ses aspects techniques, financiers, dconomiques et administratifs, avec
identification des costs estimes et des contributions, en especes et en nature, des organismes d'execution
et des beneficiaires; (g) mesures envisagdes pour le financement des cofits recurrents du projet propose,
et pour l'entretien et le renouvellement afin d'assurer la perennite du projet; (h) pour les projets de
formation, existence d'un plan ou programme montrant comment les personnes formdes pourront utiliser
la formation qu'elles ont regue; et (i) compldmentarite du projet avec les activites des services publics
dans le meme canton ou arrondissement.
Cat6gories de ddpenses pouvant Wtre financ6es par le Fonds
7.            Dans la limite d'une subvention maximum de 5 millions de francs CFA par projet, et d'un
maximum cumule de 15 millions de francs CFA (environ 50.000 dollars) de subventions par organisme
d'exdcution ou beneficiaire, le fonds pourrait financer les ddpenses suivantes: consultants locaux;
materiel, v6hicules et fournitures, y compris les contraceptifs et le materiel d'IEC; rdnovation et
amelioration d'ouvrages de gdnie civil; temps et espace accordes par les medias; formation; et frais de
fonctionnement essentiels.
8.            Un certain nombre d'dlements constituant une liste negative ne pourront pas Qtre finances;
il s'agit des salaires et des primes ou indemnites, de nouvelles constructions et d'un plafond de cott de
20% pour les v6hicules et les deplacements.
9.            La duree d'un projet ne devrait pas depasser trois ans; mais, dans la mesure ott les
resultats sont satisfaisants, le financement d'un projet pourrait 8tre renouvele, dans la limite du plafond
de 15 millions de francs CFA par organisme d'execution ou beneficiaire.
Gestion du Fonds
10.          Etant donna que l'objectif principal du Fonds de Population est d'encourager des
initiatives en relation avec la mise en oeuvre de la politique de population, la gestion de ce fonds pourrait
dventuellement etre confide au secretariat permanent de la CONAPO. Toutefois, tant que ce secretariat
permanent n'est pas cree et dote de ressources humaines suffisantes,le Fonds de Population serait gere
par la Cellule de Coordination du Projet (CCP) au MDSPPF. Les projets seraient approuves par un
Comite Directeur comprenant des representants des Ministeres concernes et une participation majoritaire
des ONG/Associations/Secteur prive ainsi que de personnalites independantes.
Methodes et procedures
11.          Les objectifs et le mode de fonctionnement du Fonds de Population feront l'objet d'une
attention speciale au moment du seminaire de lancement du projet, seront consignes dans une brochure
et seront largement diffuses par voie de presse et par l'intermediaire des bulletins de liaison d'associations



113
ANNEXE 3-9
Page 3 sur 4
et du GAP. Les procedures suggerdes ci-dessous supposent une gestion directe du Fonds par la CCP,
et devront donc Otre ajustees si, comme cela parait preferable, la gestion du Fonds est sous-traitee t un
organisme privd.
12.           Chaque proposition de projet devra contenir des informations sur l'organisme demandeur
et les activites a entreprendre, sur la base d'une fiche de projet normalisee, et fera l'objet d'un rapport
d'&valuation par la CCP conformement a une prdsentation d6finie d'avance; le rapport d'evaluation
comportera en particulier une etude ddtaillde des coitts et des objectifs controlables chiffr6s pouvant
permettre d'evaluer les rdsultats.
13.           Le Comite Directeur se reunira tous les trimestres pour statuer sur les demandes de
subventions, et la CCP notifiera, par ecrit dans les quinze jours qui suivent, aux organismes demandeurs
la decision du Comite directeur, en indiquant en cas de refus les raisons de ce refus.
14.           Pour chaque projet approuve, la CCP et l'organisme d'exdcution ou bdneficiaire signeront
un contrat stipulant leurs obligations respectives. L'adoption d'un contrat type pour chacune des trois
categories de beneficiaires sera un prealable a la negociation du crddit. Ces contrats type comprendront
en particulier des clauses concernant:
(a)    la passation des march6s de fournitures et de travaux, qui devront se faire sur la base
d'une consultation de plusieurs fournisseurs et entrepreneurs;
(b)    l'ouverture dans une bar.que commerciale d'un compto pour recevoir la subvention qui
sera decaissee par tranches en fonction de rdsultats contr8lables convenus d'avance et
spdcifits dans le contrat; ce compte recevra aussi les contributions en espbces de
l'organisme d'exdcution ou beneficiaire, et servira a regler les depenses;
(c)    la tenue des ecritures et comptes necessaires pour enregistrer les op6rations, les
ressources et les depenses relatives au projet, la conservation des pieces justificatives par
l'organisme d'execution ou beneficiaire, et la vdrification de ces comptes par l'auditeur
du Projet Population; et
(d)    la fourniture par l'organisme d'exdcution ou bendficiaire d'un rapport annuel, et d'un
rapport de fin de projet qui indiquera dans quelle mesure les objectifs du projet ont 6te
atteints et evaluera l'impact du projet.
Controles
15.           L'IDA examinera au prealable les projets qui pourraient beneficier d'une subvention
superieure a 3 millions de francs CFA; les autres projets feront l'objet d'un controle a posteriori. La
CCP supervisera les projets qui devraient 8tre eparpilles dans tout le pays et soumettra a l'IDA, deux
fois par an, un rapport sur les activitds du Fonds de Population; les missions de supervision de l'IDA
superviseront les projets de maniere ponctuelle. L'auditeur du Projet Population v6rifiera chaque ann6e
les comptes du Fonds de Population et les ecriture et comptes des organismes d'execution ou b6n6ficiaires
concernant leur projet ayant fait l'objet d'une subvention. Chaque ann6e dans le cadre de l'examen
annuel conjoint, l'IDA, la CCP, le Comite Directeur du Fonds de Population et les representants des
organismes d'execution ou beneficiaires examineront les resultats des activites du Fonds de Population
et ddcideront eventuellement des ameliorations a leur apporter.



114
ANNPXE -9.
Page 4 sur 4
R&caVitulation des responsabilitds
16.         On peut rdcapitulei comme suit la repartition des responsabilitds d'exdcution des activitds
du Fonds de Population:
ETAPE:                  PR9SBNTATION DE FICHES DE PROJET.
RESPONSABILITE:         TOUT OPERATEUR ONO/ASSOCIATION/PRIVt SATISPAISANT AUX
CRITERES D'tLIGIBILITr.
ETAPE:                  PREPARATION DU RAPPORT D'9VALUATION ET PRE-SELECTION DES
PROJETS.
RESPONSABILITE:         LA CELLULE DE COORDINATION DU PROllT (ADMINISTRATEUR DU
PONDS AVEC L'AIDE DE CONSULTANTS).
ETAPE:                  APPROBATION DES PROJETS
RESPONSABILITE:         COMr1t DIRECTEUR DU FONDS DE POPULATION SE REUNISSANT
TOUS LES TRIMESTRES.
ETAPE:                  SIGNATURE DU CONTRAT
RESPONSABILITE:         ENTRE LE DIRECTEUR DE LA CELLULE DE COORDINATION DU PROJET
(CCP) ET LE REPRESENTANT DE L'OROANISME D'EXACUTION OU
BBNEFICIAIRE.
ETAPE:                  DEBLOCAGE DES FONDS
RESPONSABILITE:         PAR LA CELLULE DE COORDINATION DU PROJET (CCP), EN TRANCHES
ARRETEES D'AVANCE, COMPTE TENU D'INDICATEURS DE
PERFORMANCE CONTR6LABLES.
ETAPE:                  EXECUTION DES PROJETS
RESPONSABILITE:         ORGANISMES D'EXCurON OU BANAFICLAIRES.
ETAPE:                  SUPERVISION DES PROJETS SUR LE TERRAIN
RESPONSABILITE:         CELLULE DE COORDINATION DU PROJET (CCP): ADMINISTRATEUR
DU FONDS AVEC L'AIDE DE CONSULTANTS.
ETAPE:                  AUDIT
RESPONSABILITE:         CHAQUE ANNEE, AUDI DES COMTS DU FONDS DE POPULATION ET
DE CEUX DE TOUS LES PROJETS PAR UN AUDITEUR JUGE
ACCEPTABLE PAR L'IDA.
ETAPE:                  EXAMEN ANNUEL
RESPONSABILITE:         DANS LE CADRE DE LA REUNION ANNUELLE SUR L'ATAT
D'AVANCEMENT DE L'ENSEMBLE DU PROJET POPULATION, EXAMEN
ET DISCUSSION PAR L'IDA, LA CCP, LE COMITt DIRECTEUR DU
FONDS DE POPULATION ET LES REPRESENTANTS DES ORGANISMES
D'EXSCUTIuN ET BENFICIAIES POUR FAIRE LE BILAN.
ETAPE:                  RAPPORTS
RESPONSABILITE:         DEUX POIS PAR AN, ADRESSES PAR LE DIRECTEUR DE LA CELLULB
DE COORDINATION DU PROJET (CCp), A L'IDA.
C:X3-9.NIR



REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER
Projet Population
Project Cost Sufary
FCFA                                     SEU                                  X Total
------------------------------             ---------------------------   X Foreign                 Base                0
Local   Foreign          Total          Local  Foreign         Total        Exchange        Costs                0
to
AO. SERVICES SNI/PF                                                                                                                                             a.'
1. EXTENSION DES SERVICES                  545.8      1194.7       1740.5             1.9        4.5         6.4            68.6        30.5
2. REFORNES SECTORIELLES                   728.4        528.1      1256.5             2.6        2.0         4.6            42.0        22.0
.. ....... ......................   .  ..--------------_-....--------_-...---..-...----...----_-_----_-.---
Sub-Totat                                      1274.2      1722.8       2997.0             4.5        6.5        11.0            57.5         52.5
Al. PROMOTION DE BIEN ETRE                                                                                                                                      0
1. PROGRAHMES IEC                          776.1       295.3       1071.5             2.8        1.1        3.9             27.6        18.8
2. APPtIJ  PARTICIPTN  FEN4ES              405.4       359.3        764.6             1.4        1.4         2.8            47.0        13.4              0      a-s
3. APPUI A LA NUTRITION                     47.2         28.2        75.5             0.2        0.1         0.3            37.4          1.3              rt    0       .'
. . . .......... .   .   . . .   ....      -- - - - - - - - - - - - -            --------------------ca                               O 
0
Sub-Total                                      1228.7        632.8      1911.6             4.4        2.6         7.0            35.7        33.5               o      5d    '4
A2. ANALYSE POLITIQUE POPUL.                                                                                                                                    W      O
it  0   z
1. AMELIOR. COLLECTE DONNES                 76.0        58.5        134.5             0.3        0.2        0.5            43.5          2.4                     C.4
2. FONDS POPULATION                         91.8         83.2       175.0             0.3        0.3         0.6            47.6          3.1                     W      a
3. APPUI INSTITUTIONNEL                     15.0         50.4        65.4             0.1        0.2         0.2            77.1          1.1             rt    F 
... ........ ..................     --------------------------- --._------_-_-_--_--
Sub-Total                                       182.7        192.2       374.9             0.6        0.7         1.4            51.3          6.6
A3. COORDJGESTIOM DU PROJET                    150.5       158.5        309.0             0.5        0.6         1.1            51.3         5.4                rt
A4. PPF                                         25.2         91.4       116.6             0.1        0.3         0.4            78.4          2.0               c
.......... ...................         ...---.-.....-----------..--...------...-.... _-------------..-----_-..___. 
Total BASELINE COSTS                           2861.4      2847.6       5709.0            10.2       10.7       21.0             51.2       100.0
Physical Contingencies                      171.1        212.3       383.4             0.6        0.8         1.4            55.4          6.7
Price Contingencies                         175.8        276.5       452.3             0.9        0.7         1.7            44.6          7.9
Total PROJECTS COSTS                          3208.3       3336.5       6544.7            11.8       12.3       24.1            51.0        114.6
..... _...._. . .......................................... ......._. . .......... _...........................____..................____
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 - 3/30/1992 15:52
00



DU
Projet Population
Stmnary Account by Project Caoponent
FCFA
APPUI   APPUS A
EXTENSIO REFORNES           PARTICIP    LA    ANeLIOR.   FOI(S    APPUI  COORO/GE
N DES  SECTORIE PROGRAIM    TN    NUTRITtO COLLECTE POLUATI INSTITUT STIOII D
SERVICES   LLES    ES IEC   FEWES        N     OORINES     ON     IOllNEL   PROJET     PPF
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
.........._.._.,._..
AO. GENIE CIVIL
1. CONSTRUCTIONS N0VELLES        697.8       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
2. REHABILITATION/RENOVATION      138.7      0.0     12.3      46.2      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Sub-total                          836.4       0.0     12.3      46.2      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Al. FOURNITURES
1. EQ9IPEMENT MEDICAL            286.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
2. EOUIPEMENT AJDIO-VISUEL         0.0       0.0    :47.8       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
3. EWUIPEMENT DE BUREAU            0.0       0.0      0.0      49.1      4.2      0.0       0.0      5.1     21.0       0.0
4. VENICULES                      91.9      19.4     20.8      48.6      4.2      20.8      0.0      3.9      12.3      0.0
S. FOURNITURES DIVERSES            0.0       0.0      0.0      64.3     12.7      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
6. CONTRACEPTIVES                 138.7      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
7. MOBILIER                       187.8      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      4.1       0.0
8. AUTRES                         32.3      20.4      0.0      11.7      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Sub-total                          736.8      39.8    168.6    173.7      21.2     20.8      0.0       9.0     37.3       0.0
A2. CONTRATS OE SERVICES             0.0       0.6    151.1      12.8     15.3     32.8       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
A3. SERVICES DE CONSULTANTS
1. ETLUDES ET SUPERVISION          0.0       0.0     92.1       0.8      7.8     24.0       0.0      0.0     31.1       0.0
2. ASSISTANCE TECHNIME             0.0    619.3      29.1       0.0      0.0       1.1      0.0     40.4     90.7       0.0                                       C
3. FORMTION                        0.0       0.0      0.0      64.2      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Sub-total                            0.0    619.3    121.2       65.0      7.8     Z5.2       0.0     40.4    121.8       0.0
A4. DIVERS
1. PPF                             0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    116.6
2. COUTS DE FORMATION             32.8       6.1    579.2    133.0      21.4     32.8       0.0      0.0      6.1       0.0
3. FONOS POPULATION                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    175.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
4. HICRO-REALISATIONS               0.0      0.0      0.0    239.2       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
.. .. ..... ..... .... . ... .. .............. ...... ....... ... _....  _    _    _,..    _...............
Sub-totat                           32.8       6.1    579.2    372.2      21.4     32.8    175.0       0.0      6.1    116.6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             1606.0    665.8   1032.4    669.9      65.6    111.6    175.0      49.4    165.3    116.6
11. RECURRENT COSTS
................. ................ _
AO. ENTP':"EN
1. ENTRE. VENICULE CARBURANT      127.8     16.9     16.9      43.1      0.0     17.2       0.0      1.9      11.4      0.0
2. ENTRETIEN MACHINES              0.6       2.6      10.3      1.7      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.7       3.8      0.0
Sub-total                           128.4     19.5     27.2      44.8      0.0     17.2       0.0      2.6      15.3      0.0
Al. SALAIRES                         0.0    571.2       0.0       8.1      8.0      3.7       0.0      0.0     82.0       0.0
A2. ;ONCTIONNEMENT BUREAU            6.1       0.0      4.3       1.7      0.0      2.0       0.0     13.4     46.4       0.0                                 .  1.
A3. Autres couts de fonct.           0.0       0.0      7.6      40.0      1.9      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0                                 o; 2
.----_   -   -_   _-------_   _-- _ _-------- -- _--- ___--- __.__- _ _------ ----- ___-- ----- _---- _------_____ _-----Z
Total RECURRENT COSTS               134.5    590.7     39.1      94.7      9.9     22.8       0.0     16.0    143.7       0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS               1740.5   1256.5   1071.5    764.6      75.5    134.5    175.0      65.4    309.0    116.6                                  O
Physical Contingencies            164.1     63.8      70.2     49.3      5.6      9.4       0.0      3.7      17.3      0.0                                 a 
Price Contingencies               171.4     91.8     79.2      55.4      4.8      8.2      14.2      6.3     21.2       0.0                                    0
Totat PROJECT COSTS                2075.9   1412.1   1220.8    869.3      85.9    152.0    189.2      75.4    347.4    116.6
Taxes                              0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                 1444.2    600.7    350.1    418.7      33.1     67.8      91.7     58.7    180.0      91.4
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 3/30/1992  15:44



117                                       ANNEX  3-10
Page 3 of 5
REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER
Projet Population
Summary Account by Project Component
FCFA
Physical          Price
Contingencies     Contingencies  -
.... ...........................
Total        X     Amount       X   Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
AO. GENIE CIVIL
1. CONSTRUCTIONS NOUVELLES           697.8       '0.0      69.8     9.0       62.9
2. REHABILITATION/RENOVATION         197.2       10.0      19.7     9.0       17.7
......................  ...................................... 
Sub-total                              895.0       10.0      89.5     9.0       80.6
Al. FOURNITURES
1. EQUIPEMENT MEDICAL                286.0       10.0      28.6    11.5       32.8
2. EQUIPEMENT AUD!0!VISUEL           147.8       10.0      14.8     9.6       14.3
3. EQUIPEMENT DE BUREAU               79.4       10.0       7.9     7.0        5.5
4. VEHICUiES                         221.9       10.0      22.2     8.3       18.4
S. FOURNITURES OIVERSES               77.1       10.0       7.7     7.7        5.9
6. CONTRACEPTIVES                    138.7       10.0      13.9    13.5       18.8
7. MOUILIER                          191.9       10.0      19.2     8.6       16.6
8. AUTRES                             64.4        5.0       3.2     7.5        4.9
............. .............................. ....... .
Sub-total                             1207.2        9.7     117.5     9.7      117.1
A2. CONTRATS DE SERVICES               212.6       10.0      21.3     7.3       15.5
A3. SERVICES DE CONSULTANTS
1. ETUDES ET SUPERVISION             155.8       5.0        7.8     7.5       11.7
2. ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE              780.7        5.0      39.0     7.7       60.4
3. FORMATION                          64.2        5.0       3.2     5.3        3.4
....................................................
Sub-total                             1000.7        5.0      50.0     7.5       75.4
A4. DIVERS
1. PPF                               116.6       0.0        0.0     0.0        0.0
2. COUTS DE FORMATION                811.3        5.0      40.6      ..0      48.9
3. FONDS POPULATION                  175.0        0.0       0.0     8.1       14.2
4. MICRO-REALISATIONS                239.2        5.0      12.0     7.3       17.6
.............. ..............................  ....
Sub-totaL                             1342.2        3.9      52.5     6.0       80.7
........................ ........................................  ..............
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                4657.7        7.1     330.8     7.9      369.3
11, RECURRENT COSTS
...................
AO. ENTRETIEN
1. ENTRE. VENICULE CARSURANT         235.2       5.0       11.8    11.2       26.4
2. ENTRETIEN MACHINES                 19.7        5.0       1.0    10.9        2.1
....................................................
Sub-totaL                              254.9        5.0      12.7    11.2       28.5
Al. SALAIRES                           672.9        5.0      33.6     6.6       44.5
A2. FONCTIONNEMENT BUREAU               74.0        5.0       3.7     9.7        7.2
A3. Autres couts de fonct.              49.6        5.0       2.5     5.7        2.8
..... ................ . .......................  ... ...... ;;.
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 1051.3        5.0      52.6     7.9       83.0
Totat BASELINE COSTS                  5709.0       6.7      383.4     7.9      452.3
Physical Contingencies               383.4
Price Contingencies                  452.3        6.6      29.9
....................................................
Total PROJECT COSTS                   6544.7        6.3     413.3      6.9     452.3
*S==========-_ ======-=2_=22S
Taxes                                  0.0        0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                    3336.5        7.0     232.3
..................................................................................
Vatues Scated by 1000000.0 3/30/1992 IS:45



REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER
Projet Population
Suimry Accounts Cost Suwmary
FCFA                                        SEU                                     % Total
----  ------  -- ----------.....              ...........................    % Foreign                     Base
Local    Foreign           Total           Local  Foreign           Total        Exchange          Costs
... ......... _.........................      ......... ................. .    . ... .... ..... ...... .... ...._.
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
...................
A. GENIE CIVIL
1. CONSTRUCTIORS NOUVELLES                   295.7        402.1         697.8              1.0          1.5         2.6             57.6          12.2
2. REHABILITATION/RENOVATION                  83.6         113.6        197.2              0.3         0.4          0.7             57.6           3.5
.............. ................            .  ..... ---------------------------.       --------------------...... .. .......... ......
Stb-Total                                        379.2         515.7        895.0              1.3          2.0         3.3             57.6          15.7
B. FOURNITURES
1. EQUIPEMENT MEDICAL                          0.0        286.0         286.0              0.0          1.1         1.1            100.0           5.0
2. EQUIPEMENT  AUDIO-VIStlEL                  30.4         117.4        147.8              0.1         0.4          0.5             79.4           2.6
3. EQUIPEMENT OE BUREAU                       17.2          62.3         79.4              0.1         0.2          0.3             78.4           1.4
4. VEHICULES                                    0.0       221.9         221.9              0.0         0.8          0.8            100.0           3.9
5. FOURNITURFS DIVERSES                       16.7          60.4         77.1              0.1         0.2          0.3             78.4           1.3
6. CONTRACEPTIVES                              0.0         138.7        138.7              0.0         0.5          0.5            t00.0           2.4
7. ROBILIER                                  100.6          91.2        191.9              0.4         0.4          0.7             47.6           3.4
S. AUTRES                                     33.8          30.6         64.4              0.1         0.1          0.2             47.6           1.1
........ ... ........... .............................  ............ .................... .. ...... ...... ............................. 
Sub-Total                                        198.7       1008.6        1207.2              0.7          3.7         4.4             83.5          21.1
C. CONTRATS DE SERVICES                          132.5          80.1        212.6              0.5          0.3         0.8             37.7           3.7
D. SERVICES DE CONSULTANTS
1. ETUDES ET SUPERVISION                      81.7          74.1        155.8              0.3         0.3          0.6             47.6           2.7
2. ASSISTANCE  TECHNIIUE                     168.7        611.9         780.7              0.6         2.3          2.9             78.4          13.7
3. FORMATION                                  52.4         *11.9         64.2              0.2          0.0         0.2             18.5           1.1                                                                  OD
................-             ---  ---        ...........................           . . --------------------.. ...  ... .......... ......... .
Sub-Total                                        302.8         697.9       1000.7               1.0         2.6         3.7             69.7          17.5
E. DIVERS
1. PPF                                        25.2          91.4        116.6              0.1         0.3          0.4             78.4           2.0
2. COUTS DE FORMATION                        811.3           0.0        811.3              3.0          0.0         3.0              0.0          14.2
3. FONDS POPULATION                           91.8          83.2        175.0              0.3          0.3         0.6             47.6           3.1
4. MICRO-REALISATIONS                        125.5         113.8        239.2              0.4          0.4         0.9             47.6           4.2
.............................  .............................. .. ...... . ........... .... ...    ...... ... .......... ......  . ...
Sub-Total                                       1053.8         288.4       1342.2              3.8          1.1         4.9             21.5          23.5
.................................. .........................  ............................ ............    -------------------
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                          2067.0       2590.7        4657.7              7.4          9.8        17.1             55.6          81.6
..............................                ---------------------------.................. ........................ ............................ ............................_
II. RECURRENT COSTS
.. .................
A. ENTRETIEN
1. ENTRE. VEHICULE CARURANT                   75.5        159.7         235.2              0.3         0.6         0.9              67.9           4.1
2. ENTRETIEN MACHINES                          6.3          13.4          19.7             0.0         0.1          0.1             67.9           0.3
....... ...................... ........................... .....................
Sub-Total                                         81.8         173.1        254.9              0.3          0.7         0.9             67.9           4.5
B. SALAIRES                                      672.9           0.0        672.9              2.5          0.0         2.5              0.0          11.8
C. FONCTIONNENENT BREAU                           23.8          50.2          74.0             0.1          0.2         0.3             67.9           1.3
Q.  utres  couts de fonct.                         15.9         33.7          49.6             0.1          0.1         0.2             67.9           0.9
..__................. ....... ............ ............. .............. ................. .....................                                                        OQ  zqw
Total RECURRENT COSTS                            74.4         257.0        1051.3              2.9          1.0         3.9             24.4          18.4                                                        (D  X
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,_,,,,,,,,,,,,........ ........ ........ ....................                                                        _ _ 
Total BASELINE COSTS                            2861.4       2847.6        5709.0             10.2        10.7        21.0              51.2         100.0                                                            w
Physical Contingencies                       171.1        212.3         383.4              0.6         0.8          1.4             55.4           6.7                                                        
Price Contingencies                          175.8        276.5         452.3              0.9         0.7          1.7             44.6           7.9                                                            o
..... ........................  ........................... ...................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                           3208.3        3336.5        6544.7             11.8        12.3        24.1              51.0         114.6



REPUBLIOIE DU NIGER
Projet Population
Susrery Accounts by Year
Totats Inctuding Contingencies                              Totals Includirg ContinWencies
FCFA                                                         SEU
......................... ...................................    .. ... .. . ... . ........... .................... ......
92193   93/94   94/19     95/96   96/97   Total           92/93   93/94   94/9S   95/96   96/97   Total
2. INVESTIENT COSTS
....................
A. GENIE CIVIL
1. CONSTRI CTOS NOUVELLES             0.0   470.9   359.6         0 0      0.0   830.5          0.0       1.7      1.3      0.0      0.0      3.1
2. REHAtBLITATION/RENOVATION         14.0   108.6   112.0         0.0      0.0   234.6          0.1       0.4      0.4      0.0      0.0      0.9
Sub-Total                                14.0   579.5   471.6        0.0      (.0  1065.1           0.1      2.1      1.7      0.0      0.0      3.9
S. FOItNITURES
1. EQUIPEEINT MEDICAL                 0.0   167.6   159.9    19.9          0.0   347.4          0.0      C.6       0.6      0.1      0.0      1.3
2. EQUIPEIENT AUDIO-VISUEL            3.2   109.9    60.1         3.6      0.0   176.8          0.0       0.4      0.2      0.0      0.0      0.7
3. E@UIPENENT DE BUREAU              36.4    46.6        9.9      0.0      0.0    92.9           0.1      0.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.3
4. VEHIWLES                          32.6   229.9        0.0      0.0      0.0   262.5           0.1      0.8      0.0      0.0      0.0      1.0
5. FURIITURES DIVERSES               29.3    41.8    18.7         0.9      0.0    90.7          0.1      0.2       0.1      0.0      0.0      0.3
6. COlTRACEPTIVES                     0.0    55.0    57.1    59.3          0.0   171.4           0.0      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.0      0.6
7. IOBILIER                           4.6   116.8   106.3         0.0      0.0   227.6          0.0      P.4       0.4      0.0      0.0      0.8
8. NIJTRES                            6.3    43.3    22.8         0.0      0.0    72.5           0.0      0.2      0.1      0.0-    0.0       0.3
.... .... . ... .... . ... .. .... ...... .. .... ... . ... ...    ..........................
Sub-Total                               112.5   810.8   434.8    83.7         0.0  1441.8           0.4      3.0      1.6      0.3      0.0      5.3
C. cONTRATS DE SERVICES                  87.1    63.5    69.3    29.5         0.0   249.4           0.3      0.2      0.3      0.1      0.0      0.9
0. SERVICES DE CONSULTANTS
1. EllDES ET SUPERVISION             59.2    38.5    56.2    21.3          0.0   175.3          0.2      0.1      0.2       0.1      0.0      0.6
2. ASStSTANCE TECHNIQUE             300.4   296.7   264.7    18.2          0.0   880.0           1.1      1.1      1.0      0.1      0.0      3.2
3. FOMATION                          28.1    31.9       10.9      0.0      0.0    70.8          0.1       0.1      0.0      C.0      0.0      0.3
.... .... ..... ....... .. ......... .............. ....    .......... .............. .......... . ...... ... . ....
Sub-Totei                               387.7   367.0   331.8    39.6         0.0  1126.1           1.4      1.3      1.2      0.1      0.0      4.1
E. DIVERS
1. PPF                              116.6      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0   116.6          0.4      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.4
2. COUTS DE FORMATIG:               277.2   230.9   210.6   182.2          0.0   900.8           1.0      0.8      0.8      0.7      0.0      3.3
3. FONS POPULATION                   45.3    46.6    48.0    49.4          0.0   189.2          0.2       0.2      0.2      0.2      0.0      0.7
4. WICRO-REALISATIONS                88.8    91.3    40.3    48.4          0.0   268.7          0.3       0.3      0.1      0.2      0.0      1.0
... .. ...... .......... . ......... . .............. .. .    ....... ................ .. ......... ........ ... ..... .....
Sub-Total                               527.8   368.9   298.8   279.9         0.0  1475.4           1.9      1.4      1.1      1.0      0.0      5.4
Total INVESTlENT COSTS                 1129.2  2189.6  1606.3   432.7         0.0  5357.8           4.2      8.1      5.9      1.6      0.0    19.7
II. RECUERIT COSTS
...................
A. ENTRETIEN
1. ENTRE. VEHICULE CARBURANT          3.9    80.3    93.5    95.7          0.0   273.3          0.0      0.3      0.3       0.4      0.0      1.0
2. ENTRETIEN MACHINES                 1.0      6.8       7.4      7.6      0.0    22.8          0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.1
.......................................  ...................  ------------------------------------...----.....--------.
Sub-Totat                                 4.9    87.1   100.8   103.3         0.0   296.1           0.0      0.3      0.4      0.4      0.0      1.1
S. SALAIRES                             160.7   166.6   201.8   201.8         0.0   751.0           0.6      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.0      2.8.
C. FONCTION10NENT BREAU                  17.1    20.0    24.2    23.5         0.0    84.9           0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.0      0.3                                     0Q  5
D. Autres couts de famrt.                27.0    27.9       0.0      0.0      0.0    54.9           0.1      0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.2                                     0  N
.... .... ................... ...... .......... ......    ....... .......... .................. ..... .. ......... ..np
Total RECUIRRENT COSTS                  209.8   321.6   326.9   328.7         0.0  1186.9           0.8      1.2      1.2       1.2     0.0      4.4                                     O   I
Total PROJECT COSTS                    1339.0  2511.3  1933.2   761.4         0.0  6544.7           4.9      9.2      7.1      2.8      0.0    24.1                                      0L  
.. .. . .. .. ..  .     ... . . . .. . .. . . . ...  .   ... . ... .....       ...   .. .. .. . . ......  .....  ......  ......... .. . ..........
-|-             by



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
POPULATION PROJECT
PROPOSED TECHNICAL MAN MONTH ASSISTANCE
ACTIVITIES                 INTERNATIONAL                                 LOCAL
Lona-tern       Short-term      Finance    Long-term   Short-term    Finance
MCHJPF              288                  _        Belgium                    5          IDA
IEC                                 2 a/           IDA                      30          IDA
Community
Initiative/                                                    24 a/       180 a/       IDA
Nutrition          _
Functional
Literacy                            10 bl/         IDA                     166a/        IDA
Vital                _                                                      3 a         IDA
Registration                                                           .
Secretariat          -                                                       2          IDA
(CONAPO)
PCU                24 bl            11 a/          IDA                       14         IDA
| TOTAL              312              23                         24          237
at Individual rec:ruitment through advertising
b/ Recruitment by shortlisting of firms.
N.B. These are indicative and may change based on evolving needs.
C:X4-l.NIR
0 I
tD 



121
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
POPULATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan and Annual and Mid-Term Evaluation CWiteria
IDA Supervision Input
1.          The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to the regular
supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement and disbursement actions,
audit reviews, correspondence, etc. (estimated to require five staff-weeks per year during the
project implementation period).
2.           Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)    Progress Reports will be submitted semi-annually, in March and September of
each year; they will comprise a summary of implementation for each project
component and financial tables, including revised cost estimates and revised
timing of procurement actions. Thc Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) will
collect information from the implementing departments and prepare the
reports.
(b)    Project coordination, monitoring and evaluation will be the responsibility of
the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU).
(c)    Every October, a Joint IDA/Government review meeting covering all aspects
of the project will be chaired by the Director of the Department of Population
Activities of the Ministry of Social Development, Population and Women's
Promotion. On the basis of documentation prepared by the PCU, the review
will examine the progress of implementation to date, discuss the results of the
previous year's work program, and agree on the following year's work
program and budget. The October 1995 review will be a more
comprehensive, mid-term joint review based on a detailed evaluation by
consultants of the progress of the project.
(d)   The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) will be responsible for coordinating
arrangements for IDA supervision mission and for providing information to
them. Officials from the implementing ministries will accompany the
missions on field trips.
(e)    Mission briefing meetings on arrival and wrap-up meetings will be chaired by
the Director of the Department of Population Activites of the Ministry of
Social Development, Population and Women's Promotion with participation of
representatives of the implementing agencies.



122
ANNEX 4-2
Page 2 of 4
Coofinaciers' Contributions to Supervision
3.               Cofinanciers will be consulted on, and invited to participate in supervision
activities including joint government/IDA reviews, and will be kept fully informed regarding
TORs, aide-memoires and results of IDA supervision missions. It Is expected that
cofinanciers will bring complementary skills to the supervision missions.
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
APPROX.DATES                    ACTIVITY                   SKILLS REQUIREMENTS          STAFF
(MONTH/YEAR)                                                                           WEEK
10/92            PROJECT LAUNCH WORKSHOP, &        PUBLIC HEALTH POPULATION/FP/       10
FIRST SUPERVISION MISSION        WID/PROCUREMENT
WITH PARTICULAR EMPHASIS ON
PROJECT START-UP AND PROCURE-
______________M_  ENT
04/93            SUPERVISION MISSION               POPULATION/FP/PROCUREMENT          5
10/93            1ST JOINT REVIEW                  PUBLIC HEALTH                      10
POPULATION/FP/WID
04/94            SUPERVISION MISSION               PROJECT OFFICER                    6
POPULATION/FP/
PUBLIC HEALTH
10/94            2ND JOINT REVIEW                  PUBLIC HEALTH                      10
POPULATION/FP/WID
04/95            SUPERVISION MISSION               POPULATION/FP                      6
PUBLIC HEALTH
10/95            MID-TERM & 3RD JOINT REVIEW       PUBLIC HEALTH                      12
POPULATION/FP
WID
04/96            SUPERVISION MISSION               POPULATION/FP                       6
PUBLIC HEALTH
10/96            4TH JOINT REVIEW                  PUBLIC HEALTH                      10
POPULATION/FP
WID
04/97            COMPLETION MISSION                POPULATION/fP                       6
PUBLIC HEALTH



123
ANNEX 4-2
Page 3 of 4
LIST OF ITE1MS TO BE COVERED DURING ANNUAL AND MID-TERM REVIEWS
Although the annual and mid-term reviews would cover all aspects of the project, they
would focus on the following areas:
(a)    Component for strengthening the Maternal Health and FP servlce:
(i)     Progress in ensuring the availability of qualified personnel at the
regional and district levels (personnel redeployment, new job
descriptions and related training);
(ii)     Adequate supply and distribution of pills and condoms at the
dispensary level and by VHTs;
(iii)    Training of doctors, mid-wives and certifled nurses in clinical
contraception;
(lv)     Degree of success of interpersonal communication activities at district
health facilities;
(v)      Extent to which the VHT system has been revitalized;
(vi)     Functioning of the referral system, particularly for high risk
pregnancies, and the quality of high-risk pregnancy management at the
CM level; and
(vii)     Progress in the decentralization and essential drug cost-recovery
programs;
(viii)      Effectiveness of the current institutional arrangement with DPF in
MDSPPF.
(b)    Component for promoting family welfare and women's status:
(i)     Extent to which there is a community involvement in the design and
implementation of the WID income-generating activities, in
conjunction with the literacy program;
(ii)     Degree of participation of ORTN in the IEC program;
(iii)    Functioning of the interministerial IEC Coordinating Committee;
(iv)     Degree of success of the listener's groups at the village level;
(v)      impact of the IEC program on knowledge, attitude and practice
concerning contraception; and
(vi)     Implementation of the program for nutritional education, and
nutritional surveillance (growth monitoring), particularly the



124
ANNEX 4-2
Page 4 of 4
involvement of paramedical personnel in providing support and
fbllow-up at the village level.
(c)    Component for policy analysis. research monitoring and coordination:
(i)     Extent to which demographic variables are being incorporated into
sectoral plans;
(ii)     Any Increase in the coverage of the vital registration system and the
functioning of the national register on localities;
(iii)    Establishment and the operation of CONAPO and its secretariat; and
(iv)     Functioning of the Population Fund.
c:X4-2.NIR



Disbursnmt Prof Ile/Prof it de Dboursents
.............. ...................................
Proftilt/ Praf il
Oisbursamnts/ Oboursnts          .        e.. l.ona
. .-.- -..................               Sector/
IDA Fiscat years                                            Sectcur a
ard Orters/       Sy  uarterl      CiAttivwl    Project l1leheltt
Exercices IDA     Par trimestre   cualastif        Projet  reglonal
et trimestres     (US HiiliIon)   (U  Hilltion)       (2)      (2)                    _                                           _
................ ..........., ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ................................ ..........................
1993       1               0.0            0.0       O.OX    O.O                t ':                                             _
2              0.2            0.2       1.12    0.0X
3              0.2            0.4       2.3X    5.02            mOW  -   a
4              0.4            0.8       4.52    10.02                        lstisated Project
0o -        Disbursement Profile
1994        1              0.4            1.2       6.82    15.02           M            (Profil cstimatif ds
2              0.5            1.7       9.7X    18.0S           S 0.7 -      dSboursemets du
3              0.5            2.2      12.52   23.02           -             Frojet)
4              0.6            2.8      15.92    26.02             0.6 -
1995        1              0.9            3.7      21.02   30.0X                                                         + Regional Sctor Profii.
2               1.2           4.9      27.82   34.02                                                            (Profil du secteur I
3               1.6           1.5      36.92   38.02                                                            'cel  rgoa.
4               1.8           5.3      47.2X   42.02              0  - _                                         l'fhllo rAgional)
1996       1               1.5            9.8      55.7X   48.0X           .  .3 -
2               t.3          11.1      63.1X   54.0X 2
3               1.1          12.2      69.32    S9.0X 1           0.2
4              1.1           13.3      75.6X    S2.0
1997       1               0.5           14.1      80.1X   66.02
2              0.8           14.9      84.72    70.02              O
3              0.7           15.6      88.62    74.02                             1iS7
4              0.7           16.3      92.62    78.0X                            134               1N5S              mms
1998       1               0.6           16.9      96.02   80.0o
2              0.4           17.3      98.3X   82.02                                      Fiscal Yer (Exercice)
3              0.2           17.5      99.4X    66.0X
4              0.1           17.6    100.02   90.02                              Assuming credit effectivenoss during the
second quartor of FY93 (Avec l'hypothasz
1999        1                                               94.02                            qua le cridit entrera en vigusur au cours                        '
2                                               98.02                            du deuxilhe trimestre de l'exerLcec 93.)
3                                               99.0X _2
4                                              100.02                                                                                              01
a:diWprof.wki
(nigsar.fin)



Disbursemmnt Prof ileIProf II de odebursmnts
............................................
Prof ite/ Profit
Dlsbsemmts/ Debours te                 Regioalu
,,,,,,_,,,,,,,,,,,   .... ...            Sector/
IDA Fiscal years                                           Secteur a
ard Ouarters/     By Qurter)       Cimlativet    Project/ lechetlo
Exercices IDA     Par trimstre    Ciatif         Projet  regliote             4
et trimestres     (USS Million)    (UM  Nillion)     (2)      (2)                     _        _       _         _              __
... ...............  .............................................  ........................................ .........,  
1993       I               0.0           0.0       0.Ox    0.02
2              0.2            0.2       1.12    0.0%
3              0.2            0.4       2.3X    5.0X             0." 
4              0.4            0.8       4.52   10.02                        Eetiuated Project
.8 oo        Disbursegent Profile
1994       1               0.4            1.2      6.8X   15.0X            X            (Profil estimatif d4        J
2              0.5            1.?       9.7X   18.0             0.7       ddbouresents dui
3              0.5            2.2      12.52   23.02                        Projet)
4              0.6            2.8      15.9X   26.0X             0.6 _
199        1               0.9           3.7      21.02    30.02
0.5                             +~~~~~~~~ Regional Sector Profils
2              1.2            4.9      27.82   34.02 D*5                                                      (Profil du secteur I
3              1.6            6.5      36.92    36.02
4   1 s   6 5  36 9X   30 0X       sL ,  .                        X               194~~~~~~~~~~~~I'ch*110 ragion le)      oo
4              1.8            8.3      47.22   42.02             0.                                            'celergoae
1996       1               1.5           9.6      55.72   "8Ox .0            0.3 -
2              1.3           11.1      63.12   54.02
3              1.1           12.2      69.32   59.02             0.2 _
4              1.1           13.3      75.6%   62.02                            r
1997       1               0.8           14.1     80.12   66.0X
2              0.8           14.9      84.7X   70.02               0        -             ,                ,                      _
3              0.7           15.6      88.62   74.02                   133       I      sgs       I                 I      mu,
4              0.7           16.3      92.63    78.02                          134                36              134
1998       1               0.6           16.9     96.02   80.02
2              0.4           17.3      98.32   82.02                                     Fiscal Year (EZercice)
3              0.2           1T.5      99.4X   86.0X
4              0.1           17.6    100.0   90.0X                             Assuming credit effectiveness during the
second quarter of FY93 (Avac l'bypotbpse
19         1                                               94.02                            quo la crEdit entcrra an vigueur au cours                       OQF
2                                              98.02                            du d4suime trimstre de l'eercice 93.)
3                                              99.02
4                                             100.0X                                                                                             0
a:disprof.wki
(nigsar.fin)



UB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~LIBYA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~N I G E RUBAw
POPULATION PROJECT
CR D                PROJET POPULATION
0t~~~~OM0f WAT                                                'to                                                   }
'  - .  . 39 diET                            /                                                              v
0?    yfK    7                                   AdilMA 
*  
RuftQmtom4*rAE4rBib
vuasozcnONNEES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T~.. astpsadb
BURKINA    KIA                                                                                                      CHAD___ _
CAM"HOMME                             GoU         AWM
= =AMWMMW*'~~~~~ DIJ1ST                        '       GAE
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                    Wsn!  a_ an  
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZNE CW  V                                                               0,.
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ia. fftSs                                    of TheW rkf0
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MAREDI hGcof  wowa                        /                                    /
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gt w rw or Qy fti-{o
,E  A -OU i     _        {       AOu           ,_                   \ 
_    -t             \    tgR                  7   \tANOUt iZINDS  m                 5             / ~~~~~~~DARdUNs
|t BURKINA                                            N' I G E R I A              W.         E     6 ,'  4 V



