Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2360 NIR
                   Development Credit Agreement
                       (Population Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated May 22, 1992
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2360 NIR
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 22, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from Kingdom of Belgium
(Belgium) a grant (the Belgian Grant) in an amount equivalent to two
and a half million dollars ($2,500,000) to assist in financing part
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the Belgian Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and Belgium;
      (C)   pursuant to the Country Operations Program (1990-94)
concluded between the Borrower and the United Nations' Children Fund
(UNICEF), the Borrower has agreed with UNICEF to apply the proceeds
of a grant (the UNICEF Grant) in an amount equivalent to one million
dollars ($1,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in the said Country Operations
Program; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
Page  2
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (b)   "CONAPO" means the commission established under
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 of this Agreement;
      (c)   "DFEPS" means Direction de la Formation et de
L'Education pour la Sante of MSP;
      (d)   "FP" means Family Planning;
      (e)   "IEC" means information, education and communication;
      (f)   "MCCJS" means Ministere de la Communication, de la
Culture, de la Jeunesse et des Sports;
      (g)   "MCH" means maternal and child health;
      (h)   "MDSPPF" means Ministere du Developement Social, de la
Population et de la Promotion de la Femme;
      (i)   "MEF" means Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances;
      (j)   "MEN" means Ministere de l'Education Nationale;
      (k)   "MI" means Ministere de l'Interieur;
      (l)   "MSP" means Ministere de la Sante Publiaue;
      (m)   "NGO" means non-governmental organization;
      (n)   "ORTN" means Office de Radiodiffusion et Television du
Niger;
      (o)   "PCU" means Project Coordination Unit;
      (p)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated July 12, 1988 and
September 23, 1988, between the Borrower and the Association; and
      (q)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twelve million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 12,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
Page  3
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (l/2 of l%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
l%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 2002 and ending April l, 2032. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on April 1, 2012 shall be one
percent (l%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
Page  4
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
through MSP and MDSPPF, Part B of the Project through MSP, MDSPPF
and MCCJS, and Part C of the Project through MDSPPF, MEF and MI,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, technical and public health practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, not
later than October 31, 1993 and, thereafter, not later than October
31 of each subsequent year, undertake a joint review of the Project
or, in the case of the review to be undertaken not later than
October 31, 1995, a mid-term review, during which they shall
exchange views on all matters relating to the progress of the
Project and the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under
this Agreement and, in particular, (i) evaluate the activities of
the Project for the current fiscal year, (ii) consolidate the
proposed work program for the forthcoming fiscal year, and (iii) in
the case of the mid-term review, review the institutional
arrangements governing MCH/FP services, assess their efficiency and,
if need be, agree on any corrective action required to remedy any
shortcoming that may have become apparent in this regard.
      (b)   Not later than one month prior to each such review, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the progress and status of the Project, and on all other related
matters due to be addressed during such review.
      (c)   Following each such review, the Borrower undertakes to
Page  5
act promptly and diligently, in order to take any corrective action
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the
implementation of the Project, or to implement such other measures
as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of
the objectives of the Project.
      (d)   Without limitation to the preceding paragraphs (a), (b)
and (c) of this Section, the Borrower shall, throughout the period
of implementation of the Project, submit to the Association, for its
review: (a) semiannual reports on the progress of implementation of
the Project; and (b) not later than the end of each fiscal year, the
final draft of the annual work program and budget, duly approved by
MDSPPF, for activities to be undertaken during the forthcoming
fiscal year.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that the said accounts and records shall
                  be audited on a semiannual basis by said
                  auditors, who shall prepare audit reports
                  accordingly and furnish them to the Association,
                  not later than three (3) months after the end of
                  such semiannual audit period, along with an
                  opinion as to whether the statements of
Page  6
                  expenditure submitted during such period,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that:
      (a)   Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
            (i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                  proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                  Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
                  have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                  whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof;
            (ii)  any such loan shall have become due and payable
                  prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
      (b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obli-
gations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has published an Arrete to define the
structure of the proposed decentralized regional health system,
including the roles and functions of the departments and districts
in the administration and management of the decentralized health
program, and has adopted its proposals for a personnel recruitment
and redeployment plan for the period 1993-95;
      (b)   the Borrower has adopted an action plan, acceptable to
the Association, establishing guidelines for the extension of the
drug distribution network, as well as procedures for the intro-
duction of the national essential drugs list;
      (c)   the Borrower has adopted revised departmental in-service
training modules for MCH/FP and nutrition, acceptable to the
Association, including the detailed in-service training plan for the
first two years of Project implementation;
      (d)   the Borrower has adopted a statute, acceptable to the
Association, governing the proposed inter-regional family health
center in Zinder and giving details of the organizational structure,
and the role and functions, of the center, and its proposed staffing
plan;
      (e)   the Borrower has published an Arrete defining the norms
and standards, which shall be acceptable to the Association, for the
provision of MCH/FP at each service delivery level;
Page  7
      (f)   the Borrower has published an Arrete, (i) authorizing
newly-recruited village health workers to provide refills for
hormonal contraceptives, as well as supplies of barrier methods, and
(ii) defining the revised checklist to be used to screen new FP
acceptors and other modalities for its utilization;
      (g)   the Borrower has (i) adopted the by-laws and regulations
governing the administration of the Population Fund, together with
the manual of procedures and the standard contract to be entered
into with would-be beneficiaries of the Fund, and (ii) established
a committee for the selection of sub-projects to be financed under
the Fund;
      (h)   the Arrete establishing the committee referred to in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 of this Agreement has been duly issued;
      (i)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association, for
review and comments, the draft bidding documents for all bid
packages for the first year of implementation of the Project;
      (j)   the Borrower has concluded a contract with an
independent auditor, acceptable to the Association, to audit the
Project accounts in accordance with the requirements of Section 4.01
of this Agreement; and
      (k)   the Borrower has satisfied the Association that it has
concluded appropriate agreements with other co-financiers in view of
securing all the complementary financing required for the execution
of the Project, and has satisfied all the conditions precedent
thereof, other than any such condition related to the effectiveness
of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
            B.P. 862
            Niamey
            Niger
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINIPLAN                 5463 NI
                  Niamey
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
Page  8
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                2,600,000        100%
(2) Vehicles, equipment,       3,200,000        100%
    furniture, materials
    and supplies, and
    contraceptives
(3) Service                      600,000        100%
    contracts
(4) Consultancies              1,100,000        100%
(5) Training                   2,100,000        100%
(6) Population Fund              400,000        80%
(7) Micro-projects               400,000        80%
(8) Operating costs:
    (a)  PCU                     380,000        100%
    (b)  Other                   800,000        75%
(9)  Refunding of                320,000        Amount due
     Project                                    pursuant to
     Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                    of this Agreement
(10) Unallocated               1,000,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                12,900,000
Page  9
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating
costs" means the incremental costs arising under the Project on
account of salaries of local contractual staff, travel and
subsistence expenses, operation and maintenance of vehicles and
equipment, documentation and office supplies; and including, in
the case of PCU only, utilities.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
implementing an effective national population program, primarily
to accelerate the onset of fertility decline by increasing the
contraceptive prevalence rate as rapidly as possible, reduce
maternal mortality and promote attitudes favoring a reduction in
family size norms.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Strengthening of Maternal Health and FP Services
1.    Adoption of a program to support measures designed to
promote the decentralization process, through: (a) a better
definition of the roles and functions of the departments and
districts in the administration and management of a decentralized
health system, and (b) a personnel redeployment and recruitment
plan.
2.    Strengthening departmental and district in-service technical
and management training capabilities, through implementation of
the revised departmental in-service training modules for MCH/FP
developed during Project preparation, for the benefit of the
majority of personnel assigned to the departments.
3.    Increasing access to, and improving the quality of, maternal
health and FP services:
      (a)   at the departmental level, through construction,
equipping and staffing of the inter-regional family heath center
in Zinder, that would take an active part in the implementation,
monitoring and evaluation, and periodic review, of MCH/FP and
nutrition norms and standards, and training programs;
      (b)   at the district level, through construction and
equipping of new facilities, and the construction and renovation
of staff houses, at nine selected medical centers, in order to
expand the range of services offered by those centers, in
accordance with the new norms of service delivery, to include pre-
and post-natal services, FP services, nutrition rehabilitation,
and nutrition and health education;
      (c)   at the dispensary level, through expansion of the
functions of rural dispensaries to incorporate early detection of
high-risk pregnancies and their referral to medical centers,
provision of hormonal contraceptives and barrier methods, and the
resupply of contraceptives to village health teams within their
catchment area;
      (d)   by strengthening the village health team system, and
organizing adequate back-up care and supervision by para-medical
personnel at the dispensary level; and
      (e)   by encouraging NGOs and other private sector agents to
Page  10
participate in the provision of FP services, including community
participation.
Part B:     Promotion of Family Welfare and Women's Status
1.    A program designed to increase knowledge and use of modern
contraceptive methods, including safe motherhood practices,
through:
      (a)   expanding mass media communication by strengthening
the institutional capacity of DFEPS and building a strong
partnership with ORTN;
      (b)   strengthening interpersonal communication organized
through para-medical personnel and social workers;
      (c)   organizing listeners' groups at the village level; and
      (d)   expanding IEC activities of voluntary associations
such as women's associations, youth groups, and other community
action groups, including NGOs and other private sector agents
2.    Promoting the status of women through:
      (a)   expanded support for community initiatives and micro-
enterprises in selected departments, by improving women's access
to appropriate production technologies and reinforcing their
capacity for self-management of income-generating activities;
      (b)   extension of ongoing programs designed to increase
functional literacy; and
      (c)   strengthening the institutional capacity of MDSPPF to
plan, coordinate, monitor and evaluate women's programs both at
the central level and in the three selected departments.
3.    Strengthening of nutrition interventions through training of
selected health personnel at the department and district levels in
nutrition program planning, coordination, monitoring and
evaluation.
Part C:     Strengthening of Population Policy Analysis, Research
            and Coordination
1.    Strengthening the capacities of MDSPPF, MEF and MI to
collect basic demographic and socioeconomic data on a regular
basis, through:
      (a)   improvement in the coverage of the vital registration
system through: (i) in-service training and retraining of
registration agents of the Ministry of Interior; (ii) motivation
campaigns and awareness building among local administrators and
community leaders and the communities in general; and (iii)
improving the quality of data obtained from the nomadic population
by developing special registration forms in the local languages;
      (b)   establishment of a national register of localities
that would provide basic statistics on all localities in the
country, identifying their main features and updated on a regular
basis; and support for second-generation analysis of existing
data, to improve the information base for planning and to build up
an analytical capacity at the central level to undertake quality
research; and
      (c)   strengthening the capacity of planning units in key
sectoral ministries, both at the central and at the departmental
levels, in the application of demographic data in their sectoral
plans.
2.    Strengthening the institutional capacity for the promotion
and coordination, and for the monitoring and evaluation, of the
national population policy, through support for the permanent
Page  11
secretariat of CONAPO.
3.    Establishment of a Population Fund, with an amount of $1.0
million equivalent, to provide grant financing for activities and
programs that contribute to the implementation of the national
population policy.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
3.    Goods shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection by
a third party inspection firm.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.l hereof, goods manufactured in
Niger may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $700,000 and
civil works up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,900,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association; provided, however,
that (a) no preference shall be allowed in favor of local
contractors and suppliers; (b) foreign bidders shall be given an
opportunity to participate in the bidding process; (c) all
evaluation criteria shall be specified in quantitative terms in
the bidding documents; (d) the time period allowed for bid
preparation shall not be less than 30 days; and (e) no contract
shall be negotiated without the prior approval of the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$30,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items to be financed under Categories 6
and 7 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
Page  12
final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for works, goods and
services, estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect
of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule S to
this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall establish by Arrete an Interministerial
IEC Technical Committee, consisting of representatives of MDSPPF,
MCCJS, MSP, MEF, MI, MEN and ORTN, to review and approve annual
programs for IEC activities, provide a forum for discussing the
scheduling of campaigns and media production, and supervise the
overall technical progress of IEC activities.
2.    The Borrower shall establish a National Commission on
Population Activities (CONAPO) to coordinate, monitor and evaluate
the national population policy.
3.    The Borrower shall adopt, not later than one year after the
Effectiveness Date: (a) guidelines, satisfactory to the
Association, for the establishment of a nationwide cost recovery
program in the health sector; and (b) a five-year plan, which
shall also be satisfactory to the Association, for the financing
of department and district health operations, including directives
for budgetary allocations by departments and districts.
4.    The Borrower shall implement, in accordance with the
timetable and other modalities specified thereunder: (a) the
decentralized health program, and personnel and redeployment plan,
referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement; (b) the
guidelines and procedures referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this
Agreement; and (c) the guidelines and five-year plan referred to
Page  13
in the preceding paragraph of this Schedule.
5.    The Borrower shall (a) make available to the beneficiaries
of the Population Fund appropriate portions of the amount
allocated to the Fund, to finance activities and programs that
contribute to implementation of the national population policy, in
accordance with agreements entered into in that regard between the
Borrower and the beneficiaries, and on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association; and (b) in the case of any proposed
grant in excess of CFAF 3,000,000, submit the corresponding
proposal to the Association for its prior review and approval.
6.    The Borrower shall ensure at all times that (a) the PCU
shall be adequately equipped and staffed, and capable of providing
day-to-day coordination of all Project activities, including
administrative and financial matters, as well as monitoring and
evaluation, and (b) all higher-level positions of the PCU,
including that of Project Coordinator, shall be kept filled by the
requisite number of staff, all of whom shall have qualifications
and experience acceptable to the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 to 8
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to CFAF 300,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account
                  at such intervals as the Association shall
                  specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  the documents and other evidence required
                  pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                  payment or payments in respect of which
Page  14
                  replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                  such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                  of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                  Account and deposit into the Special Account
                  such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                  and as shall have been shown by said documents
                  and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                  Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
Page  15
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
