Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5956
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
FIRTST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TO THE PARAPUBLIC SECTOR
(CREDIT 764-SE)
December 2, 1985
Western Africa Regional Office
Tbis docaunt has a restied distibutom and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
tlir offica dutes. Its contemts may ot othrwise be disdosed withot World lak authoizaton.



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS USED
ACC            Agent Comptable Central des Etablissements Publics, MEF
BOM            Bureau Organisation et Methodes, SG/PR
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CEP            Centre des Etablissements Publics (ACC+COF), MEF
CFP            Controle Financier de la Presidence, SG/PR
CNCA           Commission Nationale des Contrats de l'Administration,
SG/PR
COF            Controle des Operations Financieres, MEF
CPSP           Caisse de Perequation et de Stabilisation des Prix
CVCCEP         Commission de Verification des Comptes et de
Contr^ole des Etablissements Publics, Cour Supreme
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
DTAI           Direction du Traitement Automatique de l'Information, MEF
EP             Etablissement Public
EPA            Etablissement Public a caractere Administratif
EPIC           Etablissement Public a caractere Industriel ou
Commercial
EPP            Etablissement Public a caractere Professionnel
ESGE           Ecole Superieure de Gestion des Entreprises, Dakar
FY             Fiscal Year (July to June: Senegal and IDA)
GESP           Groupe d'Etudes du Secteur Parapublic
IUT            Institut Universitaire de Technologie, Dakar
MEF            Ministere de 1'Economie et des Finances
ONCAD          Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au
D6veloppement
OPT            Office des Postes et Te1lcommunications du SEn6gal
PCR            Project Completion Report
PE             Public Enterprise (generic term)
PMU            Project Management Unit
RCFS           Regie des Chemins de Fer du Senegal
SAED           Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des
Terres du Delta
SEM            Societe d'Economie Mixte
SENELEC        Societe Nationale d'Electricite
SG/PR          Secretariat General de la Presidence de la Republique
SICAP          Socifte Immobiliare du Cap-Vert
SN             Societe Nationale
SODESP         Socifte de Developpement de l'Elevage de la
Zone Sylvo-Pastorale
SOMIVAC        Socifte pour la Mise en Valeur de la Casanance
SONACOS        Socifte Nationale de Commercialisation des
Oleagineux du Senegal
SONAR          Societe Nationale d'Approvisionnement du monde Rural
RCFS           Regie des Chemins de Fer du Senegal
TA             Technical Assistance
TOR            Terms of Reference
USB            Union Senegalaise de Banque



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL - FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TO THE PARAPUBLIC SECTOR
(CREDIT 764-SE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface .........................................    i
Basic Data Sheet .........................................   ii
Highlights .........................................    v
I.   PROJECT BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES ........................................    1
II.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............               ............................    2
A. Audit Program ...2................                                                     2
B.   Strengthening of Government Oversight Agencies ......................   4
a) Strengthening of CFP          ....................................               4
b) Strengthening of CEP           ...................................               5
C.   Assistance to the Government's Data Processing Department ...........    6
D. Training ...............................   7
E. Measurable Results .................                       ...                         7
III. MAJOR ISSUES ..............................................................   8
A. Project Design ........... ..                                                          8
a) Government Oversight vs. Enterprise Autonomy .....................   8
b) Dispersion of Resources among Competing Agencies .................  10
c) Choice of Key Institutions for Implementation of the Reform ......    10
d) Assessing the Need for Resident Advisors .........................  11
B.   Government Commitment and Implementation Capacity ........               ...........  12
C.   Project Management Unit - GESP Chairmanship ......... ..               ..............  12
D.   IDA Supervision ......... ................            ............................  13
IV.  CONCLUDING REMARKS  ......................................................  14
Attachment: Comments from the Borrower .................          ..      .....................  16
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Project Background and Preparation ..................................  18
Annex 2 - Project Management ..................................................  26
Annex 3 - Project Supervision ................................. 29
Annex 4 - Strengthening of the Parapublic Oversight System ....................  31
Annex 5 - Technical Assistance to the DTAI ....................................  43
Annex 6 - Audits of Public Enterprises ........................................  45
Annex 7 - Training Component ............            ......................................  50
Annex 8 - Organigram of Parapublic Oversight System ...........................  55
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its conlenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL - FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TO THE PARAPUBLIC SECTOR
(CR. 764-SE)
PREFACE
This report is an evaluation of the First Technical Assistance
Project to the Parapublic Sector supported by Credit 764-SE. The credit was
approved in January 1978 and closed in November 1982. The Project Completion
Report was prepared by the Public Enterprise Unit of the Western Africa
Regional Office of the Bank, and is based on a review of the Senegal
Parapublic Sector Report (No. 1619a-SE), dated June 1, 1977, the President's
Report (No. P-1244 SE), dated January 5, 1978, the Development Credit
Agreement dated March 17, 1978, internal Bank memoranda and reports on
project preparation and supervision, progress reports prepared by the project
director and the resident advisors financed under the project, a completion
report prepared by the Borrower dated June 25, 1984 and other documents from
the Bank's files or provided by the Borrower. A mission visited Senegal in
July 1984 to interview officials involved in the project; consultants and
Bank staff involved in the project were also interviewed.
This report is divided into two parts. The project completion
report proper, and a series of annexes providing detailed information on
facts and issues relating to project preparation and implementation. The
draft report was sent to the borrower for comments; the comments of the
Director of the Second Technical Assistance Project are shown in the
attachment to the report. The credit has not been audited by the Operations
Evaluation Department.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL - FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TO THE PARAPUBLIC SECTOR
(CREDIT 764-SE)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal      Actual or
Expectations   Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)              7.9                7.9
Credit Amount (US$ million)                   6.0                6.3
Disbursed and outstanding                    -                 6.3
Date Physical Components Completed       June 30, 1982    June 30, 1982
Proportion Completed by above                100%               100%
Date
Economic Rate of Return                       NA                 NA
Financial Performance                         NA                 NA
Institutional Performance                                       weak
NA = Not Applicable
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original Plan                  Actual
First mention in files or timetable             -                 February 1977
Government's Application                                          February 1, 1977
Identification                             February 1977          February 15, 1977
Appraisal                                  June 1977              July 4-15, 1977
Decision Memorandum                        August 12, 1977        August 10, 1977
Negotiations                               January 3, 1978        Dec. 12 and 13, 1977
Board Approval                             February 21, 1978      January 24, 1978
Credit Agrepment Date                      March 1978             March 17, 1978
Effectiveness                              April 1978             June 6, 1978
Expected Comple-ion date                   June 30, 1982          June 30, 1982
Closing Date                               December 31, 1982      November 16, 1982
Borrower                                   Republic of Senegal
Executing Agency                           Office of the Prime Minister
Fiscal year of Borrower                    July 1 - .'une 30
Follow-on Project Name                     Second Parapublic Technical Assistance
Project
Credit Number                           Cr. 1398-SE
Credit Agreement Date                   August 10, 1983
Credit Amount                           SDR 10.2 million (US$ equivalent 11 million)
PPF214                                  October 15, 1982



- iii -
DISBURSEMENTS BY FISCAL YEAR
(US$ million)
FY79      FY80       FY81      FY82       FY83
ANNUAL
Appraisal Estimates       1.60       2.10      2.10       0.50         -
Actual                    1.03       1.96      1.29       1.64      0.38
Actual as % Estimate        64         93        61        328
CUMULATIVE
Appraisal Estimates       1.60       3.70      5.80       6.30         -
Actual                    1.03       2.99      4.28      5.92        6.3
Actual as Z Estimate        64         81        74         94
DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEGORY
uS$ million;
Appraisal Estimate (DCA)      Actual
(1) Salaries and allowances of                  2.11                  3.24
advisors (including
recruitment costs)
(2) Consulting services                         0.80                  0.70
(3) Auditing services                           1.63                  1.97
(4) Equipment, materials                        0.31                  0.20
and vehicles
(5) Training and                                0.65                  0.19
scholarships
(6) Unallocated                                 0.80                     -
TOTAL                                    6.30                  6.30



- iv -
MISSION DATA
No. of    No. of       Total     Status/
Item           Month/Year           days    persons  Staff weeks   Trend    Date of Report
Identification         February 1977                   1                             February 1977
Appraisal              July 1977             12        6          14                 July 1977
Supervision I          July 1978              6        4          5                  July 1978
Supervision II         April 1979             3        3          2          2/1     April 1979
Supervision III        June 1979              4        1          1          2/1     July 1979
Supervision TV         December 1979         12        1          3          2/1     January 1980
Supervision V          March 1980            12        1          3          2/1     April 1980
Supervision VI         October 1980          12        1          3          2/1     October 1980
Supervision VII        November 1981         10        1          2          1/1     December 1981
Supervision VIII       June 1982 *            6        3          4          1/1     July 1982
Supervision I-VIII    FY79-FY82                                  23
* excludes time spent on appraisal mission for follow up Parapublic TA Project, Cr. 1398-SE
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
(Yearly averages)
Name of Currency : CFA Franc          (CFAF)
1977 (Appraisal year)                    Exchange Rate   US$1 = 246 CFAF
President's Report (Jan. 1978)                             US$1 = 245 CFAF
1978                                                      US$1 = 226 CFAF
1979                                                      US$1 = 213 CFAF
1980                                                      US$l = 211 CFAF
1981                                                      US$1 = 272 CFAF
1982 (Completion year)                                    US$1 = 329 CFAF



-v
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL - FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TO THE PARAPUBLIC SECTOR
(CR. 764-SE)
HIGHLIGHTS
The parapublic technical assistance project to Senegal was the
first parapublic project to be financed by the World Bank Group. The project
was carefully prepared, building on the conclusions of the Bank's 1977 report
on the parapublic sector in Senegal.
The project yielded some important benefits. It contributed to a
significant improvement in the overall quality and timeliness of public
enterprise accounts and other financial documents. It introduced the audit
concept on a large scale and contributed to an increase in accountability of
public enterprise managers (paras. 2-10). It gave the Government a better
picture of the situation and problems of the parapublic sector, and more
importantly established mechanisms to update this information (paras. 11,
17). This may be a contributing factor in the Government's gradual move
(uuder the current President's impulse, who was Prime Minister during this
project's implementation) towards more rational policies regarding the
parapublic sector. By providing a market for audits, the project
significantly strengthened the local accounting profession, in numbers as
well as quantity. These project benefits should now allow the Government to
grant more autonomy to those enterprises whose management has improved and to
relax the stringent regulations that govern most aspects of parapublic
companies' activities.
Nevertheless, implementation and supervision faced many problems.
Instead of promoting a coherent and coordinated Government oversight system,
the project strenghtened the various agencies' powerbase (para. 12);
agencies' responsibilities overlapped which resulted in excessive controls
over some enterprises and in insufficient controls over others. Morever, an
agency set up to be a formal financial control agency should not have been
entrusted with the key responsibility of exerting operational and strategic
supervision over the parapublic sector. The importance of a strong project
management unit was underestimated (para. 36). The unit did not intervene to
attempt to coordinate the various agencies' activities, nor did it try to
solve the problems that arose in the execution of the project's components or
to ensure adequate follow-up of the various recommendations made by auditors,
advisors or consultants. Weak supervision only compounded this problem
(para. 37), as did the uneven qual'ty of consultant's work and lack of
Government leadership over the parapublic sector reform process.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL - FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TO THE PARAPUBLIC SECTOR
(CREDIT 764-SE)
I.   PROJECT BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES 1/
1.        The Technical Assistance Project to the Parapublic Sector,
signed on March 17, 1978, was the first of its kind, not only in Senegal
or the West Africa Region but also Bank-wide. Traditionally the Bank
had approached the problems of the parapublic sector through assistance
to specific companies in the context of its various projects. In 1976,
the Bank as well as the Government of Senegal realized that a horizontal
approach was necessary to address problems faced by all or most public
enterprises and by the Government's management of its enterprise
portfolio. A Bank mission was sent to Senegal to prepare a report on
the parapublic sector as a whole, and the Government established an
inter-agency task force on the parapublic sector (GESP).
2.        The Parapublic Sector Report, of which a first draft was
discussed with the Government in the Fall of 1976, emphasized the need
to assign specific objectives to public enterprises (PEs), to find ways
to improve their operations and to develop the Government's strategic
and operational control over the parapublic sector, which had grown
without restraint in the early and mid 1970s. The Government agreed
with the analysis and the recommendations of the Report, and approved a
major reform law of its parapublic oversight system integrating a number
of the Bank's recommendations. It also requested IDA assistance to
implement these reforms.
3.        The reform law (law 77-89) became effective in August 1977.
Following the Report's recommendation that public enterprises be given
more autonomy, it created a new category of wholly Government-owned
public enterprises, 2/ the Societes Nationales (SN), which benefit from
a much larger degree of autonomy than the existing Etablissements
Publics (EP). Law 77-89 also modified the Government's oversight system
1/        Further details on project background and preparation are
provided in Annex 1.
2/        The term public enterprise (PE) refers in the rest of this
report to all SNs, all EPICs, and all SEMs in which the
Government has a majority stake or that are submitted to CFP
controls by decree.



over the parapublic sector substantially. 3/   It located the main
responsibility for overall financial oversight over the parapublic
sector and for control over the SNs, the mixed companies - Societes
d'Economie Mixte (SEM) -, and selected EPs to a special parapublic
division to be established in the Controle Financier de la Presidence
(CFP), the Presidency's financial control agency.
4.        The IDA project was identified in February 1977 and appraised
in July 1977, after approval by the Cabinet of the parapublic reform
bill; the Credit became effective in June 1978.  The project's
objectives as summarized in the President's Report were to support the
Government's reform program by i) improving the efficiency of Government
agencies in charge of strategic analysis, operational supervision and
formal financial control over the parapublic sector; and ii) upgrading
the auditing, financial management and accounting procedures for the
sector as a whole and for a number of the most important public
enterprises in particular.
5.        The Credit financed i) eight expatriate advisors to three
Government oversight agencies for a three-year period while calling for
a substantial increase in their local staff; ii) audits of seven public
enterprises and technical assistance to two of these enterprises
(compared to four envisaged at appraisal); and iii) a training program
for the staff of the oversight agencies, for Government representatives
on the boards of public enterprises and for public enterprise staff.
During implementation various components were added to the initial
project design.
II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
6.        The implementation of the various project components is
reviewed in detail in Annexes 4 to 7. Major highlights are reviewed in
this section.
A.   Audit Program
7.        The audit program was the project's most successful component.
Beyond the direct benefit of a greater reliability of company accounts
the audits provided a greater awareness i) of the weakness of the
existing accounting systems; ii) of the precise situation and problems
of the audited companies; and iii) of the usefulness of audits, which
hitherto had not been widespread in Senegal. They allowed to build up
the Senegalese accounting profession through: i) the establishment of
additional local firms; ii) joint ventures between such firms and
3/
An organigram of the Parapublic Oversight System is provided
under Annex 8.



- 3 -
established international firms; iii) return of Senegalese auditors
working abroad, lured back by an increased demand for top-level
Senegalese auditors; and iv) general improvement in the quality of local
auditing. The award of audit contracts to joint ventures of local and
foreign firms was a very positive mechanism for the transfer of
know-how, and was continued under the follow-up project; similar
mechanisms should be explored for the transfer of know-how in other
fields, such as management consulting.
8.        The audit component under the project was designed as a pilot
project to be replicated if successful. Managed by CVCCEP, it allowed
this judiciary audit agency to expand its work program to a larger
number of companies. The audits led other parapublic companies not
included in the project to request the inclusion of their company in
future audit programs and in some cases to finance their own limited
audits in order to establish data on which management could assess
performance and base its policy decisions. The experience gained under
the first parapublic project led to improvements in the design of audit
programs under the follow-up project. With one exception, it appeared
that the accounts of the companies audited under the project were so
poorly kept that full scale audits were not warranted; what these
companies needed first and foremost was accounting assistance.  The
project provided such accounting assistance to two of the seven audited
companies. An important lesson to be drawn from this component is the
opportuneness of adapting auditors' TOR to the specific situation of
each company, mainly by deciding on the optimal mix and phasing of
classical auditing and technical assistance (for accounting, systems and
procedures, etc.). When the available information on the company's
situation is not sufficient to make that determination, the contracts
should allow for enough flexibility to modify the TOR in view of the
needs that will emerge from the first phase of the auditors'
intervention.
9.        The major shortcoming of the audit program was the inadequate
implementation of the auditor's recommendations.  One reason for this
was weak monitoring by management, Government and IDA. Indeed, audits
are not an end in themselves and become fully effective only if they are
used as a key input in the management or oversight of the company. We
would recommend that future audits be to the extent possible focussed
either on PEs included in the Bank's lending program, or on PEs whose
importance is such that a Bank division is willing to formally allocate
the necessary staff resources to monitor the audit and the
implementation of its recommendations.    Audits of other companies
should be financed by the Bank if sufficient conditions or guarantees
are present; these could cover PEs identified as potential candidates
for divestiture or liquidation, for example; they could also include PEs
which are closely monitored by another donor or by a Government agency.
Follow-up of the implementation of audit recommendations by the various
oversight agencies has also left much to be desired. A better division
of responsibilities and closer cooperation between these agencies is
necessary. CFP should be made formally responsible for monitoring such
implementation by the companies on an on-going basis and for assisting
companies where needed.  CVCCEP, which alreadv reviews the auditor's



- 4 -
reports in plenary sessions and addresses official recommendations to PE
management, would check on the implementation of these recommendations
when it does its own audits (most PEs are only audited every four or
five years by CVCCEP).
10.       Now that the principle and practice of external audits of PEs
has been established in Senegal, the first priority should be to
optimize their use as an effective management tool. To fully justify
the US$2.0 million spent on these audits, improvements in company
management would need to exceed substantially the marginal levels
achieved by project completion.
B.   Strengthening of Government Oversight Agencies
11.       The main objective of the Project was to support the reform of
the parapublic sector oversight system introduced by law 77-89. A major
benefit of the project in this area was the substantial improvement in
the quality and availability of data on the parapublic sector made
possible by the closer monitoring of these companies. This has allowed
the Government to have a better idea of the enterprises' performance,
and is also starting to provide the basis on which sounder sectoral and
macroeconomic strategies can be built.
12.       The strengthening of the various oversight agencies also had
its drawbacks.  Indeed it reinforced each agency's powerbase, at the
expense of overall coordination and resulted in a relatively inefficient
and bureaucratic oversight system. The weak PMN1 did not make a serious
attempt to integrate the various components i-1    coherent whole.
Various coordination instances were established, but had no authority to
effectively coordinate and could not prevent the agency heads from
trying to build up their own agency. A lack of cooperation between
ministers at the cabinet level amplified this problem. These issues are
further discussed in Section III (Major Issues). The strengthening of
the various oversight agencies makes it now even more difficult to
restructure the government oversight system around clearly defined
tasks.
a)   Strengthening of CFP
13.       As is explained in par 32 below, the choice of CFP as the
centerpiece of the parapublic oversight system was not a fortunate
decision. CFP management was not committed to the project's objectives
and it took a long time before an acceptable division chief was
appointed to head the newly established parapublic division. Although
the appointment of a competent CFP division chief was a condition of
negotiations, it was later dropped when all other conditions were
fulfilled; this was a mistake.  The sudden influx of four technical
assistants in an agency that did not have any befote and was used to a
very independent way of operating also caused maijr problems. The lack
of unity within the TA team and their insensitivity to Senegalese work
methods and priorities made matters even more difficult.  Conflicts



- 5 -
between CFP staf' and the TA team were endemic, centering on opposite
management styles and personality conflicts.
14.       At the stage of project preparation, precautions had been
taken to guarantee adequate and gradual recruitment procedures to
build-up CFP. However, the trippling of staff envisioned over a period
of two to three years, and which actually occurred over a one-year
period (from eight in 1978 to about 25 in January 1979), was too much
for CFP to absorb.  Similarly, recruiting and retaining high level
national staff with experience in administration and business
management, which was called for by the DCA, may be seen as unrealistic
due to relatively unattractive salaries for managers and lack of
promising career prospects and incentives.   Most recruits lacked
adequate experience or a strong background in finance. Training was
provided i) on-the-job by the TA team; ii) through internships in
foreign accounting firms; and iii) through seminars organized by BOM.
However, the absence of career prospects at CFP has led to a high
turnover in staff whose career prospects after a few years of training
and experience at CFP are much better in private or parapublic
enterprises than at CFP.  Although this high turnover had adverse
effects on the development of CFP's capabilities, it had positive
side-effects through the transfer of trained state controllers to
management positions in public enterprises. In order to build up CFP's
capabilities, it would have been necessary to establish attractive
career prospects to retain the best staff.
15.       The President's Report had identified the recruiting and
retaining of suitable Senegalese at CFP as a major project risk, but not
much was done to find a satisfactory solution to this problem. Finding
suitable advisors and ensuring their cooperation with local staff was
also identified as a project risk.  IDA staff was heavily involved in
the selection of consultants (with disappointing results however) but
did not attempt to solve accute problems between technical assistants
and local staff when such problems arose.
16.       A major weakness in the implementation of this project
component, however, was due to the opposite views held by CFP management
on the one hand and the TA team and IDA on the other hand regarding the
agency's mandate and priorities. Indeed, CFP management never agreed to
take on the strategic supervision of the sector as a whole, preferring
to limit its role to the less controversial function of formal control,
whereas IDA considered strategic analysis of the parapublic sector as a
key functi n of CFP.
b)   Strengthening of CEP
17.       Tne assistance to CEP, the agency in the Ministry of Finance
in charge of EPs, was more successful (especially at ACC). This success
was to a large extent due to the quality of management and TA as well as
a clear mutual understanding of the objectives of the assistance. The
TA team worked in close cooperation with CEP management and staff.



Their contribution in training CEP staff and strengthening CEP and in
improving EPs' budgeting, accounting and financial management was very
valuable.
18.       The progress achieved in EP management and financial systems
should have made possible the phase-out of a priori controls and of the
central treasury pooling scheme 4/ , as was expected at project
appraisal.  The last two directors of COF, the department within CEP in
charge of a priori controls, agreed that the phase-out of these
cumbersome controls would allow companies to recover the degree of
autonomy that is necessary to successfully manage a public enterprise
and would enable CEP to redeploy staff resources from unproductive
controls, which take up more than 75% of their time, to management
assistance. There was a built-in tension in this component between the
short-term objective of strengthening EPs' accounting and financial
procedures by strengthening CEP and the longer-term objective of
increasing EP autonomy by phasing out a priori controls and the central
treasury pooling system.  Phasing out of a priori controls and
introducing a more flexible treasury system (if not an autonomous
enterprise treasury) for the industrial and commercial EPs are
objectives on which most parties seem to agree and that should be
further pursued under the follow-up project. In case such a program is
implemented, the role of CEP will have to be reassessed. Should CEP be
involved in the business of management assistance, or should another
agency (we think of BOM in particular) take over such responsibility?
As CFP and CVCCEP also claim a role in management assistance to PEs, the
future role of CEP would have to be reassessed in the broader context of
a general restructuring of the Senegalese parapublic oversight system.
C.   Assistance to the Government's Data Processing Department
19.       The assistance provided under the project to the Direction du
Traitement Automatique de l'Information (DTAI), the Ministry of
Finance's data processing department, was the least successful of all
project components.  It provided 36 man/months of technical assistance
mainly for training of DTAI staff and was added during project execution
without proper appraisal, prior TOR or competitive bidding.   The
objectives of the component did not fit into the project's overall
objectives and were not well specified.  This lead to different
interpretations of the contract by the consulting firm and DTAI
management, to numerous conflicts and to a very meager output.  The
implementation of this component was not supervised at all.
4/        EPs do not manage their own treasury operations; they are
"correspondants du Tresor" which means that all their receipts
go to the Finance Ministry (Treasury) which also handles all
their payments.



-7-
D.   Training
20.       On-the-job training was provided by the various TA teams under
the CFP, CEP and DTAI coimponents.  The project's training component
proper was entrusted to the Bureau Organisation et Methodes (BOM) at the
Presidency, which received six man-years of technical assistance to help
manage it. The TA team's effectiveness was seriously undermined by high
turnover (six experts for two position, over a three year period).
Short and longer term seminars were organized for staff of the oversight
agencies, for PE general managers and accountants, as well as for
Government representatives on PE boards.  State controllers and CVCCEP
staff benefited from overseas training in international accounting
firms. The quality of these programs varied widely. The authority of
BOM regarding training of oversight agencies' staff was challenged from
the beginning by the other agencies; the component was not well
integrated in the project.  Various supervision reports characterized
BOM management as weak and lacking initiative. The main weakness of the
component, however, was that it did not establish a permanent system for
the training of the various target groups. With the end of the project
also came the end of most of the --aining activities that had been
initiated under the project. The suggestion made by a 1979 Supervision
Mission of the Training component to transfer training activities from
BOM to ESGE was unfortunately not further examined. Entrusting training
activities to the Dakar management school would most likely have
improved the sustainability prospects of this component.
E.   Measurable Results
21.       The President's Report indentified a number of measurable
results to be achieved by project completion, namely
a)   Improve basic data on the operations of public enterprises:
The final objective was achieved.  By June 1982, detailed
financial data were available on the financial performance of about
90% of the public enterprises, including aggregate data by
sub-sector of the economy and consolidated data for the whole
parapublic sector.
b)   Develop indicators at the sector and company levels to check
on the achievement of development objectives:
The final objective was not achieved. The link between the
Government's overall development objectives and sectoral strategies
on the one hand and company objectives and targets on the other
remains very weak.  The data base referred to above, however,
includes key financial ratios for the enterprises, the sub-sectors
and the parapublic sector as a whole.



- 8 -
c)   Definition and initial implementation of a program of improved
financial management for the enterprises that benefited from
in-depth audits, TA and training:
Partially achieved. Implementation of such a program started
in two of the seven enterprises audited, namely OPT where it was
relatively successful, and SAED where it ran into major
difficulties.
III. MAJOR ISSUES
22.       Four key factors contributed to the problems that arose during
project implementation, namely problems of project design, waning
Government commitment to parapublic sector reform, a weak project
management unit (PMU), and poor supervision from Bank headquarters.
A.   Project Design
23.       In general the project was well prepared, building to a large
extent on the recommendations of the Bank's 1977 Parapublic Sector
Report. The weaknesses mentioned below may be partly explained by
political expediency and lack of prior Bank experience in parapublic
sector management.
a)   Government Oversight vs. Enterprise Autonomy
24.       The Bank's parapublic  sector report,  the Government's
parapublic reform program and the IDA project emphasized primarily the
problems related to the central management of the parapublic sector, and
not the direct assistance to the individual companies. This approach
followed a trend started with the parapublic sector law of 1966, which
created the Centre des Etablissements Publics (CEP) at the Finance
Ministry and established stringent controls on EPs' operations in
exchange for the takeover by Government of their debt burden, and
continued with -he parapublic sector law of 1972 which created CVCCEP,
the parapublic sector auditing agency at the Supreme Court. Centralized
Government control was deemed necessary as a check on PEs' poor
management; simultaneously, the oversight agencies were seen not only as
controllers but also as advisors to the enterprises.
25.       The inherent tension between centralized control and increased
autonomy became a serious problem in this approach. Strengthening
enterprise performance by strengthening Government oversight agencies,
and strengthening Government control by creating new control agencies
turned out to be an internally contradictory and ineffective approach,
dealing with long-term problems through short-term ad hoc responses. To
increase enterprise performance it would have been necessary to grant
management sufficient autonomy, to hold it accountable for the
enterprise's performance and to link such performance with positive or
negative sanctions.   This would have required a change in the
institutional and legal framework governing the parapublic sector, a



break in the tradition of civil-service-style management of public
enterprises in favor of an entrepreneurial style. The strengthening of
oversight agencies, staffed by career civil servants who often resent
the higher pay PE managers get and who are not overly concerned with the
promotion of an entrepreneurial spirit, resulted in closer government
supervision (tutelle) and did not favor increased accountability of PE
managers.
26.       A  second  condition of successful strengthening  of PE
performance not well addressed by the project was the strengthening of
BE management. Assistance to PEs was provided on an experimental basis
to two companies under this project, namely OPT and SAED and was to some
extent successful in the first but not in the latter case.  The
follow-up project now under execution includes the provision of such
assistance to up to thirty public enterprises.
27.       The inadequacy of this "State Control" approach led to the
introduction of the contrats-plans system. The issue of a contractual
form of Government-PE relations had already been raised incidentally in
the Bank's 1977 report (par 6.05): "Supervision needs to be carried out
on a contractual basis for enterprises to be able to manage themselves.
Management by objectives could thus meaningfully be introduced under
which each enterprise would negotiate with Government annually the
targets to be set for it and would then be judged according to the
results it achieved." This interesting idea was not reflected into the
project design, however, but emerged again in 1980 with the introduction
of the contrats-plans (program contracts between a public enterprise and
government) and to a lesser extent with the issuance of "circulaire 008"
introducing budgeting by objectives. When the Government decided in
1980 to modify its oversight mechaaisms over key public enterprises by
introducing the contrat-plan concept, it entrusted the management of
this new instrument to a newly established unit in the Primature
(Cellule des Contrats-plans), and asked IDA to support this unit. 5/
This decision apparently resulted from the failure of CFP to accomplish
the objectives of operational and strategic oversight it had been
assigned under the project; it also reflected the Government's intent to
shift oversight over PEs from control over their operations to
monitoring of the implementation of mutually agreed objectives.  Once
more however, a new agency and new procedures were established, but the
terms of reference of existing agencies remained unchanged and old
procedures remained in effect.
28.        ien if the initial project design can be attributed to the
Bank's inexperience, it is more difficult to see why the approach was
never reconsidered, especially as the performance of virtually all
5/        Cr. 1061 financed the salary of the unit's director.  One may
wonder, however, why the Parapublic Project was not reoriented
to support this new strategy.



- 10 -
enterprises in the sector began to show dramatic deterioration over the
project period, with aggregate operating losses (even excluding ONCAD
and CPSP) increasing according to Bank staff estimates from roughly 6
billion CFAF in 1978 to close to 30 billion CFAF by 1982. (In fact, the
aggregate situation of the sector at the start of the project was a
substantial surplus.) In the face of this, one cannot help but get the
impression that the First Parapublic Project was not getting a handle on
the real problems, and remained oblivious to them throughout its
implementation.
29.       The danger of reinforcing the Government's control apparatus
without concomittant strengthening of PE management and eEtablishment of
a regulatory framework favoring entrepreneurship may be one of the
stronger lessons to be drawn from this project.
b)   Dispersion of Resources among Competing Agencies
30.       The project supported the various oversight agencies on an
individual basis, without clear delineation of each agency's terms of
reference, with little coordination among them and with little
integration of their interventions with the Technical Ministries, the
Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Planning.  Specific project
components were designed for each agency without adequaLe linkages.
31.       Furthermore, the reform introduced by law 77-89 and supported
by the project resulted in practice in a hybrid government oversight
system over public enterprises--modulated on a legal classification of
Etablissements Publics (EP) supervised primarily by CEP on the one hand
and Societes d'Economie Mixte (SEM) and Societes Nationales (SN)
supervised by CFP on the other--that does not rest on solid economic or
managerial grounds but rather on historical ones; e.g., some commercial
and industrial enterprises come under the tight control of CEP and to a
lesser extent the regular supervision of CFP, whereas others are only
under CFP's supervision. This system disperses scarce resources over
different agencies when they could be better put to use in one agency.
c)   Choice of Key Institutions for the Implementation of the Reform
32.       The second important issue in project design was the choice of
CFP, the Presidency's financial control agency, as the main locus for
Government oversight of the parapublic sector. This choice, which was
dictated by decisions made by the Government, was not very fortunate.
First, CFP was not sufficiently associated in the project preparation
although it was to become the centerpiece of the Government's parapublic
oversight system.  This resulted in misunderstandings and differing
views on the agency's mandate and priorities as well as on the technical
assistance team's terms of reference. Second, the objectives assigned
to CFP by the IDA project were too ambitious for an agency perceiving
its function as one of financial control over about seventy public
enterprises and not of macroeconomic and strategic analysis or even of
operational supervision; moreover, the mandate given to CFP by the
reform law clearly emphasized its formal financial control function,



- ii -
which was not reflected in the project designi.  Thilrd, CFP was not under
the authority of the Prime Ministor, wh. w.; the main driving force
behind the parapublic reform progrrnm; iL became difficult for the Prime
Minister to influence CFP management wlho repolrted directly to the
President.  Fourth, no adequate linkages were established between the
Ministry of Economy and Finance, whichi controls the key instruments in
the Government's policy towards thc par;apiublic sector (subsidies, taxes,
debt management, portfolio mangcent, cenLral treastry pooling system
for EPs, controls over EPs, data processing, etc.), and CFP, which was
supposed to be responsible for m -roeconomic and strategic analysis over
the parapublic sector. The in.-ragencv t;ask force on the parapublic
sector (GESP), on which CFP' ard the Ministrv of Finance were represented
and which was to be "responsible for the coordination and the execution
of the project" (DCA, section 3.08(a)(A)(ii)), did not have the
necessary authority or influenret t' coordinate their activities;  this
was compounded by the absence of cabinet-level coordination of the
Government's approach to the parapublic sector.  With hindsight, an
attempt should have been made to involve the Ministrv of Finance more
closely in the oversight of the parapublic sector even though a major
aspect of the reform program supported  by IDA was to remove such
responsibility from this Ministrv in response to its poor past
performance and related political problems; these issues should have
been addressed directlv instead of reshuffling responsibilities among
agencies.
33.       The parapublic project's experience shows that i) the choice
of the proper institution(s) for the m.anagement Lind oversight of the
parapublic sector, ii) a clear delineation (f responsibilities at all
levels, and iii) the establishment of efficient linkages between the
institutions (actors) involved are critical factors for the success of a
parapublic reform program.
d)   Assessing the Need for Resident Advisors
34.       Another  pervasive  issute  during  project  implementation
pertained to the proper role and .rerogatives of resident advisors. The
main lesson is that the preparation of these projects should address the
following questions.  Is there a real need to involve expatriates in the
process, or are there qualified nationals available?  Is there a real
need for resident advisors or could part-time advisors do a more
effective job?   Should resident advisors be in line or in staff
positions, should they have direct authority over local staff, should
they have the right to communicate directly with Cabinet members or high
officials outside their agency? Should their primary function be to run
an agency, to design systems and procedures to have it run efficiently
by national staff, or to train counterparts, or should it be a blend of
the three functions or a gradual shift over the assignment from the
first to the latter?  Also, did the agencies that received such
assistance request it in the first place, and did they get involved in
the preparation and approval of the advisc,rs' TOR?   How should personal
conflicts between resident advisors and agency staff or management be
addressed by the PMU or the IDA supervisors'?  These issuies were not



- 12 -
satisfactorily addressed by the Project.  The TOR of the resident
advisors were not sufficiently defined; their role (advisory,
operational, training) was not clearly identified, which led to
differing interpretations and tensions between the agencies and the
technical assistants. Local staff resented the authority claimed by
some resident advisors. Some agency heads used the advisors as their
personal assistants, entrusting them with specific missions at the
expense of helping build up the agencies' own capabilities.  Also, in
the case of CFP, the influx of four technical assistants was too large
for the agency to absorb.
B.   Government Commitment and Implementation Capacity
35.       Government commitment at project appraisal appeared strong, as
illustrated by the enactment in August 1977 of the parapublic sector
reform law. The Prime Minister was the driving force behind this reform
program, whereas the agencies to be strengthened under the project
reported to the Presidency or the Ministry of Finance.  The only
assistance to the Prime Minister's office came at mid-project in the
form of the part-time secondment of a CFP consultant for the
establishment of a Contrats-plans unit at the Prime Minister's office,
dealing with the negotiation of agreements between key public
enterprises and the Government. The PMU although located at the Prime
Minister's Office did not contribute to the strengthening of that
office. Once the law and the ensuing decrees had been enacted, the
Government apparently did not follow-up on their proper execution or on
the broader objectives of the reform.  Each agency- was allowed to
develop its own approach without any real attempt to coordinate their
activities.   Fading Goverrment commitment to a more rational and
efficient parapublic sector was identified by the appraisal mission and
the President's Report as a project risk.  It seems that the Prime
Minister did not manage to instill this commitment into the key
oversight agencies and ministries.  Clearly, the commitment of one
person, be he Chief of Government or Chief of State, was not sufficient
to secure the support of ministries and agencies in charge of the
implementation of project objectives.  Moreover the Prime Minister
apparently became aware of the need to consolidate the control over the
parapublic sector and the management of the Government's portfolio into
one ministry. Indeed, in January 1980 he suggested that GESP report to
the Minister of Finance rather than to the Prime Minister. IDA opposed
this move and GESP remained at the Primature.
C.   Project Management Unit - GESP Chairmanship
36.       The need to coordinate project management with the management
of the parapublic reform process had been perceived at appraisal. The
DCA (section 3.08(a)) stipulated that GESP, the interagency taskforce on
the parapublic sector, would be responsible for the coordination and the
execution of the project and for the supervision of the PMU. The GESP
chairman was also PMU director; a deputy-director was to be in charge of



- 13 -
the project's day-to-day management. The performance of the successive
project directors (GESP chairmen) and deputy-directors left a lot to be
desired.   The  importance of a strong PMU management and GESP
chairmanship was underestimated; it was felt that it was more important
to place c:ompetent managers in public enterprises or in the oversight
agencies cather than in the PMU (GESP chair), which was perceived
primarily as a unit in charge of project administration and not as the
driving force behind the reform of the parapublic sector.  This left
both the reform and the project without real leadership, and contributed
significantly to weak performance on both fronts. 6/   Fu-thermore, even
the administrative function was not dealt with properly by the PMU.
Further details on project management are provided in Annex 2.
D.   IDA Supervision
37.       The high turnover of project supervisors, the absence of
formal supervision during a full year of project execution, the lack of
feedback and follow-up from headquarters on audit reports and other
project-related documents contributed to the project's weak performance,
despite the Resident Mission's efforts to compensate for headquarters'
shortcomings.  The amount of supervision needed for such a complex
institution-building process was clearly underestimated, as was the
difficulty of coordinating the various Bank divisions' inputs; the
Bank's organizational structure was not well adapted to the needs of the
supervision of a cross-sectoral project of this type.  The project
should have benefited from above average supervision coefficients and
strong cooperation between concerned Bank divisions. The weak IDA
supervision effort was a problem, especially since this was IDA's first
Parapublic TA project, the project generated an enormous number of
reports, a large number of resident advisors and short-term consultants
had to be supervised, and major problems plagued the project throughout
its execution; some project components should have been reassessed or
readjusted during project implementation, when problems arose.  The
project agreement included $100,000 for three interim evaluations and
ore final evaluation of the project by consultants, but this proviso was
unfortunately waived in 1980.  In view of the novelty of this type of
project, it would have been useful to include at least one thorough
interim evaluation after 12 or 18 months involving all concerned
parties.  Such evaluation could have led to the reassessment of the
project and to changes in its design; they would have been extremely
valuable contributions to project supervision and to the preparation of
the follow-up project.   Further details on project supervision are
provided in Annex 3.
61        The follow-up project tried to address this problem by
locating the PMU in the Cellule des Contrats-Plans at the
Presidency.



- 14 -
IV. CONCLUDING REMARKS
38.       Institution building  is a sustained long-term process.
Designing an alternative administrative structure, as was done during
project preparation, sanctioned by law is not sufficient to ensure the
success of the planned reform. Although we believe that the basic
design of the parapublic oversight system and of the internal
organization of CFP, the system's centerpiece, was far from optimal, we
also think it could have been made to work more efficiently during
project execution. In view of the problems that arose, some project
components should have been reassessed. More importance should have
been given initially to making sure we had a real, profound agreement on
project objectives with Government in general and implementing agencies
in particular and to securing adequate leadership and commitment to
implement the parapublic sector reform. Also the lack of mutual
understanding, the absence of real leadership and waning commitment we
noted should have been dealt with more forcefully during project
execution.
i9.      The success of a parapublic operation of this type critically
depends on effective coordination at various levels: i) coordination
between the various agencies and ministries involved in the management
of the parapublic sector; ii) coordination of project components and TA
efforts; iii) coordination at the Cabinet level; iv) coordination of IDA
supervision, and finally v) coordination between these various levels.
The number of actors involved and the cross-sectoral nature of
parapublic issues make the management of such parapublic operations
extremely complex.
40.       The assistance to CVCCEP, CEP, CFP, as well as the various
audits financed under the project have revealed where the main problems
or bottlenecks of public enterprises and of management of the parapublic
sector lie. These diagnoses and recommendations have not always been
followed-up adequately and tend to be repeated in consecutive reports.
More attention should thus be paid to the actual implementation of the
recommendations, which may require specific and punctual assistance.
Identifying what the problems are is one task, for which the controllers
of the oversight agencies are now better equipped; finding ways to solve
them and implementing these solutions is another task which these
agencies have not been able to deal with. The challenge facing the
Government today is to use this vastly improved knowledge of the
parapublic sector to develop innovative and courageous reform programs,
to integrate them in a broader context, to make some tough but necessary
decisions.
41.       The project focussed too much on the control mechanisms and
not enough on the management of the public enterprises. The problems
with this centralizing approach were compounded by the moderate to poor
quality and bureaucratic background of staff in these oversight
agencies. The Structural Adjustment Loan (Cr. 1084-SE/Ln. 1931-SE),
building on the experience of the First Parapublic TA Project disbursed
much of its local funding to parastatal companies which had concluded a



- 15 -
contrat-plan with Government approved by the Bank. This effort, which
also had its problems, was guided by the Prime Minister's contrats-plans
advisor financed under the TA Project for Economic and Financial
Planning (Cr. 1061-SE), which began to turn the Bank's attention toward
helping individual public enterprises. The follow-up parapublic project
changed this emphasis by focussing on the strengthening of the
management of the country's key enterprises.
42.       The need for a follow-up operation had been anticipated in the
President's Report (par 47) "since it will take more than three years to
establish an effective institutional structure for exercising strategic
analysis, operational monitoring, and in some cases, financial control
over companies in the parapublic sector". A project completion report,
or at least a preliminary evaluation report, should have been prepared
prior to the appraisal of IDA's follow-up project, however.



- 16 -
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER (Translation)                           Attachment
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC
SECRETARIAT-GENERAL
Project Unit: Technical Assistance
Project to the Parapublic Sector
Office of the Director                        Dakar, October 21, 1985
Our ref: No. 1,224/PR/SG/CP
The Director
Operations Evaluations Department
Dear Sir:
Subject: Comments on Project Completion Report on First Technical
Assistance Project to the Parapublic Sector (Credit 764-SE).
Thank you for the Project Completion Report on this matter.
Having read it, I should like to make the following remarks:
1.        Audit Program
It is suggested on page 3 of the Report that the audit program
should focus on those public enterprises marked for divestiture or
liquidation.  In our opinion, enterprises to be liquidated should be
excluded from the program, since they are not the subject of auditors'
recommendations. Any audit should, in principle, produce a series of
recommendations on how the enterprise could effect improvements; there is
no point, however, in improving an enterprise in liquidation, since its
dissolution is inevitable. */
*1   IDA comment: The PCR states that the audit program could also cover
public enterprises identified as potential candidates for divestiture
or liquidation. In such cases audits would be used to help decide
whether the enterprise should be privatized or liquidated.



- 17 -
2.        Annex 4: Strengthening of the Parapublic Oversight System
Page 18, B (b): This position title in French should be Chef de
la Division du Secteur parapublic and not Directeur de la Direction du
Secteur parapublic. The discussion here concerns a Division of CFP headed
by a Chief and not a Director.
Page 19, paragraph 18: CFP should be said in French to consist
of three Divisions (and not three Directions), each of which is headed by a
Chief (and not a Director).
3.        Annex 7: Training Component
A number of CEP staff members also received overseas training,
although Section D on page 35 notes only that CFP and CVCCEP staff did
so. **
From my personal viewpoint, the Report provides a full inventory
of the various components of the first technical assistance project to the
parapublic sector. However, since I did not follow execution of all those
components closely, being at the time a member of one particular
institution, I was fully aware only of the part of the project which
involved that institution.
Lastly, on page iv of the Report a list of project disbursements
by category is provided.  In our view, the Report would be still more
useful were it to show, in respect of each institution affected, the
different sums spent under such headings as training, accounting assistance
or audit program, for instance.  This would give a clearer idea of the
overall cost picture to be taken into account in the futire. ***/
Many thanks for having forwarded me a copy of the Report.
Sincerely yours,
/s/ Serigne Ahmadou CAMARA
Director, Second Techrical Assistance
Project to the Parapublic Sector
**/ Comment was incorporated in Annex 7, par. 10.
***/ We agree, but the project's poor accounting practices and the lack of
project audit would make such a breakdown difficult.



- 18 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 8
PROJECT BACKGROUND AND PREPARATION
I.   Bank Parapublic Sector Report
A.   Background
1.        In early 1976 a World Bank mission visited Senegal to study
the parapublic sector. This decision was the result of several factors.
The performance of tbe parapublic sector had become a concern not only
to the Bank but also to Government. The sector accounted for a large
part of economic activity and the accumulating deficits of a growing
number of PEs were a cerain on public finances.   Most Bank Group
projects were channelec through parapublic sector companies whose
generally poor performance financially and operationally was affecting
project implementation.  In some cases, the companies themselves were
judged at fault. In others, however, poor performance had been caused
largely by restrictive Goverrment control, disorderly financial and
management relations between Government and the parapublic sector, and
by lack of clear Government policy towards and effective coordination of
the parapublic sector; the traditional project-by-project approach had
often failed in addressing such problems which were beyond the control
of the projects' management. In suamarizing its preliminary conclusions
the Bank emphasized the need for Government to assign specific
objectives to pnr=public companies, improve its strategic and
operational control over the sector, which had grown without restraint
in the early and mid 1970's, and find ways of improving company
operations.
B.   Findings
2.        The Parapublic Sector Report, discussed with the Government in
November 1976, identified many problems. The Government could not
monitor performance since objectives were rarely clear. In many cases,
Government interfered heavily in company operations. Overstaffing and
high salaries prevented many companies from being efficient and
producing at competitive costs. They were rarely able to finance their
own investments. A few companies accounted for the bulk of the sector's
deficit. There were few trained managers and technicians at the middle
and upper levels, and those selected for top jobs were often civil



- 19 -                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 8
servants whose training in law and public administration was usually
inappropriate for solving problems in parapublic companies. 1/
3.        The report found that Government control of parapublic
companies was diffuse and ineffective, and described supervision by CEP,
(although lacking formal authority) as more effective in influencing
company policy decisions than that done by the Ministry of Finance. The
report referred to the CFP as the agency with the most complete body of
information on public enterprise and stated that "the success of the
Financial Controller proves that a full-time team of highly qualified
persons close to the center of Government strategy-making is necessary
to achieve successful monitoring" (par. 6.12).
C.   Proposed Approach
4.        The Report emphasized the need for Government to define
national and sectoral development priorities including the role of
parapublic companies. Supervisory ministries would be responsible for
implementing national strategy in sectors under their control but should
not interfere in day-to-day operations of companies. Government should
establish contractual relationships (ma agement by objectives) with
public enterprises on an annual basis with precise goals and provision
of adequate financial means and operational autonomy to achieve them.
Monitoring should be designed to collect data and measure public
enterprise performance against a set of operational indicators. With
emphasis on the strategy and monitoring, the control function would
focus on a posteriori financial oversight and audits rather than a
priori financial control which hampered company operations. The report
recommended that Government place less emphasis on "control" - a
curative approach which was not working - and more on prevention through
strategy and monitoring.
D.   Government Reaction to the Report
5.        The Government, particularly the then Prime Minister (now
President), reacted favorably to the report but expressed fear that
without outside help the Government would be unable to implement the
report's recommendations. The Bank's position was that the Goverrment
1/        The report also argued that (i) Government often placed
parapublic companies in impossible financial positions by
keeping tariffs artificially low without providing offsetting
subsidies; (ii) large accounts receivables mainly by the
Government were a major cause of the financial problems; (iii)
many parapublic companies were inadequately capitalized at
their establishment and mnable to realize their objectives;
and made sub-sector specific recommendations for agriculture
(assuring long term financial viability) and tourism (creating
a holding company for Government's scattered investments).



- 20 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 8
needed to make some political decisions about how to reform parapublic
sector control and which institutions should handle the reform, before
the Bank could consider a technical assistance project. Within a day of
his decision on how to reform control of the sector, the Prime Minister
sent an official request to IDA for such assistance (February 1977).
II. Parapublic Sector Reform Law (Law 77-89)
6.        The National Assembly approved a Parapublic Sector Reform Law
(Law 77-89) in August 1977 which changed the organization and basic
legal structure of public enterprises and transferred the primary
responsibility for oversight of the paraptiblic sector to a new
parapublic division at CFP in line with the recommendations contained in
the Bank's report; this shift followed a trend by which each major
parapublic reform law created a new institution (CEP in 1966, CVCCEP in
1972 and parapublic division of CFP in 1977).  IDA reviewed and agreed
to the text of the new reform law.
7.        Law 77-89 classified public enterprises into three categories.
The Societes Nationales (SN), incorporated companies owned by the
Government (or other public entities) to which all corporate laws apply
unless otherwise stated by law or decree;  SNs enjoy a large degree of
autonomy, and are controlled  by CFP.   A  second category,  the
Etablissements Publics (EP), includes administrative agencies (EPA),
professional organizations (EPP) and wholly Government owned commercial
or industrial companies (EPIC). Most EPs are submitted to the controls
of CEP and to a lesser extent CFP, with the exception of a few major
EPICs, which are controlled by Government Commissioners appointed and
supervised by CFP.  The remaining parapublic enterprises are mixed
companies, Societes d'Economie Mixte (SEM), which are controlled by CFP
if the Government has a majority stake in the company or if a special
decree submits a company with minority Government ownership of at least
10% to CFP controls. 2/
8.        Law 77-89 gave the CFP the primary responsibility for the
supervision of SEMs, SNs and selected EPs.  The CFP powers, defined
following the recommendations of the Bank Report, were broad. The law
gave it the right to suspend any decision of the Board of a public
enterprise for two weeks pending a decision by the President of thie
Republic, and the right to conduct any investigation deemed necessary in
a public ent rprise.
9.        The  President's  Reportts  interpretation  of  CFP's  new
responsibilities under law 77-89 was partly accurate and partly a
2/        The term public enterprise (PE) refers in this report to all
SNs, all EPICs, and all SEMs in which the Government has a
majority stake or that are submitted to CFP controls by
decree.



- 21 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 8
reflection of IDA staff views. The table below compares the description
of the law made in the Report with the law and decree 78-085 of February
1978 (taken in execution of law 77-89), which defines CFP's expanded
responsibilities in the following terms: a) the control over the
financial operations of the Government, the local governments and the
public enterprises; and b) the financial information of the President
and the Prime Minister on the management of public finances and of the
entities placed under the Government's control.
President's Report                        Law (L) / Decree (D)
A. Strategic Analysis of PP Sector 1/        A.  Financial Information of
the President and Prime
Minister on Management of
PEs (D) (no mention of
strategic analysis)
including advising Government on:
1 - sub-sector policies                           1 - no mention
2 - creation of new companies                     2 - creation of new
SEMs and capital
increases (L art. 20)
3 - large capital expenditures                    3 - profitability of
investment programs
prepared by SEMs
and SNs (L art. 20)
4 - annual company budgets                        4 - same, but control
function
B. Operational Supervision
1 - monitor implementation of objectives          1 - no reference
given by Government to PEs
2 - anticipate problem area through               2 - no reference
supervision of company management                 (permanent control over
SNs and SEMs; L. art. 20)
D. Formal Control
ex post facto formal financial control            formal  financial  and
over SEMs and over two EPICs                     management control (ex
post facto and in real
time) of SEMs, SNs and
selected EPICs (L. and
D.)



- 22 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 8
1/ The DCA (Schedule 2, Part A (i)) describes this strategic role of
CFP as the primary objective of this project component.  "Development
within CFP of an appropriate follow-up and control system to meet
medium and long-term targets of the Parapublic Sector."
The above table indicates that the Law or the ensuing Decree did not
establish CFP as an agency responsible for overseeing or advising on
economic aspects of the parapublic sector, but primarily on financial
aspects. The decree lists the various responsibilities entrusted to the
Financial Controller, which are all related to the central function of
CFP, namely ensuring that public funds are spent properly (appropriately
and legally), with the emphasis on the respect of the Senegalese
legislation (including the National Plan). Furthermore, the Law (art.
19) refers to the Ministry of Finance as the agency responsible for the
overall management of the Government's portfolio.
III. Project Preparation and Appraisal
10.       The project was identified in February 1977, but appraisal was
delayed until law 77-89 was approved by the Cabinet and President
Senghor. Appraisal took place in July 1977 and the parapublic reform
law was voted by the National Assembly in August 1977.
A.   Initial Project Design
11.       The project identification report (February 15, 3977) contains
all the major elements of the future project, although the design of the
CFP component was substantially different than the one proposed by the
appraisal mission and included in law 77-89.  In the identification
report, CFP was to be divided into three functions:
a)   a study bureau, to be staffed by two Senegalese project
analysts and a resident advisor-economist, to analyze the
creation of new companies, review capital investments, do
sector reviews and an annual report on the parapublic sector;
b)   an accounting department, to be staffed by five Senegalese and
a resident advisor-accountant, to supervise the Government
Commissioners in the EPs;
c)   a department of State Controllers, to be staffed by ten
Senegalese and a resident advisor-management expert/financial
analyst, who would represent CFP on a full-time basis on the
boards of mixed companies .
The structure the appraisal mission agreed on with CFP was different,
however, and less adapted for the implementation of project objectives.
It was decided to divide CFP's parapublic division in seven sections: a)
two functional sections: documentation and data collection, and legal
and accounting; and b) five operational sections divided by sector of
activity (agriculture, agro-industries and fisheries; industry and
mining; infrastructure and transport; tourism, communications and



- 23 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 8
services; and, financial institutions).  No reason was given for the
elimination of the study bureau. Not surprisingly, CFP did not analyze
the rationale for the creation of new companies, nor did it review PE
capital investments; sector reviews as well as annual parapublic reports
have lacked serious economic or strategic analysis, and CFP's economic
analysis capability at the end of project implementation was still very
weak. Moreover, the absence of a study bureau reflects CFP management's
low interest for strategic supervision.
B.   Project Preparation
12.       Project preparation thus consisted mainly in i) defining the
assistance required to allow the oversight agencies to take on the role
they were assigned by the reform law, ii) developing a pilot program of
audits and technical assistance to key enterprises to start dealing with
the dismal situation of accounts and financial management, and iii)
designing a training component for staff of the oversigl-t agencies, for
public enterprise managers and accountants as well as tor government
representatives on company boards. The project was processed ahead of
the initial schedule.
C.   Major Issues
13.            The Decision Meeting (August 1977):  (i) recognized that
Government commitment to the project was strong and warranted proceeding
with the project 3/ ; (ii) requested that a) the executive decree
organizing CFP in application of law 77-89 be discussed with the Bank
before its final adoption, b) a high-level Senegalese acceptable to the
Bank be appointed as parapublic division chief (this condition was later
waived), and c) that Government propose at negotiations a program to
recruit qualified Senegalese to staff the expanded CFP (no reference
seen in minutes of negotiations);(iii) stressed the danger of weakening
parapublic performance through repressive controls and excessive
constraints;(iv) emphasized the need to shift the activities of the
oversight agencies from control to monitoring and assistance and to
define clearly what the agencies respective tasks are; (v) focussed on
the importance of the project's training component; (vi) recognized the
difficulty of measuring project success, which justified the inclusion
of funds for annual evaluations by consultants (which were dropped later
on); (vii) noted that sufficient guarantees were given for the further
implementation of project objectives by the Government after project
completion; and (viii) organized the split of responsibilities for
project supervision.
3/        The July 1977 Issues Paper noted: "However, control of public
enterprises and mixed companies is a delicate area, and
despite the mission's belief that the project has been
carefully conceived, the Government's commitment to a more
(Footnote Continued)



- 24 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 8
14.       This Credit was signed on March 17, 1978 and became the Bank's
first Technical Assistance Project to the Parapublic Sector.  This
factor should be stressed; indeed, some of the project's shortcomings
are due to its innovative character; there was no previous experience in
the Bank with this sort of project to learn from.
IV. Other Bank Projects in the Parapublic Sector
15.       Bank involvement  in the parapublic sector was further
developed under other projects 4/ :
a)   The Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial
Planning (Cr. 1061 of October 27, 1980) which included financing of a)
an advisor in the Prime Minister's Office (November 1980-June 1983) to
organize and participate in negotiations leading to the signature of
contrats-plans between the Government and about ten public enterprises,
b) overseas training for senior civil servants respons4ble for the
implementation of these contrats-plans, and c) resident advisors at CFP,
CEP and BOM (January-July 1983) previously financed by the first
parapublic project;
b)   The Structural Adjustment Program  (Ln. 1931/Cr.  1084 of
January 26, 1981), under which the CFAF counterpart funds emanating from
the currency payments for the SAL's import scheme were used for
financing enterprises which had signed Bank-approved contrats-plans,
mainly in the agriculture sector where the prospect of such financing
certainly accelerated the agreement on contrats-plans; the use of these
counterpart funds was poorly monitored, however. Experience to date
shows that SALs are not good instruments to pursue gradual process-type
reforms.
c)   The follow-up Second Parapublic Technical Assistance Project
(Cr. 1398 of August 10, 1983) which continues the financing of the
contrats-plans advisor (located at the Presidency after the abolition of
the Premiership in May 1983), and of resident advisors at the various
oversight agencies, previously financed by the First Parapublic
Technical Assistance Project and the Technical Assistance Project for
Economic and Financial Planning. The project's main objectives are to
improve the efficiency of public enterprises and help reduce the public
sector deficit by: (i) providing technical assistance to up to twelve
key enterprises for the development and implementation of rehabilitation
(Footnote Continued)
rational and efficient parapublic sector may conceivably
weaken in the future."  It did.
4/        The Third Education Project (Cr. 908 of May 23, 1979) financed
construction, equipment and technical assistance for ESGE, a
graduate management training institute training managers for
both private and public enterprises.



- 25 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 8
programs and contrats-plans; (ii) helping selected enterprises to
finance audits and accounting assistance; (iii) developing and
implementing training programs at local educational institutions geared
to the needs of public enterprise personnel; (iv) strengthening the
ability of Government oversight agencies to monitor parapublic sector
performance efficiently and to guide Government policy; and (v)
financing studies relating to the sc:pe, organization and management of
the parapublic sector.



- 26 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
I.   Project Management Unit
1.        The July 1977 Issues Paper recognized that since a large
number of organizations were involved in the project, coordination
should be a serious concern. The Government agreed to set up a project
management unit (PMU) in the Prime Minister's office to coordinate
project administration. The nomination of its director, who would also
be chairman of the interagency task force on the parapublic sector
(GESP), and of the deputy director in charge of day-to-day management
was a condition of negotiations; both candidates were acceptable to IDA.
The first director, who was acceptable to IDA, participated in project
preparation but was named as head of a parapublic financial institution
during negotiations in Washington.  The second project director, also
acceptable to IDA, was a lawyer who moved to the Supreme Court before
effectiveness.  The third director, unknown to IDA, was in place at
effectiveness by which time his lack of familiarity with the project's
objectives had become a serious problem.
2.        A weak PMU and ineffective management remained one of the key
problems of project implementation. The first supervision mission (July
1978) unsuccessfully requested that the deputy director be replaced.
The next supervision mission (April 1979) found an undynamic project
director as a major reason for the lack of coordination of the various
project components and of the parapublic sector as a whole. The third
supervision mission (December 1979) found large management problems.
The PMU not only failed to provide policy guidance, coordinate project
activities, submit progress reports, and keep any accounts, but it also
had incurred a number of unauthorized, lavish and possibly fraudulent
expenditures. The project director was found to serve no useful
function and the deputy-director to be uncooperative.  The mission
recommended that if no improvements were made by March 1980,
consideration should be given to suspending disbursements until the
management had been replaced. Both the project director and the deputy
director were replaced in February 1980. The new project director was
characterized by the April 1980 mission as being more cooperative but
showing little energy or initiative; the new deputy director "seems to
be making no contribution at all to the project."  The project
director's performance later improved, but the deputy-director's
remained unsatisfactory; the latter nonetheless became project director
in November 1981. Hence, the various project components were managed
indeapendently, without consideration for the overall objectives of the
project and the reform law.
3.        Many of the problems encountered by the project could have
been overcome by a strong PMU director (Chairman of GESP). These
problems included i) conflicts between the outside advisors and the



- 27 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
staff of CFP and DTAI, which paralyzed the execution of these project
components; ii) the fragmentation of the government oversight system
over the parapublic sector into ill-coordinated agencies whose powerbase
the project consolidated; iii) conflicts between oversight agencies and
BOM regarding the management of the training component; iv) a series of
administrative irregularities and weaknesses, going from improper use of
funds to excessive delays in processing of disbursements and poor
accounting practices; and v) poor supervision, lack of regular
evaluations of progress made toward the objectives of the project and
the reform law. Poor performance under the first parapublic project led
IDA to handpick the PMU director (Chairman of GESP) for the second
project, a solution that also had its drawbacks.
II. Selection of Consultants 5/
4.        In view of the critical importance of recruiting qualified
experts for the eight resident advisor positions financed by the
project, a special selection procedure was set up. Out of 25 firms
contacted, eleven were invited to submit CVs. Out of a total of 140
CVs, five candidates were pre-selected for each position, most of whom
were then interviewed in Europe or North America by a mixed
Senegalese-IDA committee. The final selection was made following these
interviews. An American consulting firm was awarded the CFP contract
(four advisors), a Canadian accounting firm the CEP contract (two
advisors) and the same Canadian consulting firm the BOM contract (two
advisors). The firms were not asked to submit a proposal or to comment
on the TOR. The outcome of this special selection procedure was not
satisfactory.
III. Counterpart Funding
5.        Goverrment failed to provide counterpart funds for the
project, causing important delays in project execution and accumulation
of outstanding bills.  By October 1980, the FY80 budget of CFAF 90
million, and the FY81 budget of CFAF 130 million had not been made
available to the project. The problem was solved in early 1981, when
CCCE allowed CFAF 130 million of its special loan to be allocated to the
project's counterpart funds.
IV. Project Evaluation
6.        The April 1980 supervision mission recommended dropping the
$100,000 allocated for project evaluation (three interim and one final
evaluation) on the basis that is was difficult to find suitable
consultants, that each beneficiary organization already prepared
progress reports, that outside inquiry was costly and not we'lcome, and
5/        See Annex 5, par I for a description of the selection of two
resident advisors at DTAI.



- 28 -                      ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
finally that IDA could do the job. Consequently section 3.08 b) of the
DCA was waived.  As a result, no systematic evaluation of project
execution or of consultants' performance was made, project accounts were
not audited, and the project completion report, which should have been
prepared by the PNU with the help of consultants and submitted to the
Bank by May 16, 1983, was not completed before the end of June 1984,
after considerable pressure had been exerted on the last PMU director.
V.   Audit of Project Accounts
7.        The inadequate PMU and its lack of concern for administration
resulted in no project accounts being kept during the first years of the
project; irregularities were noted in the use of the project's bank
account; there was no follow-up of the disbursements on the IDA Credit;
financing of some eligible expenditures was not requested; and requests
were often allocated to the wrong category. The consultant recruited in
November 1979 to do the project's supervision left a detailed note on
these shortcomings with the Secretary General of the Government in 1980.
8.        One of the experts of the CFP team was detached to the PMU
from January to June 1982, with the purpose of writing up project
accounts, both for IDA disbursements and counterpart funds. Accounting
records were virtually non-existent, requiring that these be
re-established for the three years since project inception. The expert
left these records with the Project Director, but we were not able to
review them.  CVCCEP audited the counterpart funds of the project.
Although no major legal irregularities were found, CVCCEP did note that
the frequent turnover in PMU management and insufficient attention to
financial and accounting matters resulted in deficient control over
project execution and in the impossibility to properly assess project
achievements. The Commission concluded in the necessity to establish
for the follow-up project a PMU that would effectively "drive" the
project.   The main shortcomings identified by CVCCEP were: i) lack of
procedures for financial management and accounting, which did not allow
to keep track of commitments and disbursements, and partly accounted for
the overcommitment on IDA funds, which left the government with more
than $100,000 in unpaid bills that were still outstanding in October
1984; ii) inadequacy of supporting documents for expenditures; iii) no
control over proper use of the nine vehicles purchased under the
project; iv) violation of local legislation in recruitment and payment
of PMU personnel; v) excessive cost of training seminars for PE
managers; and vi) delays in availability of counterpart funds and in
payment of bills, resulting in delays in deliveries of equipment and
impairing proper project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT SUPERVISION
1.        The Decision Memorandum entrusted the primary responsibility
for coordinating supervision of the project to the Programs Division,
because of the multi-sector nature of the project and because of that
division's large role in project preparation.   Programs staff was
expected to spend about six staff-weeks annually and the five projects
divisions six staff-weeks. The time formally allocated to supervision
of the project 6/ was around 12 staff-weeks a year. During the first
months of project execution, the Programs Division became concerned
about its technical and budgetary capacity to supervise the project
adequately, especially as the appraisal mission leader was scheduled to
become the Bank's first Resident Representative in Senegal and the
decision was taken to de-emphasize his role in project supervision lest
it interfere with his task of establishing a Resident Mission.
Consequently in April 1979 the Transport Division, which had shown
interest in the project and had sent a member on the appraisal mission,
was asked to coordinate the supervision of the project. The Transport
Division, however, did not have competent staff available on a regular
basis to supervise a parapublic TA project, and a former agricultural
division chief who was leaving the Bank at that time and who had
participated in the appraisal mission, was hired as consultant to
supervise the project twice a year starting in November 1979. This
arrangement continued for about one year and was unfortunately
terminated due to the unavailability of the consultant. His supervision
missions and reports were thorough, but the follow-up by IDA on his
recommendations was not always adequate and his contacts with
headquarters were quasi-nonexistent.  No supervision mission visited
Dakar between October 1980 and November 1981.
2.        The crucial importance of adequate supervision of this project
was not recognized. Responsibility for supervision remained ambiguous
6/
Supervision time for the project was recorded by the TRS as follows
(fiscal years, in staff-weeks)
TOTAL
78       79       80        81       82        83       84       FY78-83
4.8     15.3      16.8      6.4       7.7      1.3       2.8        52.3
(PCR)
Of the 52.3 staff-weeks recorded for FY78 through FY83, 5.0 were spent
by the Programs Division, 13.8 by the Resident Mission, 28.7 by the
Transport Division (including the consultant hired for supervision) and
4.8 by other Project Divisions.



- 30 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
throughout the project.  The Resident Representative carried out an
informal, de facto supervision, often through personal contacts with the
Prime Minister or other high-level officials.  Communications between
the Resident Mission and Headquarters remained weak throughout the
project. Clearly the Bank's internal organization was not adapted to
handle projects crossing traditional divisional lines and no adjustments
were made during project implementation to address this major problem.
3.        The Senegalese complained about the high turnover of project
supervisors and abGut the lack of IDA comments or feedback on audits and
other project-related documents, which had a demoralizing effect. 7/
Projects divisions had agreed to budget staff resources for commenting
on audit reports but failed to a large extent to do so.
4.        Despite the serious problems  that plagued  the project
throughout implementation, it was rated "status:2 / trend:1" by the five
supervision missions held between April 1979 and October 1980, and
"status:1 / trend:1" by the two last missions (December 1981 and June
1982). The project thus escaped the scrutiny of Regional Management
during the full period of its implementation.
5.        The uneven Bank supervision effort was a serious problem,
especially since this was IDA's first Parapublic TA project, the project
generated an enormous number of reports, a large number of resident
advisors and short-term consultants had to be supervised, and major
problems plagued the project throughout its execution.
7/        Mr. Alain Pichon, (expatriate) President of CVCCEP, addressed
some harsh criticism in that regard to the Bank in a January
10, 1980 letter, of which an excerpt follows: "Je saisis cette
occasion pour vous signifier mon mecontentement a legard des
initiatives et des pratiques des experts de la Banque Mondiale
qui excellent a provoquer des etudes de tout genre, mais
negligent apres d'en suivre le contenu, le deroulement, les
consequences, la coherence et l'application....   Je vous
prierai de bien vouloir faire connaltre ma position a votre
siege."



- 31 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 12
STRENGTHENING OF THE PARAPUBLIC OVERSIGHT SYSTEM
I.   Coordination of Oversight Agencies
1.        The main objective of the Project was to support the reform of
the parapublic sector oversight system introduced by law 77-89. A major
benefit of the project in this area was the substantial improvement in
the quality and availability of data on the parapublic sector made
possible by the closer monitoring of these companies. This has allowed
the Government to have a better idea of the enterprises' performance,
and is also starting to provide the basis on which to build sounder
sectoral and macroeconomic strategies.
2.        Three shortcomings resulted, however.  First, the project
supported the oversight agencies on an individual basis, without clear
delineation of each agency's terms of reference, with little
coordination among them and with little integration of their
interventions with the Technical Ministries, the Ministry of Finance or
the Ministry of Planning. Specific project components were designed for
each one of them, with the exception of training which was centralized
at BOM. The weak PMU did not make a serious attempt to integrate the
various components in a coherent whole. Various coordination instances
were established: i) GESP, the interagency task force on the parapublic
sector, ii) regular meetings of the agencies linked to the Prime
Minister or Presidency, including CVCCEP; and iii) occasional (rare)
meetings of the heads of the project components. However, this did not
prevent the agency heads from trying to build up their own powerbase,
often at the expense of overall efficiency.  A lack of cooperation
between ministers at the cabinet level amplified this problem.  In
January 1980 the Prime Minister suggested to move GESP from his own
responsibility to that of the Finance Minister.  This would have
consolidated the responsibility for coordinating the Government's
parapublic policy in the Ministry of Finance.  IDA rejected this
proposal, however, on the basis that it would increase friction between
MEF and CFP and would lower the authority of GESP. The strengthening of
the various oversight agencies achieved under the first parapublic
project makes it now even more difficult to restructure the government
oversight system around clearly defined tasks.
3.        Second, the reform introduced by law 77-89 and supported by
the project established a hybrid government oversight system over public
enterprises-modulated on a legal classification of Etablissements
Publics (EP) supervised by CEP on the one hand, and Societes d'Economie
Mixte (SEM) and Societes Nationales (SN) supervised by CFP on the
other--that does not rest on solid economic or managerial grounds but
rather on historical ones. This system disperses scarce resources over
different agencies when they could be better put to use in one agency.



- 32 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 12
4.        Third,  law 77-89 and  the project  focussed the major
responsibility for control over the parapublic sector in CFP whose
management was not committed to the reform and did not have to report to
the Prime Minister, who was the key actor behind the reform. In fact,
the Prime Minister's office did not ask for any support from the Bank
until the end of 1980, when a Cellule des Contrats-Plans was established
at the Primature with a half-time advisor detached from the CFP team and
a director financed by IDA's Technical Assistance Project for Economic
and Financial Planning.
II. Assistance to the Controle Financier de la Presidence (CFP)
5.        The main thrust of law 77-89 was to shift the locus of
parapublic sector reform from MEF to CFP. The first parapublic project
supported this shift by providing about 30% of disbursements for
extensive technical assistance, training and equipment to CFP. This
shift was motivated by MEF's unsatisfactory past performance and by the
objective of building up at CFP capacity for strategic analysis of the
entire parapublic sector, as well as for operational supervision and
formal control of SNs, SEMs and selected EPs. However, no thorough
assessment was made of CFP's willingness and ability to take this
function over or of CFP's performance in controlling the central
government and local government expenditures, which was its main
function prior to 1978. During project implementation it became clear
that CFP's main concern was with its formal control function, and to a
lesser extent with operational control; strategic oversight of the
parapublic sector was never a priority however.   Consequently, at
project completion (June 1982), CFP's strategic analysis capability was
almost nil and has not much improved since. Operational supervision to
be entrusted to CFP was defined by the President's Report as monitoring
"to see if the objectives given by Government to parapublic companies
are being achieved" and trying "to anticipate problem areas through
supervision of company management".  However, this is also the iask of
the Ministries supervising the companies, although in practice their
involvement in the companies has been closer to interference in the
daily operations rather than ensuring Government policies were
implemented or anticipating problems or bottlenecks. The proper role of
Technical Ministries in the oversight of companies was not addre-sed by
the project.  Operational supervision as defined by the President's
Report was not carried out by CFP, because of the weakness of th- state
controllers.  However, the capacity of CFP at formal control, both
concomitant (in real time) and a posteriori, checking mainly if the
companies respect the legislation and regulations in effect, did improve
considerably during project execution.
A.   Technical Assistance Team
6.        The technical assistance team was to include (President's
Report, Annex IV, Appendix 1): i) a tean leader, management
specialist/advisor to the parapublic sector division chief; ii) an
agricultural economist; iii) an industrial sector specialist; and iv) a
senior financial and accounting specialist. The mix/composition of the



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 12
team and their TOR wer, well prepared and coherent, but did not relate
to the i2aa!didre !IccUds ,I cF'P's recently created parapublic division.
The first t.i';k to ht carried out by CFP was the apprehension/collection
of key data on the 50 SE?is or SNs and 20 EPs they were to control. This
was by itself a large task in view of the dismal state of most
companies' accounting and reporting procedures, and of the lack of
experience and poor background of most newly hired con.rollers.
7.        The President's Report listed strategic control, operational
supervision and formal control over PEs as the CFP's primary tasks.
However, exerting formal control over the PEs was perceived by CFP as
its first priority, to be carried out prier to the other functions.
This explains why the presence of sectoral specialists was not deemed
necessary and why a second financial analyst was finally hired instead
of the industrial sector specialist. In retrospect, it would have been
preferable to limit the TA to one or two experts in accounting,
financial analysis and basic management information systems. The same
situation still prevails today, i.e., two years after the closing of the
first parapublic project and one year into implementation of the second
parapublic project.  Although the idea of having top-level sectoral
specialist as ch. cks on the policies implemented by the sectoral
ministries may be appealing, one still has to choose in light of scarce
resources at CFP between reinforcing its financial and management
potential or its sectoral and macroeconomic capability. Furthermore,
locating such sectoral specialists in a central economic ministry (Plan,
Finance) or in an executive unit at the Presidency might be more
effective than locating them in a semi-autonomous control agency.
8.        The consulting firm was selected among nine firms to pro-ide
12 man-years of assistance to CFP. The first three advisors arrived in
October 1978.  The first teamleader left in July 1979 and was not
replaced until December 1979 and the last advisor (the second financial
analyst) arrived in April 1980. The lack of unity and coherence among
the TA team was a problem. Although the second teamleader tried to
coordinate their efforts, the fact that two experts had already been in
place for more than a year before he arrived and had thus established
their working patterns and methods, the fact that none of the experts
had even seen one another before arriving in Senegal, and that all four
possessed widely differing backgrounds and qualifications, were bound to
produce problems in this respect.
9.        C nmunication problems between the TA team and CFP staff arose
quickly. The team tried to implement western management techniques at
CFP, with little attention paid to CFP's existing procedures.  The
introduction of a Management Information System, which the advisors
referred to as MIS, the English acronym, was one example. Although CFP
staff now recognize that the system was an improvement, they resented
the sudden imposition of such a foreign management tool.  The main
conflict was one of management style:  the technocratic, efficiency
oriented approach of the TA team vs. the bureaucratic and legalistic
approach which most controllers had been accustomed to. The team did
not pay sufficient attention to the adaptation of their system to CFP's



- 34 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 12
needs and did not put sufficient emphasis on explaining the benefits to
be expected from such system. Interviewed CFP staff complained about
this lack of cultural awareness and said that after a few months the
relations between staff and advisors had reached a level of near
rebellion. 8/   The hostility towards the TA team was not general
however; among the 26 state controllers, there were about 6 to 8 who
appreciated the assistance of the team and benefited from the transfer
of technology by working in close collaboration with them.
10.        The climate  at CFP improved however after the first year
with the appointment of a new parapublic division chief and of a new TA
teamleader, but tensions remained throughout the project. When IDA
suggested to extend the team's mandate past December 1981, the Financial
Controller declined and chose to keep only one financial analyst, whose
relations with the state controlleLs was judged positive, less
intrusive, more cooperative.  This experience with resident advisors
explains in part the current reluctance of the Senegalese to hire
resident advisors under the Second Parapublic TA Project.
B.   CFP Management
11.       Many of the problems encountered during project execution can
be traced back to poor management at CFP, combined with management's
8/        In April 1979,  16 controllers addressed a note to the
Financial Controller to complain about the TA team, stating
that:
-    the experts were excluding the col'trollers from the decision-making
process, and were signing notes t., the President themselves;
-    the experts refused to adopt the control mechanisms and procedures
they had designed to the "realities of the parapublic sector" and
to the Senegalese legislation;
-    this control system was ill-suited for financial companies and
utilities;
-    PE managers could not understand that the Financial Controller was
represented by experts from a consulting firm and made complaints
about the experts' attitude;
and requesting that:
-    the TA team be limited to an advisory function;
-    the follow-up system be modified;
-    meetings between the Financial Controller and the controllers be
resumed;
-    the experts be prohibited from communicating directly with the
President or Prime Minister;
-    the division chief be associated with all decisions concerning the
division.



- 35 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 12
lack of dynamism and of commitment to parapublic sector reform. Some
IDA staff and some members of the TA team locate the main problem with
this project component at the level of the Financial Controller himself,
and of the initial parapublic sector division chief at CFP.
a) The Financial Controller
12.       The Financial Controller was sick during the appraisal mission
and discussions were carried on with the Prime Minister and his
parapublic sector advisor. Shortly after effectiveness, the Financial
Controller returned and it became clear to IDA that he did not have the
motivation to make the CFP into the instrument envisaged by the then
Prime Minister, and had no real interest in the project or in the
reforms to be pursued under the project. Referring directly to the
President, he was quite independent from pressures by the Prime
Minister, who was the main driving force behind the reform. Indeed, CFP
management was not able or willing to take on the strategic supervision
of the parapublic companies and of the sector as a whole, preferring to
limit its role to the less controversial function of formal control.
b) The Parapublic Division Chief
13.       The appraisal mission recognized that the CFP division chief
for the parapublic sector needed to be replaced and made this a
condition of negotiations.  However, as all other conditions of
negotiations and Board presentation had been fulfilled, this condition
was waived with the Prime Minister's promise that the replacement would
be made. IDA overestimated the Prime Minister's ability to influence
CFP. When the division chief was finally fired late in 1979 (i.e.,
close to two years after negotiations), the Financial Controller agreed
orally that he would observe the three top internal candidates for six
months before choosing a division chief and this would be done in
consultation with IDA. Instead, the FinancJ'al Controller promoted in
November 1979 a state controller with no practical or managerial
experience, but who was much more cooperative; this division chief left
CFP and was replaced by another state controller in early 1981. This
high turnover contributed to the slow progress made under this
component.
c) Personnel Management - State Controllers
Recruitment of Controllers
14.       The DCA stipulated that the Government had to recruit new
staff for CFP acceptable to IDA and in accordance with a timetable
acceptable to IDA.  (Section 3.05(b)).  The President's Report further
specified that "the eight Senegalese staff in CFP dealing with the
parapublic cector would be progressively increased to 26 by 1981 to
carry out the CFP's new duties and as the technical assistance personnel
are replaced by Senegalese...  The recruitment of high-level Senegalese
with experience in both administration and business management is



- 36 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 12
essential for the CFP to perform its strategic analysis, operational
supervision, and formal control over the parapublic sector. Government
discussed with the Association and will carry out a program to recruit
and train qualified Senegalese to staff the expanded CFP...." (par. 34,
President's Report).  Finding and retaining suitable Senegalese for CFP
was identified as a project risk.
15.       Although the important responsibilities and tasks entrusted to
CFP by the recent law 77-89 and reinforced by the project's covenants
required to hire additional controllers, they did not justify the
recruitment by January 1979 of fifteen additional state controllers,
most of whom lacked the proper training and experience, and were hired
more for their connections than for their qualifications. This sudden
and large influx of new staff that was not directly operational was too
large for CFP to absorb especially in the absence of a strong training
program and given the strained relations between CFP staff and
expatriate advisors.
Absence of Career Incentives
16.       Most controllers belong to a corps (French administrative
system): corps des admiz1istrateurs civils, des inspecteurs des imp8ts/du
tresor/des douanes, etc. While at CFP, they remain part of their corps
d'origine and get promotions and salary increases within that corps.
The Financial Controller evaluates their performance, but does not have
any input in the decision to promote them or not, which is made by the
corps.
i7.       On top of their regular salary (about 100,000 CFAF/month) they
receive flat allowances of 25,000 CFAF/month for working at CFP and of
50,000 CFAF/msnth for their duties as state controllers in PEs. Despite
a decree forbidding the concurrent drawing of these two allowances, all
professional staff do receive them.
18.       CFP has three divisions headed by division chiefs;  the
parapublic division is composed of five sectoral units, headed by unit
chiefs.  The functions of unit or division chief are not officially
recognized; they do not come with a higher salary or allowance (the
division chief actually makes less than quite a few of the state
controllers), nor ao tI'ey give authority (hierarchical power, power to
sanction, to recruit, f_re or promote) over the unit or division staff,
or over the use of its budget. Only the Financial Controller, who is
appointed by decree, has the hierarchical authority, the power to
sanction and to evaluate. There is thus no real career track at CFP,
and few individual incentives.
Turnover
19.       Sixteen state controllers (out of 22 working full-time on the
parapublic sector) have left CFP between 1979 and 1984; of those, eleven
have remained in the public or parapublic sector. Most staff joined CFP
for training and experience that would allow them to get a more



ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 12
lucrative ioh a few- years later.  Only half of the full-time state
controllers have been with CFP for four years or more. Over the last
fiscal year, ending June 1984, nine new controllers have been hired (and
hence need intensive training).  Such a high turnover is only partly
explained by the low salaries and the bleak career prospects at CFP,
however. Indeed, it is not uncommon in the auditing profession, which
is often a springboard to management positions in enterprises.
20.       Not only was staff turnover high, but state controllers'
assignments to individual PEs also changed regularly. Most companies
have been supervised by three, four or more different controllers over
the time of the project.  Assignments were made arbitrarily by the
Financial Controller himself and were often the result of intense
politickinlg as some companies offer greater opportunities to establish
credentials and contacts for a future career outside CFP.
Attitude of State Controllers
21.       Managers of public enterprises complained, especially in the
first years of the project, about the controller's inexperience and
arrogance and felt they were often more an obstacle than a help. The
work environment within CFP rapidly deteriorated.  Besides conflicts
b'etween part of the staff and the TA team ( cf. par. 9), important
tensions also existed within the staff, due to a large extent to i)
differences of pay status between civil service controllers and
contractual controllers; not only were the latter often better paid,
they were also not subject to the obligation to remain for 10 years in
the administration; ii) resentment regarding the allocation of
enterprises between controllers; and iii) resentment regarding the
choice of section chiefs.
d) Weak Logistics
22.       Support Staff.  Secretarial staff was inadequate throughout
the project. Until 1980, only four secretaries were working at CFP, of
which only two were available to the parapublic division.  This
represented one secretary for 12 controllers, not counting the technical
assistants, which resulted in excessive delays in the typing and in
further demotivation of controllers.   IDA agreed to finance two
secretaries and a messenger under the project for the use of the TA
team.   A -hough this may have been a necessary step to allow the team
to operate, the Government should have been made responsible for the
proper implementation of the credit agreement (section 3.05(a))
requiring adequate staffing of CFP. The parapublic division chief had
no control over the support staff, who reported directly to the
Financial Controller.
23.       Equipment.  Lack of budgets was never a problem for CFP which
benefited from project funds and from a special treasury account (funded
by compulsory contributions from the PEs to the operation of the
oversight system, and under the direct control of the Financial
Controller) to purchase equipment, cars, and to finance other operating



ANNEX 4
- 38 -                      Page 8 of 12
expenditures.  Equipment and cars financed by the project were not
specifically allocated to the parapublic division, but served the whole
CFP. Controllers who needed cars for missions complained about the
difficulty of obtaining them.
24.       Buildings.  CFP buildings were scattered over three or four
different locations, increasing communication problems and proper
allocation of support staff and equipment.  All CFP services have
recently moved to a new building (1984).
C.   Achievements under the Project Component
a)   Organization of CFP
25.       The experts contributed significantly to the strengthening of
CFP's parapublic division. They organized the state controller's work,
produced a procedures manual which is still in use, although the state
controllers initially refused to use it, and provided the state
controllers with valuable guidance and training.  Their efficiency,
however, was limited due to causes which have already been highlighted.
CFP is now better equipped to supervise parapublic companies, but has
not been able to reach the objectives it had been assigned by law 77-89
and the project.  The cargets set for CFP and the pace at which it
expanded were too ambitious. The role of CFP will have to be reassessed
within the overall framework of the parapublic sector oversight system,
and its management will have to be dramatically improved if CFP is to
establish a significant role in the parapublic sector.
b) Development of a Comprehensive Deta Base
26.       The development of a comprehensive data base covering the EPs,
the SNs and the SEMs controlled by CFP was identified as one of the
objectives and one of the measurable results to be expected from the
project. By project completion such data base had been established and
computerized in cooperation with DTAI, but included only financial data
(balance sheets and operating accounts), which are now more reliable and
more timely. Production of these data remains too slow, however,
limiting their operational usefulness; consolidated financial statements
of the companies monitored by CFP for 1983, for example, were not
available before December 1984. Non-financial data on the other hand
are not kept in a systematic way; it is difficult to get data on
employment or productivity for example. This results from the priority
given by CFP to formal financial control and reflects its limitations in
exerting operational supervision or strategic analysis/planning. IDA
has now asked CFP to produce regular financial statements on the
parapublic sector for the use of -he Government and to expand its
database to cover production, employment, productivity and other key
data needed to monitor the sector.



-39 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 12
c) Company Supervision.
27.       The quality of company supervision is hard to assess, as it
mostly involves routine operations like participating in board meetings
and making observations on the documents (financial statements,
investment programs, etc.) submitted to the board, visiting company
headquarters to gather information or investigate specific issues. From
the documents we were able to review, this supervision remains too
formal, focussing on the respect of the accounting legislation or of the
numerous decrees regulating various aspects of company management. The
trivial, such as the size of the car a company manager is allowed to
have, often dominates more fundamental issues, such as the
appropriateness of a given subsidy level, the review of the investment
programs and their proposed financing, critical assessment of company
management, etc.
28.       Reports tend to be descriptive; operational recommendations
are too rare, but the quality of the descriptive part and the analysis
of company data have improved considerably. Also, all the companies
with majority government ownership are now being monitored on a regular
basis, which was not at all the case in 1978, when a number of companies
didn't even prepare annual budgets. It is difficult to assess to what
extent this improved data gathering and control system has been used as
an input in the political decision-making process.
d) Sectoral Reports
29.       Annual reports have been addressed to the President starting
in 1977 covering the various economic sectors in which the State is
involved. The draft and publication of these reports take an enormous
effort, immobilizing the entire staff for months. They are extremely
long, of varying quality and read in their entirety by almost no one.
They do not lead to real decisions by the Government.   These
observations which were already made by IDA in January 1979 on the 1977
and 1978 reports remain true today; we had agreed with the Financial
Controller that future reports would focus on specific and immediate
company or sectoral problems, be published throughout the year and be
complemented by an annual macroeconomic and parapublic sector-wide
report.  Similar observations and suggestions had to be made in June
1984 concerning the 1983 sectoral reports; the draft of the 1983 reports
was completed in July 1983, but they were not issued before May 1984;
they consist of 9 volumes (over 900 pages total) with sections on the 70
companies supervised by CFP (and CEP); they do not include sector
reports nor an overall macroeconomic analysis.
30.       A sector-wide parapublic report was prepared and published in
1982; it commented on the aggregate financial statements of the
parapublic sector for 1978, 1979 and 1980, but did not provide insights
on the ways to solve the sector's acute financial and managerial
problems, which tend to be highlighted in every report on the parapublic
sector in Senegal. The strategic dimension of this document is almost
inexistent; the proper role of Government in the various sub-sectors is



- 40 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 12
not addressed. Furthermore, its publication in 19F2 made comments on
financial statements of 1978 to 1980 more of historical rather than
operational interest.
31.       To get the CFP to draft timely, operational,  focussed
documents specific instructions to that effect should have been given by
the Presidency and the Ministry of Finance (the primary potential users
of such information). As for the sector-wide macroeconomic reports,
these should be drafted by senior officials from Plan, Finance and the
Presidency, using company data provided by CFP.
e) New Management Techniques
32.       Two major management tools were introduced during this project
with the assistance of the TA team, namely a new budgeting format based
on cost/profit centers, and an enterprise plan negotiated with the
government (contrat-plan). The new budgeting procedures have now been
adopted by a majority of public enterprises and have helped management
to focus on its objectives for the fiscal year and on the means to
achieve these. A more detailed audit would be needed to assess progress
made under the project in company budgeting and accounting.
ContrEts-plans were signed with five companies in 1981 and 1982. The
contrats-plans procedure has been developed and promoted under four IDA
projects (supra, Annex 1). The first parapublic ptoject financed two
missions of Frenclh contrats-plans experts to develop the methodology and
detached one member of the Berger team on a half-time basis to the
contrats-plans unit at the Prime Minister's office 9/ between October
1980 and July 1981.
D.   Conclusion
33.       Although part of the problems encountered at CFP could have
been anticipated and taken into account at the appraisal stage, the
major weakness on IDA's part was at the supervision stage. In light of
CFP's lack of commitment to take on the responsibility it had been
assigned by the project agreement and of the tensions existing between
advisors and CFP, as well as between CFP staff and between the TA team,
the assistance to CFP should have been reassessed. However, the project
did contribute to the improvement in financial reporting by PEs and to
the establishment of a financial data base on the parapublic sector.
9/        The unit Chief's salary was financed under the Second
Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial
Planning (Cr. 1061-SE).



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
.age 11 of 12
III. Assistance to tll a.entre des Ecablissements Publics
34.       The Centre des Etablissements Publics (CEP), established in
1966, has two main divisions: the Agence Comptable Centrale (ACC), which
centralizes company accounts, supervises accountants and manages cash
flow through a central treasury pooling system, and the Controle des
Operations Financieres (COF), which authorizes expenditures (a priori
control), reviews budgets and provides occasional management assistance,
for about twenty Etablissements Publics (EP).
35.       Four EPs have been emancipated from CEP controls, including
SAED which became a SN in 1981. The others are RCIS (since 1976),
SODESP and SONAR (since their creation), where a Government Commissioner
appointed and supervised by the CFP is entrusted with the responsibility
CEP has over the other EPs. The not; defunct ONCAD was submitted to the
same control mechanism; this larger autonomy, however, did not result in
improved performance, as all these companies continued to be plagued by
increasing indebtedness and deficits and were in need of major
restructuring. The failure of this decentralization of controls is to a
large extent due to the lack of accompanying measures and to the severe
structural and financial problems faced by these companies, which were
not properly addressed.
36.       A primary objective of the assistance provided to CEP was to
gradually shift the function of this agency from control over EPs to
assistance to EPs.  The project financed i)  a management expert for
three years (initially two) to set up a management assistance unit,
review EP management systems and procedures, scale down and improve COF
controls; ii) an accounting expert for three years (initially two, and
later extended for another three years under the follow-up parapublic
project) to improve accounting systems and procedures in EPs; and iii)
training for CEP staff, EP management and personnel (cf. Annex 7).
37.       Existing a priori controls and the treasury pooling mechanism
were seen as important constraints on the operations of most EPs.
However, removing these constraints at once was seen as not feasible, in
light of the weak management and accounting systems in place in most
EPs. The centralized controls and treasury pooling were imposed by law
in 1966 in exchange for the take-over by the Government of the EP's
consolidated debt, and were intended to put an end to the mismanagement
and abuses +hat characterized EPs up to 1966.  It was felt, however,
that by str ngthening EP management through the experts' assistance, EPs
could be made gradually more autonomous. One of the tasks assigned to
the CEP experts was to look at ways to scale these controls down and to
recommend ways to grant EPs the appropriate level of autonomy.
38.       The advisors' contributions were considered as very valuable.
They were instrumental in upgrading the quality of EP management and
accounting procedures.  With help of the experts, CEP achieved the
following results during the project:



- 42 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 12 of 12
-    the establishment of internal audit units in EPs, considered as a
preliminary for the phase-out of a priori controls (eight EPs had
established such units by the end of the project);
-    implementation in EPs of the January 1980 directive of the Prime
Minister to set up a decentralized budgeting system based on cost
centers (management by objectives); by project completion, 80X of
the EPs had complied;
-    submission of more timely and more realistic budgets;
-    introduction of quarterly reports on status of budget execution
(80% compliance by project completion);
-    centralized computerization of EP accounts in cooperation with
DTAI;
-    reduction by six months in the submission of the annual financial
statements, combined with an increased reliability of such
statements, which has lead to better and more timely information on
the EPs;
establishment of new accounting systems and procedures, ana of
limited management information systems;
improvement in the accountability of the Agents Comptables
Particuliers (enterprise accountants appointed by the Minister of
Finance and subordinated to the Agent Comptable Central), through
training and assistance;
speciic programs, such as the organization of teams of interns to
track down and collect client receivables at OHLM (housing agency)
and PAD (port) or the preparation of reorganization proposals for
MSAD (tapestry manufacture) and ITA (food research institute).
39.       The progress achieved in EP management and financial systems
should have made the phase-out of a priori controls and (to a lesser
extent) of central treasury pooling possible, as was expected at project
appraisal. The former director of COF had concluded to the necessity of
such phase-out but could not organize it due to his departure at the end
of 1980. His successor has reached the same conclusion, but has not yet
made specific proposals. Both feel, and we concur, that by phasing out
these cumbersome controls, companies will recover the degree of autonomy
that is necessary to successfully manage a public enterprise, and CEP
will be able to redeploy staff resources from unproductive controls,
which currently take up more than 75% of their time, to management
assistance. However, some EPs, in particular the non-commercial ones,
would still remain submitted to stricter controls.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE DTAI
1.        The technical assistance component to DTAI,  the Finance
Ministry's data processing department, was added to the project during
project execution. The December 1979 supervision mission recommended to
use project funds to finance a study of the EP computer systems and
programming:   "The main objective  should be  to eliminate  the
hand-written cash journals and have the journals printed on the spot
from cards punched from the basic documents, to prepare auxiliary
ledgers (for fixed assets, stocks receivables, payables, ctc.) and to
analyze expenditures by cost center.   It will probably be more
economical and practical to instal mini-computers in each of the large
EPs and a central installation for the smaller ones, but this should be
studied." The mission asked the project director and the consulting
firm that was awarded the BOM contract to prepare TOR.   No other firms
were contacted. The 'irm drafted a contract for the provision of two
computer experts to train DTAI personnel in the use of a new methodology
to develop computer systems; the assistance would cover training of DTAI
staff in this methodology and applications of the new techniques in one
or more pilot projects.  The consultant's mission was not further
described in the contract, and no TOR were prepared. The firm's
priposal, however, did not address the problem that had been identified,
but dealt mainly with the training of DTAI staff in general. The firm
submitted four candidates for the position, of whom one did not meet the
basic recruitment conditions. Ar. IDA - Government selection committee
ranked one of the three remaining candidates as very good and the two
others as "interesting".
2.        Although the competence of the experts was not contested, the
assistance provided by the firm to DTAI was not satisfactory. It took
five months (10 man-months) for the experts to agree with DTAI on the
methodology and techniques to be used, and to launch the preparation of
the first pilot project. Substantive delays in start-up were due to the
lack of preparation of the mission by the firm, and to the firm's
failure to deliver the required training manuals in a timely fashion.
When the manuals finally arrived from Montreal they turned out to be
ill-suited for DTAI's needs. The back-up from the firm's headquarters
was totally insufficient.
3.        Three seminars were organized on the first three steps (out of
six) of the computer system development methodology proposed by the firm
(Yourdon method).  Most seminars were judged by DTAI staff to be
inadequate and ill-prepared. No manuals were provided at the seminars;
draft manuals were submitted, but only one out of three was finalized
and approved by DTAI. The proposed method has not been successfully
introduced at DTAI, which is now considering to ask a French institute
to help them introduce another method. It was envisaged to conduct up
to six pilot-projects.  Only two were started and neither one was
completed. One of the two pilot projects initiated by the experts, but



- 44 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
never completed, dealt with computerization of OPT's billing and
outstanding debts; the second one was a car registration project for
the Transport Ministry, which had no connection at all with the
parapublic sector.  OPT, however, plans to use the work done on
telephone billing and receivables as an input in its computerization
program, for which IDA assistance has been requested under the follow-up
parapublic project. The firms's assistance was most appreciated by the
OPT computer specialist who collaborated closely with the experts in the
development of the pilot project. The DTAI director, however, expressed
his extreme dissatisfaction with the firm's performance to the appraisal
mission for the second parapublic project.
4.        The absence of TOR, the different views held by DTAI and the
firm regarding the objectives and the execution of the mission led to
repeated conflicts.   The project component suffered from a dual
leadership structure and lack of communication: the director of DTAI,
on the one hand, who wanted to keep full control over the implementation
of the component, including the pilot projects; the consultants, on the
other, who felt they needed direct authority over their Senegalese
counterparts in order to be able to execute their mission. Effective
leadership at the PMU or supervision by the Bank would most likely have
contributed to the solution of these problems.
5.        The main problems with this component can be traced to:
i) inadequate preparation and appraisal of this component; poor
identification of DTAI needs in parapublic sector work, poor design of
project component; ii) unclear relation to overall project objectives;
iii) absence of TOR for the consultants; no evaluation of the firm's
proposed work program; no other firm contacted; iv) inability of the
consulting firm to provide required back-up from headquarters to
consultants in the field; the firm did not have the proper manuals nor
the appropriate staff for the training side of the mandate; v) limited
availability of DTAI counterpart staff; vi) excessive centralization of
project management (including of pilot project) at level of DTAI
director; vii) failure of DTAI and of PMU to flag problems in a timely
manner; viii) tensions between the TA team and experts from another
firm, which had been assisting DTAI on a long-standing basis; and ix)
lack of IDA supervision of this component (the only supervision mission
that came to Dakar during the 18 months of the experts' presence,
apparently did not cover this component; an IDA mission evaluated the
component in June 1982).
6.        The major problem identified prior to the inception of this
component remains as important in 1984 as it was in 1980: what are the
precise data processing needs of the EPs and is DTAI the proper
locus/institution to handle these computer needs? The question was not
addressed under the project.



- 45 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
AUDITS OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
1.        Two audit programs were included in the project, covering in
each case three different aspects: i) audits of financial statements,
with possible certification; ii) review and strengthening of accounting
procedures; and iii) analysis of economic performance.  They were
financed for 902 from credit funds and for 10% by the Government; the
companies did not contribute to the costs of the audits. The objective
was to improve the financial and accounting systems and procedures of
these PEs in order to provide management and Government with appropriate
company level data to base their policy decisions on.  The audit
component was managed by CVCCEP 10/ , the Senegalese public enterprise
auditing agency under the Supreme Court, and fully integrated in the
agency's work program.
I.   Auditing, Financial and Accounting Assistance to OPT, SAED,
SOMIVAC, and CPSP
2.        Audits plus technical assistance packages were designed as a
pilot program to be replicated in other PEs if successful. The program
consisted of annual audits, review and strengthening of accounting
procedures and training of accountants and consulting services over a
three-year period. The dismal state of the ONCAD accounts, as revealed
by a Arthur Andersen report, did not allow to audit them and ONCAD was
thus dropped from the audit program. In 1980, the Government was forced
to liquidate ONCAD and absorb accumulated losses of close to CFAF 100
bil'lion (roughly 15Z of Senegal's 1980 GDP). It was later decided to
audit CPSP accounts instead. The accounts of SAED, SOMIVAC, and OPT
could not be certified, but auditors made important recommendations. No
meaningful analysis of economic performance could be made for these
companies, as the necessary data were either not available or not
reliable.
A.   SAED Audit and Follow-up TA
3.        SAED accounts were thoroughly audited.  The second year audit
revealed ti-at no progress had been made in the quality of the accounting
10/       CVCCEP was the only oversight agency involved in the project
that received no technical assistance or equipment from the
project. Its staff, however, benefited from in-depth training
both in Senegal and overseas, which contributed to further
Senegalisation of CVCCEP staff. Moreover, about half of its
staff (including its President) were expatriates financed
through bilateral aid.



- 46 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5
since the previous year, which was not surprising as little assistance
had been given to SAED's accounting department over that period. It was
then decided to limit the third year audit to a few key functions and to
postpone the third full audit to year four. Relations between auditors
and SAED were strained. Little effort was made by management to correct
the major irregularities that had been identified by the auditors.
4.        Meanwhile, following recommendations made by the auditors, the
Government requested and obtained financing for a management support
unit consisting of three senior experts attached to the General Manager
to be financed jointly by CCCE/FAC and the Parapublic Project (up to
$200,000). The assistance yielded little benefit. The TA team was not
well integrated into SAED's operations.  It would be worthwhile to
assess the quality and effects of the assistance provided by IDA and
other donors to this company over the last five to ten years.
5.        In September 1981 SAED was transformed into a SN against the
recommendation of the oversight agencies, which argued that the poor
management of this company, as revealed by the auditors, did not warrant
the large autonomy given to SNs. The company remains financially and
managerially weak; its deficits have soared in recent years.
B.   SOMIVAC Audit and Follow-up TA
6.        The first two phases of the audit of SOMIVJAC, a major rural
development agency, were completed by January 1980. They revealed the
need to provide TA to strengthen the company's accounts and procedures
and to help implement the auditors' recommendations. The second audit
report noted that the accountant had successfully started to implement
the recommendations made in the first report, but that in other areas
company performance had not been improved or had even worsened. In
parallel, IDA approved the financing under the Parapublic Project of
experts (four months) and of an accountant (two years) to help implement
the procedures manual prepared by the auditors.  SOMIVAC management,
however, showed no interest in either program and refused the
assistance. The audit and TA program was thus stopped after the second
audit phase.  Since then, SOMIVAC has continued to grow and its
situation to worsen; most donors, including the Bank, have phased out
their assistance to SOMIVAC, which is now heavily dependent upon the
national budget.
C.   OPT Audit and Follow-up TA
7.        The association of an international and a Senegalese firm that
was awarded this contract was the only one among the seven contracts
awarded under the project not to work out, mainly due to conflicts
between the two firms resulting in poor audit work. After one year,
CVCCEP cancelled the contract and a new association was hired to audit
FY79 and FY80 accounts.
8.        The audits/assistance resulted in some improvement of the
financial documents, a greater attention to the way money was spent, the



- 47 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
implementation of somewhat more performing financial and management
systems, and in general better informa-ion about the cimpany's
performance.
9.        The audits identified the need to grant OPT larger operating
autonomy and laid the groundwork for the change in legal status which is
being pursued under the second project. It provided better information
based on which tariff increases could be requested, leading in turn to a
better balanced budget.  It stressed the danger of growing personnel
expenditures and overstaffing and led to a freeze in recruitment.  It
revealed some irregularities in OPT procurement procedures and
highlighted the catastrophic international mandate situation; action was
subsequently taken to start correcting these situations.
10.       In parallel a $500,000 TA program, of which $200,000 was
financed by the Credit, was set up to strengthen OPT's accounting and
financial management and train OPT staff. Two experts from a Canadian
consulting firm were hired for two years (July 1979 - June 1981). OPT
retained their services until June 1984 paying them directly out of its
operating budget. They were highly valued by OPT management. The
accounting expert helped improve OPT accounts, established a system of
cost accounting, drafted a procedures manual, and trained the company's
accountants. However, the splitting of the post and telecommunications
accounts took longer than expected and was onlv introduced in the FY83
accounts; also, additors have so far not been able to certify the
accounts.   The management expert prepared procedures manuals for
inventory management anu procurement and helped set up an internal
management audit unit. Both experts contributed to the implementation
of a system of management by objectives.
11.       Financial statements are now issued within six months
(compared to delays of up to three years previously), and OPT accounts
might now be "certifiable". A new audit cycle was initiated under the
follo'-up project in 1984.  The combination of audits and technical
assistance has contributed to the improvement of OPT's management, which
should now allow the company to obtain more autonomy through its
transformation into a SN, which was recommended by a recent (1984)
diagnosis report p-Rpared by an IDA-financed consultant.
D.   CPSP Audit
12.       The financing of an audit of CPSP, the price stabilization
agency for major commodities, was included in the project in November
1981 at the Bank's and the IMF's request. The project financed CFAF 100
million (about US$370,000) of the cost of this audit.  Almost no
reference to this project component was found in the files. The company
and Government failed to a large extent to implement the auditors'
recommendations, despite President Diouf's instructions to that effect.



- 48 -                      ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 5
II. Audits of three major SEMs
13.       The project financed one major audit and one follow-up audit
of the accounts of three major SEMs: SICAP (housing), SONACOS (oil mill)
and USB (banking). The SONACOS audit resulted in the first certification
by auditors of the accounts of a public enterprise in Senegal. The USB
and SICAP audits identified major weaknesses in company management and
finances and made recommendations to correct these, most of which were
not implemented; both companies are still managerially and financially
weak. These were followed by more limited annual audits carried out by
commissaires aux comptes financed by the companies themselves. In the
past CVCCEP had had major diffic .lties in convincing such companies to
hire competent auditors on a regular basis; the follow-up project
includes a component to help draft legislation on mandatory auditing of
PE annual accounts.
III. Evaluation of the Audit Programs
A.   Adjustments in Auditors' TOR
14.       These various audits illustrated, to an extent that had not
been expected by IDA or the Government, the poor quality of PE accounts.
During execution of the project it appeared necessary to amend auditors'
TOR, when it was still possible, in order to: (i) help companies build
up their accounting systems prior to carrying out full audits; (ii)
space the pace of full audits in order to allow the company to implement
auditors' recommendations prior to the next full audit; (iii) adapt the
nature and level of recommendations to the company's implementation
capacity; and (iv) provide TA to implement the recommendations made by
the auditors.
B.   Benefits of the Project Component
15.       Beyond the direct benefit of a greater reliability of company
accounts they provided a greater awareness i) of the weakness of the
existing accounting systems, ii) of the precise situation and problems
of the audited companies, and iii) of the usefulness of audits, which
hitherto had not been widespread in Senegal. They allowed to build up
the Senegalese accounting profession through: i) the establishment of
additional local firms, ii) joint ventures between such firms and
established international firms, iii) return of Senegalese auditors
working abroad, lured back by an increased demand of top-level
Senegalese auditors, and iv) general improvement in quality of local
auditing. The award of au.dit contracts to joint ventures of national
and international firms has been a very positive mechanism for the
transfer of know-how, and has been continued under the follow-up
project.
C.   A Pilot Program
16.       The audit component under the project was designed as a pilot
projact to be replicated if successful. The audits led other parapublic



- 49 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 5
companies not included in the project to request the inclusion of their
company in iuture J       p;ograms and in some cases to finance their own
limited audits in order to establish data on which management could
assess performance and base its policy decisions. The experience gained
under the first parapublic project has led to improvements in the design
of audit programs under the follow-up project. With one exception, it
appeared that none of the audited companies had accounts worth auditing
and that what they needed first and foremost was accounting assistance.
The type of 'chnical assistance to be included in the auditor's TOR
covers: 1) the review and strengthening of accounting systems and
procedures; ii) the establishment of an internal audIt unit within the
company and related training; and iii) the monitoring of and assistance
in the implementation of the recommendations made by the auditors.
D.   Shortcomings in Follow-up of Audits
17.       The follow-up of the implementation of audit recommendations
by the Bank, the companies and the Government was weak. The audit of
SOMIVAC and SICAP for example should have led to a phase-out or
downscaling of these companies. USB, as well as the other companies,
should have been submitted to performance criteria to monitor
improvement in its management.  Only OPT benefited from a relatively
successful follow-up program, which it financed itself to a large
extent; the OPT audit and follow-up TA contributed to the currently
ongoing sector restructuring (1984). Such comprehensive and longer term
perspective is necessary tc optimize the use of these costly audits (IDA
financing of 902 of cost reached US$2.0 million total vs. US$1.6 million
originally allocated, ranging from US$170,000 to over US$500,000 per
company).
18.       The implementation of audit recommendations requires in many
cases some external support, as the changes recommended Ere often
managerially or politically difficult.   SICAP or USB were not included
in Bank operations and failed to a large extent to implement the
recommended  changes.   The Bank has been repeatedly and rightly
criticized by the Sexiegalese, espec..lly CVCCEP, for failing to provide
comments on audit reports and to follow-up on the implementation of the
recommendations. This was the case for companies not included in the
Bank's project portfolio, but also, though to a lesser extent, for
companies of direct interest to the Bank's lending program. Follow-up
of the implementation of audit recommendations by the various oversight
agencies ha; left much to be desired; only CVCCEP took the matter
seriously by organizing plenary sessions in which the audit reports were
discussed and formal recommendations addressed to company management.
CVCCEP, however, did not have sufficient staff to follow-up on the
implementation of these recommendations.



- 50 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 5
TRAINING COMPONENT
I.   Objectives of Training
1.        The success of the project depended on improving management
and accounting skills i) within the Government's control agencies
concerned by the project, ii) at the level of company directors, and
iii) in the finance/accounting departments of parapublic sector
companies. The target groups were well defined as staff of CFP, CEP and
CVCCEP, key members of boards of directors of selected enterprises, and
finance and accounting officers of public enterprises, with particular
attention to the staff of the EPs to be audited under the project.
II. Training Design
2.        Because technical assistants who are asked to do both
operational work and training of counterparts often neglect the latter,
it was decided to separate training from operational technical
assistance to the project agencies. The means to achieve the project's
training objectives were: (a) 6 man/years of specialist services in
modern management techniques and decision-making; (b) funds to expand
the instructional resources of the Bureau Organisation et Methodes (BOM)
to meet the tasks imposed by the project; and (c) funds for short-term
overseas scholarships for training in specialized fields ($650,000 of
IDA credit for (a) and (b), of which only 30% were actually spent). The
specialists were to work with the staff of the BOM to: (a) develop
courses and case studies reflecting the types and level of management
problems faced LJ managers of public enterprises in Senegal; (b)
collaborate closely with the agencies and companies concerned to develop
course materials which should comprise reusable packages of printed and
audiovisual materials, together with tests to allow trainees'
acquisition of new knowledge and skills to be measured.
III. Training Component Management
3.        Management of the training component was entrusted to the BOM
at the Presidency, the central agency assigned the tasks of improving
administrative structures, systems and procedures and development of
staff skills in the public and parapublic sector. The BOM created a
Training Division to implement the training activities under the
project.
IV. Implementation
4.        A Canadian consulting firm was selected by the Government to
provide two training specialists. The content and scope of their tasks
were defined in the President's Report (Annex IV; Appendix 3), but were



- 51 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 5
not reflected in the contract.  The firm was also asked to coordinate
and administer the training of Senegalese officials selected under the
project for scholarships in Canada. Two experts arrived 3 months after
the date of project effectiveness and concentrated on planning short
seminars on varied subjects. They also agreed on the need for intensive
two-week seminars, particularly for financial controllers, and on a
program in accounting training for enterprise accountants to be
organized by the Institut Universitaire de Technologie (IUT) at the
University of Dakar.  For the intensive seminars, expatriate trainers
(from France) had to be invited to run the different sessions. There
was a high turn-over of experts at BOM (6 persons in 3 years), leading
to different perceptions of the experts' role. During project execution
the emphasis moved away from training; the experts did very little
training, did not develop adequate training materials and concentrated
instead on organizing seminars.
A.   Short-Term Seminars
5.        The BOM organized 30 seminars each of 2-5 days duration and
covering 21 subjects. Some had to be repeated three times to allow for
a larger audience and to compensate for participants' frequent
absenteeism. In view of the limited time available to senior staff,
particularly  public  enterprise board members,  the seminars were
orgarized on the basis of 2 afternoons per week for 3-4 weeks.
Approximately 300 people attended, of whom many attended more than one
seminar.
B.   Intensive Seminars
6.        Six intensive seminars of 10-15 days were organized during the
project. One of these seminars organized by BOM was for training the
Directors General of public enterprises. The Audit Commission (CVCCEP)
organized its own intensive seminar during two weeks for CVCCEP auditors
and CFP controllers with the assistance of an international auditing
firm which was also selected to organize a practical training program
for 7 auditors at its Paris office. CFP also organized its own seminar;
they sought bids from three firms and one university and chose the
university; the seminar was organized in two parts, one in 1980, the
other in 1981.
7.        Another type of intensive training was offered only during the
last year of the project by the IUT. It took a very long time for the
BOM, IUT and the Public Contracts Commission (ChNA) to agree on two
programs, their content and cost. During the first program of 9 months,
25 public enterprise accounting clerks were trained (academic training)
and received a basic degree in accounting. The second program, also for
9 months of academic training in accounting, led to a higher degree in
accounting.



- 52 -                      ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 5
C.   Training Materials
8.        No significant training materials were developed.  Very few
and brief case studies of little relevance were developed. These were
western  cases using Senegalese  names.   No reusable printed or
audiovisual materials were prepared as had been planned in the training
objectives.
D. Overseas Training
9.        CFP sent 12 persons (50% of its staff) for an 8 week training
program either in France or Canada. The consulting firms in France and
Canada received the CFP trainees to train them in theory and practice of
auditing. A few attended short courses at a school of public
administration i!: Canada and went through a study tour to familiarize
themselves with government public finance operations.   Of the 12
trainees, only 5 have remained at CFP, while the others transferred to
other jobs.
10.       Seven auditors from CVCCEP received training at the Paris
office of an international accounting firm.  While the other firms
charged the project for their training services, this firm did not;
however, it was adequarcl,  cczipensated by the cost of the one-week
seminar it organized in Dakar. Of the seven auditors given training in
auditing techniques, only 3 have remained at CVCCEP; two of those who
left became directors of CEP.  Some CEP staff members also benefited
from overseas training.
V.   The Training Component in Perspective
11.       It is difficult to assess the success of the training
component. Among the achievements one should mention that six of the
trainees now occupy leading positions in Government agencies and public
enterprises; undoubtedly their training contributed to their promotion.
However, many problems arose:
a)   There was an excessive turnover in the TA team of 2 experts,
which resulted in a lack of continuity in the implementation
of the project component.
b)   The progress reports prepared by the training experts did not
reveal the implementation problems. There was little depth in
the training; the background of seminar attendants was too
heterogeneous; many trainees were unmotivated and absenteeism
was significant.   Letters were sent to the employers of
absentees, but were ignored.
c)   The intensive seminars fared better because the duration
allowed some in-depth  treatment of the subjects.   The
expatriates from two organizations came well prepared with
their training materials, while other experts came
ill-prepared.



- 53 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 5
d)   Management of the component was conflict-laden because: (i)
the authority of the BOM vis-a-vis the heads of the other
components had not been made clear; (ii) the expatriates
assisting the different project agencies decided to organize
the local training of their agency staff in their own way,
collaboration between them and the BOM experts was difficult
to achieve since each claimed primary responsibility for
training implementation.
e)   Overseas training was beneficial as means of broadening the
horizons of trainees but was not not always very relevant.
Trainees complained that the coordinating firm and a training
firm did not care much and neglected their needs.  They
reported gains in general knowledge, but not in skills needed
to improve their performance. There was no analysis of their
tasks at home, nor appropriate planning of the content of
their training overseas to meet the needs for improved
performance.
f)   Experts at the BOM were also asked to do consulting tasks,
deviating their attention from their primary tasks. Although
the tasks sometimes benefited training, these benefits were
not demonstrated through the preparation of case materials.
g)   Supervision Reports repeatedly stressed BOM management's lack
of initiative and drive.
h)   There is no evidence of guidance from IDA supervision missions
to contro' and improve the quality of training.
i)   The accounts of the training components were not kept at the
BOM and it has been very difficult to obtain complete data
showing the costs of local training.
VI. Conclusion
12.       The training component was well prepared, but too ambitious.
Its implementation left much to be desired.   At the outset of project
implementation, agencies financed by the project challenged the
authority of the BOM for controlling their training activities. This
impaired the effective implementation of the component. Agreement on
the allocation of responsibility and commensurate authority should have
been reached among all parties concerned before the start of
implementation. IDA staff should have played the role of catalist or
facilitator in this matter. Care should have been taken in approving
the contract with the consulting firm for spelling out the objectives of
the component and the specific tasks needed to achieve them.  The
component was not adequately supervised by IDA. This led to the
deviation of the consultants from their training role to an advisory and
consulting role. Had supervision been adequate, the design and content



- 54 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 5
of the courses would have been improved and corrective measures for
better management of the component would have been possible.
13.       Corrective measures were not taken to address the problems
raised in the reports that trainees submitted upon their return.
Valuable information pointing to the real value and issues of the
training is contained in those reports, but nobody seems to have read
them.
14.       No permanent training system for public enterprise personnel
and oversight agencies' staff was set up. With the end of the project
came also the end of the training program administered by BOX.  The
follow-up parapublic project finances an advisor at BOM whose TOR
include setting up such a permanent training program.



SENEGAL - PARAPUBLIC OVERSIGHT SYSTEM
FINANCIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROLS                                     LEGAL/ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROLS
INSTITUTIONS                     MINISTRIES                                   PRESIDENCY - PREMIERSHIP
Technical    Finance                       President           Prime Minister                    Supreme              Court of
IIERARCIIICAL               Ministries   Ministry                                        (abolished in 1983)                 Court          Budgetary Discipline
AUTHORITIES                                                              S
GOVERNMENT                                  CEP                     I      CFP j                C                           C   C_E_P
(CFP-DP
OVERSIGHT                                C
ACENCIES
PUBLIC                                      EP                                      S E M
(general)                                    S N
ENTERPRISES                                 CPEP (exceptional)
SGPR   - Secrdtariat Gdndral de la Prdsidence de la R6publique                                 CCP    = Cellule des Contrats-Plans (est. 1980)
CEP    - Centre des Etablissements Publices (est. 1966)                                        CVCCEP - Commission de Virification des Comptes et de Contrale
COF    = Contr5le des Opdrations Flnancires (division of CEP)                                          des Etablissements Publics (est. 1972)
ACC    = Agence Comptable Centrale (division of CEP)                                           EP     o Etablissement Public
CFP    - Controle Financier de la Prdsidence (est. 1959)                                       SEM    a Socidtd d'Economie Mixte
CFP-DP - Division Parapublique (crdde en 19'7)                                                 SN     - Soci4t4 Nationale s_ X
IGE    - Inspection Grndrale d'Etat (est. 1906)                                               ACP    - Agent Comptable Particulier                               0 co
BOM    = Bureau Organisation et Methodes (est. 1966)                                                                                                             Mi



- 56 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
Comments on the Organigram of the Parapublic Oversight System
The organigram outlines the complex Government oversight system
over public enterprises in general prevailing during the period of project
execution. One institution was added in November 1980 to this oversight
system, namely the Cellule des Contrats-Plans, reporting to the Prime
Minister until May 1983, when the Premiership was abolished, and to the
Secretary General of the Presidency since then.
All the oversight agencies mentioned on this diagram with the
exception of the Inspection Generale d'Etat (IGE) were included in the
Parapublic TA project and are further described in the body of this report.
IGE is a special elite corps of inspectors working directly for the
Presidency on specific assignments, including special reports on public
enterprises.  (In 1980 IGE prepared at the request of the Presidency a
report on the management of CFP; the report which was quite critical was
never released.)
With the exception of CEP (ACC and COF), whose responsibilities
only include control over EPs, all oversight agencies have some degree of
intervention in EPs, SNs and SEMs.  IGE, BOM and CCP involvement in a
specific company normally occurs only on specific request from the
Government or the company.



