FILE COPY r                                Document of                    RETURN TO
The World Bank                   REPORTS F)^SK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                 ONE  WEEK
Report No. P-2144 SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR THE PARA-PUBLIC SECTOR
January 5, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



lOLi Ui;. L        ,-.bx
0 7 1978          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00 = CFAF 245
CFAF 1 million = US$4,080
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Senegal: July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
I meter (m)      2           3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)   =      10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilometer (km)      -      0.62 mile (mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACC      -   Agent Comptable Central
BOM      -   Bureau d'Organisation et Methodes
CEP      -   Centre des Etablissements Publics
COF      -   Controleur des Operations Financieres
CVCCEP   -   Commission de Verification des Comptes et de Controle
des Etablissements Publics
FCP      -   Controleur Financier de la Presidence
GESP     -   Groupe d'Etude du Secteur Para-Public
ONCAD    -   Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au
Developpement
OPT      -   Office des Postes et Telecommunications
PHU      -   Project Management Unit
SAED     -   Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres
du Delta
SOMIVAC  -   Societe pour la Mise en Valeur de la Casamance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR THE PARA-PUBLIC SECTOR
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Government of Senegal
Amount:            US$6.3 million
Terms:             Standard
Project
Description:      A three-year program to assist Government in: (i)
improving the efficiency of Government organizations
charged with strategic analysis, operational supervision,
and formal financial control over the para-public
sector; and (ii) upgrading the auditing, financial
management and accounting procedures for the sector as
a whole and for a number of the most important public
enterprises and mixed companies.
The program provides for eight expatriate experts and
an increase in local staff for Government control
organizations; auditing, consulting services and
training for four public enterprises and auditing of
three mixed companies; and training staff in Government
control organizations, Government representatives
acting as directors of para-public sector companies,
and accountants.
The major beneficiary would be Government and the economy
as a whole through the impact of better company performance
on public finances, balance of payments, and the achievement
of development objectives given to the para-public sector
which currently accounts for more than 40% of value added
in the modern sector. In addition to the usual problem of
finding suitable advisers and ensuring their cooperation
with local staff, the major project risks concern Govern-
ment's commitment to continuing reform of the para-public
sector without using project resources to overcontrol the
sector and interfere excessively in company operations.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Cost (including t:axes)            US$ thousands
Local       Foreign       Total
Salaries of technical assistance
personnel                                    -          2,110        2,110
Incremental local salaries and costs
for Senegalese personnel                   1,130          -          1,130
Short term consultants                         -            800          800
Auditing fees                                  210        1,630        1,840
Equipment, material and vehicles                60          380          440
Training and scholarships                       10          650          660
Contingencies - physical                        20          100          120
- price                         480          700        1,180
Total (including
taxes)         1,910        6,370       8,280
Total (net of taxes)  1,900         6,300        8,200
(in percentage)           (23)         (77)        (100)
Financing Plan:  The proposed Credit of US$6.3 million would finance 77% of
total project costs (net of taxes) representing 100% of
the estimated foreign exchange component. The Government
would finance all local costs, estimated at US$1.9 million
equivalent.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                   US$ millions
FY79      FY80      FY81       FY82
Annual                        1.6         2.1     2.1        0.5
Cumulative                    1.6        3.7      5.8        6.3
Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:          None /a
/a   See Report No. 1619a-SE dated June 1, 1977 on the para-public sector in
Senegal which is being circulated separately as background.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL FOR
A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR THE PARA-PUBLIC SECTOR
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Senegal for the equivalent of US$6.3
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Technical Assistance Project
for the Para-Public Sector.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.         A report entitled "The Economy of Senegal" (212-SE) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on September 10, 1973. Since then, a series
of preparatory sector missions and a basic economic mission visited Senegal
to update the macroeconomic data base and to review the country's development
strategy. The following paragraphs reflect the findings of these missions,
whose conclusions will be included in a basic economic report now being
prepared. Updated country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Senegal is situated at the extreme western part of the African con-
tinent. In the interior, the mainstay of the economy is millet cultivation
and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic consumption, and groundnut cultiva-
tion for exports. Soils are generally poor, and variations in rainfall
periodically cause severe food shortages in the months between the sowing
and harvesting of the next crop. The large river basins -- some of them
fed in the tropical rain zone -- have so far been exploited only marginally.
Land distribution is fairly even. In the western part of the country arable
land is becoming scarce, but in the extreme south-east some good land is
still available. The modern sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar,
a well organized city of about 1 million inhabitants. The economic base of
Dakar consists of excellent port facilities, an industry which is turning
gradually toward exports, and a small but fast-growing tourist sector.
Senegal's per capita GNP for 1976 was estimated at $390, but average in-
come in Dakar is roughly five times as high as in the countryside.
4.        During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual stag-
nation as real output increased less rapidly than population, and per capita
GNP declined. Two factors were responsible for this situation. First, with
independence, Senegal lost its privileged position as the center of French
West Africa, and therefore had to adjust to reduced economic, administrative
and political circumstances. Secondly, in the latter part of the decade,
groundnut production fell due to unfavorable weather and declining export
prices. In the 1970s, a new stage in Senegal's development set in, charac-
terized by a higher rate of private and public investment. Private invest-
ments, which had hovered around 4 percent of GDP in the late 1960s, rose to
8 percent during the period 1970-75. Until 1972, public investments stayed
at around 5.5 percent of GDP, but increased to 7 percent during the 1973-75
period.



- 2 -
5.        While the 1970's saw a rise in the rate of investment, output
and incomes were depressed in 1972 and 1973 by the Sahel's most severe drought
in over a century, which brought a decline in real national income. After
1973, when weather conditions improved and purchasing power of the rural
population was restored, both agricultural and industrial production shot up.
The long-standing Government program to modernize rainfed agri^ulture proved
to be very successful in years with better rains. In 1975/76 the groundnut
crop reached a historical record of 1.45 million tons (more than double the
average for the 1968-73 period), followed by a crop of 1.1 million tons in
1976/77 but the 1977/78 crop was again below average because of bad rainfall;
manufacturing industry grew by about 11 percent per year between 1973 and
1975.  Total production increased in real terms by 4 percent in 1974, about
10 percent in 1975, and 6 percent in 1976 but will stagnate in the following
two years due to less favorable crops.
6.        Strong price increases for Senegal's major exports helped to bring
about the economic recovery. The prices of both groundnuts and phosphates
quadrupled over the period 1969-74, providing strong incentives to production.
However, since prices of imported o:il and food also increased at high rates,
the gains in real income from the rise in export prices were limited. More-
over, in 1975 international prices for Senegal's exports again began to fall,
almost offsetting the growth in real output. These wide international price
fluctuat-ions had serious consequences on domestic prices, public finance, and
balance of payments.
Public Finance and Balance of Payments
7.        The Government responded with flexibility in the adoption of econo-
mic policies. In 1974, the Governme!nt initially tried to maintain stable
domestic prices in the face of the skyrocketing food import prices. By end-
1974, it became clear that the costs of this policy were becoming excessive
and that changes would need to be made, even though transfers to the public
sector resulting from improved groundnut production and prices were much
higher than in the preceding year. To reduce subsidies and put public finances
on a sounder footing, the Government raised the prices for rice, sugar, and
groundnut oil by 40 to 90 percent. To compensate for the rapid increase in
basic food prices, Government salaries were raised on average by 16 percent,
with actual increases ranging from 60 percent for the lower grades to 3 per-
cent for the higher ones. The minimum wage was increased by 47 percent
thus raising the entire wage scale of the private sector. Average consumer
prices rose by some 28 percent in six months' time, but the Government managed
to stabilize prices almost completely thereafter. At the end of 1974, the
Government also increased producer prices for groundnuts to bring them closer
to world prices which were at that time particularly high. The cost to the
Treasury of this latter step was expected to be compensated in large part by
additional revenues from the profitalble phosphate mine in which the Government
increased its participation while levying an 80 percent tax on the excess
profits accruing from the quadrupling of the export prices of phosphates in
1972/73.  In 1974 and 1975, Government revenues from phosphates amounted
to roughly $45 million a year.



8.        These steps led to an increase in public savings from a yearly
average of US$27 million during fiscal years 1970 through 1973, to US$46
million during fiscal years 1974 through 1976. The higher level of public
savings was doubtless an important factor in stimulating the Government to
increase its expenditure on public investments from a yearly average of US$24
million to US$56 million during the same two periods. In addition to the
rise in investment, purchases of equity and lending to domestic enterprises
by the Government increased from an annual average of US$5 million to US$42
million, mainly because of the participation in the phosphate mine and the
acquisition of two foreign-owned public utility companies. The combined
capital outlays of the Government were thus substantially in excess of public
savings, and were financed in large part through foreign bank loans. As a
consequence, foreign debt service carried by the Central Government increased
from $8 million in FY73 to $38 million in fiscal year 1976, representing about
10 percent of Central Government revenues.
9.        The balance of payments came under heavy pressure in 1973 because
of low groundnut exports and increasing imports of foodstuffs and equipment
goods, and net foreign reserves of the country fell to minus US$15 million.
In the following years the deficit on current transactions was reduced, but
the outflows of private capital related to the acquisition of foreign enter-
prises continued, and net foreign reserves reached a level of minus US$48
million at the end of 1975. This was financed by US$30 million in IMF oil
facilities, and the rest by increasing indebtedness of the mostly foreign-
owned commercial banks with their parent companies. Senegal's membership in
the West African Monetary Union lessens the risks usually associated with
such low foreign reserves. Senegal will also be eligible for approximately
US$7.7 million from the IMF Trust Fund in 1978.
10.       During 1976, the balance of payments remained under pressure.  The
state marketing board purchased the large groundnut crop from the farmers at
the favorable prices established in 1974, injecting massive purchasing power
into the economy, while continuing expansive monetary and budgetary policies.
This substantially increased the demand for imports. However, export revenues
stagnated since groundnut prices were 45 percent below the 1974 peak, and
phosphate prices were down by 40 percent. Price declines of the same order of
magnitude took place in some of Senegal's food imports, but the net effect on
the terms of trade was heavily negative.
11.       The drop in export prices also created a considerable problem
for public finance. The losses on groundnut transactions in the stabilization
fund were, to a large extent, compensated by gains on the domestic sales of
rice and sugar imports, but budgeted revenues from excess profits on phos-
phate operations did not materialize, creating unexpected deficits during
1976/77. Moreover, the decline of phosphate revenues diminished Government's
ability to cover its financial deficits on the Eurodollar market. In January
1977, the Government decided to adjust its fiscal policies. It postponed all
new current and capital expenditure programs, increased duties on imports
from the EEC, and increased the sales tax and taxes on the export of groundnut
products. It also abolished subsidies on wheat flour, and reduced fertilizer



- 4 -
subsidies slightly. The whole package should improve Government finances by
$37 million on an annual basis which will, to a large extent, compensate for
the loss of phosphate revenues. Finally, in 1977 there was a recovery of
groundnut prices, which eliminated the losses on groundnut transactions in the
stabilization fund. One can conclude that the Government has successfully
restored a balance in its current operation.
Prospects and Creditworthiness
12.       The Government's long-range development strategy remains based
on promotion of agriculture and export-oriented activities. The agricul-
tural program calls for development of areas less affected by rainfall
fluctuations (Casamance-and Eastern Senegal) where cash crops other than
groundnuts can be grown. Irrigated cereal production is being developed
in the arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River. This
policy will make the country less dependent on the uncertainties of its
climate and world market prices; but since the majority of the rural poor
are involved in groundnut farming, the Government.is continuing its efforts
to promote animal traction, treated seeds, fertilizer use, and crop rotation
to raise the productivity of farmers. The Government also aims at long-term
improvement of the balance of payments mainly through modest expansion of
phosphate mining capacity, promotion of local cereal production to reduce the
heavy burden of food imports, and development of light export industries and
of tourism. The Government is activrely preparing projects in these fields,
but because costs are relatively high in mining and other export sectors,
progress in developing efficient investments may be slow, and a cautious view
of the long-term outlook is warranted. With chances for export growth limited,
and substitution of locally produced cereals for imports critically dependent
on very large investments in irrigation, the trade deficit may stay high, even
if the growth objective is cut back to about 4.5 percent a year, as
compared to an official objective of 5.8 percent. Foreign capital aid and
some commercial loans are expected to be available up to a potential of $214
million a year during the 1977/78-1980/81 Plan period in order to finance a
widening gap in the balance of payments.
13.       In the medium term, the Government will need a relatively large
proportion of foreign financing for its public investment program. The
share of the public sector in total investments will go up, partly because
of the critical dependence of the economy on the acceleration of publicly
financed irrigation, partly because of the increased share in ownership and
control which the Government has recently acquired in the most important
sectors of the economy, and partly because of the private sector's low pro-
pensity to invest due to high producition costs in Senegal. Unfortunately,
public savings cannot be expected to increase at the same pace as public
investments. The tax effort is already considerable in Senegal, and all addi-
tional taxable capacity has been used to offset the revenue losses in the
phosphate sector. There may be scope for slowing down growth of recurrent
expenditures in some categories of the budget; however, insufficient mainte-
nance of the existing capital stock, operating costs of ongoing development
projects, and efforts of foreign donors to persuade Government to increase its



contribution to their current programs all augur for higher recurrent ex-
penditures, which in turn limit the possibility of significantly increasing
public savings. The Government could further increase taxation of groundnut
farmers; but since this is still the most profitable large scale production
open to Senegal, higher taxation of this sector would harm the long-term
growth prospects of the economy. Additional savings would have to be
generated within the para-public sector whose efficiency Government is trying
to improve for this purpose.
14.       Through the economic stabilization program launched in 1977, the
country reestablished itself as a potential borrower of Eurodollar funds.
Should the Government use these funds to finance projects whose internal
cash generation covers the additional debt service, then the availability
of Eurodollars will not worsen the public finance situation. However, if
this borrowing is used to finance infrastructure or social projects which
do not generate cash, the high debt service on these loans would compete
with other recurrent expenditures essential for economic development. With-
out a sufficient level of public savings, the periodic disturbances inherent
in the Senegalese economy could easily force the Government to a position
of having to roll over medium-term commercial debt. In such a case, the
confidence of foreign private lenders would be eroded and the country's
creditworthiness would be adversely affected. To avoid such a situation, one
important step would be an undertaking by Government to foreign donors that at
least 15% of the public investment program would be financed from public
savings (in the Fourth Plan, 1973/74 - 1976/77, public savings financed 30%
of public investments mainly because of the relatively low level of public
investment actually achieved). Achieving the 15% target during the Fifth Plan
period means a 25 percent reduction in planned investments, and a rigorous
screening of new projects on the recurrent costs that they may generate. As
to foreign financiers, it would mean that out of the roughly 85 percent of
projects financed by them a substantial part of the local costs would be
covered. This high percentage of foreign financing would have to be main-
tained for some years to give the Government time to make the structural
changes required to achieve a more satisfactory contribution to public invest-
ment.
15.       On the assumption that Government takes steps to maintain a balance
between public investments and public savings, Senegal would remain credit-
worthy for lending on IBRD terms. The Government has demonstrated its commit-
ment to development by increasing public investments between 1970 and 1976 by
19 percent per year in current prices.  The development strategy continues to
be based on agricultural production and rural development, to which 27 percent
of the new investment program is allocated. The Government has also demon-
strated its capacity to respond adequately to the problems which its vulner-
able economy is bound to encounter periodically. There are also reasonable
prospects for long-term diversification and growth. Senegal's access to
short-term financing facilities and membership in the West African Monetary
Union also reduces the risks associated with economic fluctuations. However,
lenders (including the Bank) should provide a large part of their assistance
on concessionary terms in order to avoid a rapid build-up of debt service. In



-- 6 -
conclusion, assuming the continuatic'n of responsive and sensible policies,
public debt service is expected to increase from 6 percent of export earnings
in 1976 to roughly 11 percent in 1980, and to be kept between 10 and 15
percent in the long run.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
16.       The Bank Group has had 37 operations in Senegal to date.  Total
outstanding lending amounts to US$167.8 million, including eighteen IDA
credits, thirteen Bank loans, two blends of Bank and IDA funds, three IFC
operations, and one blend of Bank and IFC funds. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of November 30,
1977, and notes on the implementation of ongoing projects. Execution of these
projects is progressing reasonably well, except that some operations particu-
larly in highways and education have been affected by the shortage of counter-
part funds due to the Government's continuing difficult public finance situa-
tion, as well as by lack of qualified local staff for key positions. The
Government is very well aware of the need to constantly seek ways to reduce
delays caused by these problems, and particularly of the importance of assur-
ing good management supervision of projects in all sectors. In this respect,
we shall try through the technical assistance program proposed in this report
to resolve on a sector-wide basis some of the issues regarding the general
situation of the country's finances and Government control of public enter-
prises and mixed companies, particularly those which are channels for Bank
Group assistance.
17.       The Bank  Group's share in total disbursements to Senegal over
1976-81 will stay at around 15 percent, of which roughly 40 percent IDA.
The Bank Group's share in outstanding debt was 21 percent in 1976, and will
slowly start to surpass that level after 1981. The Bank Group's share in
public debt service is expected to increase from 3.8 percent in 1975 to about
8 percent in 1981, a rise which is mainly due to the increase in Bank loans
from 17 percent of Senegal's outstanding debt to the Bank Group in 1976 to
about 40 percent by 1981.
18.       The objectives of Bank Group lending in Senegal fall under five
main headings. We continue to give priority to rural development, including
development of irrigation in the Senegal River Valley Region (e.g., the
ongoing River Polders project, and the recently appraised Debi Lampsar Irri-
gation Development project), intensification of groundnut production and
diversification into new crops and new regions (e.g., the Sine Saloum agri-
cultural development project, Eastern Senegal Livestock projects, and the
Second Sedhiou rice project in Casamance); as in the past, we would expect our
agricultural lending over the next few years to exceed one-third of the total.
Secondly, we have supported diversification of the economy by lending to the
growing industrial sector through the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le
Developpement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development finance
company established with Bank Group assistance in 1974. This diversification
objective is being further assisted by a second Loan to SOFISEDIT approved



early in FY 77 which includes provision for developing an integrated scheme to
provide assistance to small-scale Senegalese entrepreneurs, as well as by a
tourism project approved later in FY 77 for construction of infrastructure and
common facilities to support a 2,500-bed hotel development on the Petite Cote.
Thirdly, we have encouraged modernization and expansion of the country's
infrastructure particularly through lending in all modes of the transport
sector; we are pursuing this effort through a project for a major extension of
the Dakar Fishing Port approved by the Board in April 1977, and through a
proposed third operation in the Senegalese railway system geared to improving
its organization, management, and operating and financial performance.
Fourth, Government has asked us to help re-orient and expand the country's
education system at all levels, and we have identified a proposed Third
Education Project which would help meet some of the major objectives in the
sector, particularly the need for trained high- and middle-level technicians
and managers in the modern sector and in agricultural development activities,
and enable a start in gradually reducing existing widespread functional
illiteracy. Overall, we remain conscious of the need to prepare project
components in the social services sector (particularly nutrition and health),
within the limits of the Government's ability to bear the recurrent costs
involved. And finally, we are assisting Government in increasing its absorp-
tive capacity for planning, executing and managing development projects
through institutional support within individual Bank Group projects and
through broader efforts such as the proposed project.
PART III:  THE PARA-PUBLIC SECTOR AND THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
19.       A key channel for Government's development strategy is the para-
public sector composed of public enterprises which are wholly Government-
owned, and of mixed companies owned both by Government and private entre-
preneurs. Senegal has not yet developed an overall philosophy of what role
the para-public sector should play in the economy, but has instead approached
the question on a case-by-case and sector-by-sector basis. Reasons for
Government intervention have included inter alia: (i) to establish national
control over key sectors, especially those involving important national
resources (groundnuts and phosphates), infrastructure, and essential services;
(ii) to improve control over its balance of payments by taking equity posi-
tions in major export industries; (iii) to promote development in promising
areas (tourism, cotton, sugar) where private initiative has proven insuffi-
cient; (iv) to provide infrastructure, credit, research and promotion to
achieve faster economic development and to acquire new technology and manage-
rial expertise from abroad; and (v) to stimulate modern sector employment,
attract foreign financing, and develop organizational structures more flexible
than Government's own administrative services.
20.       Government is now involved in almost all parts of the economy.
It has acquired about 50% of the capital of the banking and phosphate mining
sectors, owns all of the major public services (water, electricity and urban
transport, railways and ports) and is deeply involved in lower and middle



- 8 -
income housing. In the agricultural sector, there are now seven public
enterprises and six mixed companies providing essential agricultural inputs
and services, handling the market:Lng of products and the development of
agro-industry. Government has recently been increasing its role in industry,
even though this sector is still largely dominated by private enterprises.
Growth of the para-public sector has been relatively recent, with about half
of the 148 para-public companies I/ in which Government has a direct or in-
direct interest created since 1973. In 1972, direct and indirect Government
participations in mixed companies alone amounted to US$28.8 million, and by
1976 this figure had increased to US$93.1 million. The sector's growth was
made possible by allocating to it much of Senegal's considerably increased
revenues from favorable groundnut and phosphate prices during the 1973-75
period, and from borrowings on the international money market. Except in
the case of public enterprises in public services and in the agricultural
sector, the mixed company formula has been adopted for the most part by
Government because of its greater managerial flexibility, the autonomy it
often has from cumbersome Government administrative and procurement prac-
tices, and the possibility it affords to bring in private Senegalese and
foreign partners.
Economic and Financial Importance of the Sector
21.       As the para-public sector has grown, so has its relative impact
on the economy and on public finances. With total annual investments of US$38
million, the para-public sector accounted in 1974 for 48% of gross fixed
capital formation in the modern sector 2/, and 43% of value added. In 1974,
the sector's exports totalled 36% of modern sector exports and 30% of its
imports, and employed about 31% of total modern sector employees. The propor-
tion of Senegal's foreign debt attributable to loans to para-public sector
enterprises, including loans to finance Government participations, has
increased from a cumulative US$9.6 million or 16% of total disbursements in
1965, to US$35.7 million or 40% in 1970, and to US$163.5 million or 67% in
1975. Annual service payments on para-public enterprise loans have risen from
32% of total public debt service in 1965 (US$0.9 million) to 62% in 1975
(US$23.4 million).
22.       While the para-public sector in Senegal is still very young and it
is too early to make a definitive assessment of its overall performance, a
1/   Government participations are concentrated very heavily in a relatively
small number of large mixed companies and public enterprises. Equity
holdings in 33 enterprises accounted for 87% of the value of Govern-
ment's portfolio in 1976. A breakdown of para-public companies by
sector is shown on page 7 of the accompanying report (No. 1619a-SE).
2/   The modern sector in Senegal consists of some 1,409 companies which in
1974 had at least an elementary accounting system which permitted them
to be included in Government's census of public and private companies.



number of problems have become evident and need to be addressed by Government.
These problems can be classified into three categories: (i) inadequacy of
Government strategy towards development and supervision of the para-public
sector; (ii) poor economic and financial performance of the sector; and (iii)
chronic problems of internal management and accounting with regard to indivi-
dual companies.
Government Strategy
23.       The rapid growth of the para-public sector has taken place in a
largely uncoordinated and unplanned fashion, sometimes without consideration
of the overall impact on the economy, particularly on public finance. This
has led to a diversity of large and small investments over which Government
has little control, but for which Government has often committed itself to a
high degree of risk without clearly analyzing the benefits. A substantial
part of Government investments in recent years has been made to purchase
private (and usually foreign) equity in existing enterprises. Such invest-
ments have, on almost all occasions, amounted to replacements of already
invested capital, which have consequently generated neither additional jobs
nor additional funds for Government. There is an urgent need for the estab-
lishment of an investment evaluation unit which would use objective and
rational criteria to analyze proposed Government investments detailed in
studies presented to it by the technical ministries.
Supervision and Control
24.       Supervision and financial control of public enterprises has been
undertaken for the most part by the Center for Public Enterprises (Centre des
Etablissements Publics 1/, CEP) in the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs.
Since its creation in 1966, CEP has improved Government control of public
enterprise finances and accounting. However, the requirement that public
enterprise managers submit financial transactions to CEP for prior approval is
time-consuming, and has often considerably hampered the normal functioning of
public enterprise operations. As the performance of individual public enter-
prises improves, they should be less subject to CEP's prior control. Those
enterprises having difficulty, on the other hand, should receive management
assistance and financial discipline from CEP which has not been able to do
this up to now because of lack of qualified staff.
25.       Government has supervised mixed companies by appointing unsystema-
tically, if at all, State Controllers in the Ministry of Finance to represent
the State on boards of directors. The State Controllers are usually middle-
level civil servants with no business or management experience and, being only
part time, they can devote little attention to their additional duties control-
ling mixed companies. The State Controllers system has been unable to serve
1/   CEP is composed of the Controller of Financial Operations (COF) which
reviews all public enterprise financial transactions and the Central
Accounting Agent (ACC) which is responsible for the accounting standards
and budgeting practices of public enterprises.



- 10 -
either as a means of supervising mixed companies or of providing Government
policymakers with the appropriate information on company activities. The
office of the Financial Controller of the Presidency (FCP), in addition to
monitoring execution of the national budget, has on an ad hoc basis been
successful in drawing Government's attention to the most serious problems in
individual mixed companies (para. 29). The proposed project would assist
Government in improving its strategic analysis and operational supervision of
the para-public sector, both for public enterprises and mixed companies.
Economic and Financial Performance
26.       While the data collection system for the para-public sector is very
weak, an economic census was done by Government for 1974 which showed that,
excluding phosphates 1/, the drain on public finances due to the para-public
sector was about US$36 million, including some new investments. To the extent
that phosphate revenues decline or are not used by Government to finance the
para-public sector, the sector in the future will have to raise a large propor-
tion of its funds from internal cash generation which has not been possible so
far. It is for the most part a few public enterprises and mixed companies
which request Government assistance to cover their losses. But the deficitary
companies take badly needed funds away from more promising enterprises which,
because of Government's current difficult public finance situation, are often
undercapitalized, are owed large debts by Government, and are thus heavily
dependent on expensive commercial borrowing. The proposed project would help
Government improve its systems and procedures for monitoring the para-public
sector's economic and financial performance, and for rationalizing its response
to problems.
Management and Accounting
27.       The para-public sector suiEfers from a shortage of trained managers
at the middle and upper levels, largely due to the lack of educational facil-
ities in Senegal for management training. The rapid expansion of the sector
has also greatly increased the demand for skilled middle-level technical
staff. Financial planning and accounting standards are generally weak, and
management often lacks the reliable data necessary for controlling operations.
Government rarely has the information on which to judge performance, especially
for the major public enterprises such as the agricultural development agencies
and public utilities which are essential to economic development.  The absence
of proper analytic accounting and accurate data is an impediment to reform
of the para-public sector.  Harmonizing accounting standards is consequently
extremely important and must be accompanied by more training of accountants,
as well as improved financial systems and procedures on the company and
national level. Government is committed to improving the internal accounting
and external auditing standards of para-public companies, and assistance for
1/   Phosphates were excluded because the temporary high profits for 1974/75
concealed the losses for the rest of the sector which have emerged now
thaLt phosphate prices have dropped dramatically.



- 11 -
this is inc]udi.d under the proposed project. Government is also considering
development of a management education scheme not only for the para-public
sector but also for the civil se-vice and the private se tor.  The Bank
Group is discussing with Government the possibility of including such a
mana ement education scheme in a proposed Third Education Project to be
appriised in 1978 (se, para. 3').
Ref _rm of the Para-Public Sector
8.        Governmenrt has become increasingly aware of the problems posed by
0!,? para-public sector, particularly its drain on public finances and its
fa. :re to a hbieve development goals.  The Prime Minister created in early
197T a task force of various Government organizations which would report to
Lim on means of reforming the para-public sector. In June 1976, a Bank
mission, including a representative of Government, visited Senegal to do an
organizational and financial analysis of the sector. Government's immediate
priorities were to have a report which: (i) revealed the size and extent of
the para-public sector; (ii) calculated the cost of the sector to Government;
(iii) made functional recommendations about what could be done to improve
Government control; and (iv) provided Senegal with an overview of how para-
public sectors in other parts of the world were controlled. When the report
was discussed with Government, the Bank indicated that in addition to its
functional recommendations, Government needed to make some political decisions
about how to reform sector control and about which institutions should handle
the reform. In February 1977, the Prime Minister informed the Bank that the
necessary decisions had been made and would be incorporated in a new law to
reform Government control of the para-public sector. At that time, he
asked the Bank to consider financing a technical assistance project to help
implement the new law, since earlier efforts in 1966 and 1972 to reform
control of the sector had failed largely because of a lack of resources and
qualified people available for the control organizations. The Association
has reviewed and agreed to the text of the new reform law which has now been
signed and ratified.
29.       The para-public reform law of 1977 emphasizes the need for unity of
Government relations with and control over the sector . Under the new law,
the Financial Controller of the Presidency (FCP), an office which deals
directly with the President, the Prime Minister, and other Ministers, will be
responsible for:
(i) Strategic Analysis. The FCP will provide strategic analysis of
the entire para-public sector, which will involve advising Gov-
ernment on sub-sector policies, as well as on the creation of
new companies, large capital expenditures, and annual company
budgets;
(ii) Operational Supervision. The FCP will monitor to see if the
objectives given by Government to para-public companies are
being achieved. In addition, the FCP will try to anticipate
problem areas through supervision of company management; and



- 12 -
(iii) Formal Control. The FCP will exerci e ex post facto formal
financial control of mixed companies and of two of the largest
public enterprises -- the groundnut iarkeJing company, Office
National de Cooperation et d'Assistalce au Developpement (ONCAD),
and Senegal Railways. The other pubLic enterprises will continue
to have various degrees of prior financiai control exercised by
the CEP until their accounting standards and financial management
are improved enough for Government to give them more autonomy.
30.       The staff of the FCP, including full-time State Controllers for
mixed companies, will be upgraded and expanded to meet its new responsibil-
ities. The CEP is being reorganized to provide positive help in accounting
and management to the public enterprises under its supervision. Both the FCP
and CEP would receive assistance under the proposed project.
31.       Two Government organizations involved in the para-public sector are
currently receiving some technical assistance from the French Fonds d'Aide et
de Cooperation (FAC) and from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
FAC is providing two advisors to the auditing commission (CVCCEP) (para. 36),
and UNDP has a program for upgrading the staff of the Bureau d'Organization
et Methodes (BOM) (para. 38). However, neither FAC nor UNDP has sufficient
resources available within their programs for Senegal to finance this project.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
32.       The proposed project was iidentified in February 1977 following a re-
quest by Government. Subsequent preparation was undertaken with the assistance
of Bank staff, and the project was appraised in July 1977 by a mission includ-
ing Messrs. J. Brown, P. Dufour, P. Levy, H. Nickel and A. R. Whyte (IDA) and
J. Kubes (consultant). Negotiations were held in Washington December 12-13,
1977 with a Senegalese delegation led by Mr. Ousmane Seck, Minister of Plan
and Cooperation. A Credit and Project Summary is provided at the front of
this report, and further details on the proposed technical assistance program
are given in Annex IV. A report on the para-public sector in Senegal (Report
No.1619a-SE dated June 1, 1977) is being circulated separately as background.
Project Description and Objectives
33.       The project would support a three-year program aimed at strengthen-
ing and improving Government monitoring and the performance of the para-public
sector as a whole, and of certain key mixed companies and public enterprises.
Specifically, the project would help:
(i) improve the efficiency of Government organizations charged with
strategic analysis, operational supervision, and formal control
over the para-public sector;



- 13 -
(ii) upgrade the auditing, financial management and accounting proce-
dures and staff for the sector as a whole, as well as for four of
the most important public enterprises, and for three mixed
companies; and
(iii) train Government officials dealing with the para-public sector,
including staff of Government control organizations and repre-
sentatives on boards of directors of para-public sector companies.
34.       The project would include the following components:
A.   Government Control Organizations:
(i) Financial Controller of the Presidency (FCP). The appraisal
mission assisted the FCP in defining its new objectives, sys-
tems and procedures, personnel needs, and organization chart
in order to carry out its responsibilities under the para-
public sector reform law. The new FCP organization dealing
with the para-public sector would be headed by a Division
Chief under whom there would be two functional service sections
(documentation and data collection, and legal and accounting),
and five operational sections divided by sector of activity
(agriculture, agro-industry and fisheries; industry and
mining; infrastructure and transport; tourism, communications
and services; and financial institutions). The proposed
project would include four expatriate experts for three years
(a management specialist who would advise the FCP division
chief, a financial and accounting specialist, an economist
with experience in agriculture and agro-industry, and an
industrial sector specialist). The proposed terms of reference
for these experts are in Annex IV, Appendix I. Government has
agreed that these as well as other experts financed under the
project would be selected by June 30, 1978 (Schedule 4 of the
Credit Agreement).  The project would also include equip-
ment and materials, vehicles, and a consultants' budget
to perform specialized studies. The eight Senegalese staff in
the FCP dealing with the para-public sector would be progres-
sively increased to 26 by 1981 to carry out the FCP's new
duties and as the technical assistance personnel are replaced
by Senegalese. The additional positions for Senegalese
personnel are included in the project costs, and would be
financed by Government. The recruitment of high-level Sene-
galese with experience in both administration and business
management is essential for the FCP to perform its strategic
analysis, operational supervision, and formal control over the
para-public sector. Government discussed with the Association
and will carry out a program to recruit and train qualified
Senegalese to staff the expanded FCP (Section 3.05(b)(c) of
Credit Agreement); the proposed new organization structure of
the FCP has also been discussed and agreed.



- 14 -
(ii)  Ceiter for Public Enterprises (CEP).  The CEP, which retains
fii,ancial control for most public enterprises through the
COr, has recently created a management assistance unit to
up;rade public enterprise performance by:
(a) advising individual enterprises on management problems;
and
(b) adapting CEP rules to make them more appropriate for
individual management situations. This unit, by improv-
ing public enterprise management, would permit CEP to
gradually reduce its a priori financial control; the
unit would be reinforced for two years by a management
specialist included in the project. The proposed terms
of reference for this expert are in Annex IV, Appendix 2.
B.   Auditing, Financial Management and Accounting
35.       Public Enterprises.  Improved operations of para-public sector
companies will occur only if management and Government control organiza-
tions have the appropriate company level data on which to make policy
decisions. The proposed project therefore includes financing of annual
audits, training of accountants, and consulting services to improve the
financial and accounting systems and procedures over three years for four
of Senegal's major public enterprises selected by Government, in consultation
with IDA, because they are among the enterprises which play a key role in
executing the Government's development plans (Section 3.06 of Credit Agree-
ment). These public enterprises are: (i) ONCAD, the national groundnut
marketing agency which also assists cooperatives and provides farmers with
agricultural inpu.s such as seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, and equipment;
(ii) Office des Postes et Telecommunications (OPT), the telecommunications and
postal agency; (iii) Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du
Delta (SAED), which is responsible for implementing Senegalese national
projects within the framework of regional development of the Senegal River
Basin; and (iv) Societe pour la Mise en Valeur de la Casamance (SOMIVAC), the
regional agricultural development agency for the southern Casamance region.
If this pilot program is successful in achieving its objectives, it could
be replicated in other public enterprises and also in mixed companies. In
addition, two man-years of technical assistance and a short term consultants'
budget would be provided to the Central Accounting Agent (Agent Comptable
Central, ACC) in the CEP to improve accounting systems and procedures, and for
the possible introduction of analytical accounting for public enterprises in
addition to the four mentioned above. The terms of reference for this expert
are in Annex IV, Appendix 2.
36.       Mixed Companies.  The Auditing Commission (CVCCEP), a specialized
unit in the Supreme Court, is responsible for reviewing the accounts not
only of public enterprises but also of mixed companies, ex post facto on an
irregular basis and as the need arises. Up to now, the Commission's audits
of large mixed companies which are b,eyond the capacity of its own staff



- 15 -
have been paid for by the institutions being audited, and the accounting firms
chosen largely by these institutions. This has proven to be a very unsatisfac-
tory arrangement especially for companies with poor performance which have not
wanted to be audited, and it has seriously reduced the effectiveness of the
Commission's work because of delays and disagreements over auditing firms. The
project would include financing for one major audit and one follow-up audit of
three important mixed companies for which the Commission's staff does not have
the required capacity. The companies to be audited will be chosen in consulta-
tion with the Association (Section 3.07 of Credit Agreement). Government has
agreed: (a) to submit by December 31, 1978 for review and approval by the
Association a permanent plan for financing the Commission's outside auditing
work; and (b) that CVCCEP will comment annually on the quality of all audits
carried out in the para-public sector (Section 4.02 of Credit Agreement).
C.   Training of Public Enterprise Management and Control Agency Staff
37.       The success of the project depends on improving management and
accounting skills within the Government's control agencies concerned by the
project, at the level of company directors, and in the finance/accounting
departments of para-public sector companies. To ensure that sufficient
attention is paid to the training of national staff in these fields, the
training function will be separated from that of operational technical assis-
tance to the control agencies. The project would finance six man-years of
specialist services in modern management techniques and company-level deci-
sion-making to respond to the most urgent short-term training needs in the
para-public sector. Terms of reference for the two experts are included in
Annex IV, Appendix 3. In the long run, more permanent structures for manage-
ment training will be required, and the Government has requested Bank Group
assistance for creation of appropriate structures in the framework of a pro-
posed Third Education Project.
38.       The Bureau d'Organisation et Methodes (BOM), a consulting and
training institution in the Office of the Presidency, will be responsible
for training under the project. In addition to the proposed specialist
services, the Credit would finance the expansion of BOM's instructional
resources to meet the tasks imposed by the project. Courses will be devel-
oped around case studies reflecting the types and level of management prob-
lems current in the sector. This will involve close collaboration between
the training specialists and the agencies and companies concerned. Course
material will comprise reusable packages of printed and audiovisual mate-
rials, together with tests designed to permit measurement of the trainee's
acquisition of new knowledge and skills. The target groups concerned are
staff of the FCP, the CEP and the CVCCEP who will be selected by their super-
visors and made available full-time for training during the course periods.
The project would include short-term overseas scholarships for training in
specialized fields.
39.       The training staff will also organize a series of workshops for
key members of boards of directors of selected enterprises to improve their
skills in accounting, decision-making and in the organization of effective



- 16 -
meetings. In the more specialized task of upgrading the skills of company
accountants, in particular those from the four public enterprises mentioned
in para. 35, the BOM plans to collaborate with the Commercial Department of
the University Institute of Technology which operates successful courses for
private sector accountants. All training courses will be evaluated by the
target agencies and by the participants themselves.
Project Organization
40.       To ensure proper coordination and implementation of the various
project components, the project would be directed by the chairman of the
Prime Minister's task force on the para-public sector (GESP). His position
would give him direct access not only to the Prime Minister and the heads
of the key government services concerned by the project, but also to the
President's principal advisors who are likewise ex-officio members of the
task force. The Project Management UJnit (PMU) would be located in the Prime
Minister's Office, with a deputy project director responsible for day-to-day
management of the project (Section 3.08 of the Credit Agreement). A project
director and deputy director acceptable to the Association have been selected
by Government. The responsibilities of the project director, deputy director,
and of the heads of the services concerned directly by the project are detailed
in Annex IV, Appendix 4. Key PMU responsibilities are supervision of the proj-
ect, and the conduct of interim evaluation.studies, assisted by consultants,
of the project's progress toward its; objectives. The last of these studies
would constitute the project completion report (Section 3.04(c) of Credit
Agreement). Major responsibilities of the heads of services are the establish-
ment of quarterly budgets and work programs, and the selection, supervision,
and evaluation of technical advisory personnel financed by the project. The
project would provide equipment and materials for the PMU. The audits will be
supervised by the Auditing Commission in coordination with the para-public
task force and the companies involved to ensure the integration of the audits,
consulting services and training.
Costs and Financing
41.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at US$8.2
million equivalent including physical and price contingencies, with a foreign
exchange component of US$6.3 million (77%). Taxes are estimated at US$80,000
equivalent. The proposed IDA Credit of US$6.3 million would finance the entire
foreign cost component of the project, with local costs estimated at US$1.9
million equivalent financed by Government. Retroactive financing of about
US$25,000 is recommended to meet recruitment costs of technical assistance
experts in order to accelerate project implementation. Details of project
costs by organizational unit are given in Annex IV, Table 1. The financing
plan showing the proposed application of the contributions by IDA and Govern-
ment is as follows:



- 17 -
US$ millions
Government         IDA           Total
Salaries of technical assistance
experts                                 -              2.11           2.11
Incremental salaries, travel and
allowances for Senegalese pro-
fessionals                             1.13             -             1.13
Consultants' budget                       -               .80            .80
Auditing fees                             .21            1.63           1.84
Equipment, materials, and vehicles        .05             .31            .36
Training and scholarships                 .01             .65            .66
Contingencies - physical                  .02             .10            .12
- prices                   .48             .70           1.18
Total (net of taxes) 1.9              6.3            8.2
(in percentage)          (23)            (77)           (100)
The estimated costs cover 22 man/years of advisors and approximately 8.3
man/years of consultants. Cost per man/month, including allowances and
travel, would amount on average to about US$8,000. Physical contingencies
have been applied only on the item for equipment, materials, and vehicles.
Price contingencies of 10 percent per annum have been included for advisers,
consultants, local salaries, equipment, materials, vehicles, training and
scholarships. Price contingencies of 7 percent per annum have been added for
auditing fees.
Procurement and Disbursement
42.       The selection of consulting services and auditors would be in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. All the contracts for consulting
services would be subject to prior approval of the Association. Equipment,
materials, and vehicles would be procured through local competitive bidding
following local procedures acceptable to the Association, because of the small
size and timing of individual purchases. For contracts under US$10,000, local
shopping would be employed, provided the aggregate amount of such contracts
does not exceed US$50,000 (Schedule 3 of Credit Agreement).
43.       The Credit would be disbursed against:  (i) 100 percent of the
foreign exchange costs of the salaries of advisers together with their
recruitment costs; (ii) 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of the
consulting services, and training and scholarship costs; and (iii) 90 percent
of total costs for equipment, material and vehicle costs and auditing fees
(Schedule 1 of Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits
44.       The major benefit of the proposed project would be the strengthen-
ing on a systematic basis of Government organizations charged with planning,
supervising, and controlling the para-public sector, resulting eventually



- 18 -
in improved management and a healthier financial situation, as well as a
better working relationship with Government. The proposed project would
allow top Government officials to develop an independent judgment, based on
more extensive and reliable data than is currently available, of the present
and future operations and role of public enterprises and mixed companies in
the Senegalese economy. The project will also attempt to define the critical
problems and possible solutions, particularly in financial management and
accounting, for a number of key para-public sector companies.
Project Risks
45.       Technical assistance projects inherently pose the problem of finding
suitable advisors and ensuring their cooperation with local staff, as well as
finding qualified Senegalese counterparts. To reduce this risk, the Associa-
tion will assist Government in determining sources of technical assistance
personnel. It is expected that expatriate personnel will come from consult-
ing firms and universities specializ:ing in management in developing countries,
and which can provide substantial support for individuals in the field. With
regard to the availability of counterpart personnel, the main concern is
finding and retaining suitable Senegalese for the office of the Financial
Controller of the Presidency. The FCP has discussed proposals in this area in
detail with the Association and recruitment of qualified Senegalese is under
way.
46.       Two additional risks are also possible:  (i) Excessive centraliza-
tion of Government control of the para-public sector, and especially of indi-
vidual companies; and (ii) a change in Government's present commitment to
continue reform of the para-public sector, and especially of individual com-
panies. It is possible that by providing substantial additional resources
to Government organizations controlling the sector, a more repressive,
centralized system might emerge which could further interfere in company
operations and weaken their performance. In helping Government to define
the objectives of the FCP and in drawing up the terms of reference for the
technical assistance, especially to CEP, the Association has emphasized
strategic analysis and operational supervision rather than the more tradi-
tional formal control which could interfere in company management; Government
has agreed with this approach. With respect to Government's commitment to
sector reform, the Government of Senegal at the highest levels has indicated
its determination to see that the para-public sector contributes to develop-
ment rather than draining the public treasury. In the last year the Government
has taken strong action to turn around a number of deficitary companies, but
believes that a wider approach is needed, as illustrated in its request for
the Association to finance this project. It is therefore felt that Government
has a firm commitment to sector reform and to the success of this project.
Measurable Results of the Proposed Project
47.       At the end of the three-year implementation period, it would be
reasonable to expect that the project would have helped Government to improve,
inter alia, the following: (i) basic data on the operations of companies in



- 19 -
the para-public sector; (ii) indicators on the sector and company levels of
whether development objectives are being achieved; and (iii) definition and
initial implementation of a program of improved financial management for the
public enterprises and mixed companies which would have been provided with
in-depth audits, consulting services, and training. However, since it will
take more than three years to establish an effective institutional structure
for exercising strategic analysis, operational monitoring, and in some cases,
financial control over companies in the para-public sector, it is very pos-
sible that a follow-up project might be required.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Senegal and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special
conditions of the project are listed in Annex III.
49.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
50.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
January 5, 1978



-20-                                 MJNEX I
TABLE 3A                              Page 1 of 4 pages
SENEGAL             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LANO AREA (THOU KM2)                 ------------------------------------------
-----~--------                                 SENEGAL                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TArAL       196.2                                       MOST RECENT
AORIC.      80.0                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           GHANA          IVORY COAST   TUNISIA
_,______________ _;_____ ---....... . . . ______ _ _ _ --_________._----------
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     200.0 *   270.0 *  390.0*a               430.0       350.0       370.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)             3.4        4.4       5.1/a               8.6         5.4         5.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        17.0      22.0      26.0/a               36.0        16.0        31.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         43.0       55.0     64.0 /a              64.0        32.0        67.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          48.0      47.6       47.6                49.8        46.1        44.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           27.5       24.4      23.9                24.4        23.3        16.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)    193.0             , ,   158.0                156.0          *        125.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       35.9       40-0       40.0                41.5        41.0        51.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..        3.0       3.0                 3.2         3.1         3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE {%)
TOTAL                                  2.1       2.6        2.7                 2.6         3.4/a       2.3/a
URBAN                                  3.5        6.0       6.0                 4.5         B7.y        3T0/b
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           22.7       29.0      38.8                28.4        28.0        40.1/C
AG;E STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       42.6       41.2       44.2Ja              46.9        42.5        46.3
15 TO 64 YEARS                       53.6       54.9       52.,7c              49.5        54.8        50.2
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.8        3.9       3.17a               3.6         2.7         3.5
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.9        0.8       0.9/a               1.0         0.8         1 0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2/a      1.2/a     1 1.47w             1.4         0.9         1 ./c,d
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..         ,.         ..               10.9          ..       112.2
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              .           .                           2.0          , ,       12.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          1300.0    1600.0       1650.0            3300.0      2600.0      1300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)            .       73.0          ..               54.0 /a    82.0         57.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             ..        7.6 0                         6.2          ..        12.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTiDN
O DF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             36.s/b       ..        ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             6.. 2                                                              .
LOWEST  20S OF HOUSEHOLDS                           .        ..
LXWST  401 OF HousOLDI                 9.4/b       .
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         ..         .                   ..         ..        53.0/e
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..         O.S 7
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            22100.0/c 16640.0  17330.0                12950.0/b  15320.0       5950.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..    2680.0/c 2100.0                1070.07W   2830.o/d    730.0/f
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           830.0/d   810.07W  850.0/e                760.0      1150.0       41n.0Z
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREMENTS)          97.0      91.0       97.0               99.0        114.0        94,0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              64.0       64.0       65.0                46.0        60.0        63. 
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..       28.0/d       ..                10.0/C      18.0/8
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..         ..        ..                  ..          .           .*S/c,i
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       27.0       43.0       43.0                61.0        76.0       100.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      3.0       10.0                           11.0        11.0        23.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              13.0      13.0       13.0                15.0        13.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(x OF SECONDARf)                        .        9.0          .               23.0          7.0       12.OL.
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                   ..       10.0      '    25.0                     20.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 t.S/ef    ..           .                   ,          ,          2.7/c
OCCUPIEC DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (Y)                       12.0/fg    ..          . .                 ..          . .      60.0/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 96.0/f       ..         ..... .                                  24.0/C
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                      ..        ..         ..                  ..          .
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          47.0      69.0        66.0               78.0          .         77.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            6.0         .0       3.                  5.0        10.0        13.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           41.0       73.0       94.0               338.0        95.0       155.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.1        0.1       0.2                 0.4         0.2         0.1
___________________________________________________-                       ___________       ---_       -  _______- _
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
a iNP per capita data are based on the Wcrld Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis)
** Tunisia has been selected as an objective coutry because of soae similarity of itq economy with the Senegalese econrey, including favorable
prospects for the development of fisheries and tourism.
SENEGAL          1960    Ia  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  Population;    Ic  1963;    /d  1962, gove-orent
hospital establisehents;    /e  Total, urbhn and rural;    /f  Date are for conmune  of nahar only and refer to European-type
dwellings; /R Inside only.
1970    I   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  Government hospital esrablishnents;    /c  Including
assistant nurses; /d 1964-66.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /a  1976;    /b  1970-71;    /c  1971;    /d  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to tota1 labor
force;   7e   Govermnent hospital establisSments.
GhANA            1970    /a  Excluding unemployed;    /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country;    /c  1966-68.
IVORY COAST    1970    /a  Doe to imtigration population growth rate is higher than the rate of natural increase;    /b  1965-70;    /c  fatic of
population under 15 sod 65  nd over to total labor force;    /d  Government only, includirg midwives;    /e  1964-66.
TUNISIA          1970    /a  Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than natural increase;    /b  1956-66;    /c  1966;    /d  ROti  of
popolatids under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /e  Covering 45. million hectares of privateCland, secluding
0.8 million hectares in ownership, and 2.1 tmillion hectares of collective land;    /f  Personnel in government services;
/j  Government hospital esnablishnents only;    /h  1964-66;             i  Excluding teobrical economy and technical induotry;
i  Registered only.
RIO, December 1, 1977
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Ares (thou k.2)                                                                         Population per nur-ina opesce - Population divided by nomber of practicing
Total - Total surface area comprising land areas ed inland watrs.                              male and femals grada-tr  nurses, "traied" or "certified" ec-ees, aed
ARric. - most recent estimate of ogricultural area used temporarily or p.anM-                  aumiliary parsonmel with training or enperience.
nently for crops, pesrures, mcrkht & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                     Popultion a  hospital bed  - Population divided by msbher of hospital beds
available in public and privte general and sp-caised hospital and
GNP sert.oita (US$) - GNP per capita eatiatss at cur-e-t narket prices,                        rehabilitation renter; secludes nursing homes and establish..enta for
calculated by eaa conversion, method as World Beack Atlas (1973-75 basis);                   custodial sod prevetive  as
1960; 1970 asd 1975 data.                                                                  PeeriV lnta   ofpy nf core u iT of reunireame.ta) - Competed fran energy
equiv-leot of met food supplies available in cootry Per capita Per doy;
Population and vital statistic,                                                                available supplias comprise domestic production, imports loss enporto, end
Population (mid-year million)   As of July first:  if not available, -erags                    changes in stock; oet supplies exclade animal food, seeds, q.antitiesusc.
of two cnd-year estimates  11160, 1970 and 1975 detns                                        in food procassing and losses in distribution; requiroent. wars astinatod
by FAO based on phyaiological needs for no-nal activity and health conoid-
Population density - per squre kc - Mid-year population per squar  kilometer                   ering enviro-nntal tomperattre, body weights, age and *ex distributions cf
(100 hectares) of total ara.                                                                 population,  nd allowing 10% for waste at household level.
Poeplarion denaitv -ce  suo-e kn  of Asrie, lnd - Compued as above fdu                      Per ..eit. sueply of orotein (irama per day) - Prostin tontort of per cnpito
agrioultorel land  nly.                                                                      net supply of fend per day; net supply of food is defined as abov; reqelc-
ents for o11 eomtries established by USDA Eoonomic Research Sarviten
Vital statistics                                                                                provide for a minimta alloance of 60 gr-s of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate per thouand  average - Annual live births par thouso.d of                      20 gras of anil and pulse protein, of which 10 gram  *htuld be animal
mid-year population; tee-yoar aritloetic averages  ndiug in 1960 and 1970,                    protein; these standards are lwer than thoec of 75 gras of total protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most retent estimate.                               and 23 grass of animal protein as an average for the  erld, proposed by FAO
Crode death rate per thousand. average - Annoal deatha per thous-ad of nid-ysar                 in the Third World Fond Sury.
population; ten-year arithmetic  verages ending in 1960 sod 1970 and five-                  Per capita protsin supply from animal and pulse - Proteii  supply of Food
year avetage ending in 1975 for most reten.t stia ts.                                         derived from animals and pulses in gr-s pen day.
Infant wmrtality rate (/thou: - Annual deaths of infants under one year of mge               Ieath rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thoessnd in age group 1-4
per thousand liva births.                                                                    years, to children in this aes group; suggestd as an india-to- of
Life sspectanc  at birth fyrs) - Average somber of years of life romaining at                   malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year aerages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing co.ntries.                                                                             Sdoation
Dress ep-rductiso rate -Average nombr of live daughters. a.ma  w I.ill beat                   Adlusted enoletrtio - eri hr abal -noletof oIl ages as per-
in her nom    reprdotive period if she emperi-n-es present age-sp-eific                      eontage of primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 yearo
fertility rates; usmally five-year  verages seding in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    but adjusted for different langtha of primary education; for countries with
for developing countrie.                                                                     universal education, enrollment onay emceed 1007. since some pupils are belm
Populatio crowth rate f7.) - total - Cpooound annual growth rates of aid-year                   or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                Adjusted enrolLnt ratio - seoondsry school - Computed as sbove; s-ondory
Population growth rate (71) - urban - Computed like growth rats of total                        education requires at least four years of appruved primary instruction;
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of                 provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for pupils
data among countries,                                                                         of 12 to 17 years of age; co-respondsocc courses are generally secluded.
Urbo population (7 of total, - Ratio of urban to  total population; different                 Years of schooling provided (firt and second levels) - Totol years of
definitions of urban arsas may affect ctaparability of data aosg countrie                     schooling; at secondory level, vucationaI instructien may be partially or
completely secluded.
As structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-eeg  (15-64 years),                  Ionatio=aZ enrSine=t a of se-oodary) - Vo-ati-nal in-titutioos include
agd retired (61 years  nd  ver) as percentages of mid-ye.r ppoulation.                        tenhmical, industrial or ether progr     which operate independently or as
Ass dependevcy ratio - Ratic of population under 15 sod 65 and over to thbs.                    departments of secondary institutiona.
of ages 15 throogh 64.                                               A~~~~~~ ~~dult ieaty' eat it   - Litesate adults (able to read sod onite) as Per-
of 'e   5 throRh64:gL ..                                                                         erc     I  dte  (t)  ppl.t;rio    ged 15 years  nd over.
Econoicdepeodecyratic - .tati  of population onder 15 and 65 and over to                        cetage ofctotalautpouainagd1tersa                        vr
the labor force in age group af 15-64 years.
Faily planning - acceptors (cumulativs  thou) - CmuIlstive numbar of acoeptors                Hoo ing
of birth-control devices under auspices of national faily planning progran                  Persana per room (urbam) - Ave-age  -sbcer of persons per room in oceupied
since inception.                                                                             conventional dwellings in  rbhan areas; dvellings  -eclude non-persnet
Family planning - users (2 of married women) - Percentages of married women of                  structures and enocupied pants
child-bnariog age (15-4f  yaars) who u-a birth-control de-i.e.  to a11 married             fccueied dwellins without  'isad water l) - eCcupiod conventional dwellings
women in se age group.                                                                        in orban asd renal areas witbout imeids or outside piped water facilities
sopecetage of ei occupied dwelings.
EPplo ment                                                                                    Access to eLectricity (7 of a1 d-eliogs) - Convention-l dwellinga with
Total labor fars (theusand) - Economically active pareoma, iucluding acd                        electricity in living qartces as peccant of total dweliinrg in urban  nd
forcsa and onemploeyd but secluding housewives, students, etc.; definitions                  ral areas.
in various coontria are not comprable.                                                     Roral dwellings connected to elattricirt (2) - Computed as aboe for rural
Labor fer.e  in agriculture C) - Agricultural labor farce (in farming, forestry,                dwellings only.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Un-Ployed (1L of labor fern;) - Un-ployed sre nemally defined as persons wh.                  Conomeption
are able  nd willing to tak. a job, out of a Job on a gi-n day, remained out              RTdio receiwers (ear thon pop) - All type  of receivers for r-di. broadtaets
of a job, and seeking verk for a specified  ilansm period not e.c..ding onn                  to general public per thousand of population;  -cluda  nliceni ed receivee-
week; my nst be comparable between countries dna to different definitions                     in countries and in years sham registration of radio sets mse in effect;
of unaployad and source of data, e.g., employmeat office statistics, smple                   date far recent years my not be comparable sInce most countries abolished
surveys, compulsory unesployuent insurance,                                                   licens ing.
psasi a casleer ;thon eno    - Passenger cars comprise meter car  seating
Income, diatributiam  - Percantag  of private income (both in cash ad kind)                       e  than sight persona; e      dclds abulances, hri e      d military
recived by richest 51, richest 201, poorest 202, and poorest 40h   of houe-                  vehicles.
holds.                                                                                      Electri.ity (kwh/yr per cap) - Annue conam-ption of industrial, cneroial,
public and pretet electricity in kilatl banns per capita, g-enrlly
Di-tribution of land oership - Percentage  of land owned by wealthiest 10%                      based  nd prdadti    data, without alowance for Sonaes in grids but slla-
and poorest 10W   of land owners,                                                             ing for  imports  nd eWperts  f electricity-
Neepuri,t (kg/e ear cap) - Per capita am.e..I conae-ptiom in kilogr-s
seelth and Nf trition                                                                           estimted from do.estir prodoction plus met imports of n prit.
Popelation per Pysician - Pepulation dividsd by nu ber of Practicing
physicians qnslified from-a medical school at entrensity leel.



1970          1973           1973
90 10361. 9000 .6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"m.                                                                                              M~001,R13.Z996A.N'vMfC
Oto...                                                                                                                                                                                                     000..         104.1 27
d       a  0 0 8of  3d.  02                                                                                                                                                                  0.2           -0. 6         -4.1
2.  GO*                                                 !~t           u~if       ~    W.0         73C.   (I4!4                 !T   53     -0.2            7.1           2.7              100.0          300.0          103.0
Itoor'. 1/                                 ood~~~~~~~~~~~30.:  301.9    338.6         310.1          367.1         360.0      0.0             1.             3.6               3..2          30.4.          30.5
Itoort. o/  Is opt 002000100'                      ~~~~~~        ~~222.0  260.8  L71T               :"                   -             10              2.                                              2 6.I  1 
loo*otaptlon  tzpmndlOuJ...               7~~~~ ~ ~~99.3  83.          III6          060.3          970.3        100.         6.3           '.              .2                0.             62           9.
0.   Itoool..nt 0eo~O1tooro. )ono.odIno.tock.) 133.0         :6.             76.2         179.           139.0         193.0 .8.                                 .                 56            066.
Olotc  8ig..    6)                               93.9          83.0           3.            100            8.            32.       -4'           3.             -12                 10.'          13.6           11.o
Nor itnal 300100.                          ~~~~~~         ~~111.1  993  13.'           13.6.          1.             4.        -.             36            -.                 12.            04,9          1.
'293"3A0000E opjW    0
I ewe to C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   t.tCp ?I.-fT--
Cwol)g.1  cdo                                            13.6          '7.3           90.6         1o6.9             98           180      21.0          16.6           10.6               00.5           06.7           22.62
loO..O1.to  good.  oxoludlno  fuel.)  11.1  60.'       100.3          161.o            033           180     18.1           31.0            2.3               21.0 1  4o>6                 00. 27.
9h.o.   ~~~~~  tatorlol.    ~ ~ ~ ~~I10.                 23.6          66.            69.              67            89      29.           71.8            3.                   .6          1.8           1.
PoedotoOfo                                 31~~~~~~~~~~~~5.7  126.    168.4          1368.            :03           P12      30.6            3.2           9.2                7.9            1.5          26.-
Other ooo.ottlot good.                    ~~~~~         ~~41.3  62.9     21          106.2            15j          1IL:    12.             234             5,6               2.              83
'otal 9otbaodl..Ooporto(IrI)                    193.9          38.0           9.a3..                         03            71      2.              7              6.'               7.           10.            100
'3.6          68.6         1.1.3          i88.o            225           200     -2.36:I                        1.,2              .               00            0.
tooptoto'                             11.9           22.~~~~~~~~~~~~~112  103.7  103.7             17            09     23.2          1_.8Ot''9                                        000            1.
rol,oopod.o4.29                                                        11.           22.1           32.4.            32            42      39.7          66.5            5.3                2.9             .0
Are-                                                     62.2                        42             O   1           14            gj~   19.                 U            Ii0-                            109.0          1,0
Otto: OercnaodI.o  Sopor'.  3000)     131.9          196.7390j8".9                                                                                     !
2.:ro.onloeroeror.OeT                                              3                                                                    5
de're -,  Trade  OT,i-o                                                     A'e.'-  1871   100 o    C02319
trite mOod                         ~~~~~         ~~~~~~91.6  101.51  2211.3    191.5         162.2         197.2
Oaooot trIo,  lode.                       90.5~        ~~~~~       ~ ~ 128.7   19.3  197.0         161.4         25,.7
torts  tO Trade Oodoa                     :01.2~        ~~~~ 94.6     113.9           968             8.          195
to~~oroe Vol.0gw  bOo,                    0~~~ ~~32.0   103.9          122.1         19.            19.            20.6
Oprfr~~~~~~~~~~ooo ~~~~2039                              194.2          23~.0         31.9           336.           60A 0        4     23       5 ' 
beloostot and 9,0100            191 -         196 0         013.1          217,0~~~~~~~~~~4'~O  266.0   335.9           3            .             .00.t 
hit               W                        469.5        1173:          1ii- 1          J          K
19'27                      19005 330 9                    0603'       3I0 i             .I L 7 3'''St  8c 00                                          10
35.1   55.        77 0          9~~~ ~       ~~02 32 .1 30l                                              4                 t'o. o        S7
oorono ,ooetootoyos                       139.t   Y-        9 (J,         3, 30   .bll...1 Q     -en   F  Frm4 130                 1..0                  1--.5                  19       ~
Ct-oct ItolLOc Jotter  ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    192.317                 3                       5.5           5.076 i767       7       273t 7)      7          ,4  3.1                    1               1              6
Thotoot teeter loorotooto  4)            1-.9          00.~12JIL4  19T3             20.           .90              '                                 _1.315.                      0           '1             .-
73.650 pOObooos/0 30016   1 Cntra  Ooerooot                                                                               07001 03P1.29040 5580010770t31387 -2097.?7oo Raioot)e
'I7   ~    1323 5          93/74       1 3.0'         130/7                   Oolo0   eoor
002,oto:'o  oe0 tpt.nt                  21.9          22..~~~~~~~~7~  00.3        22.            03.07                          22ooOl 9r                                       I/o
Storm .Soreicot  1/radOn                6.5            6.2     ~     ~~~~                                                                                      ~      ~~~~ '.  .  2O0.radOlo   61.6    11.21
?,Ili,                                     14~~~~~~~~'.   20            49.9          2-5~.0           .6                 Power~                                                   30.                      c.
to.   <t~~~'otrott2,,tt ~~171/72                        1'_.?~        18.73/      L7 /i5.A         10.5/6                Otto,l Eooto-      ,                                     3.7:0.
A, i"                                       I~~~~~~~~~0.0  10.0         13.0         10.            o    63PC
30773                          ~~~~~         ~~~~~10~60  I96 2 20't       1775           18.
F                             10~~~~~~.~ot   19770          u<0          100.0                               Ote   Rbloaio,76:.
1.1     ,.0          1.1          0.6                                 Oooo.0   o -o                                               86
Ootgotnl  Den.,' .  0022290  Otto      -COo  ~~~ ~90.1               o7a00                                             roarStor110.
-  Sio.6                  63.0                                                                         193~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C1  1971
02.6                      7.9                                                                         253.3                      0.
2:66.:                    227                                                                          8'-                       28.9
672.0                   o-.0
Soodlr_   _13  ohov                       3/  Border trd. is aot koo.op-gtel1   ho .1 i  Itoluded  it th
ad.3.hea. nd. wter.i.toro    Itrde  at the b.1.o - oI
40  Ioolodi-wiarer- twe   Pi-a d nad-   -rioo  aid;
5/Oo -t       d horl Adflilita-tiow   OPeo,   J-otior sd Polite



-23 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 4 of 
nAIIiCz or PADIWIS. ER5AL1  ASEISTIWCR AID Dri3T
(aasta in uillism _f U/9 dollar at euzreset Price.)
Averge Anauni
ActuAl                                        eii l   stiated                       ProJected              1rcDtb Rte.
1970         1971         j97j         122           19714        1975          2I            22          Aii          11            1980         1970-75        19T5-83
SU0eAR0Y BAlANCE OF PAY0957
RlP.rt. (i-eludi.s Nrs)                     236.8        230.8        333.4         355.5        601.5        693.3         669.1        682          630          759           854             23.8            4.3
Reports (including 370)                    -276 3       _ -24.6      -3T3.3        _483         ZOO                        -784.6       -813         -3                                          23.6            5.
-39.5          3.                     _12t                       -100.3       -115.5        -31           -2          _?r           -203             20
lInereet (set)                               _2.2         -1.7         -2.1          -4.5        -11.5        -21.6.        -20,9        -24          -28           -30          -32             58.0            8.2
Direct In-eetneet Inco. e                   -10.2        -10.7        -12.3        -16.4         -26.5        -30.1         -15.9        -10          -10           -10          -10             29.6         -23.2
Wr .era          Readtcee                   -i6.o        -15.3        -19.8         -18.3        -19.9         -6.3          -5.4         -5            -5           -4           -4            -17.0           -8.7
Other Fector Services                         7.6          8.9         10.9          10.0         10.2         10.1           8.8          9            9            10           11              5.9           1.7
Current T'raonfera (set)                     37.3         44.9         50.0          5            6            6T.5          561          53           592.          66                          12.6           16
Balance no Current Ac.c-uts                 -23.0        -37T         -13.2        -13        1       %        Tf -i5                                                        -      1            30.8           13.5
Private Direct Inventnet                     -0.2          3.2           2.3        -14.8         -5.2         11.5           7.5          8             8           15           21                 .          12.8
Official Capital Orn-te                      11.9         i8.6           8.3         19.1         19.4         22.4          23.0         24           27            35           44             13.5          14.4
Public M -ad LT oon-
=ebursement.                               18.6         23.2         18.5          99.2         50.1         76.7          70.3        102          122          180           200             32.8          21.2
-Henanete                                   -4.6         -7.8         -8.4   _       22.5       -19.4        -20.2                                   -43T -34  -44.-5    9                      43.3          23.3
Ret Dinebrenenta                                          15.4          10.1         76.7         30.3          T.            4. 6                      78          130 34                       32.2           20.1
Otber M ad LT Lane 1/
Dinhurernenta                              11.8          8.4         10.9           -           31.3          -             -          ...          ...           ...
-Repas=eete                                 -4.6         -8.1         -7.9         -2TT         -33.8        -22.4           0.2        ...          ...
Net Dieburaceento                             7.2          0.3           3.0        -27.7         -2.5        -22.14         -0.2        ...           ...          ...          ...
Cnpitel  -renocticn  n.e.i. 1/                            -0.5         -T.9           3.4         22.9          9.6          14.2         -            -             -            -
Ch=age in Oct Renerce-  (increase rt)    .23.6            -0.7          +2.6         43.9          T.5        -10.1 iI                    -8          _74          +31           +141
GRAONTS A8D LOA3 CONNITUNOTS
Ofioalgrst  hd  rnot-lihe 3/  4    63 4.2        56.6          4           7  T
Cupitni g-rats                            11.9          i8.6          8.3         19.1         19. 4         20 4         23.0
Public 9 -ad LT Loans                         8.4         31.3        _42 I          3JI          63 8        12.14           t
Priynte BR-ki  and IRR                      -            _            I5           }             3'          7'0        25 
IDA                                         2.1          7.0         11.2         23.7           -           25.0         10.5
African De.clep-ent Fucd                    -            -            -            -             4.8          6.i          -
Other Multilateral                          -            1.5          1.1           3.1          5.4          3.7         12.6
GOvernacet.                                 4.6          7.2         14.3         59.5          41.5         40.9         37.8
Suppliers                                   1.7          2.2          0.6         11.0           0.9          -            -
Finapnial T.etitutico.                      -           13.4          6.3         80.0           8.2         46.T         24.8
Total G-asts and Loan Caitments              55.1         2.2         1a03.        231.9         141.5         18.9         189.3
701TERNAL DBT,                                   Atual Debt Ontatandit  g on Ceceaher 31. 1976
t    rei OD1                            Percent
WArid Bcak                                         14.644
IDA                                                554                                 16.5
Other Multilateral                                  8.7                                 2.6
Go -enent.                                       101.5                                 30.2
Supplier-                                         1-.5                                  3.4
Privnte BAka  -ad Inetitutienn                   140.0                                 41.7
Bocda                                               3.9                                 1.2
Public Debte. .e. 1. i_
Tetul Public M -ad LT Debt                        335.6                               100.0
Other M and LT Dcbts      )                      100 .O
3hlrt-tes-  Debts
DEBT PA7DLEBT SERVICE
Actual                                     P-nvinioaal
Public Debt Cutetanding -ad Dinbu-ed            1970         1971         1972          19T3         1974         172            9
Interest en Public Debt                      1.4           4.4          4.6          7.2         13.6          18.4         17.7
Repa.oeott on Public Debt                    4.6           74           0-.4        22.5         19.4          20.2         23.7
Otal Public Debt Ser-i-c                      6.O         12.2         13.0         09.T          33.0         362          vlT3
Other Debt Der8ice (net)                      7.0          6.3          7.14        27.2          32.1         21.9
TOtal Dcbt 0evrice (ct)                     13.8          18.5         20.4         56.9         65.1          63.5
Burden en Deport Etrnings (9)
Public Debt Ser-ice                        2.5          5.3          3.9           8.3          5.5          5.5           6.1
TOtal Debt Sc-rice                         5.8          8.0          6.o         16.o /        10.8 /        8.7
TDS c Direct I=ventcent Pspnent           10.1         13.2         10.4         20.9 23       15.4 I/      14.2
Acer-ge Ter-s ef Public Dcbt
Intecent an 8 Pricr YDor DO ad D           1.6          4.3          3.6           5.2          6.7          7.6           6.o
A-roticatic-  as 0 Prier Year DO and D  5.2             7.7          6.7          16.2          9.6          8.4           8.1
IBRD Debt Ontt-anding and Disbur-cd
IB0D Debt ae 9 Public Dbt 0 snd D          2.2          1.8          1.7          1.4           1.4          3.5           4.4
IbRD Debt an % Public Debt Service        4.1           3.2          3.1          1.8           1.9          2.0           3:0
IDA Dbt Outetanding and Dinbur-ed
IDA Dbt an 9 Public Debt 0 and D          8.5           8.4         11.4         10.2         13.0          14.8         16.5
0DA Xbt an % Public Debt Sereice          0.1           0.5          3.0          0.3           0.7          0.7           0.8
.nt npplicnble                                                   e ataff ectieste
.at ailable                                                      - nil cr aegligible
. . . nut avoilalble aeparately                                     -_ lens than half the
bOt included in tetal                                              nllent unit nho-p
3/  Differene- bet-een Senecal'n public debt report to the IBCD  pd M ad  T lane..
acccrding to the Ceotral Bank.
2/  Shcrt-ter-  capital, an0 erro  and -.-   iene.
3/ On dieburnreset bYYde.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of November 30, 1977)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan or                                                        (US$ Million)
Credit Number   Year   Borrower          Purpose          Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Three Loans* and five Credits fully disbursed               7.0    24.8
252-SE         1971   Senegal   Rice Development                  3.7         0.1
253-SE         1971   Senegal   Technical and Agri-
cultural Education              2.0         0.1
254-SE         1971   Senegal   Settlement Scheme                 1.4         0.1
835-SE         1972   Senegal   Railway                  6.4                  0.8
336-SE         1972   Senegal   Housing Site and
Services                       8.0         4.4
866-SE         1973   OPTS        Telecommunications   6.25                   2.6
366-SE         1973   Senegal   Highway Maintenance               8.0         0.5
404-SE         1973   Senegal   Agriculture Credit                8.2         1.0
446-SE         1974   Senegal   Drought Relief                    3.0         0.2
987-SE         1974   SOFISEDIT Development Finance  3.0                      0.5
530-SE         1975   Senegal   Education                        15.0        13.3
S-18-SE         1975   Senegal   Irrigation Eng.                   1.0         0.2
549-SE)        1975   Senegal   Agric. Diversifica-
1113-SE])                           t:ion                 7.0      7.0        11.2
578-SE         1976   Senegal   Terres Neuves II                  2.0         1.1
1221T-SE,        1976   Senegal   Feeder Roads             6.6                  4.5
1222-SE         1976   Senegal   Third Highway           15.0                  7.8
633-SE:        1976   Senegal   Livestock                         4.2         3.8
647-SE.        1976   Senegal   Second Sedhiou                    6.3         6.1
1332-SE.        1976   SOFISEDIT Second Development
Finance               4.2                  3.9
1405T-SE**       1977   Senegal   Port of Dakar            6.0                  6.0
1412T-SE**       1977   Senegal   Petite Cote Tourism  8.0                      8.0
1413-SE**       1977   Senegal   Petite Cote Tourism  5.6                      5.6
Total                                    75.05   94.6        81.8
of which has been repaid               2.10    0.2
Total now outstanding                    72.95   94.4
Amount sold                    0.4                0.1
of which has been repaid  0.4           -        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA***    72.95   94.3
Total Undisbursed                       46.70   35.1         81.8
*  A Loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969
was cancelled on March 25, 1971.
**  Not yet effective.
***  Prior to exchan-e adjustments.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of November 30, 1977)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Year    Obligor                     Type of Business   Loan   Investment   Total
1967    Societe Industrielle        Fertilizer
d'Engrais au Senegal        Plant               2.45        1.01       3.46
1972)   BUD Senegal                 Vegetable            -          0.87       0.87
1973)   S.A.                        Export
1976)
1974    SOFISEDIT                   Development
Finance Company      -          0.21       0.21
Total Gross Commitments                         2.45        2.09       4.54
Less Cancellations, Terminations                2.30        0.37       2.67
Total Commitments now held by IFC               0.15        1.72       1.87
Undisbursed balance
C.   Bank and IDA
Projects in Execution I/
Cr. 254         Terres Neuves Settlement Project; US$1.35 Million Credit of
June 18, 1971; Effective January 31, 1972; Closing Date:
March 31, 1978
The project is completed and 300 farmers' families have been re-
settled. Six new villages have been installed. The school is in operation
and the dispensary is nearly completed. Only a few farmers' cooperatives have
been established, but the Societe des Terres Neuves (STN) the State Corpora-
tion in charge of the project, continues its formation efforts. The project
has been successful in providing higher incomes than expected for settlers,
and has attracted families with more adult workers than originally antici-
pated. A Project Completion Report is being drafted following a mission in
October 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. 314/        Second Railway Project:  US$3.2 Million and US$6.4 Million
Ln. 835         Credit and Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective December 29, 1972;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
The original project was substantially modified to reduce track
renewal works in favor of making funds available to purchase spare parts for
track laying and maintenance equipment and for locomotives. Track renewal
has now 'been completed, as well as procurement for workshop rehabilitation
and track equipment, and orders have been placed for locomotive spare parts.
Rehabilitation of workshops and instiallation of equipment should be completed
by end-1977. Material for modernizaition of freight cars is being delivered,
and the entire modernization program should be completed by mid-1978. As a
result of sustained efforts by the Bank, a new General Manager has been ap-
pointed, and a qualified French engineer has been recruited to fill the new
position of Deputy General Manager. Much improvement is still needed, how-
ever, in management efficiency and training, and this will be the focus of
a proposed Third Railway Project appraised in February 1977.
Cr. 336         Site and Services Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of
September 29, 1972; Effective August 31, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Project execution is about six months behind schedule due to delay
in approval of contracts caused by lack of counterpart funds. However, a
first disbursement of counterpart funds took place in February 1977, allowing
work to resume. To speed up the completion of priority infrastructure, the
percentage of IDA funds disbursed has been temporarily increased from 45%
to 67%. This increase was made possible by the postponement of construction
of community facilities beyond June 1978; their construction according to the
October 1976 schedule was no longer justified in view of the slow pace of
plot occupancy. The percentage of IDA disbursement will be reduced after
June 1978 to a level consistent with the balance of IDA funds. Most of these
funds will then be used to help finance the construction of community facili-
ties which should be completed by Jun,e 1979. The project will continue to
receive close supervision.
Ln. 866         Telecommunications Project:  US$6.25 Million Loan of
December 19, 1972; Effective June 5, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Large cost overruns have raiLsed the cost of this project from US$8.9
million at appraisal to US$20 million according to recent estimates. A co-
financing formula was successfully worked out which included a loan from the
French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) of US$4 million, new
French suppliers' credits of US$4 million, and an increased contribution
from the borrower, Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Senegal (OPT ).
The new financial package and conditions of the CCCE loan were accepted by
the Senegalese Government, and the agreement would enable the project to be
completed as originally appraised. The impact of the additional investments



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
on OPT's financial position cannot yet be determined because the account and
financial statements have not been audited recently, and because OPT has not
introduced an analytical accounting system providing for separation of tele-
communications and postal/financial operations. The Commission des Comptes
is currently undertaking the first full-scale audit of OPT's accounts and
financial statements as of the end of FY 76. The Government has authorized
payment of arrears to OPT, but actual disbursement has not yet taken place
due to the weak financial position of the Treasury. As far as the physical
execution of the project is concerned, some progress has been made, but due
to uneven timing of the execution of different components, completion is not
now expected before mid-1979.
Cr. 350        River Polders Project; US$4.5 Million Credit of January 9. 1973;
Effective June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project was intended to develop the Dagana Polder with full
water control permitting double cropping on about 2,730 ha for production
of paddy, sorghum, and vegetables; to improve irrigation through flood con-
trol for single cropping on 1,780 ha in the Debi and Lampsar Polders; and
to strengthen the implementing agency SAED with extension staff, training
facilities, equipment, and agricultural research. After completion of the
construction design for the Dagana polder, it was expanded with IDA agreement
to 3,200 ha. Later, primarily because the effects of inflation and adjust-
ments in exchange rates resulted in much higher costs than estimated, and also
because Government decided to introduce full water control for perimeters in
the Delta, Government requested and the Association approved reallocation of
the entire Credit to the Dagana Polder. Although there were some delays in
building construction, physical execution of the irrigation works was good,
and planting for the 1977 season covered about 85% of the targeted area.
Overall, it is estimated that the increased project cost and delay in intro-
duction of double-cropping will be offset by higher output prices, and higher
paddy yields, and the revised rate of return is estimated at approximately the
appraisal figure of 14%. A Project Completion Report will be prepared
shortly.
Cr. 366         Second Highway Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of April 9, 1973;
Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project consists of pavement strengthening of primary roads,
implementation of a four-year maintenance program, and preinvestment studies
and a review of feeder road requirements. The strengthening program was
reduced from 109 km originally scheduled to about 40 km due to construction
costs being much higher than estimated at appraisal, the effects of inflation,
and also because all the unallocated funds under the Credit were devoted to
maintenance operations; the remaining sections are being financed under Loan
1222-SE for the Third Highway Project. Construction was satisfactorily
completed early in 1977, about 15 months later than anticipated. The highway
maintenance program is progressing, but well behind schedule, primarily due
to the slowness of Government services in implementing consultants' recommen-
dations, as well as to the shortage of key local supervisory personnel and



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
funds f'or operating expenditures. The Association has agreed with the Gov-
ernment on a program of actions necessary for successful project implementa-
tion. The preinvestment studies for 228 km of primary roads, and the review
of feeder road requirements, have been successfully completed.
Cr. 404        Second Agriculture Credit Project; US$8.2 Million Credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
The 1975/76 season was good: groundnut and cereal production
reached their highest levels since 1969.  Results of the 1967/77 season are
not yet available, but fertilizer use did increase from 80,000 to about
100,000 tons. Demand for short ancd medium-term credit remained stronger than
anticipated, but available credit f'unds were sufficient to meet requirements.
Government is eliminating the subsidy on some farm implements, and reducing
the subsidy on fertilizers. The on-going study of fertilizer applications
financed under the Credit should provide a basis for policy review in due
course. Major organizational and f'inancial problems still exist at ONCAD
despite technical assistance providLed since 1969. Steps taken by Government
in early 1975 to remedy this serious situation--maintaining staff levels,
giving ONCAD management more financial autonomy, and strengthening it with
qualified accountants--resulted in some improvement, especially in accounting.
However, ONCAD's overall performance has not improved, and the organization
remains overstaffed. ONCAD credit requirements attained record levels partly
because of accumulating operating losses, but mainly because of the large
groundnut and millet stocks and prolonged prefinancing for Government's
account.
Cr. 446        Drought Relief Project; US$3.0 Million Credit of December 7, 1973;
Effective February 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is part of the Senegalese plan to rehabilitate people
in drought-affected areas by helping them redevelop and improve their farms
and lands. Equipment and operating costs financed under the Credit have
enabled some Government services to achieve efficient performance levels and
overall the project is progressing satisfactorily. Areas destroyed by bush
fires in 1975/76 have decreased by 50% compared with the previous year, and
animal health services have been able to visit and vaccinate an increasing
number of animals, which reflect the reconstitution of the national herd
severely affected by the 1972 drought. The scope of the well digging program,
the last component of the project, was reduced in agreement between the
Government and IDA, since costs proved to be higher than expected partly
because works involved remote locations and difficult terrain.
Ln. 987         SOFISEDIT Project; US$3.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1974;
Effective November 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
SOFISEDIT was created by the Government in March 1974 for the
purpose of providing long-term financing for development enterprises in
industry and tourism.  By September 30, 1977, SOFISEDIT had approved 34 loans



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
totalling about US$9.2 million equivalent, and 8 equity investments totalling
about US$585,000 equivalent. A second Loan of US$4.2 million was approved by
the Board in September 1976.
Cr. 530         Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 19, 1975; Effective April 22, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
This project aims to help Senegal meet its modern sector needs
through rehabilitating existing vocational training schools, and providing
new ones, for industry, fishing and the hotel trade. The project also pro-
vides practical training for the rural population through an experimental
scheme of 30 village education centers, and creates science and technology
teaching facilities for lower secondary schools as well as building four new
schools. Construction of the science facilities is about 24 months behind
schedule; civil works costs are about 25% above appraisal estimates, and the
Government has proposed constructing 8 centers rather than the 11 originally
proposed. The vocational ugrading center is in operation, with courses
underway to meet the needs of industry. Sketch drawings for the hotel/tourism
school have been completed. The rural education component is proceeding
slowly due to difficulties in coordinating the activities of Government
agencies concerned with the program. The management of the Project Unit
continues to be efficient.
Cr. 549/        Sine Saloum Agricultural Development; US$7.0 Million Credit and
Ln. 1113        US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975; Effective October 31,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project aims at increasing and diversifying agricultural produc-
tion in the Sine Saloum region through strengthening the activities of the
Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarisation Agricole (SODEVA). Activities
under the project, including the setting up of extension services, are under-
way as planned. Preliminary results of monitoring project output on 100 farms
do not show a significant increase in revenue as a result of the project's
intensification themes. If this trend is confirmed by the results of the next
season, new ways will be sought to bring about increases in production and
farm incomes. On the other hand, results of the promotion of maize production
and the integration of livestock are generally satisfactory. Contract for the
construction of Project Headquarters has been awarded; construction of field
offices and stores has begun. The applied research program on animal-drawn
farming equipment proceeds satisfactorily. Coordination with ONCAD for the
delivery of agricultural inputs and the marketing of project's output remains
a problem.
Cr. S-18       Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Engineering Credit,.US$1.0 Million
Credit of May 22, 1975; Effective February 13, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
The Credit finances execution of the engineering studies needed for
implementation of the Debi-Lampsar irrigation scheme. A project for execution
of the proposed construction works was recently appraised.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. 578        Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Technical
Assistance Project; TS$2.0 Million Credit of August 6, 1975;
Effective November 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is on schedule: 420 families have been settled, 7
villages have been built, 180 families remain to be recruited, and one new
village remains to be installed. All mechanical land clearing (900 ha) has
been completed. The contract for the last 44 km of village access tracks has
been awarded. The timely installation of hand-dug wells and the inadequate
accounting system of the Societe des Terres Neuves are still problems. The
study for the Eastern Senegal Regional Development Plan is underway.
Ln. 1221T       Feeder Roads Project; US$6.6 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of improvement and maintenance of 1,250 km
of feeder roads, purchase of highway equipment and spare parts, and technical
asistance. Contracts for equipment procurement have been awarded, and the
administrative structure for maintenance operations is being established.
Ln. 1222        Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of pavement strengthening of 204 km of pri-
mary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvestment
studies, highway maintenance, and to develop the domestic construction in-
dustry. Project implementation is well underway. The pavement strengthen-
ing program started about nine months later than anticipated at appraisal,
but work is now progressing satisfactorily. The Government requested Bank
approval to drop about 29 km of project roads from the program and replace
them by 23 km of other roads considered to have higher priority for improve-
ment. Consultants for preinvestment studies have been selected, and work
is expected to start shortly.
Cr. 633         Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit
of June 17, 1976; Effective June 29, 1977; Closing Date
June 30, 1982
The project consists of developing and operating a controlled
grazing scheme, and providing effectiLve animal health, extension and credit
services to some 30,000 livestock owners. Effectiveness was slow because
of delays in the loans of co-financers BADEA and the Kuwait Fund being made
effective. Prior to project effectiveness, Government used about US$100,000
of the Project Preparation Facility accorded by IDA. The 1976/77 vaccination
campaign financed under the Project is underway; the first pastoral unit
has been established, and livestock producers appear to accept the project
enthusiastically.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. 647         Second Sedhiou Project:  US$6.3 Million Credit of June 25, 1976;
Effective November 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is the second phase of the Casamance Rice Project
initiated in 1971 in the Sedhiou district and now completed. The objectives
of the present project are to increase and diversify agricultural and live-
stock production, and raise the incomes of the district's rural population.
The project would be based on improved farm practices successfully introduced
under the first operation. Despite delays in disbursements, Government fund-
ing has enabled the project to operate satisfactorily during the transition
period from the first to this second project. Also, despite a five-month
delay in appointing expatriates, PMU is proceeding satisfactorily to es-
tablish the project organization and management. Wet paddy and groundnut
production exceeded appraisal estimates; however, upland cereals production
was low, which affected credit recovery. Demand for farm inputs remains
strong. Complementary project components are being well planned, and with
the exception of the cotton development component still handled by SODEFITEX,
execution should now proceed rapidly and effectively. SOMIVAC, the Regional
Development Agency of Casamance, is expected to become operational soon.
Ln. 1332        Second SOFISEDIT Project; US$4.2 Million Loan of October 14,
1976; Effective April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
US$4 million of the Loan amount would meet approximately two-thirds
of SOFISEDIT'S requirements for financing the foreign exchange component of
approved industrial and tourism projects through December 1978. The remain-
ing US$200,000 would be passed on to the Societe Nationale d'Etudes et de
Promotion Industrielle (SONEPI) to help develop an integrated scheme for pro-
viding assistance to small-scale Senegalese entrepreneurs.
Ln. 1405T      Dakar Fishing Port Project:  US$6.0 Million Loan of June 7,
1977; Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has four major objectives: (i) increasing the berth
space available to accommodate industrial fishing vessels; (ii) providing
essential waterfront areas for repair, storage and maintenance of fishing
gear, ice plants, workshops, and administrative offices; (iii) ensuring
maximum revenues by application of effective control over fleet operations
and setting adequate tariff structures; and (iv) studying the requirements for
handling future container traffic. Loan effectiveness is late because of
delays in effectiveness of the loan from one of the co-financers.
Ln. 1412T       Petite Cote Tourism Project:  US$8.0 Million and US$5.6 Million
Ln. 1413        Loans of June 7, 1977; Effective January 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project consists of three major components:  (i) provision of
infrastructure and common facilities for development of the first hotel zone
at Sali Portudal, including construction of a 250 bed pilot hotel, and a new
telephone exchange at M'Bour; (ii) renovation on Goree Island; and (iii) funds
for project administration, technical assistance, and studies.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) First Bank mission to consider the project: Identification
mission, February 1977
(b) Agency which prepared the project: Prime Minister's Office
in cooperation with the Association
(c) Date of departure of appraisal mission: July 1977
(d)  Date of completion of negotiations:         December 1977
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:              April 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Association will assist the Government in determining sources
of technical assistance personnel (para. 45).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  agreement has been reached on Government's program to recruit
and retain qualified Senegalese to staff the expanded FCP
(para. 34);
(b)  Government's Auditing Commission will (i) submit to the
Association by December 31, 1978 for review and approval
a permanent plan for financing the Commission's
outside auditing work; and (ii) comment annually on the
quality of all audits carried out in the para-public
sector (para. 36);
(c) the Project Management Unit, in the Prime Minister's
Office, will be responsib:Le for the administration and
management of the project including the preparation of
progress and evaluation reports (para. 40);
(d)  retroactive financing of about US$25,000 is recommended
to meet recruitment costs of technical assistance personnel
in order to accelerate project implementation (para. 41).



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Appendix 1
Page 1
SENEGAL
PARA-PUBLIC SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to the Financial Controller of the
Presidency (FCP).
A.   Management Specialist/Advisor to the Division Chief of the FCP Division
dealing with the Para-Public Sector.
Duties. Serving as technical advisor to the Division Chief on all matters
relating to the Division's functions. In particular, he will help develop
the-appropriate planning and management control systems at the sector and
company levels, review the plans and control reports, coordinate the in-
service training effort, evaluate investment projects, acquisition and dis-
investment proposals, as well as preparing the annual work program and budget
of the division. He will ensure that the Division Chief will be able to
manage effectively his duties after the advisor's departure. He will prepare
a quarterly report on his activities for the Project Director. The assignment
will be for three years.
Qualifications. A management consultant with a minimum of five years
experience, with overall knowledge of all aspects of company management in
developed and developing countries, in-depth knowledge of planning and control
systems at the company, sector and government levels as well as general
familiarity with accounting and macro-economic principles. The advisor should
be fluent in spoken and written French and have some competence in English.
Experience in developing countries would be helpful.
B.   Agricultural Economist
Duties. Advise and assist the Chief of the Agriculture, Agro-Industry
and Fisheries Section on all agro-economic and agro-business related activ-
ities, and in particular develop the management tools to plan and monitor the
development and day-to-day management of companies in the sector. The advisor
would help evaluate the plans and control reports, prepare an annual agricul-
tural sector assessment of the para-public companies, establish the annual
work program and budget of the section, and in general ensure that the
Section Chief will be able to manage effectively his duties after the
advisor's departure. He will prepare a quarterly report on his activities
for the Project Director. The assignment will be for three years.
Qualifications. An agricultural economist with a minimum of five years
experience in (a) agricultural development and project analysis; (b) management
of agro-industry companies; and (c) pricing, trading and marketing of agricul-
tural products at the national and international level. The advisor should be
fluent in written and spoken French, and have some experience in developing
countries.



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
Appendix I
Page 2
C.   Industrial Sector Specialist
Dulties. Advise and assist the Chief of the Industry and Mining Section
on all :industry and mining related activities and, in particular, develop
the management tools to analyze and monitor the development and day-to-day
operations of companies in the sector. This will include evaluating plans and
control reports, preparing an annua:L industry and mining sector assessment,
establishing the annual program and budget of the section, and in general
ensuring that the Section Chief wil:L be able to manage effectively his sector
after the advisor's departure. The advisor will prepare a quarterly report on
his activities for the Project Director. The assignment will be for three
years.
Quzilifications. An industrial sector specialist with a minimum of five
years practical experience in industry, transformation, or trading, and with
general management experience in developed and developing countries. Some
public sector experience would be useful. The advisor should be fluent in
written and spoken French.
!.). Senior Financial and Accounting Specialist
Duties. Advise and assist the Legal and Accounting Section Chief in
e2stablishing expertise in all matters concerning financial planning, budgeting,
Jccounting and legal regulations in areas monitored by the FCP. The advisor
Ji211 also help to establish systems and procedures for data collection and
lalysis on the company, sector and national level.  He will ensure that the
. . tion Chief will be able to manage effectively his duties after the advisor's
'tparture. He will prepare a quarterly report on his activities for the
raJect Director. The assignment will be for three years.
Qualifications. A professional financial analyst and/or CPA (Expert
n)mj)table) with minimum of seven years experience in financial analysis
ancd accounting of private and para-public organizations, with experience in
francophone areas and also in developing countries. The advisor should be
fluezt in written and spoken French.



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
Appendix 2
Page 1
SENEGAL
PARA-PUBLIC SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to the Center for Public Enter-
prises (CEP).
A.   Management Expert
Duties. To assist and advise the Controller of Financial Operations
(COF) in improving the systems and procedures in the CEP's formal control.
The advisor will:  (i) review CEP's system of a priori and a posteriori
financial controls and make recommendations for making it more effective and
reducing it to the extent possible under COF's legal obligations; (ii) review
the management and control structure, systems and procedures of key public
enterprises, and propose measures to make them more effective in their rela-
tions with the CEP; (iii) assist in on-the-job training of the local staff
responsible for supervising the public enterprises, and make recommendations
for further training to the Bureau of Organization and Methods (BOM); and (iv)
ensure that procedures are established within public enterprises to carry
out the recommendations of external auditors and consultants on management
and operational reform. The advisor will submit a quarterly report of his
activities to the Project Director.
Qualifications. The advisor should have a thorough knowledge of the
theory and principles of modern business management gained through formal
training either graduate (MBA equivalent) or post-graduate (business manage-
ment schools and courses). Emphasis, however, will be placed on experience
and personality. The advisor should have been a senior manager, preferably as
general manager or director, of a diversified commercial or industrial company,
if possible in a para-public sector, for at least three years. He should have
some experience in computer services and data processing. To execute the
assignment, the advisor will need to be a person of strong character but at
the same time diplomatic, to be a self-starter, and to have strong organiza-
tional ability. The advisor must be fluent in French and have some experience
in developing countries. The assignment will be for two years.
B.   Accounting Expert
Duties. To assist and advise the Central Accounting Agent (ACC) in the
CEP in improving the accounting systems and procedures of public enterprises
and of CEP. In these tasks the advisor will be assisted as required by outside
consultants whose work he will supervise. The advisor will report directly to
the ACC but will work in close cooperation with the management expert to the
COF. The advisor's principal duties will include: (i) reviewing the existing
accounting systems and procedures in public enterprises to determine what
improvements are necessary for improving accounting standards and management



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Appendix 2
Page 2
information and control systems. He will recommend, where appropriate, addi-
tional systems either for cost accounting (comptabilite analytique), general
accounting (comptabilite generale) or planning and control (controle de
gestion); (ii) ensuring that procedures are established within public enter-
prises for carrying out the recommendations on accounting of external auditors;
(iii) preparing terms of reference and a short list of consultants to carry
out specialist services in public enterprises and the CEP, and supervise
the consultants' work; (iv) reviewing the ACC's procedures for paying, receiv-
ing and controlling funds, and proposing measures to make them more efficient.
The advisor will also review the capacity of individual public enterprises to
manage their own funds, and recomaend measures which will allow enterprises to
assume their responsibility as soon as possible; and (v) carrying out on-the-
job training of local staff in the ACC's department, and making further
recommendations to the BOM. The advisor will submit a quarterly report on his
activities to the Project Director.
Qualifications. The advisor should have a recognized accounting qualifi-
cation, preferably with membership in a professional accounting body, in
addition to a university degree in business management and accounting. The
advisor should have spent at least five years in a senior capacity in a firm
of accounting consultants or in the systems branch of a large, diversified
corporation. He should have experience in both public and private sector
accounting. The advisor should have demonstrated a capacity for designing,
installing, and operating accounting systems, and should be forceful but at
the same time tactful. The advisor must be fluent in French. Experience in a
developing country would be useful. The assignment will be for two years.



- 37-                            ANNEX IV
Appendix 3
Page 1
SENEGAL
PARA-PUBLIC SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to the Bureau of Organization
and Methods (BOM).
Under the direction of the BOM director, the two experts will design, develop
and execute training and upgrading programs for: (i) senior staff of the
Government agencies responsible for control of the para-public sector; (ii)
accountants in public enterprises, particularly ONCAD, OPT, SAED and SOMIVAC;
and (iii) Government representatives on boards of directors of para-public
sector companies.
A.   Specialist in Applied Modern Management Techniques
Duties.   His duties will include:
(i) on the basis of studies carried out by the BOM and from data
and documentation provided by the state monitoring agencies con-
cerned by the project (or from other sources such as the University
Institute of Technology), the specialist will design and develop
case studies typical of the problems encountered by the para-public
sector companies. These case studies will emphasize the following
problem areas:
- investment choice (including the creation of new enterprises)
- the planning and implementation of investment projects;
(ii) he will develop and make available in due time all course materials
(printed and audio-visual) together with tests for assessing
trainee progress and achievement;
(iii) he will identify qualified part-time local teachers (and eventually
outside consultants) needed to implement the courses, and will
be responsible for organizing their work, ensuring that any and
all course materials they may require are prepared in due time;
(iv) he will prepare, for review by the head of the BOM and the
agencies, course "packages", specifying the objectives, the content
and the methods to be used, as well as detailed timetables for
their implementation;
(v) together with the specialist in company management (see B below),
he will supervise the individual work of the trainees;



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
Appendix 3
Page 2
(vi) he will submit regular quarterly reports to the head of the BOM
on his work, for communication to the Project Director; and
(vii) eventually, he may be called upon to advise upon or aid in the
creation of any permanent training facilities to be developed
to serve the para-public sector.
Qualifications. An economist or engineer, he will possess a post-
graduate degree in business management (MBA) or the equivalent, with a spe-
cialization in modern management methods. He should have at least three years
of practical business or consulting experience, and a solid grasp of training
methods. The specialist should be fluent in written and spoken French, and be
able to read and comprehend technical publications in his field in English.
B.   Senior Specialist in Company Management
Duties.   His duties will include:
(i)  on the basis of his own observation and analysis of the decision-
making of boards of directors, as well as on the minutes, analyses
and other documents provided by the FCP and the BOM, he will
prepare cases on:
- the setting of company objectives
- planning company strategy
-  establishing company performance indicators and appropriate
monitoring systems;
(ii)  he will be responsible for designing and implementing courses and
seminars for the directors of key companies, designed to instruct
them in basic elements of commercial accounting;
(iii) he will also develop practical courses and exercises relative
to the organization and conduct of effective meetings;
(iv) he will be responsible for supervising the upgrading courses for
company level accountants in the sector, financed under the
project, and to be organized and operated by the University
Institute of Technology; and
(v) in addition, he will fulfill the tasks and responsibilities
indicated in A (ii) through (vii) above.
Qualifications. He may be an economist, engineer or senior accountant.
He should have spent at least ten years in management, preferably with ex-
perience as the head of a medium-sized company. African experience would also
be desirable. Fluency in spoken and written French is required.



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Appendix 4
Page 1
SENEGAL
PARA-PUBLIC SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Organization and Responsibilities of the Project Management Unit (PMU).
Organization
The unit consists of a Project Director and a Deputy Director.
The Director, who is named by the Prime Minister, is chairman of the Prime
Minister's para-public sector task force. The Deputy Director is designated
by an official decision of the Prime Minister.
The unit is advised by the Prime Minister's task force which meets
at least quarterly to review the progress of the project, but meetings can
be convened at any time upon request by a member. The written minutes of
these meetings constitute part of the Borrower's quarterly progress reports
to IDA.
Responsibilities
The Project Director is the principal IDA correspondent and ensures
effective communication with,IDA on all matters related to the Project. He is
responsible for coordinating the various activities carried out by supervisors
to meet project goals. He presides over the meetings of the coordinating com-
mittee 1/, and keeps the task force regularly informed of the project's pro-
gress. He may delegate his responsibilities at any time to the Deputy
Director, and will do so in the case of absences or illness of more than one
week. He is principally responsible for:
(i) supplying and safeguarding the physical and human resources required
for effective project operation;
(ii) planning and financial administration of the project and related
items;
(iii) preparation of all progress reports concerning expenditures or
project evaluation; and
(iv) settling any differences of opinion with respect to project
implementation.
1/   The membership comes from the para-public sector task force and
public enterprises to be audited under the Project.



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
Appendix 4
Page 2
The Deputy Director, who is assisted by a full-time secretary, carries
out the following activities for the Project Director:
A.   Financial Administration
(i)  he administers the project operations account for which he has the
power of signature and ensures that it is regularly funded;
(ii)  to this end, he ensures that all expenditures are justified and
supported by the appropriate documentation;
(ii:L) he prepares detailed staitements of expenses by item of expenditure
and by category of credit for inclusion in the quarterly progress
report to the Borrower and IDA;,
(iv)  he prepares and justifies all disbursement requests sent to IDA
as well as direct payment: requests;
(v)  he maintains the project accounts in compliance with accepted
accounting practices to be agreed upon by the Borrower and IDA;
(vi)  he prepares quarterly budgets with the chief supervisors; and
(vii)  he prepares the annual project budget for government counterpart
funds, and ensures its timely approval and inscription in the
national budget.
B.   Personnel Management
(i)  he is responsible for recruitment of expatriate project
personnel according to a timetable agreed upon by IDA;
(ii)  he administers all project-funded consultant contracts; and
(iii)  he may, upon request by chief supervisors who are represented at
the coordinating committee, and with IDA approval, commit a total
of two man-years of consulting services to carry out any specific
task required for the pro;ject.
C.   Inventory Control for Equipment and Materials
(i)  he ensures the timely acquisition of all vehicles, equipment, and
furniture required for implementing various project activities;
(ii)  to this end, he prepares timetables for their procurement, and
ensures preparation of bidding documents and cost estimates;
(iii)  he maintains an updated inventory of all project-funded materials,
as well as supplies needed for effective operations;



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
Appendix 4
Page 3
(iv)  he places regular orders for replacement supplies (including spare
parts), and calls for prompt repair work, ensuring that efficient
implementation of the project is not impaired; and
(v)  he ensures that all project vehicles receive scheduled maintenance
checks, and that they are insured against all risks by a reliable
company.
D.   Evaluation and Supervision
(i)  he is responsible for preparing and dispatching to IDA a quarterly
project progress report, as well as a report on expenditures and
project impact on objectives established for different activities.
The form and content of these reports will be agreed upon by the
Borrower and IDA;
(ii)  in order to ensure efficient and timely implementation of the project
as a whole, he maintains a detailed time schedule of all project
activities;
(iii) he participates actively in supervision missions sent by IDA, and
prepares in advance of such missions those reports which may be
reasonably requested of him;
(iv)  he reports on coordinating committee meetings and promptly prepares
written minutes; and
(v)  he drafts plans for external evaluation of the project, and supervises
the selection of consultants or other competent institutions on the
basis of criteria which will be jointly agreed upon by the Borrower
and IDA. The first external evaluation study will be carried out at
the end of the first year of operation; the last will take place in
the final year of the project and will serve as the project comple-
tion report. The objectives and timing of these studies will be
agreed upon by the Borrower and IDA.
Chief Supervisors
(i)  they prepare and communicate to the Project Unit profiles and terms
of reference for any specialist or consultant financed by the
project;
(ii)  they also provide the Project Unit with lists of equipment or
materials which they supply, together with necessary technical
specifications;
(iii) they draw up quarterly reports on their project activities.
The content and format of these report will be decided upon by
the Project Unit;



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
Appendix 4
Page 4
(iv)  they select those officials who will be trained under the BOM
project. They assist in the planning of courses and practical
training courses, and ensure that candidates are available for
the duration of training; and
(v) they draw up work programs for consultants and technical assis-
tants and determine criteria for evaluating their work.



- 43 -                               ANNEX IV
Table 1
SENEGAL
PARA-PUJBLIC SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Details of Project Cost Estimates
CFAF Million                 US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total
1. CVCCEP - Mixed Companies
Auditing                             21.0       99.0   120.0       0.09       O. 4o    o.49
2. CEP - Public Enterprises
Technical Assistance                   -        94.o    94.o        -         0.38    0.38
Auditing                             28.1      301.0   329.1       0.12       1.23    1.35
Consulting Services                    -       125.0   125.0        -         0.51    0.51
Training of Accountants               3.5        7.4    lo.9       0.01       0.03    o.o4
31.6     527.4   559.0        0.13      2.15    2.28
3. FCP
Additional local staff,
travel, materials                   280.7         -    280.7       1.13        -      1.13
Technical Assistance                   -       282.2   282.2        -         1.15    1.15
Equipment                            12.7       51.0    63.7       0.05       0.21    0.26
Consulting Services                    -        40.0    4o.o        -         0.16    0.16
293.4     373.2   666.6        1.18      1.52    2.70
4. BOM
Technical Assistance                   -       142.0   142.0        -         0.58    0.58
Equipment                              -        16.0    16.0        -         0.07    0.07
Training Costs                         -        74.o    74.o        -         0.30    0.30
Scholarships                           -        78.o    78.0        -         0.32    0.32
Consulting Services                    -        20.0    20.0        -         o.o8    0.08
-      330.0   330.0        -         1.35    1.35
5.  Project Unit                          3.4       18.7    22.1       0.01       0.08    0.09
TOTAL                           349.4   1,348.3 1,697.7        1.41       5.50    6.91
6.  Physical Contingencies                6.o       24.o    30.0       0.02       0.10    0.12
7.  Price Contingencies                 117.6      171.5   269.1       o.48       0.70    1.18
GRAND TOTAL                     473.0   1,543.8 2,016.8        1.9       6.3      8.2
(percentage)                                                 23%        77%    100%






IBRD        1147OF
St,                             AL6CRIA             L18TA
M A U R I T A N
SENEGAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TAMA
-         Intemotlonal 40undadeS                                                                                                                                                                                                          MALI
R.q'-I boodoio.                                                     R                                                                                                                                 SOIE.AL
-------- D partmental bwndanes                                                      E    G                                                                                                                                              f
e                                                                                       0   N                                                                                                 A~ SISSZ                         VOLTA
qtiQnol capitol                                                                                                                                                                                                       I    r, I          -( , I  L L         'IL
ionct cop'tats                                                                                                 0
0     DeportmeMal                                                                                                                                                                                          SIERRA LE           MA
R
lntelmititnt Stfegms
Ocoon
OL0.90                                                                                                          Matom
Ap     ao    too
KILOM"ERS
z                                  R  J/E    G        I   O', -N
11          O                     60         N                                                                 Lingue,e
MILES                                                                                                                  r
0  F
V
Afantic                                  R   E  G   I  0   N
Tivaoume,
REGfON OF                                                                  0   U   R   B   Er L
CAP-V                                                                                                                                                                                                      kel
*rhies                                   M'b.cke                                                                                                                                                        1011I
0
Bamby,
-T-, H   I  E   S        0
O'KAF14                                                   Diourbel
0 C e C7 n
F.t;ck
R   E  Go I                0   F       S  I  N   E       5 "A,               m
e                 0' U
Rot                                                            R     E    Gy'   i    0   j N               0,  F                                                A      L
ndbugne                           DKoffrme
14P                                                                                                                                       K.-p.nto..
/ A,                      - - - - - - - - - -
Mom                                                                               ambacound                                        A    L
_" Tamb,    5 E    E G
,7At--
R    I    E      N   '-T--A
Wmqare
iRrE G  I                                  0 F                  C.0  --S'                     A           C  E
0                                                                                                                                      K
Sedhiou
5                                                                                                                                                                Ked..g
70
0-
-o'ye'
G U I N E A                                                                                                       G    I N  E



