                                               CONFORMED COPY




                                        CREDIT NUMBER 764 SE




Development Credit Agreement
  (Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project)



                      between


                REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL


                        and


       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




               Dated March 17, 1978
                                                CREDIT NUMBER 764 SE


                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).

                                ARTICLE I

                   General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March
                                                        15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called
the General Conditions).

     Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

     -   Terms   Related   to   the Control Organs of the Borrower

      (a) "FCP" means the Contr8leur Financier de la Presidence,
an office established within the General Secretariat of the
Presidency of the Republic pursuant to the Borrower's Ordonnance
No. 59-043, dated March 31, 1959, and Decree No.   67-150, dated
February 10, 1967;

      (b) "BOM" means Bureau Organisation et Methodes, an office
established within the General Secretariat of the Presidency of
the Republic pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 70-231, dated
February 26, 1970;

     (c) "CEP" means Centre des Etablissements Publics, an office
established within the Borrower's Ministry of Finance pursuant
to Decree No. 66-413, dated June 10, 1966;

     (d) "COF" means Contr8leur des Op6rations Financieres,
an office established within the Borrower's Ministry of Finance
                                -2-


whose responsibilities are defined pursuant to Law No. 77-89,
dated August 10, 1977 of the Borrower and Decree No. 66-413, dated
June 10, 1966;

     (e) "ACC" means l'Agent Central Comptable, an office estab-
lished within the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, whose responsi-
bilities are defined pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 74-89,
dated August 10, 1977 and the Borrower's Decree No. 66-413,
dated June 10, 1966;

      (f) "CVCCEP" means Commission de Verification des Comptes
et de Contr8le des Etablissements Publics, a para-judicial body
related to the Borrower's Supreme Court, whose responsibilities
are defined pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 77-89, dated
August 10, 1977 and the Borrower's Decree No. 77-902, dated
October 19, 1977;

     (g) "GESP" means the Groupe d'Etude du Secteur Para-Public,
a body established under the Borrower's Prime Minister's authority
pursuant to the Prime Minister's Arrete No. 5155 PM/SGG/EC2,
dated May 11, 1976;

     (h) "Project Management Unit" means     the   unit   referred   to
in Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement;

     -   Terms Related to the Para-Public Sector

     (i) "Para-Public Sector" means the Borrower's etablissements
publics a caractere industriel et commercial, the Societes
Nationales and the Societes d'Economie Mixte, in which the
Borrower owns directly or indirectly 50% or more of the capital;

     (j)  "ONCAD"  means Office National de Coopgration et
d'Assistance   au Developpement,    an etablissement   public a
caractere industriel et commercial established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 66-60, dated June 30, 1966 as
amended by the Borrower's Decree No. 75-515, dated May 14, 1975,
as amended;

     (k) "OPT" means Office des Postes et T61communications
du Senegal, an etablissement public a caractere industriel et com-
mercial established and operating under the laws and regulations
of the Borrower pursuant to the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 66-22
MTT, dated October 3, 1960, Law No. 77-30, dated February 22, 1977
and Decree No. 77-364, dated April 29, 1977;
                                 - 3 -


       (1) "SAED" means the Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation
 des Terres du Delta du Fleuve S6n6gal, an 6tablissement public a
 caractere industriel et commercial,    established and operating,
 pursuant to Law No. 65-001 of the Borrower, dated
                                                       January 20,
 1965, and Decree No. 65-026 of the Borrower, dated
                                                        January 20,
 1965;

      (m)  "SOMIVAC" means "Societ6 pour la Mise en valeur de la
Casamance, an 6tablissement public a caractere industriel et
commercial, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Law No. 76-69, dated July 2, 1976 and the Borrower's Decree No.
76-836, dated July 24, 1976;

      (n)   "Etablissement Public" means   the Etablissements Publics
a Caractere Industriel et Commercial referred to in Article 3 of
the Borrower's Law No. 77-89, dated July 28, 1977;

     (o) "Societe d'Economie Mixte" means the industrial, com-
mercial or artisan corporations in which the Borrower or a poli-
tical subdivision of the Borrower owns directly or indirectly
a portion of the share capital; and

     (p) "Societe Nationale" means an industrial or commercial
corporation established in the form of stock corporations whose
capital is wholly subscribed by the Borrower or by other political
subdivisions of the Borrower, if applicable.


                             ARTICLE II
                             The Credit

     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend
                                                  to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
                                                           equiva-
lent to six million three hundred thousand dollars ($6,300,000).

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
                                                                of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
                                -4-


      Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.

     Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1988, and ending December 1,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.

     Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its GESP and the Project Management Unit and through
its departments and agencies as specified in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, administrative and accounting practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.

     Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ the consultants and experts
listed in paragraphs A, C and E of Schedule 4 to this Agreement on
                                 -5-


or before the respective dates specified in said Schedule, and
shall employ in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the
Association the auditors listed in paragraph D of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement,  whose qualifications,   experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.

     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.

     (b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all    goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.

     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.

      (b)  The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,   the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.

     (c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
                               - 6 -


Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and results
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Associa-
tion of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.

     Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall at all times maintain
its FCP, BOM, CVCCEP and CEP each with such powers and organiza-
tion as shall be acceptable to the Association, respectively,
under the supervision of qualified and experienced civil servants
assisted by qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers.

     (b)  Without limitation or restriction to the generality of
the provisions of the foregoing paragraph (a) of this Section, the
Borrower shall carry out in accordance with a timetable acceptable
to the Association a recruitment program for the staffing of
FCP acceptable to the Association.

     (c) The Borrower undertakes to train the FCP personnel
through BOM under Part C of the Project.

      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, for the purpose of carrying
out Part B (i) of the Project, cause ONCAD, OPT, SAED and SOMIVAC
to employ in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Associ-
ation, the experts referred to in paragraph B of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
and shall cause each one of them: (i) to have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, and
to prepare for each fiscal year an economic evaluation report, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent experts acceptable to the Association;
(ii)  to furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any  case not later than twelve months after the end of the fiscal
year  1978, not later than ten months after the end of the fiscal
year 1979 and not later than eight months after the end of the
fiscal year 1980: (A) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit and
evaluation by said experts, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) to
furnish to the Association such other information concerning its
accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and its
economic evaluation reports, as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
                               -7-


      Section 3.07. In carrying out Part B (iii) of the Project,
 the Borrower shall by March 31, 1978 or such other date as the
Association may agree, exchange views with the Association on
 the identity of the three mixed companies to be selected for
purposes of Part B (iii)   of the Project and shall cause each of
such companies: (i) to have its accounts and financial statements
 (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) to furnish to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) to furnish to the Association such other
information concerning its  accounts and financial statements and
the audit tnereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.


     Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall at all times maintain
the GESP and the Project Management Unit with such powers and
organization as shall be acceptable to the Association.    Without
limitation to the foregoing: (A) the GESP shall: (i) be at all
times headed by a qualified and experienced president, reporting
directly to the Borrower's Prime Minister, and with such responsi-
bilities and powers as shall be acceptable to the Association
assisted by a qualified and experienced deputy director, and (ii)
be responsible for the coordination 'nd the execution of the
Project; and (B) such Project Management Unit shall (i) be main-
tained within the Borrower's Prime Minister's Office under the
supervision of GESP assisted by said deputy director of said GESP
and with such responsibilities and powers as shall be acceptable
to the Association and assisted by qualified and experienced staff
in adequate numbers, and (ii) be responsible for the adminis-
tration and management of the Project and shall submit to the
Association quarterly and annual reports on the carrying out of
the Project.


     (b)  The Borrower shall submit to the Association by March
31 of each year an annual evaluation report on the progress of the
Project which shall be prepared with the assistance of consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
                               - 8 -


     Section 3.09. The Borrower shall provide the consultants and
experts referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement with adequate
support staff, equipment and appropriate offices and storage
space.

     Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause the vehicles, mate-
rials and equipment provided under the Project to be adequately
maintained and promptly, as required, all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof to be made, all  in accordance with appropriate
engineering practice.

                            ARTICLE IV

                          Other Covenants

     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.

     Section 4.02. Without limitation or restriction       to the
generality of the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement
the Borrower shall (a) submit by December 31, 1978 a permanent
plan acceptable to the Association for financing the outside
auditing work of the CVCCEP, and (b) cause CVCCEP to comment
each year on the quality of all audits made in the Para-Public
Sector of the Borrower no later than three months after receipt of
such audits.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

     Section 5.01. The date June 15, 1978, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

     Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.05, 3.06 and 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the D;velopment Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date ten years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
                                 - 9 -


                             ARTICLE VI

             Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

     For the Borrower:


         Ministere des Finances et des
              Affai7es Economiques
         Rue Charles Latne
         B.P. 4017
         Dakar, Senegal


         Cable address:

              MINIFINANCES
              Dakar


    For the Association!


         International Development Association
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America


         Cable address:                      Telex:

              INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
              Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
                                  -   10 -



District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.


                   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL



                   By /s/    A.   Coulbary
                                             Authorized Representative



                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                    By /s/   X. de la Renaudiere
                                      Acting Regional Vice President
                                                      Western Africa
                                -   11    -




                              SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                 Amount of the
                                Credit Allocated              % of
                                 (Expressed in           Expenditures
      Category                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed

(1)   Salaries and allow-                2,110,000      100% of for-
      ances of advisors                                 eign expendi-
      (including recruit-                               tures
      ment costs)

(2)   Consulting services                     800,000   100% of for-
                                                        eign expendi-
                                                        tures

(3)   Auditing services                  1,630,000      90%

(4)   Equipment, materials                    310,000   90%
      and vehicles

(5)   Training and scholar-                   650,000   100% of for-
      ships                                             eign expendi-
                                                        tures

(6)   Unallocated                             800,000


                     TOTAL           6,300,000



2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of
another country from the territory of which goods or services are
                              - 12 -


supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services
shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".

3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.

4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$25,000 may be made in respect of Categories (2),     (3)  and (5)
under Parts B (ii) and C (i) of the Project on account of payments
made for such expenditures before that date but after July 1,
1977.

5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the Lable in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.

6.   If  the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
                              - 13 -


of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
                                   - 14 -


                               SCHEDULE 2

                       Description of the Project

     The Project is part of the Borrower's three-year program
aimed at strengthening and improving Government control organiza-
tions with respect to, and performance of, the para-public sector
as a whole and of certain key mixed companies and public enter-
prises. The Project consists of the following Parts:

Part A:   Strengthening       of   Government Control Organizations

           (i)   Financial Controller of the Presidency

                 (a)   Development within FCP of an appropriate
                       follow-up and control system to meet medium-
                       and long-term targets of the Para-Public
                       Sector.

                 (b)   Development of management tools to plan,
                       analyze and monitor the development and
                       day-to-day management of the Para-Public
                       Sector in order to meet the objectives
                       described in paragraph (a) above.

          (ii)   Center for Public Enterprises

                 Improvement of systems and procedures     under   the
                 CEP's formal control, including:

                 (a)   review of CEP's system of a priori and a
                       posteriori financial controls and study on
                       the possibility to extend the autonomy of the
                       Etablissements Publics within the framework
                       of the legal obligations of the COF and of the
                       ACC;

                 (b)   review of the management and control struc-
                       ture, systems and procedures of key Etablis-
                       sements Publics and proposal of measures to
                       make them more effective in their relations
                       with the CEP;

                 (c)   on-the-job training of the local staff
                       responsible for supervising the Etablissements
                                  - 15 -


                        Publics and preparation of recommendations for
                        further training to the BOM; and

                  (d)   establishment of procedures within the
                        Etablissements Publics to carry out the
                        recommendations of external auditors and
                        consultants on management and operational
                        reform.

Part B:     Auditing, and Preparation of Financial
            and Economic Reports

            (i)   Carrying out of annual financial and economic
                  audits, reorganization of budget, financial and
                  accounting procedures of, and training of accoun-
                  tants in, ONCAD, OPT, SAED and SOMIVAC.

           (ii)   Improvement of accounting systems and procedures
                  of, and study on the possible introduction of
                  analytical accounting in, Etablissements Publics
                  carried out by the ACC in the CEP.

          (iii)   Carrying out under the supervision of CVCCEP of one
                  major audit and one follow-up audit each for three
                  important Societes d'Economie Mixte to be
                  determined by agreement between the Borrower and
                  the Association.

Part C:    Training

           A training program (to improve, inter alia, accounting
           skills, decision making and organization of effective
           meetings through scholarships and workshops) to be
           carried out through the Borrower's BOM: (i) for the
           staff of FCP, CEP and CVCCEP to be selected by their
           chiefs and to be made available during the period of
           training in the respective specialized fields; and (ii)
           for the Borrower's representatives on boards of direc-
           tors of Para-Public Sector companies.




     The Project    is expected   to be    completed   by June 30,   1982.
                              - 16 -


                            SCHEDULE 3


                            Procurement


A.   Competitive bidding

     Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts
for the purchase of equipment, materials and vehicles shall be
procured following competitive bidding through advertisement of
bid invitations in accordance with the Borrower's local proce-
dures, such procedures to be satisfactory to the Association.

B.   Other Procurement Procedures

     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph A above, con-
tracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$10,000 may be procured following local shopping, provided,
however, that: (i)  the Borrower has obtained quotations from at
least three suppliers; and (ii) the aggregate cost of contracts
so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $50,000.

C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:

     With respect to all contracts for materials, equipment and
vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more:

     (a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its  comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.

     (b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
                              -   17 -


sufficient time for its  review, a detailed report on the evalu-
ation and comparison of the bids received, and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associ-
ation shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.

     (c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.

      (d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be fur-
nished to the Association promptly after its  execution and prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.

2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first  application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
                                - 18 -


                              SCHEDULE 4


           List of Consultants' and Specialists' Services


A.   Consultants and expatriate experts required to assist FCP and
     CEP in carrying out Part A (i) of the Project.

          (i)   Four expatriate experts to assist   FCP   for Part A
                (i) of the Project consisting of:

                (a)   a management specialist to be employed
                      by June 30, 1978, or such other date as the
                      Association may agree;

                (b)   an economist with experience in agriculture
                      and agro-industry to be employed by June 30,
                      1978, or such other date as the Association
                      may agree;

                (c)   a financial analyst with experience in indus-
                      try and mining to be employed by June 30,
                      1978, or such other date as the Association
                      may agree; and

                (d)   a financial and accounting specialist to
                      be employed by June 30, 1978, or such other
                      date as the Association may agree.

         (ii)   A management specialist to reinforce   CEP's manage-
                ment assistance unit for purposes of    carrying out
                Part A (ii) of the Project to be        employed by
                June 30, 1978, or such other date as    the Associa-
                tion may agree.

B.   Auditors required to assist each of ONCAD, OPT, SAED and
     SOMIVAC in carrying out Part B (i)   of the Project to be
     employed in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the
     Association.

C*   An accounting expert to assist the Central Accounting Agent
     in CEP to carry out Part B (ii) of the Project to be employed
     by June 30, 1978, or such other date as the Association may
     agree.
                              -   19 -


D.   Auditors to assist CVCCEP in carrying out Part B (iii) of the
     Project to be employed in accordance with a timetable
     acceptable to the Association.

E.   Consultants and expatriate experts required to assist BOM in
     carrying out Part C (i) of the Project. Two specialists
     including:

          (i)   one specialist in applied Modern Management Tech-
                niques to be employed by June 30, 1978, or such
                other date as the Association may agree; and

        (ii)    one senior specialist in company management to be
                employed by June 30, 1978, or such other date as
                the Association may agree.
