Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6644-AM
MEKORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 8.1 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
FOR A
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
OCTOBER 23, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
MAY 1995
Currency Unit = Dram
I Dram  = US$O.0024
US$1  = 425 DRAMS
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAA - ARMENIAN ASSEMBLY OF AMERICA
ASIF - ARMENIAN SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
ASIFPU - ARMENIAN SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PREPARATION UNIT
FSU - FORMER SOVIET UNION
GOA - GOVERNMENT OF ARMENIA
ICB - INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING
IDA - INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
IMF - INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
MC - MICROPROJECT COMMITTEE
NGO - NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATION
NS - NATIONAL SHOPPING
TA - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
USAID - UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ARMENIA - FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY I - DECEMBER 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Country/Sector Background .              .............................................  1
Health and Education .................................................. 2
Project Objectives .................................................... 2
Project Description . ................................................... 3
Project Implementation   .          ............................................... 4
Project Sustainability  .      ................................................. 5
Lessons Learned from  Other Social Funds and the Project's Pilot Phase .................. 5
Rationale for Bank Involvement .               ........................................... 6
Agreed Actions  .....................................................  7
Poverty Category  .................................................... 7
Environmental Aspects   .           ............................................... 7
Program  Objective Categories  .              ........................................... 8
Participatory Approach   .          ............................................... 8
Project Benefits  .....................................................  9
Project Risks ......................................................  9
Recommendation .................................................... 10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                l






REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             Republic of Armenia
Implementing Agency:  Armenian Social Investment Fund (ASIF)
Beneficiaries:         Unemployed and low-income groups in rural and urban areas, small private
contractors, local governments, NGOs and community organizations, State
Department of Statistics
Poverty Category:      Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                SDR 8.1 million (US$12 million equivalent)
Terms:                Payable in 35 years, including 10 years of grace on standard IDA terms
Conmmitment Fee:      0.50 % on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver
Financing Plan:       See Schedule A
Net Present Value:    Microprojects financed under the SIF project will be selected according to
criteria described in the Operational Manual, integrating basic cost benefit
analysis.
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 14655 AM
Map:                  IBRD 23943R1
Project ID Number:    AM-PA-35768
Project Objective:    The ASIF would aim to support the lower income groups among the
Armenian population through improvement of basic social services and
creation of employment opportunities. The primary objectives of the project
would be to: (a) rehabilitate basic small-scale infrastructure that can result in
immediate improvements of the living conditions of the poorest among the
population; (b) strengthen the capacity of private small-scale contractors and
other micro-businesses so that they can benefit directly or indirectly from
contracts financed by the ASIF; (c) generate employment through financing
of labor-intensive public works; and (d) build greater capacity for policy
makers to monitor and analyze trends in the level and structure of poverty in
Armenia.



- ii -
Project Description:    The project has four components:
(i)  Financing ofASIFMicroprojects to Support the Rehabilitation of Small-
Scale Infrastructure. Such works could include rehabilitation of local clinics,
primary schools, sanitation work and water supply, energy saving repairs,
repair of feeder roads, as well as rehabilitation of degraded village and town
environments through cleanup and tree planting. The project could also
provide furniture and basic equipment for rehabilitated infrastructure.
(ii) Institutional Supportfor the ASIF. This component would support the
ASIF through provision of equipment, vehicles, salaries, operating costs,
training, technical assistance, and financing for monitoring and evaluation.
(iii) Capacity Building of Small Contractors, Implementing Agencies and
Communities.  This component would provide training and technical
assistance to contractors and other local private firms, implementing agencies
and communities to increase their technical and managerial capacities.
Training and technical assistance would focus on competitive bidding,
preparing contracts, monitoring work progress and community participation.
(iv) Support for Monitoring Living Conditions. This component would
cover technical assistance, vehicles, equipment, enumerators' salaries, and
supplies of the State Department of Statistics to refine its methods for
conducting sampling and household consumption surveys. It would also
finance implementation of two household surveys by the State Department of
Statistics.
Project Benefits & Risks: Benefits - The project would generate substantial benefits for the poor
through the provision of basic social infrastructure financed through hundreds
of microprojects. The microprojects would deliver immediate benefits in
terms of generation of employment and income and improvements in the
access and quality of basic services and infrastructure, as well as longer-term
benefits in terms of improvements in the living conditions of the population.
The project would strengthen the country's ability to target, appraise and
monitor efforts to reduce poverty.  It would assist the Government in
mobilizing additional external financing in support of its reform objectives.
The project would also have an important institutional effect by strengthening
the capabilities of local government, NGOs, and local organizations, in
particular helping to reinforce a sense of ownership and involvement at the
community level.  The ASIF would demonstrate the importance of
beneficiary participation in poverty reduction and provide an efficient and
effective model for implementation. Small private contractors and other
small entrepreneurs would benefit in the form of increased revenues and
improved technical, managerial and institutional capacity through their
execution of work contracts.
Risks - Risks facing the project arise from possible political factors that
could compromise the ASIF's autonomy, credibility and effectiveness;
potential problems with microproject quality in the field; and limited
managerial, technical and institutional capacity of local organizations
responsible both for proposing and implementing microprojects and for
financing operation and maintenance after the microproject is completed.



- iii -
The capacity of the ASIF to maintain a good and capable working team,
maintain transparency, and oversee the implementation of about 125
microprojects a year remains to be tested. To reduce these risks, the ASIF
has been granted autonomous status with adequate institutional checks and
balances and transparent and efficient operating procedures developed during
the pilot phase, incorporated in the Operational Manual, and subject to
review during supervision. To reduce risks further, microproject appraisal
would examine the capacity of contractors and local organizations to carry
out and supervise works, and the ASIF would provide technical assistance
and training to fill institutional, technical and management gaps.  A
participatory approach would be taken for identification and implementation
of microprojects to ensure that microprojects respond to an urgent and felt
need, thereby increasing the commitment of community members to sustain
microprojects and demonstrating the benefits of collective actions surrounding
local development.






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
FOR A SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed credit
to the Republic of Armenia of SDR 8.1 million (US$12 million equivalent) to help finance the Armenian
Social Investment Fund (ASIF) Project. The credit would be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of
35 years including a grace period of 10 years. It is proposed that US$2 million of the IDA credit be set
aside for funding ASIF microprojects as matching funds, dollar-for-dollar, with private sector
contributions, as a way to encourage private sector transfers to the ASIF, especially from the Armenian
Diaspora. An account would be opened in the Central Bank by the ASIF for these contributions. The
attractiveness of the ASIF as a channel for funds could be made even stronger by providing potential
private donors with the possibilities of targeting their funds to specific geographic areas and types of
investments. This would be achieved by providing them with a list of approved microprojects from
which they could select microprojects for funding. Donors would contribute US$2.5 million, the private
sector would contribute US$2.0 million, the Government would contribute US$1 million, and local
communities, US$2.5 million. The total project costs would be US$20 million equivalent over four
years, including repayment of the PPF advance.
Country/Sector Background
2.    Armenia is one of the smallest of the former Soviet republics, with a population officially
estimated at 3.65 million, and land area of 29,800 square kilometers. It is struggling to recover from
the devastating effects inherent in the dismantling of the Soviet economy and adjustment from a centrally-
planned to a market-based economy. It is also struggling with the effects of the 1988 earthquake, which
destroyed 40% of the country's manufacturing capacity, and of the conflict with Azerbaijan. Since
independence in 1991, Armenia has experienced very sharp falls in output. GDP fell by 52% in 1992
and a further 15% in 1993. Living standards have plummeted and the levels of real wages and benefits
are now among the lowest in the FSU, resulting in a sharp increase in the numbers of people living in
poverty. In general, both wages and household incomes show relatively little disparity, suggesting that
it is the sharp drop in income rather than a deterioration of distribution that has driven the rise in poverty.
More than two-thirds of average household expenditures were spent on food in 1992-94, peaking at 71
percent in the fourth quarter of 1993. Consumer subsidies which in the past helped to maintain the
affordability of a wide variety of consumer items have been or are being cut to decrease the fiscal deficit,
while compensation mechanisms are being put in place to assist those with the greatest needs.
3.    The Government's reform efforts have focused on price liberalization, privatization of agricultural
land, tax reform and liberalization of the exchange and trade systems and had resulted in very
encouraging results. Inflation has declined from an average of 46 % per month in the first quarter of 1994
to about 4% per month in the first 6 months of 1995. In 1994, real GDP is estimated to have grown by
5.4%. The overall state budget deficit is estimated to have been reduced from 56% in 1993 to 16% of
GDP in 1994. It is projected to fall to 8.5% in 1995.
4.    Despite continuing efforts to achieve peace and implement economic reforms, the Government
has been less able to provide tangible support for the poor, for earthquake victims, for refugees and for
vulnerable groups hurt by the economic disruptions. It is estimated that the share of Government social
expenditure (Health and Education) in GDP fell from 15.2% in 1992 to 11 % in 1993, and to an estimated
8.6% in 1994. This, compounded by the lack of heating fuel and fall of living standards, has resulted
in declining health and nutrition for the population. The tightening of fiscal and monetary policy will put



further strain on social protection programs even though these programs already fall short in providing
even the most basic needs. Ultimately, the poor and other vulnerable groups will benefit from restored
growth, but measures are needed to support these groups during the transition.
Health and Education
5.     Health indicators in Armenia are comparable to those in other republics of the FSU despite a
major deterioration in health service delivery since the beginning of 1992 and neglect of maintenance of
facilities. The infant mortality rate was estimated at 17.7 in 1993, down from 18.6 in 1992. According
to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, this decline is explained by the effectiveness of humanitarian
assistance and government efforts to redirect programs toward primary health care. While the health care
delivery system is characterized by widely distributed facilities, beds and medical personnel, these are
often excessive in number and lack maintenance. Furthermore, the health system lacks basic equipment,
drugs and other supplies and is inefficient due to a highly centralized management. Health services are
funded almost entirely by government revenues with no official cost recovery system. In 1993, health
expenditures accounted for 3.5% of GDP, down from 4.5% in 1992. Considering the rapid fall in real
health expenditures in the last three years, it is important to avoid any further decline in order to sustain
the provision of basic health services while the Government implements its health care reform program.
These reforms include introduction of cost recovery, decentralization, reform of health care budgeting,
privatization of some facilities, and establishment of a comprehensive primary health care system.
Winterization and other rehabilitation of basic health infrastructure, as well as provision of basic
equipment, drugs and supplies, are needed in the short-term to avoid further deterioration of facilities and
service provision.
6.     Armenia's education sector is characterized by an over abundance of facilities and teachers, but
most schools are in dire need of rehabilitation after earthquake damage and years of little or no
maintenance. Few new textbooks or supplies have been provided over the last four years due to tight
budget constraints. Education is funded almost entirely from government resources with fees for higher
education introduced only recently. Because of the drastic decrease in available education resources, the
education budget is largely absorbed by salaries and other staff costs, yet teachers' real incomes have
fallen sharply. Greater efficiency may be realized in the medium-term by rationalizing the supply of
teachers and improving education management. Furthermore, cost recovery mechanisms and development
of private schools are potential avenues to strengthen the financial base of the educational system.
However, to avoid a collapse of the existing system, improved heating, winterization and maintenance
of facilities is needed.
7.     Local level actors playing prominent roles in social infrastructure and service delivery include
local government, NGOs and development agencies. Local government retains some responsibilities for
maintenance of basic infrastructure, while NGOs and development agencies are contributing to
humanitarian relief, service delivery and reconstruction.
Project Objectives
8.    The ASIF would aim to support the lower income groups among the Armenian population through
improvement of basic social services and creation of employment opportunities. The primary objectives
of the project would be to: (a) rehabilitate basic small-scale infrastructure that can result in immediate
improvements of the living conditions of the poorest among the population; (b) strengthen the capacity
of private small-scale contractors and other micro-businesses so that they can benefit directly or indirectly
from contracts financed by the ASIF; (c) generate employment through financing of labor-intensive public



- 3 -
works; and (d) build greater capacity for policy makers to monitor and analyze trends in the level and
structure of poverty in Armenia.
Project Description
9.     The project would support the Armenian Social Investment Fund (ASIF) which would be
established as an autonomous agency reporting to the Ministry of Economy. The ASIF would fund
rehabilitation of basic social and economic infrastructure on a grant basis in response to requests from
local organizations, including local governments, NGOs, and existing or newly created community-based
organizations. Considering the present weakness of existing govermental structure at the local level and
the lack of incentive existing in this structure to implement rapidly and efficiently small-scale projects,
establishing the Social Investment Fund was considered the most effective way in the short- and medium-
term to manage such a project. The project has four components:
(i)    Financing of ASIF Microprojects to Support the Rehabilitation of Small-Scale Infrastructure.
Such works could include rehabilitation of local clinics, primary schools, sanitation work and
water supply, energy saving repairs, repair of feeder roads, as well as rehabilitation of degraded
village and town environments through cleanup and tree planting. The project could also provide
furniture and basic equipment for rehabilitated infrastructure.  The maximum  size of a
microproject would be US$150,000 though most would not exceed US$50,000. The average
microproject size is expected to be US$32,000. When a proposed microproject is approved by
the ASIF, the local organization (local government or local community) proposing the activity
would become the "implementing agency" and would enter into a framework agreement with the
ASIF. Most works would be carried out by small private contractors using labor-intensive
construction techniques in order to stimulate employment. Over the life of the project, an
estimated 500 microprojects would be implemented. The total cost of this component is estimated
at US$15.7 million. Microprojects will be funded as grants.
(ii)   Institutional Supportfor the ASIF. This component, totaling US$1.9 million, would support the
ASIF through provision of equipment, vehicles, salaries, operating costs, training, technical
assistance, and financing for monitoring and evaluation. Staff development would be conducted
via local and international training courses and study tours tailored to the needs of the ASIF
staff. Technical assistance in the form of an international Technical Advisor to the ASIF
Microprojects Department is budgeted for the first 12 months. Short term technical support by
a Finance and Administration Advisor, MIS Specialist, and Beneficiary Assessment Specialist is
also budgeted. Many of these expenses are considered as necessary investments to strengthen the
capacity of the ASIF and to achieve a quick start-up of the project. Benefits from these
investments will also accrue after the project ends, such as trained staff who will be available to
serve other projects and the government.
(iii)   Capacity Building of Small Contractors, Implementing Agencies and Communities.  This
component would total US$0.4 million, and would provide training and technical assistance to
contractors and other local private firms, implementing agencies and communities to increase
their technical and managerial capacities. Training and technical assistance would focus on
competitive bidding, preparing contracts, monitoring work progress and community participation.
The benefits of this component would be increased capacity of contractors, implementing agencies
and communities to be responsible for conducting and participating in a competitive bidding
process for rehabilitation of works, and filling in technical and managerial gaps that might
jeopardize the successful execution of work contracts.



- 4 -
(iv)   Support for Monitoring Living Conditions. This component, totaling US$0.4 million, would
cover technical assistance, vehicles, equipment, enumerators' salaries, and supplies of the State
Department of Statistics to refine its methods for conducting sampling and household consumption
surveys. It would also finance implementation of two household surveys by the State Department
of Statistics. The benefits of this component would be improved capability to analyze poverty
and design programs to reduce it.  This component would result in improved sampling
techniques, survey design and organization, data processing and analysis by the State Department
of Statistics; collection of more reliable data on the living standards of the Armenian people; and
greater understanding of the diverse characteristics of poverty.
Project Implementation
10.   The implementing agency would be the Armenian Social Investment Fund (ASIF) which has been
established by a government declaration with financial and administrative autonomy and authority to enter
into contracts, recruit staff from outside the civil service, and establish its own operating procedures,
including those for procurement and disbursement. The ASIF structure includes a Board of Directors
comprising government and non-governmental representatives, chaired by the Ministry of Economy. The
Board of Directors would approve policies and operating procedures designated in the Operational Manual
of the ASIF, its annual work programs and budgets and its quarterly and annual reports. The ASIF
would be headed by a General Manager who would oversee the internal, day-to-day administration of the
ASIF. The ASIF structure would comprise two departments and three units: Finance and Administration
Department, Microprojects Department, Information and Monitoring Unit, Institutions Support Unit and
Legal Unit. The ASIF would be guided by the Operational Manual, which would contain the criteria and
procedures for appraising, approving, contracting and monitoring microprojects. The ASIF Operational
Manual has been reviewed prior to negotiations and is satisfactory to the Bank. The ASIF would take
a progressive, regional approach to operations, beginning in two or three target zones and would expand
throughout the country as experience is gained and the capacity of the ASIF staff is built up. The initial
target zones would be selected by the Board of Directors and ASIF Executive Committee, comprising the
General Manager and key department heads. The MIS would enable the ASIF to track the geographic
distribution of resources so as to ensure that a regional balance is achieved. Communities would be asked
to contribute at least 15% of the microprojects costs in cash or in kind.
11.   The major vehicle of support for filling institutional and managerial gaps of contractors,
implementing agencies and communities would be through training and technical assistance by linking
them with local qualified training institutions, such as NGOs, consulting firms and training institutes.
The ASIF would enter into a contract with one or more qualified institutions, based on a competitive
bidding process.
12.   The State Department of Statistics would implement the monitoring of living standards
component, including conducting two household surveys. In order for the ASIF to benefit to the utmost
from this component, the Head of the Promotions Unit of the Microprojects Department would be
responsible for acting as the ASIF liaison with the State Department of Statistics in order to avoid
duplication of effort.
13.   Total project costs are estimated at US$20 million equivalent. IDA would finance US$12 million.
Of this amount, US$2 million would be disbursed as a matching grant to private donors' contributions,
most of which are expected to be from abroad. The Government's contribution would be US$1 million,
and communities would contribute US$2.5 million for a total national contribution of US$3.5 million
(29% of IDA). Other possible cofinanciers would contribute US$2.5 million. An absence of private



-5 -
contributions or cofinanciers would be reflected in a reduced number of microprojects financed and would
not jeopardize implementation of the project overall.
14.   In determining procurement methods for microprojects, the ASIF would be guided by the
Operational Manual. All ASIF procurement methods would be in compliance with the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit" (January 1995). Procurement arrangements for
microprojects would be stipulated in a Framework Agreement to be signed by the ASIF and the
implementing agency for each approved microproject, and will conform to the Operational Manual. ASIF
engineers would be responsible for ensuring that procurement arrangements for microprojects are in
compliance with the Operational Manual and would assist implementing agencies in meeting procurement
requirements as and when required. Procurement training would be provided for ASIF staff and
implementing agencies involved in procurement. All contracts above US$50,000 would be subject to the
Bank's prior review procedures.
15.   It is expected that the US$12 million IDA credit be disbursed over four years. In the case that
disbursement takes place at a more rapid pace, a follow-up project may be justified to build on the
momentum and experience of the ASIF. To expedite disbursements, the ASIF would open a Special
Account for the project in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Initial deposits by the Government for
its share of project expenses for the first year into such local account would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. For disbursements for microprojects, the ASIF would transfer the funds directly to the
accounts of the supplier and the contractor, upon authorization from the implementing agency.  The
ASIF would maintain accounts in accordance with the required financial standards which would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The ASIF would provide IDA with copies of
reports submitted to the Board of Directors, including quarterly progress reports, and annual plans,
budgets and reports.
Project Sustainability
16.   The ASIF would introduce a number of mechanisms and safeguards to help achieve microproject
sustainability. First, the ASIF would finance only repairs and reconstruction of facilities that are
currently operating and for which salaries of service personnel are already budgeted.  Second,
communities would be required to develop a strategy for covering costs for operation and maintenance
as part of their microproject proposal, including possible community contribution and cost recovery.
Third, a simple Memorandum of Understanding between the ASIF and local authorities would be required
which would stipulate the responsibility of local government for operation and maintenance. Fourth, the
involvement of the respective community in microproject design, implementation and follow-up should
increase microproject sustainability through an increased sense of ownership. Community participation
would be reflected in training modules for ASIF staff and implementing agencies. Fifth, impact studies
would be focused on aspects of sustainability so that feedback could be generated for ASIF management.
Finally, arrangements would be made with UN organizations and NGOs to concentrate efforts in a
complimentary way to increase sustainability of facilities that are rehabilitated.
Lessons Learned from Other Social Funds and the Project's Pilot Phase
17.   Small infrastructure microprojects have generally been the most successful type of social fund
initiative in terms of quality, sustainability, and beneficiary impact, providing communities with assets
that contribute to increased income and production. The experience accumulated by other social funds
demonstrates that social funds have been successful when they have: (i) support and commitment from
the highest political level to preserve the integrity and respect the objectives of the fund; (ii) autonomous



- 6 -
status enabling them to respond rapidly and directly to community demands but with transparent and
accountable features; (iii) participation of beneficiaries; (iv) qualified and motivated staff; (v) a rigorous
accounting and Management Information System (MIS); (vi) flexible financing mechanisms subject to a
rigorous appraisal process; (vii) effective coordination with line ministries; and (viii) an intensive and
thorough process of supervision and audit.
18.   The project to support the ASIF was prepared in parallel with a one-year pilot phase during which
15 microprojects in three target zones were implemented with the support of an NGO, the Armenian
Assembly of America, funded for this purpose by USAID.  The experience gained from  the
implementation of these microprojects has generated information to develop the Operational Manual and
other documents that would guide the ASIF. It has been found that the participatory and demand driven
approach is workable, although with stronger and easier response in rural areas than in urban areas. The
pilot experience also demonstrated that Microproject Committees with representatives of the community
could be set up and take responsibility for tendering bids. Private contractors proved to be numerous in
the pilot regions and capable of carrying out works. National shopping and national competitive bidding
were used successfully to procure civil works. Other notable lessons that emerged from the pilot
experience are that the ASIF should be prepared to establish logistical bases for efficient operations in
the North and South; and that due to the severe winter in Armenia, strict rules on working under freezing
conditions would have to be developed and activities scaled down during the winter to avoid deterioration
of quality of works.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
19.   The key objectives of the Bank's country assistance strategy are to raise the living standards of
the people by deepening structural reforms to complete the transition to a market economy and by
reducing the large pockets of poverty that have emerged over the last few years. The restoration of
sustained growth is essential for this strategy.  In addition, the World Bank plans to support the
restructuring of the social sectors and social protection programs through advice and financing aimed at
improving efficiency, sustainability and service delivery, but the process for social sector reform will take
time. Meanwhile, rapid and visible actions, such as those supported in this project, are needed to protect
vulnerable groups. This project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy as discussed by the
Board of Directors during the presentation of the Rehabilitation Credit (C-2683) on February 28, 1995.
20.   The Armenian Social Investment Fund project is being designed as a short- to medium-term
program to reverse the deterioration of basic social services infrastructure and stimulate some
employment, thereby generating a positive, visible impact on people's lives and reducing hardship during
economic transition. Medium-term objectives for the project are to orient and build the capacity of local
governments, NGOs, and private contractors to undertake rehabilitation in a market economy, preparing
them for an economy of restored growth. The project would target primarily local communities and local
governments, which would be closely associated with project implementation so that they can learn from
the ASIF approach. Future World Bank supported interventions in the area of social sector development
could build on the achievements of the ASIF project by institutionalizing implementation arrangements
tested under the ASIF. The project would also generate additional external financing for urgently needed
investments in the social sectors essential for human resource development, would complement other
government efforts to reduce poverty, and would ease the transition to a market economy at the local
level.



-7-
Agreed Actions
21.   Prior to Negotiations, the Government had taken the following actions: (a) issued the decree
establishing the ASIF; (b) provided IDA with the final draft of the Operational Manual; (c) established
an accounting system acceptable to IDA; (d) established a Management Information System for testing;
and (e) identified regions of concentration for the first year of the project. The Government has also met
the conditions of Board presentation agreed at negotiations. The Government has (a) established the ASIF
Board of Directors; (b) provided IDA with full appraisal documentation for ten microprojects; and (c)
provided evidence that the draft Credit Agreement has been approved by the Government. Before Credit
Effectiveness, it was agreed the ASIF would have: (a) made the Management Information System fully
operational; (b) selected and appointed a resident Technical Advisor to the Microprojects Department
based on terms of reference acceptable to IDA; (c) selected and appraised at least twenty-five
microprojects, for a total cost of at least US$500,000, in accordance with the norms and procedures stated
in the ASIF Operational Manual; and (d) opened a Project Account in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association with an initial deposit in local currency equivalent to US$80,000.
22.   Assurances have been obtained during Negotiations on the following: (a) the project would be
implemented in accordance with the Operational Manual; (b) the GOA would conduct an independent
technical and procurement review of microproject implementation annually; (c) the GOA would conduct
a mid-term review of project implementation and impact with IDA before the end of the first 24 months
of project operation; (d) the GOA would promote an easy-access policy with regard to data generated
under the "Monitoring of Living Standards" component of the project with a view to promoting wide use
of the information by interested users and analysts; (e) prior to approval of any Microproject estimated
to cost more than US$50,000 equivalent, SIF shall furnish to the Association a summary, project costs
and other information about such Microprojects as may be reasonably requested by IDA for IDA's review
and approval; and (f) the disbursement of IDA matching funds (US$2 million) for microprojects, would
be made on a pari passu basis with the counterpart funds from private donors.
Poverty Category
23.   One of the principal objectives of the ASIF is to reach the poor and vulnerable groups through
rehabilitation of basic social and economic infrastructure which they utilize and through employment
generation in their communities. To increase the likelihood that benefits reach the intended population,
the ASIF would adopt a three-pronged targeting strategy. First, the type of microprojects eligible for
ASIF financing, including primary health and education facilities and basic infrastructure, by their nature
tend to be oriented to the needs of the poor. Studies carried out for the preparation of the poverty
assessment showed that in the absence of a credible Governmental Safety Net improving access to and
quality of basic health services, general education and water supply is essential to protect lower income
groups during transition. Second, the ASIF would utilize data and major findings on poverty and
unemployment gathered from a poverty ranking exercise, a needs and capacity study and the poverty
assessment to identify and focus activities in regions where the needs are the strongest. Third, most of
the works would be carried out by small local contractors which would hire locally unemployed workers.
Enviromnental Aspects
24.   The proposed project is expected to have a positive impact on the physical and social
environment, especially by rehabilitating latrines, sanitation and water-supply facilities. To safeguard
physical resources, the ASIF would incorporate environmental criteria into microproject appraisal and



- 8 -
selection. Use of environmental criteria would be monitored during Bank supervision. The project has
been rated Category C.
Program Objective Categories
25.   The main program objective categories this project would serve are poverty reduction and private
sector development. These classifications reflect the ASIF objectives. The rehabilitation of basic social
infrastructure that is used by the poor and vulnerable groups would generate immediate benefits in terms
of access and quality of basic services and infrastructure. Through labor-intensive works, immediate
employment would also be generated. In addition, the project would strengthen the country's ability to
target, appraise and monitor efforts to reduce poverty. The potential strengthening of contractors and
other small entrepreneurs would take place through their bidding on and execution of work contracts
which would generate revenues and improve their technical, managerial and institutional capacity. They
would also benefit through training and technical assistance under the component to support contractors,
implementing agencies and communities.
Participatory Approach
26.   A wide range of stakeholders have been involved in project preparation at the national and local
level. At the national level, NGOs and donors are sitting on the Steering Committee for the pilot or
preparation phase. An NGO, the Armenian Assembly of America (AAA), has worked with the
Government's ASIF Preparation Unit (ASIFPU) to prepare the ASIF. Together they have implemented
15 microprojects that have been identified, implemented and monitored by communities. For most
microprojects, broad consultations within communities have taken place to identify priorities, followed
by the formation of a Microproject Committee comprised of representatives of local governments, key
staff of facilities under rehabilitation (e.g. headmaster, head doctor), and other members of the benefiting
communities. Microproject Committees have taken responsibility for tendering bids with assistance from
the ASIFPU and the AAA and have assisted in supervision of works. In most microprojects,
communities have also contributed 10% of microproject costs in kind and cash.
27.   During implementation of the project, communities would be encouraged to hold village
assemblies to decide priorities in their communities, agree on proposed targets, and elect local leaders
to sit on a Microproject Committee. Facilitating and helping to organize these meetings would be among
the responsibilities of ASIF promotion teams. Attendees would be asked to sign in and minutes of the
assembly would be kept and attached to the formal proposal to the ASIF.  Microproject Committees
would be encouraged to take implementing responsibilities, such as tendering bids and assisting with
monitoring of works, and would receive training and technical assistance to do so. Communities would
also be required to reach an understanding with local governments to help maintain and operate
rehabilitated services. Furthermore, the entire community would be asked to meet at least 15% of
microproject costs (in kind or cash) and to realize cost recovery where applicable.
28.   NGOs would be able to work with communities in organizing themselves and preparing
microproject proposals. They could also be contracted by the community to serve as the implementing
agency of a microproject. NGOs as well as some local research institutes are also expected to be among
those who would be contracted to provide training to contractors, implementing agencies and
communities, and to undertake targeting and monitoring exercises.
29.   The extent of community participation in microprojects would be monitored through annual
beneficiary assessments. The ASIF would also monitor on a regular basis the number of people (by



- 9 -
gender) that sit on Microproject Committees and attend training or receive technical assistance. The
number of women and children who are among beneficiaries would also be monitored.
Project Benefits
30.    The project would generate substantial benefits for the poor through the provision of basic social
infrastructure financed through hundreds of microprojects. The microprojects would deliver immediate
benefits in terms of generation of employment and income and improvements in the access and quality
of basic services and infrastructure, as well as longer-term benefits in terms of improvements in the living
conditions of the population. The project would strengthen the country's ability to target, appraise and
monitor efforts to reduce poverty. It would assist the Government in mobilizing additional external
financing in support of its reform objectives. The project would also have an important institutional effect
by strengthening the capabilities of local government, NGOs, and local organizations, in particular
helping to reinforce a sense of ownership and involvement at the community level. The ASIF would
demonstrate the importance of beneficiary participation in poverty reduction and provide an efficient and
effective model for implementation. Small private contractors and other small entrepreneurs would
benefit in the form of increased revenues and improved technical, managerial and institutional capacity
through their execution of work contracts.
Estimated Impact of Microproiects
Number of microprojects                              480
Number of beneficiaries                          480,000
(20% of Armenian Population)
Number of short-term jobs created
for unskilled workers                              8,400
Number of short-term jobs created
for skilled workers                                  500
Number of civil works contracts
issued for small contractors                         450
Wages distributed to unskilled workers          US$3.4 million
Project Risks
31.           Risks facing the project arise from possible political factors that could compromise the
ASIF's autonomy, credibility and effectiveness; potential problems with microproject quality in the field;
and limited managerial, technical and institutional capacity of local organizations responsible both for
proposing and implementing microprojects and for financing operation and maintenance after the
microproject is completed. The capacity of the ASIF to maintain a good and capable working team,
maintain transparency, and oversee the implementation of about 125 microprojects a year remains to be
tested.
32.           To reduce these risks, the ASIF has been granted autonomous status with adequate
institutional checks and balances and transparent and efficient operating procedures developed during the



- 10-
pilot phase, incorporated in the Operational Manual, and subject to review during supervision. To reduce
risks further, microproject appraisal would examine the capacity of contractors and local organizations
to carry out and supervise works, and the ASIF would provide technical assistance and training to fill
institutional, technical and management gaps. A participatory approach would be taken for identification
and implementation of microprojects to ensure that microprojects respond to an urgent and felt need,
thereby increasing the commitment of community members to sustain microprojects and demonstrating
the benefits of collective actions surrounding local development.
Recommendation
33.          I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with IDA's Articles of Agreement
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments: Schedules A - D
Washington, D.C.
October 23, 1995



- 11 -                                       SCHEDULE A
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
lable A
Project Cost Sunmmary (in US$ million):
LocAL      FoREIGN       TOTAL
ASIF Microprojects                                  15.7                     15.7
Institutional Support to ASIF                       1.3         0.6          1.9
Support to Contractors, lAs, Communities            0.3         0.1          0.4
Living Standards Monitoring                         0.1          0.4         0.5
Total Base Cost                                     17.4         1.1         18.5
Contingencies:
Physical                                          0.6          0.3         0.9
Price                                             0.1          0.0         0.1
Reimburse PPF                                       0.1         0.3          0.4
Total Project Cost                                  18.3         1.7         20.0
* (Numbers may not add up due to rounding)
Table B
Proposed Financing Plan (in US$ million):
LOcAL       FOREIGN        TOTAL       % OF TOTAL
IDA                                             10.3           1.7          12.0         60%
Donors                                           2.5                        2.5           12%
Private Sector                                   2.0                        2.0           10%
Local Communities                                2.5                        2.5           12%
Government                                       1.0                         1.0          5%
Total                                            18.3          1.7          20.0         100%
* Includes US$0.4 million PPF



- 12 -                                           SCHEDULE B
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF ARMDENIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Table C
Procurement Arrangements:
Category         ICB       NCB       OTHER*        NIF       Total
Works
Civil Works for            11.9         2.3                  14.2
Microprojects            (5.9)       (1.0)                 (6.9)
Goods
Vehicles and                         0.5                   0.5
Equipment                         (0.5)                  (0.5)
Goods/Materials for                        0.6                    0.6
Microprojects                        (0.3)                 (0.3)
Consultancies
TA and Training                          1.8                   1.8
(1.8)                 (1.8)
Service Contracts for                        1.0                   1.0
Microprojects                        (0.6)                 (0.6)
Operating Costs                                                    1.5                   1.5
(1.5)                 (1.5)
Reirnburse PPF                                                    0.4                    0.4
(0.4)                 (0.4)
Total                                            11.9         8.1                  20.0
IDA                                              5.9         6.1                   12.0
*'Other" under Civil Works for Microprojects refers to National Shopping 1.5 (IDA 0.6) and Special Procedures (IDA 0.4). "Other" under
Vehicles and Equipment refers to International Shopping 0.5 (IDA 0.5). 'Other" under Goods/Materials for Microprojects refers to Natioial
Shopping 0.6 (IDA 0.3). "Other' under TA and Training refers to Consulting Services 1.8 (IDA 1.8). Under Service Contracts for
Microprojects it refers to Consulting Services 1.0 (IDA 0.6) for supervision.



- 13 -                            SCHEDULE B
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
TableD
Allocation of IDA Credit by Disbursement Category
Category of              Total     % To Be Financed
Expenditure             usS million     By IDA
1.    Microprojects
a. Part 1                5.8       90% of total expenditures
b. Part II               2.0       50% of total expenditures
2.    Goods
a. Vehicles and Equipment  0.5      100% of foreign expenditures
100% local expenditure (ex factory)
80% of other items procured locally
3.    Consultancies
a. Technical Assistance
and Training          1.2        100% of total expenditures
4.    Miscellaneous
a. Operating Costs       1.2        100% of total expenditures
b. Unallocated           1.0
c. Reimbursement of PPF   0.4
TOTAL                           12.0
Table E
Estimated IDA Disbursements (in US$ million):
IDA FY       1996    1997    1998    1999
Annual        3.4*     3.2     3.2      2.2
Cumulative   3.4*      6.6     9.8     12.0
* includes US$0.4 PPF



- 14 -                            SCHEDULE C
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare the Project                                                12 months
Prepared by                              Government of Armenia and AAA with IDA Assistance
First IDA Mission                                                              June 7, 1994
Appraisal Mission Departure                                                  April 25, 1995
Negotiations                                                                September 1995
Planned Date of Effectiveness                                                December 1995



- 15 -                                        SCHEDULE D
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IBRD LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN THE OPERATIONS PORTFOLIO
(AS OF OCTOBER 17, 1995)
Amount in USS million
(Less cancellations)
Loan or         FiscaL                                                                                              Undis-  Closing
Credit No.        Year   Borrower                             Purpose                         Bank           IDA      bursed   Date
Credits
1 Credits(s) closed                                                                                       60.00
C25620-AM        1994    ARMENIA                              EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRU                        28.00        13.06  06/30/96
C26660-AM        1995    ARMENIA                              POWER MAINTENANCE                           13.70        13.55  07/31/98
C26670-AM        1995    ARMENIA                               IRRIGATION REHAB.                          43.00        38.15  06/30/99
C27760-AM        1996    ARMENIA                              HIGHWAY                                     16.00        15.39  12/31/99
TOTAL number Credits =    4                                                                                 100.70       80.15
Loans
0 Loans(s) cLosed
L35850-AM        1993    ARMENIA                              INSTITUTION BUILDING           12.00                      8.04  11/30/96
TOTAL number Loans =    1                                                                      12.00                      8.04
TOTAL***                                                                    12.00       160.70
of which repaid
TOTAL heLd by Bank & IDA                                                    12.00       160.70
Amount sold
of which repaid
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                                    88.19
Notes:
*   Not yet effective
** Not yet signed
*   Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) indicates formalLy revised Closing Date.
(S) indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historicaL value, aLl others are market vaLue.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department offical data and are not taken
from the Task Budget file.
There are currently no IFC investments in Armenia.






MAP SECTION






FBRD 23943RI
GEORGIA                               i TODonis                Oo holo5"rl              Tooi SyvkhAVT.ro ,>y5                            46 Vt.7y 4y                                                                                                                  i
rIA                      o -                                              - -                                               GEORGIA
TO Boodono"ko            S   -                        vo .-,   \
TO Akho1o)ok.                           Ir5knch-
i' 1~~~~~~ ~~~ / ~~~Alc~vedi_ ',  --_ 7 
o   P, --    k; '      _< ,    ~~   ~~' Ute           Aerd, \                                                         -
-J.TPakioi' Gkasyan                                                                         T."  ~  Kookh--
-4teponavo
jO \,Amsalya                     --       oo y rctk              -. ,                                                    -                                                                                                                      41'
. oi -   "-..                                     O j-mi  .    uyan                           - A   r. K  k h
.   iyulIib.og                                                  lAdn ldzheya'nl             ed                                                     ' -
T.Kors   ,GUMRU                      KiROVAKAN                                   _
/         ---    DI,zhon  >' GDken J,h!
T., K                                       Ko,,dakhsoz                                        -Atvashen
ro Kor         Moratik  _    Atk. Apercn     e_                         Tsovcgyuh        ''. Kresnesel'k(         g
C7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                                     Seven,                   j                  _  o Cedobok
-A-o ga-        Tsokhkodzor~           5-- To y
^   Arcgots         ,       <-1iADAN         :                   >
~ )  ./-  Verin Talin   .           Busc qn   4                   '             ~       Dzhil\
Aragois               Byorakan~~Tsahkazo
A,agots_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VMt
,A,ogats               - Ar                                                    '--   I A'z                                                                                A  R M    E  N    I A
KHMLA~~~~~~~~~~~~D~~~~4N                                                     - ~~~~~MaaT. M,r-S-h,r                      Dams
KHMIAD               YRV4 AN                z  YE nos    -                                     Zod                                         -   TOWNS /VILLAGES
'_                                                         a~ .-  . :G-_Ozhrorcf '   nl:     r  Vordenik  KoIBodoho              MAIN CITIES
Armovo---,          l            ^ Ve Antoshct--./<                    -      "Karonlokh                                                                  *    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                 -  -
40                                                     \                           1              7       Gjulliduz                      AZERBAIJAN                            -      RIVERS                                                                     40
To!godir                              <~N-,,\tcshst )                            _                                     -                           _      PRIMARY ROADS
N. <_ Prv             X              \          ,                       rT.loo,S                                  -   SECONDARY ROADS
9   \  -~  '\,    .      Dzermuk/                                                     -      RAILROADS
TURKEY  - >            ~                0   ~~}-                              tSo                                 -IINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
TURKEY    i-  
j   M    g   J   j   Azizbekw v     zBo PTchoo,-
gngekholc             5h.jh\
)   %  rO Shokhtclkhty  /        I t   Sision  -             Gori s    '
>    T. NoJkh,cheo        ~       ~       .. 
5binoayr
To Nokh,che-o)
AZERBAIJAN                              - ,      - Tt                                                                                                                 I
TO Nokh,heh,n'.
+ s                             \  ~~~~~~~~kodol, .'    Kcfctr-   T0,oKh doz okboo  
ISL M STLoA                                                         - C                         '-        To-          Zag
REPUBLIC                                                                                        S 0 sket                                MiLES 0         10         20        30         40
Th  Wo.Ud bonx G0OUDngto
rTO*vs  ~Oe Oo,,  Gtoo                                                       -                                     -                                                                       K KILOMETERS 0    10    20    30    40    50    60    70
oT Zongeln
44'                                                      45'                                                       46'                                                     4A                                                        48'
JANUARY 1994












