Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22077
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27840; PPFI-P8770; TF-25579; TF-20343)
ON AN
IDA CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$12 MILLION
TO
ARMENIA
FOR A
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
May 8, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 22, 2001)
Currency Unit = Dram
= US$
US$ 1 = 526 Drams
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASIF         Armenian Social Investment Fund
ASIF PIU     ASIF Project Implementation Unit
CAS          Country Economic Strategy
ECA          Europe and Central Asia
ERL          Economic Recovery Loan
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
FSU          Former Soviet Union
GOA          Government of Armenia
IA           Implementing Agency
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IMF          International Monetary Fund
LSMS         Living Standards Measurement Survey
Marz         Region
MIS          Management Information System
MIU          Microproject Implementation Unit
NGOs         Non-governmental Organization(s)
NSS          National Statistical Service
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
QER          Quality at Entry Review
SDS          State Department of Statistics
SIF           Social Investment Fund
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
TA           Technical Assistance
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:   Judy M. O'Connor, ECCO4
Sector Manager/Director:    Michal J. Rutkowski, ECSHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Aleksandra Posarac, ECSHD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARMENIA
Social Investment Fund
CONTENTS
Page No.
l. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                14
6. Sustainability                                                                    21
7. Bank and Borrower Perfonnance                                                     22
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   26
9. Partner Comments                                                                  29
10. Additional Information                                                           34
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 35
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 36
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 38
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P035768                                       Project Nanme: Social Investment Fund
Team Leader: Caroline Mascarell                           TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: May 7, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Social Investment Fund                         L/C/TF NMmber: IDA-27840;
PPFI-P8770;
TF-25579; TF-20343
CountiyiDepartment: ARMENIA                                              Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: SE - Labor Markets & Employment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/06/1994                              Effective: 01/05/1996
Appraisal:  04/24/1995                                MTR: 11/01/1997            04/20/1998
Approval:  11/09/1995                              Closing: 06/30/2000          12/31/2000
Borrower/Ilmplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA/ARMENIAN SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Cou7ntry Manager:    Judy M. O'Connor                          Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Michal J. Rutkowski                        Thomas A. Blinkhom
Team Leader at ICR:   Caroline Mascarell                       Alexandre Marc
ICR Primary Auathor:   Maria E. Gracheva
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Sanisfactory, U=Unsatisfactoiy, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Perjormance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The ASIF would aim to support the lower income groups among the Armenian population through
improvement of basic social services and creation of employment opportunities. The project had four
primary objectives:



(a) rehabilitate basic small-scale infrastructure that can result in immediate improvements of the living
conditions of the poorest among the population;
(b) strengthen the capacity of private small-scale contractors and other micro-businesses so that they can
benefit directly or indirectly from contracts financed by the Armenian Social Investment Fund (ASIF);
(c) generate employment through financing of labor-intensive public works; and
(d) build greater capacity for policy makers to monitor and analyze trends in the level and structure of
poverty in Armenia.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised
3.3 Original Components:
The project had four components:
A.    REHABILITATION OF SMALL-SCALE INFRASTRUCTURE
Financing of ASIF micro-projects, including rehabilitation of local clinics, primary schools,
sanitation and water supply, energy saving repairs, repair of feeder roads and general clean-up and
tree planting in degraded village and town environments. Basic furniture and equipment would be
provided to the rehabilitated infrastructure.
B.    INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TO ASIF
Provision of equipment, vehicles, salaries, operating costs, training, technical assistance to ASIF and
financing project monitoring and evaluation.
C.    CAPACITY BUILDING OF SMALL-SCALE CONTACTORS, IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
AND COMMUNITIES
Provision of training and technical assistance to contractors and other local private firms,
Implementing Agencies (IAs) and communities to increase their technical and managerial capacities.
Training and technical assistance would focus on competitive bidding procedures, preparation of
contracts, monitoring work progress and community participation in the project.
D.    SUPPORT FOR MONITORING LIVING CONDITIONS
Provision of technical assistance, vehicles, equipment, enumerators salaries and supplies to the State
Department of Statistics (SDS) to refine its methods for conducting sampling and household
consumption surveys. Two household surveys would be implemented.
The summary of projected costs of project components is provided in the table below:
Rating        Component                                                       Cost
S             REHABILITATION OF SMALL-SCALE INFRASTRUCTURE$15,700,000.00
S             INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TO ASIF                           $ 1,900,000.00
S             CAPACITY BUILDING OF SMALL-SCALE CONTACTORS $  400,000.00
S             SUPPORT FOR MONITORING LIVING CONDITIONS                        $  500,000.00
- 2 -



3.4 Revised Componients:
Project components were not revised
3.5 Quality at En?try:
1.     Quality at Entry Review (QER) was not available at the time of project preparation. However, this
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) rates the quality of project design and preparation as
satisfactory. The project was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives and
provided essential support to the Republic of Armenia program of economic and social reforms. The
project's design, including its objectives and components, was based on experience with Social Investment
Funds (SIFs) in other countries, the experience of the micro-project pilot conducted jointly with the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) prior to project approval, and was the first such
project in the Europe and Central Asia (ECA) region. The benefits and risks of the project were clearly
identified and steps were taken to ensure that this innovative project approach was launched successfully
with full support by the Government of Armenia and all the involved stakeholders.
2.     Although the project was well conceived and designed, and overall objectives were clear and
appropriate, some aspects related to project implementation could have benefited from additional
preparation. For instance: (i) ASIF Project Implementation Unit (PIU) staff needed more training in the
various departments to carry out their work in accordance with intended objectives of those departments;
(ii) better operational guidelines could have been developed for ASIF PIU in relations to its own staff,
including clear performance indicators for staff evaluations; (iii) the ASIF organizational structure could
have been more appropriate to enable ASIF to achieve project objectives fully, including a comprehensive
framework for administering training to lAs, contractors, and communities; and (iv) the Operational
Manual needed to include a handbook on norms and standards and technical specifications in order to
ensure high quality of micro-project designs and implementation.
3.    In addition, although mechanisms were set up to focus ASIF targeting strategy on the poor regions,
including a poverty ranking exercise done prior to project negotiations, more poverty data on regions in
AIrmenia at the start of the project could have allowed ASIF and the Government to better target their
efforts on the very poorest regions. Data from poverty assessments was not available until well into the
project implementation. While this is noted, it is important to stress that the project, nonetheless, had a
very strong poverty focus, the majority of micro-projects were properly targeted, and overall, the project
succeeded in its mandate to provide support to the vulnerable groups.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
1.    This project was the first of its kind in the ECA region, and it has generated a visible development
impact in terms of social and economic benefits to the poorest communities of Armenia. The ASIF project
succeeded in demonstrating to the public and to the Government of Armenia the useful role that a Social
Investment Fund can play to support the poor through: (i) the provision of essential infrastructure and
services, (ii) generating employment opportunities; (iii) using a more participatory approach to
rehabilitation of facilities by involving communities in the identification and management of works; and (iv)
by strengthening the capacity of local governments, NGOs, local organizations, and small-scale private
companies while reinforcing their strong sense of ownership and involvement in project implementation.
- 3 -



2.    In addition, the ASIF improved the capacity of the SDS to analyze poverty trends and to enable the
Government of Armenia to design programs to reduce poverty. This objective was an important
supplement to other goals of the ASIF and five years of implementation have yielded essential survey data
which were used extensively for analytical work on poverty and living standards in Armenia. The data and
information collected was also critical for the development of the poverty targeting strategy under the
second ASIF project currently under implementation.
3.     Overall, all major project objectives were achieved, Government commitment to ASIF remained
very strong throughout the project, and great efforts were made to support all phases of project
implementation by the ASIF team and all the participating agencies, communities and many sponsors and
donors of the project.
4.    In evaluating the success of this operation, it is important to note that this type of an investment
operation is not easy to manage, both by the Borrower and by the Bank, due to its complex nature, the
involvement of numerous beneficiaries, and especially given the novelty of the project's approach for the
region where community involvement in project decision-making was not a major strength. The learning
curve for both Borrower and Bank was a steep one, and it took the length of the project to make
improvements in the ASIF's operation, and to get the ASIF staff and the beneficiaries truly involved and
behind its mandate. Also, in order to better gage ASIF's effectiveness, this project must be seen within a
long-term development framework, with a clear understanding that this type of an operation takes time to
perfect in order to achieve its objectives fully. For this reason, a follow-up operation, the second ongoing
ASIF, is extremely beneficial, so that important lessons from the first ASIF can be incorporated to further
improve the effectiveness of this vehicle.
5.    Given the importance of this first operation and its major accomplishments this ICR assesses the
outcome of ASIF as Satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Specific outputs by project components are as follows.
A.    REHABILITATION OF SMALL-SCALE INFRASTRUCTURE    (rating S)
ASIF Micro-projects
1.    Since the project began its operations in January 1996, the ASIF received 726 micro-project
proposals, of which 334 were approved and 259 micro-projects completed. The approximate average cost
of each micro-project was US$50,000. However, it must be noted that while during the initial project
years, the average cost was roughly US$30,000, during the last years the average cost increased to
$75,000. This was due to (i) ASIF receiving larger proposals, (ii) ASIF trying to meet its implementation
targets during the last year of the project, and (iii) more pressure on ASIF to disburse available Credit
funds. As a result, the size and cost of micro-projects increased.
2.     The project had a strong start during the first two years of operation, and in fact exceeded the
targets set in the project Annual Plan for micro-project identification, appraisal and approval. During the
first five months after effectiveness, 100 micro-projects were already appraised, 31 approved and 10 were
under implementation. It is important to highlight that some of this progress was due to substantial work
carried out during the project pilot stage when 13 micro-projects were implemented and many more
identified. By the end of the second year, the ASIF team carried out promotional activities in all regions of
- 4 -



Armenia and already received close to 500 proposals. Demand for micro-projects was very significant and
demonstrated the very high priority of communities for rehabilitation of infrastructure facilities. In
addition, this reflected substantial efforts made by the ASIF team to educate communities as part of its
promotional efforts in explaining project objectives, micro-project selection criteria and micro-project cycle
as well as all issues connected to procurement of works and goods and supervision and maintenance of
works. During the five year period, over 1,300 community meetings were organized with the participation
of 395,000 community members, of whom 188,000 were women. By the completion of the project, it is
estimated that approximately 640,000 community members benefited from the project.
2.    Of the total 259 micro-projects completed under ASIF, 35% were small-scale school
rehabilitations, 32% were potable water projects, 11% were minor irrigation works and 5% were health
facilities. The remaining 17% of projects included works on community centers, pension homes, sewage
and waste, roads, landscaping, and other. In terms of micro-project regional distribution, roughly 38%
were carried out in the earthquake zone of Lori, Shirak and Aragatsotn marzes (regions), 25% were in
Yerevan, 21% were in two regions, Tavush and Sunik, which suffered most during the Karabakh conflict,
and 15% of micro-projects were done in the remaining five marzes.
4.    Local communities were involved in the initial identification of micro-projects, and in the
collection of community contribution for the project. The demonstrated level of community participation,
commitment and contribution was very high. One issue of concem, however, was that community
participation in bid evaluations, implementation and maintenance, was less significant, as was noted during
the project Mid-term review carried out in April 1998. In most of the micro-projects supervised, at the
completion of the micro-project, there was little participation by [As in management and operation of the
facility. The Bank found that the majority of micro-projects were poorly maintained. This was partly a
consequence of ASIF's increased focus on technical appraisals of micro-projects, rather than institutional
or social. In addition, limited training and capacity building was provided to lAs and communities on
micro-project operation and maintenance. Consequently, the Bank recommended that ASIF develop and
introduce criteria for sustainability of micro-projects and the creation of users associations, as well as
provide more training to IAs on issues such as procurement, supervision and quality of works.
5.    Some progress was indeed made in this area, although most of the improvements made were not
actually utilized in the ASIF, but were incorporated into the design of the second ASIF. Nonetheless, ASIF
did deliver some training on maintenance and sustainability issues to IAs and communities during the last
two years of the project. In addition, a special seminar was organized in 1999 to review the results of the
Quality of Works Review (see below) which also discussed these issues. Based on this experience and
lessons learned during project implementation, the ASIF was able to develop more comprehensive training
modules on sustainability mechanisms for schools and water micro-projects.
Employment generation
6.    The construction works have been carried out by private small-scale contractors, the majority of
whom were new, generating short-term employment in small communities, thereby also providing
temporary poverty relief for some individuals and families. A total of 178 contractors participated in
micro-projects, providing employment to an estimated 5,160 persons for an average period of 5 months
during the five year project implementation. A total of 275 pre-tender conferences were organized by the
ASIF benefiting both contractors and members of lAs.
- 5 -



Micro-project Implementation Delays
7.     Although the project had a strong start in terms of the number of micro-projects identified,
appraised and completed, the project did experience some delays. One of the main reasons for
implementation delays in completing micro-projects was the larger number of change orders during the
micro-project implementation, over the 15% limit. According to findings of the Quality of Works review,
carried out in 1999, this was due to several factors, including: (i) additional unforeseen work resulting from
time lags between original appraisal and contract award; (ii) poor quality or absence of designs in some
cases which led to arbitrary interpretation of contract conditions; (iii) lack of technical specifications in
bidding documents; (iv) cost estimate for works was provided in bidding documents which led to arbitrary
lowering of bids by contractors to win the tender, much below the actual cost of construction; and (v)
overall weak monitoring of contracts' performance. In mid-1999, agreement was reached that change
orders would be limited to 15% of the initial estimates and that this procedure would be reflected in the
Operational Manual. Nonetheless, the problem with change orders continued. As many as 150 change
orders were received by the ASIF during any 6 months period. Recalculating these put an enormous strain
on the ASIF staff, because they had to compute the taxable portion of the contract (Government and
comnrnunity contributions) which was extremely difficult and time consuming. As a result of this
experience, ASIF II requested that the entire project be tax exempt. Also, in order to address the issue of
change orders, the Bank recommended to improve the overall quality of designs, including providing
detailed technical specifications, to award contracts to the lower qualified bidders, and to enhance the work
of supervisors through training and by creating a system of supervision independent of lAs.
8.     Another issue which delayed implementation was the length of the micro-project approval process
by the ASIF Board, which on average required 31 days for projects above $50,000, and up to 92 days in
some cases. During several Bank supervision mission, it was recommended that Board review and
approval be limited to large micro-project, costing more than US$50,000, as was agreed and outlined in the
Operational Manual. Despite this, the ASIF Board took a decision in 1998 to review all proposed
micro-projects irrespective of cost which delayed the implementation of some micro-projects for months.
9.     Lastly, some implementation delays were caused by serious delays in payment to contractors due to
delays in transfers from Yerevan to local banks, lack of cash in local banks, high bank service fees as well
as "under the table" payments demanded by local banks to carry out transactions. While this was a serious
problem in early project years, the ASIF was able to improve the speed with which transactions were
carried out by entering into an agreement with the Yerevan-Credit Bank which facilitated direct payments
to contractors.
Quality of Works
1 0.    During the first two years of the project and in its assessment during the Mid-term review, the
Bank generally found that the quality of works and technical designs of micro-projects were satisfactory,
although minor construction defects were pointed out and some individual micro-projects were found to
lack quality. However, the Procurement and Technical Review, carried out in November 1998 by an
outside procurement and implementation specialist, and the subsequent Quality of Works Review
completed in mid- 1999 by the Bank supervision seismic engineer, found that the quality of construction
was actually quite poor across a number of micro-projects financed by ASIF. At the same time, the Bank
received feedback from numerous donors and sponsors that the quality of works in micro-projects indeed
needed improvement. Unfortunately, during the first three years of the project, the Bank relied on feedback
from regular assessments carried out by a local consultant whose qualifications and level of expertise in
- 6 -



engineering were not adequate. This explains the discrepancy between these assessments and the results of
the Quality of Works Review.
11.    The formal Quality of Works review found a series of technical and procurement issues associated
with the quality of works under the project, especially in renovation works, which did not meet the required
norms and standards. The main finding of the review was that the quality of works of micro-projects did
not comply with the requirements of standard construction norms and practices. More specific findings
included: (i) lack of detailed technical specifications in tender documents; (ii) estimated cost of
micro-projects was announced in the bidding documents; (iii) awarding contracts to lowest bidders,
although not always responsive or the most qualified (including for design and/or construction); (iv)
provisional acceptance of works before the micro-project was actually completed; (v) absence of
drawings/designs or poor quality of drawings/designs, resulting in many change orders; (vi) ineffective
performance of lAs in supervision and monitoring of works due to their general lack of qualifications to
carry out the monitoring of work being performed; and (vii) lack of transparency in the local community
contribution process, with possibility that individual contractors interested in winning a tender could
actually contribute to the micro-project on behalf of the community, in anticipation of contract award.
12.   In addition, the review pointed out the poor quality of local supervisors selected by the IAs, using
questionable selection criteria. This was a particular concern for many Bank supervision missions which
found that local supervisors were either absent at the construction sites or not always qualified to carry out
adequate supervision of works in accordance with ASIF standards. Also, many of the local supervisors
were not hired on a competitive basis but contracted directly. In addition, for many micro-projects, the
Bank found that no local supervisors were hired at all. This was noted in many supervision reports and
was included as one of the main needed improvements by the ASIF II preparation team in order to ensure
higher quality of works.
13.    The findings of the Quality of Works Review were discussed at a seminar in the Spring 1999 with
all contractors, representatives of lAs and with ASIF staff. Seminar participants took an active part in
these discussions and searched for ways to address the many troubling issues which the review raised.
14.    As a result of the Procurement and Technical Review, the Quality of Works Review and following
up on the outcomes of the seminar, during the last year of the project, the Bank and the ASIF placed a
stronger emphasis on improving project quality, technical designs, including establishing a reliable database
of micro-project designers and technical consultants, and improving micro-project supervision. The Bank
team, in cooperation with the ASIF staff, also developed a Quality of Works Enhancement Action Plan,
which is being implemented by ASIF II. The plan consists of: a) the development of special manuals and
guidelines on technical norms and standards for all types of civil works carried out under the ASIF; b)
improvement of procurement procedures focusing on bid documentation and the selection process of
winning bids; c) enhancement of renovation works covering workmanship and material; d) enhancement of
the Management Information System (MIS) in the area of monitoring construction prices, coding,
classifying materials; e) the development of training modules focusing on technical norms and standards,
procurement procedures, renovation works, and usage of the MIS for tracking quality of works under the
project; and f) the contracting on a competitive basis the design and supervision of micro-projects by the
ASIF PIU.
15.    The results of the second Procurement and Technical Review, completed after the project close,
indicates that the quality of works has improved significantly as a result of ASIF's efforts made during the
last project year, as part of the Quality of Works Enhancement Action Plan.
- 7 -



Beneficiary Assessments
16.   The impact of the project with regard to key stakeholder participation and overall satisfaction with
the SIF program was monitored throughout the life of the project, with three beneficiary assessments
completed. The assessments were based on qualitative and quantitative surveys of intended beneficiaries,
members of lAs, local government officials, community members, local contractors and ASIF management
and staff. These surveys provided feedback and evaluation from the community concerning what it
perceived to be the project's direct and indirect impacts regarding improved access and quality of services,
local participation and organization, attitudes and values, local government relations, new associations and
partnerships, and sustainability. The outcome of these assessments have been very positive, showing that
community involvement in ASIF-supported micro-projects have increased their sense of ownership of their
infrastructure facilities and led to a greater cohesion amongst the members of the community.
B.    INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TO ASIF                            (rating S)
1.    The basic objective of this component was to provide support to ASIF management and
administration in order to ensure that ASIF could achieve the maximum intended benefits under the project.
2.     The ASIF was implemented under the overall management of ASIF PIU which included a staff of
50 people responsible for its operations. The ASIF PIU made tremendous efforts particularly during the
first two years to launch the project and achieved substantial results in terms of the number of
micro-projects identified and selected through their extensive promotional efforts in communities all over
Armenia. All ASIF staff were very dedicated to the overall objectives of the project and demonstrated
strong capacity to operate in a project environment new to them and to all project beneficiaries and
participants who had to be introduced to novel ways of ASIF operations. In addition to ASIF's
promotional efforts, it was able to obtain significant community contribution (in cash and in kind) for
micro-projects which was a particular achievement by ASIF given the overall poverty of the communities
targeted. This demonstrated ASIF's ability to solicit strong community support for the project by
increasing awareness and willingness of community members to participate financially in the project.
3.     Project management was systematically assessed during Bank supervision missions. During the
Mid-term review, in June 1998, while the Bank was enthusiastic about the progress achieved during the
first project years, progress made under this project component was not fully satisfactory and the ASIF was
not reaching its goal in creating a viable agency which will could act as a vehicle for future community
development. The Bank recommended that ASIF needed to strengthen its capacity building measures
aimed at improving the ability of community groups to organize and to manage their own activities,
particularly with respect to operations and maintenance of facilities. Specifically, the Bank pointed out that
the ASIF's Institutions Support Unit was not functioning in accordance with project objectives. The Unit
was supposed to supervise all capacity building efforts to contractors, IAs and communities, as well as
carry out beneficiary assessments and oversee project monitoring and evaluation. The Unit was supposed
to identify training needs at the community level, for lAs, community members and contractors, and to
prepare and carry out special training programs in response to these needs. Instead, the Unit was only
operational by the end of the first project year, its staff included only 2 people, and it took a long time to
develop and begin to implement a training program. Overall, the Unit did not completely fulfill its original
function aside from organizing pre-bidding conferences for contractors and carrying out some training to
communities and lAs on maintenance issues later in the project. Although the Unit did not fully accomplish
tasks for which it was responsible, the staff of the Unit worked hard to update the Operational Manual in
response to improvements being made in project implementation.
- 8 -



4.     In sum, the ASIF's original organizational structure was not functioning as effectively as it was
intended and ASIF needed one strong unit in charge of all of its community outreach activities. In 1998,
the ASIF's structure was strengthened to enhance its administrative support functions with the focus of
providing better and more effective services at the community level and to involve communities in the entire
micro-project cycle. The Promotion Unit, responsible for all promotional and preparation activities was
merged with the Institutions Support Unit into one departrnent, with the Micro-project Implementation
Department remaining responsible for micro-project appraisal, bid opening, follow-up, etc. Under this new
structure, the ASIF was better organized to achieve project goals, particularly with respect to improving
community outreach. Also, given that two departments now had two separate Department heads, this
allowed more time to the ASIF Director for strategic planning and fund raising. While some improvements
were made, overall, ASIF staff in the new departments continued to perform the same functions and tasks
as they previously did. During ASIF II preparation, issues concerning the ASIF organizational structure
were reviewed and a new structure was put in place to ensure that strong capacity building efforts would be
carried out in parallel with micro-project implementation.
ASIF Staff Training
5.     Training and technical assistance was provided to ASIF staff over the course of the project. The
ASIF benefited from a long-term advisor during the initial stages of the project, who provided on-the-job
training to ASIF engineers, particularly on issues of design and implementation of works, quality of works,
procurement procedures, etc. Also, staff of the Bank supervision teams carried out some hands-on training
both during project preparation and supervision on all aspects of the project, but focusing on developing an
overall appreciation for the need to involve communities as an essential part of the project. The Bank team
also provided assistance on poverty issues.
6.     In addition, the ASIF staff also participated in several seminars and retreats during the course of
the project to discuss all aspects of ASIF operations and to provide feedback on ways to further improve
the ASIF structure and project implementation. For example, in September 1997, an important two-day
seminar was held for all ASIF staff, with the participation of Bank supervision staff, to discuss all project
issues, including the micro-project cycle, micro-project design issues, selection and evaluation of local
supervisors and construction firms, collection of community contributions, etc. The seminar was very
effective and provided the ASIF staff an opportunity to discuss these issues in an open forum and to
exchange their ideas.
7.    In addition, to this seminar, ASIF staff participated in the Regional SIF Conference which took
place in 1998 in Yerevan and where there was a very useful exchange of ideas and practices with other
operating SIFs. Also, all new ASIF staff and engineers were given training on ASIF objectives and work
program at the start of their assignments and some received training in English. Several seminars on
specific issues were also organized, such as on micro-project appraisal, contracting and supervision issues,
although little training on maintenance of facilities was provided. In 1999, all ASIF engineers and the
ASIF Director also participated in the Seminar on the Quality of Works to discuss the findings of the
Quality of Works Review and to find ways to address the constraints identified. This was a very
comprehensive discussion which resulted in focused efforts by ASIF staff to deal with the quality of works
issues, including the development of the Quality of Works Enhancement Action Plan, now being
implemented under ASIF II.
9-



8.     While ASIF staff received some training, the Bank recommended that even more training was
needed to meet the demands of the challenging work being performed under the project, and that the ASIF
should develop an overall staff training strategy with one staff designated to coordinate all training issues
of ASIF staff. The Bank pointed out that more training was particularly needed in the area of supervision
and maintenance of works to improve project sustainability and that ASIF staff needed to do a better job in
training communities on these issue.
Implementation Challenges
9.     During the course of the project, the ASIF PIU had to overcome numerous administrative,
organizational, financial and other challenges as it developed as an institution, and had to address many
issues and problems, some of which are outlined below.
*   The Quality of Works Review showed that ASIF needed to improve mechanisms to ensure that those
construction works which did not meet quality standards were not accepted until the work was
performed satisfactorily. For some micro-projects which ASIF engineers found to lack quality, the
contractor was simply paid less than the contract amount. Instead, the work should have been rejected
and no payment made.
v   Supervision of quality of works by ASIF engineers was lacking due to their increased work load as the
number of micro-project being implemented increased during the project. On the other hand, ASIF did
not have systematic mechanisms for monitoring the work of local supervisors. Often, local supervisors
were not hired on a competitive basis, and at times, there were no supervisors at all. In general, local
supervisors were found to be of poor quality and the ASIF PIU began contracting design and
supervision specialists on a competitive basis rather than having lAs select them directly.
*   ASIF needed to continuously attempt to transfer responsibility to lAs for micro-project implementation.
Instead, the IA's role was never fully developed and ASIF staff continued to play a major role in
several key tasks which should have been delegated to lAs, including appraisals, bid evaluations and
supervision of constnl stion works. This had an impact on the level of awareness by communities of the
progress of construction works since IA's were not fully involved. In some cases, however, when lAs
were involved, they could have done a better job to relay important information to communities which
they represented on the progress of works.
*   ASIF staff lacked appropriate training, time and organizational framework to effectively carry out
community outreach activities and training to lAs and communities on issues of operation and
maintenance of facilities, thereby reducing sustainability of micro-projects.
* More efforts were needed to ensure that micro-projects selected were consistent with Government
social sector strategy priorities by improving ASIF collaboration and coordination with line ministries,
particularly in the health and education sectors.
*   ASIF needed to make improvements in management of ASIF staff, including developing better
operational guidelines for ASIF PIU staff and clear perfornance indicators for staff evaluations. In
addition, the ASIF needed to develop a comprehensive training strategy for its staff.
- 10-



* Project monitoring needed improvement. The MIS system set up and operated by the Monitoring Unit
did not operate to its full capacity although it was improved during the project and was finally linked
with the accounting system in 1999 which greatly improved the flow of information on micro-project
financing.
*   The ASIF was only able to carry out two of the four Procurement and Technical reviews. The reason
for that was the significant delay in launching the first review which was only carried out in late 1998.
During the first two years, the ASIF staff was extremely busy in getting the project started and doing
promotional activities and appraising micro-projects. The ASIF Board also contributed to this delay
because it did not review the evaluation report for hiring the selected firm. The second review was
completed only after the project closed.
10.   As noted above, this component experienced some difficulties during the initial years and the
component was rated unsatisfactory. However, during the subsequent years, the ASIF PIU made
significant progress. Close and frequent Bank supervisions in the field together with special reviews,
studies and assessments were very beneficial to the ASIF's operations and for the project. This work
covered technical and procurement issues, qualitative impact assessments of the benefits of the project,
in-depth technical assessment of the impact of the project under a mid-term review, and annual audits.
Benefiting from these in-depth reviews and evaluations and the valuable experience gained in all aspects of
project management and administration as well as from the valuable preparation work of the ASIF II
project, the ASIF PIU team was able to improve several aspects of its operations, especially during the last
two years of the project. The ASIF: (1) strengthened its institutional structure making it more effective and
responsive to changing needs of the organization; (2) enhanced its MIS and accounting systems for
effectively monitoring and supervising ASIF activities and expenditures; (3) improved administrative,
technical and monitoring procedures for a more effective management of ASIF operations; (4) enhanced the
accountability of ASIF management in the effective delivery of its services at the local level focusing on
quality of works, and on operations and maintenance issues; and (5) strengthened its partnership with line
ministries, donor and relevant project coordinating units of Bank investment operations to ensure
consistency with the Government's current reform program and the Bank's assistance program in Armenia.
The ASIF also revised procedures in the Operational Manual to reflect improved and simplified procedures
regarding: a) micro-project administration and management; b) community-based procurement procedures;
c) quality of works and effective supervision procedures; d) personnel management and administration in
the ASIF Office; and e) training modules benefiting ASIF staff, lAs and contractors. As a result of these
improvements, the rating for the component was changed to satisfactory during the last two years of the
project.
C.    CAPACITY BUILDING OF SMALL-SCALE CONTACTORS, IMPLEMENTING
AGENCIES AND COMMUNITIES (rating S)
I .    The goal of this component was to support private sector development by increasing technical and
managerial capacity of local contractors, lAs and communities by encouraging their active involvement in
project decisions. The component was to provide training and assistance on competitive bidding, the
preparation of contracts as well as monitoring work progress by lAs and communities.
- 11 -



2.     The Institutions Support Unit of the ASIF was responsible for supervising this component.
However, during project implementation, this Unit, with its two person staff, did not function as it was
originally intended, and was only able to organize pre-bidding conferences for all potential small-scale
contractors, explaining the procurement process, roles and responsibilities, including the role of local
supervisors. In essence, it performed the function of a procurement unit which ASIF PIU did not have in
its organizational structure. In terms of IA and community capacity building, it was actually the Promotion
Unit which carried out the majority of the work. The Unit held briefing sessions during the identification
period to introduce the ASIF objectives to the communities, to review micro-project selection criteria, the
micro-project cycle and to distribute promotional materials and answer questions. The Unit also made
enormous efforts in ensuring community financial contribution to the project and it also provided assistance
to lAs on the preparation of micro-project proposals.
3.     Despite the work of both the Institutions Support Unit and the Promotion Unit, an important goal
of this component, namely monitoring implementation progress of micro-projects by lAs and communities,
was not implemented successfully. Essential training on sustainability issues was not delivered by ASIF as
was reflected by the relatively weak sustainability plans in micro-project proposals submitted and by the
lack of maintenance of facilities by lAs and communities. The Bank's Capacity Building evaluation during
the Mid-term review revealed that lack of training by the ASIF staff on issues such as sustainability of
micro-projects was mostly due to limited ASIF staff time and lack of agencies to whom ASIF could have
contracted out this training. The Bank recommended that ASIF prepare a formal beneficiary training plan
for lAs, contractors and local supervisors on issues including procurement, project implementation,
community participation and contribution, project maintenance and supervision. ASIF's own staff needed
training in these areas, and the Bank recommended that the ASIF appoint a Training Coordinator to
oversee this training.
4.     As a result of these recommendations, the ASIF did make some progress in the training delivered to
lAs. In late 1998, the ASIF organized a series of participatory workshops to discuss maintenance and
sustainability issues. These were held in Sevan, Krasnoselsk and Tavouch districts. Based on this
experience and at the Bank's recommendation, in 1999, the ASIF also developed comprehensive training
modules on sustainability mechanisms for schools and water micro-projects. In addition, ASIF staff also
received training, as detailed in the second component (see previous section).
5.     Nonetheless, despite these efforts, improvement of micro-project sustainability remained one of the
most critical issues during the project. In response to the need to improve overall community outreach
activities, the ASIF organizational structure changed mid-way through the project with the Promotion Unit
and the Institutions Support Unit merging into one Department. This was a positive development given that
the new Department would be responsible for the overall program of involving communities in all
micro-project stages. However, the new organizational structure still did not work as efficiently as it could
have, although during the last two years of the project, the ASIF did make some progress in improving
project monitoring and focused greater attention on sustainability of micro-projects by involving
communities through training and other means.
- 12-



6.    Overall, while the ASIF staff could have been used more effectively to carry out the original
intended objectives of this component, and more work on improving community involvement in the
implementation and maintenance of facilities was needed, some very important objectives were achieved.
The ASIF succeeded in providing essential training to contractors and IAs on ASIF objectives, the
micro-project cycle, the procurement process, including the preparation of micro-project proposals. Also,
through its extensive promotional activities and insistence on community participation and contribution, the
ASIF created a framework for greater stakeholder participation, by promoting self-help mechanisms,
increasing the sense of community ownership, and promoting greater cohesion among community members,
as evidenced by the results of beneficiary assessments.
D.    SUPPORT FOR MONITORING LIVING CONDITIONS   (rating S)
I .    This component had a significant impact on improving the capacity of the SDS to collect data on
household incomes, expenditures and consumption, and analyze social and economic situation of the
population. By creating a national data base on household welfare, it has enabled better design programs
to reduce poverty. Through the provision of substantial training, study tours and technical assistance to
SDS staff and survey, two household income and expenditure surveys were carried out in 1996 and in
1998/99.
2.    The first survey (Priority Survey) was the first comprehensive Living Standards Measurement
Survey (LSMS) type survey of the Armenian population on a sample of 5000 households. The SDS
succeeded in adopting new statistical methods and its staff were trained in survey design, procedures for
data entry and processing, principles of sampling and analysis, poverty analysis, data entry in DBASE, and
computer and English skills. The survey questionnaire included information on household income,
composition, education, health status, employment, expenditures, and housing condition. 25% of the
households sampled also filled out a 30 day diary on income and expenditures. This survey produced a
new set of poverty indicators and survey results were presented at a seminar in 1997 to various
Government sectors and the donor community.
3.    The second Household survey was done on a sample of 3,600 households and included a
questionnaire, a diary for expenditures and incomes, and was based on the World Bank Integrated Survey
and the LSMS. The survey was completed in 1999. Based on lessons learned as a result of the first survey
and in addition to information used in the first survey, the questionnaire of this second survey also included
data on farming, other incomes, credit, savings, and transfers at the household level. Information was also
gathered on gender and individual evaluations of poverty.
4.    Both surveys helped to improve sampling techniques, survey design and organization, data
processing and analysis done by the SDS. The surveys data were used extensively for (i) analytical work
on poverty and living standards in Armenia which led to a greater understanding of the diverse
characteristics of poverty, and (ii) for the development of the poverty targeting strategy under the second
ASIF project. Although the work under this component was very successful, some complaints were
received by the Bank from potential users of this data regarding the lack of access to survey results and
little prospect for the direct use of survey data. This remained an issue throughout the project, although
reports eventually were published and disseminated widely. Another issue of some concern during the
project was whether the Government of Armenia would be able to support ongoing poverty monitoring
system given its high cost. The Government is yet unable to sustain this program fully and continues to
rely on donor funding.
- 13 -



5.    In addition to building capacity of the SDS, the objective of the project was to utilize major
findings on poverty and unemployment gathered through the surveys and presented in poverty assessments
in order to identify and focus its promotional activities and rehabilitation works in regions where needs of
the population were the strongest. In practice, data from the two surveys conducted was not actually used
to enhance targeting of ASIF funds to poorest regions. Nonetheless, the project had a strong poverty focus,
based on the work carried out during project preparation when initial target zones were identified and
selected by the Government of Armnenia based on a poverty ranking exercise and a needs and capacity
study. Although poverty was the most important indicator, other indicators were also used to arrive at this
ranking, including unemployment, proximity to the border, provision of potable water, the levels of
demolition of social infrastructure in these regions, and many other indicators. Priority regions selected
included an area around Goris in the south, an area around Stepanavan in the north and a region around
Giumri covering part of the earthquake zone. Initially,US$12 million was allocated in accordance to these
rankings, although during project implementation, project funds were reallocated by the Government of
Armenia to regions affected by the earthquake and to two border regions which suffered most during the
Karabakh conflict. Given that these regions were clearly among the poorest in Armenia, the overall
allocation of project funds were indeed proportionately targeted to the poor. In addition, in the poorest
communities, the ASIF reduced their community contribution from 10% to 5%, although a strong criteria
of micro-project selection remained the ability of communities to contribute 10% of the total micro-project
cost.
4.3 Net Present I'alue/Economic rate of return:
NA
4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA
4.5 Instituttional development impact:
I.    Overall, the project had an important institutional development impact. Institutional development
was a major focus of the project, first and foremost, in setting up a new institution, the ASIF, with its
independent status and operating in accordance with an extensive Operational Manual, as well as securing
support for this institution and its mandate from the central Government, local governments, communities,
NGOs and other organizations.
2.     Once set up as an institution, the ASIF evolved as a structure, its staff gained considerable
experience and knowledge in new ways of identifying and managing projects and the ASIF played an
important role in the institutional development of other involved institutions, including the Government of
Armenia and the SDS, as well as many beneficiaries of the project.
3.     First of all, the Government of Armenia noticeably enhanced their understanding and knowledge of
the ASIF's potential in providing an alternative poverty alleviation vehicle as well as a different type of
instrument in reconstruction works. The Government members, through the participation in the ASIF
Board, also gained considerable expertise in the mechanisms and operations used by the ASIF. They were
also directly involved in the numerous issues surrounding micro-project selection and implementation which
enhanced their appreciation for the inherent intricacy of this community based operation.
4.     Secondly, the SDS, which has now become an independent Government agency, the National
Statistical Service (NSS), benefited greatly under the forth component on Monitoring Living conditions.
- 14-



The SDS greatly improved its capacity in data collection, survey designs, carrying out poverty surveys, and
in the ability to analyze household data in order to design better poverty programs in the country.
5.    Finally, the ASIF played an enormous role in raising the awareness of communities and local
governments in new ways of identifying and managing projects. The ASIF made tremendous efforts in its
promotional activities to explain ASIF objectives, to discuss with communities their urgent needs and to
present them an alternative vehicle for improving local infrastructure through their direct involvement in
decision making. The ASIF program was also critical in developing an understanding by local public
authorities of the importance of providing efficiency and service to the public, the public's knowledge and
understanding of the process, and the recognition that participation implies that people acquire a greater
voice in local affairs and an expanded role in decision making process.
6.    In this way, the ASIF established a solid foundation for the second ASIF which will reinforce this
social capital and progressively involve local governments and communities in the fundamentals of
participation, accountability, and project management. The continuation of the SIF program will play a
key role in helping local governments and community groups cope with their new management
responsibilities and accountability by providing a development framework in which they will be trained to
identify and prepare projects, to plan and budget finances, supervise their implementation, and assume
responsibility for recurrent operating and maintenance costs.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outtside the control of govertintent or implenieniting agency:
1.    A major underlying factor which affected the implementation of this project was Armenia's poor
economic situation. Armenia continues to experience economic hardships, stemming from the transition
from the centrally-planned economy, the devastating earthquake and the war and civil disorder in the
bordering states. Overall poverty has increased dramatically during the transition years, with much of the
population concerned with securing enough food and fuel for the winter. While the ASIF began in 1996,
the country was and is continuing to cope with the destruction caused by the 1988 earthquake which
resulted in close to 30,000 deaths, left 530,000 homeless and destroyed schools, hospitals, homes and
approximately 40% of Armenia's manufacturing capacity. In addition, Armenia continued to cope with the
human and economic consequences of the dispute over Nagomo-Karabakh and instability in Georgia. As a
result of the conflict, approximately 340,000 Armenian refugees entered Armenia. Meanwhile, as a result
of the war and economic difficulties, an estimated 750,000 Annenians left the country since 1992.
2.    After 1994, when the vast majority of the population experienced conditions of absolute poverty,
some improvements in the overall living standards have been achieved. Nonetheless, the 1996 Household
Survey showed that about 55% of the population were living in poverty, with many households moving in
and out of poverty. The same survey measured unemployment at 28% with much of the unemployed
remaining without work for more than a year. The results of the second Household survey, carried out
under the ASIF in 1998/1999 show that poverty remains the same, at 55% of the population below the
poverty line. However, the incidence of absolute poverty has indeed decreased from 28% to 23%. In sum,
poverty remains widespread and persistent.
3.    Given the ASIF's main focus on the poorest regions of Armenia, particularly those affected by the
earthquake and regions with large numbers of refugees, ASIF's commitment and ability in getting poor
communities to contribute to this project must be highlighted, particularly given difficulties in collecting
cash contributions.
- 15-



4.    Another factor which affected the pace of implementation was the inability to carry out
construction works during the cold winter months, particularly in the mountainous and remote regions.
Close to three to four months of the calendar year could not be used for micro-project implementation.
This was a significant delaying factor in completing the targeted number of micro-projects; despite this, the
ASIF was able to complete 259 micro-projects worth almost US$13 million.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.
1.    One of the most important factors in the success of the ASIF was the Armenian Governmnent's
strong commitment and support for the project's objectives and its interest to collaborate with the Bank and
other donors. This was a novel project idea and required full acceptance and participation by the
Government and its people. The Government commitment remained unwavering throughout the course of
the project despite political instability and numerous changes in Government during the five years of the
project, including presidential elections in 1998. On average the Government changed twice a year and
sometimes three times. These Government changes did have a deleterious effect on the speed of
implementation since ASIF Board was mainly made up of senior Government officials, with the Minister of
Finance chairing the Board. Every time senior officials changed, the Board's decisions were delayed
because new members needed to get acquainted with the project and to understand its objectives, etc.
2.    While overall Government commitment to the project and its interest for the second ASIF was very
strong throughout the project stages, Government counterpart funding was an issue of concern beginning in
mid-1997. Timely deposits of counterpart funds were consistently delayed throughout the project which
hindered project goals and delayed implementation of some micro-projects. This also placed more pressure
on communities to provide the necessary funds as well as on the ASIF PIU to ensure that adequate amount
of cash contribution was available. By the project close, a total of US$551,007 was deposited by the
Government of Armenia, against the initial requirement of US$720,000. However, since by that time, there
were no outstanding amounts to be paid to contractors for works performed, and the total required
counterpart financing of the project exceeded 10%, the Bank accepted that the remaining US$168,992
overdue counterparts funds should not be considered an arrear.
3.    Another factor which led to delays in project implementation was the selection and approval
process of micro-projects by the ASIF Board, made up of mostly Government representatives. This was
noted first during the Mid-Term Review mission in April 1998, where it was observed that while the
average approval time was 10 days, in some cases the Board took up to 4 months to approve certain
projects. In addition, the Bank was informed in May 1998 that a decision was taken by the Board that all
projects regardless of their amounts would be submitted for the Board's approval. This procedure was not
in compliance with the Operational Manual, as agreed with the Bank, which set the prior review threshold
for the Board's approval at micro-projects costing more than US$50,000. While the intention was to limit
the Board's approvals to larger projects in the interest of enhancing and speeding up micro-project
implementation, the practice of reviewing and approving all proposed micro-projects by the Board
continued until project close. Although many micro-projects were approved relatively rapidly, the
implementation of others was delayed substantially.
4.    In addition, there were significant delays in launching the first annual Procurement and Technical
review due in part to the ASIF's Board' long review process of the evaluation reports for the selection of
winning firns. The Board was unable to meet for months because of the Government's concentration on
the Presidential elections of 1998. The Procurement and Technical Review was finally conducted late in
1998 based on which the Bank was able to carry out an intensive Quality of Works Review. This was a
- 16 -



particularly unfortunate delay, given the urgent need to assess and improve the quality of works under the
ASIF.
5.    Another factor which contributed to delays in project implementation and to the ability of the ASIF
PIU to work on the project was the numerous Audits conducted each year, particularly during the early
years of the project, by the various organs of the Government, including by the Control Chamber of the
National Assembly, the Control Department of the Annenian Government, the Central Board of Fiscal
Control of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Pension Fund, and by the Tax Inspectorate of the
Republic of Arnenia. In 1997, for example, a total of five such audits and two studies were carried out
which took a total of 100 working days of ASIF staff time (mainly of an accountant/disbursement officer)
and put enormous strain on the ASIF staff who needed to work with the Auditors and to respond to the
many requests for information during the audit period. It must be pointed out that while these Government
organs had an explicit right to conduct these checks, their sheer number and extent of their control may not
have been warranted.
6.    The Government also played a role in targeting of micro-projects to particular regions in Armenia.
Generally, project funds were allocated in accordance to poverty levels in regions across Armenia,
consistent with the results of the Poverty Ranking exercise done during project preparation, and the levels
of demolition of social infrastructure in these regions. In July 1998, the Government decided to redirect
project funds to those regions which suffered the 1988 earthquake, including Shirak, Lori and Aragantsotn.
In addition, two regions, Tavush and Sunik, which suffered most during the Karabakh conflict also
received additional funds. This reallocation was approved by the Bank and is consistent with project goals.
7.    During the project, the Government also played a role in helping to identify some micro-projects to
be rehabilitated. The Bank supervision teams found that several micro-projects in the pipeline were
questionable in terns of community identification, including the reconstruction of the First Aid Hospital in
Yerevan and the Aesthetic Education Center's fine Arts Studio in Yerevan. These particular selections did
not really comply with the typology criteria as set out in the ASIF operational manual and were not
community driven as intended by the ASIF.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implemiienitinig agency control:
ASIF Effective Fund-raising Efforts
I.    The ASIF team was very active and successful in their promotional activities to solicit private and
public donor participation in the project as part of the Matching Fund arrangements. As a result,
approximately US$1.3 million was received and matched by the IDA Credit. This was a substantial
achievement by the ASIF and had a tremendous impact on the eventual number of micro-projects.
2.    In addition, ASIF's promotional efforts and abilities to obtain community contribution (in cash and
in kind) for micro-projects was exemplary, particularly given the overall poverty of the communities
targeted. During the first year of ASIF operation, levels of community contribution were low which slowed
down project implementation. Also a number of very poor communities could not come up with the
required 15% contribution and several projects with high potential benefits to the poor had to be dropped.
In response to this serious problem, the ASIF team reached an agreement with the Bank to lower the
contribution from 15% to 10% on average across all micro-projects, with a 5% minimum contribution from
poor communities, based on assessment of poverty and capacity to pay. In addition, ASIF required that
community contribution was made available prior to the start of the bidding process. By the Mid-term
review in 1998, as a result of these steps taken by the ASIF, significant improvements in the collection of
- 17 -



community contribution was observed. The range and type of contributions also increased, with more cash
being contributed by beneficiaries.
3.     By the close of the project, due to substantial ASIF efforts, the total financial contribution by
communities and local governments was very high (almost US$2 million), which reflected the serious
commitment by the beneficiaries to the goals of the project. The community interest and willingness to
invest resources in these projects also increased their commitment to maintain these restructured facilities
thereby enhancing project sustainability, one of the key lessons of this project.
4.     Only one aspect of the ASIF's strong fund-raising efforts was potentially counter-productive.
Enthusiasm for collecting funds from sponsors and donors was so high that although funds were found for
some micro-projects, these micro-projects at times did not fit the micro-project criteria of the ASIF, as
outlined in the Operational Manual. Nonetheless, overall efforts of the ASIF in this area are to be
commended.
ASIF staff
5.     The ASIF PIU included a staff of 50 people in several departments who worked closely and
collaboratively with each other and with the Bank staff, consultants, and other donors and organizations.
The staff received substantial hands-on training during the project as well as some formal training, and
most importantly, the staff benefited from invaluable on-the-job training during the five years of the
project. In general, the staff was enthusiastic to learn about the project and to ensure that it is carried out
effectively.
6.     One particular major achievement of the ASIF's Promotion Unit was the staff's diligent efforts to
ensure community participation, which included numerous visits by the Unit staff to the community (on
average 2-5 visits for each micro-project) explaining project objectives, micro-project selection criteria, the
micro-project cycle as well as all issues connected to procurement of works and goods, implementation and
supervision of works. The Unit continuously tested different approaches to improve the effectiveness of its
work and responded effi.iently to problems arising during implementation. The ASIF PIU staff were very
dedicated and enthusiastic, and some were able to visit all villages in a particular region.
7.     One issue which needed improvement during the project was to enhance the ASIF staff capacity
building efforts under the Capacity Building component of the project, although this was partly an issue of
ASIF's organizational structure which lacked a framework for strong community outreach in terms of the
community's participation in micro-project implementation, supervision and maintenance, essential for
overall sustainability of the project. The staff of the ASIF took much of the responsibility for this work
unto themselves and the Bank often pointed out that the ASIF should strive to incorporate and achieve more
of a development focus as its primary objective, as was intended by the project, rather than performing
finctions of a construction firm.
Micro-project selection
8.     During the project, it was noted by the Bank supervision missions that a few micro-projects,
particularly in the health sector, were not identified by communities, but by staff of those facilities or by the
municipalities, clearly interested in rehabilitating their premises. While this practice did not comply with
the ASIF's Operational Manual and project goals, the Bank found that in some cases, these facilities were
not even being used to their full capacity. To address this problem, the ASIF PIU could have been more
pro-active in soliciting donor support to finance the necessary equipment to make these facilities more
- 18 -



operational.
9.    In addition, the micro-project selection criteria was often not followed for those projects financed
under the Matching Fund arrangements. Private sponsors chose projects without reference to formal
selection criteria, and instead preferred their funding to go to specific target groups, such as refugees, or to
certain regions, such as the earthquake region. While this was identified as an area of improvement by the
Bank, overall this did not affect adversely the poverty focus of the ASIF since the majority of the
population is indeed poor and since the private donors and sponsors were generally interested to support the
most vulnerable groups. Nonetheless, under the ASIF II, this practice is discontinued and donors can
choose from a pre-selected list of micro-projects, ranked according to project selection criteria established
in the Operational Manual. Also, to control the amount going to each region, the total sponsor contribution
to a particular region cannot exceed 30 percent of the total amount allocated to that region.
10.    Under ASIF, community participation in micro-project selection was also more difficult to attain in
urban areas and ASIF staff had to rely on local government officials rather than community members in
identifying projects. This potential issue was actually identified even during early stages of project
preparation and indeed it remained an issue for the ASIF throughout the course of the project. Given the
inherent difficulty of reaching out to urban communities, except in schools, for example, where there is
clear evidence of parents' involvement, it was generally accepted that the ASIF would continue to rely
mainly on local governments for micro-project identification. Nonetheless, the Bank cautioned that ASIF
needs to evaluate proposals by local governments carefully to ensure as much as possible that they indeed
reflect community priorities.
11.    Another area where ASIF needed to make more progress was to ensure that its activities and
micro-projects selected were consistent with social sector strategy priorities, government reform programs,
and activities of municipal, NGO, UN, and other donor agencies. While the ASIF team made efforts in this
regard, the Mid-Term Review and subsequent Bank missions indicated the need for further improving
inter-sectoral and inter-agency coordination, particularly focusing on greater coordination of ASIF
activities with relevant sectoral policies (i.e. health and education) and investment priorities. The Bank
recommended that the ASIF develop a more effective information, outreach, and communications strategy,
and maintain regular working level contacts among the line ministries, NGOs, donor agencies, and Bank
project management units.
ASIF organizational structure and operations
12.    The original ASIF organizational structure set up at project start lacked a strong unit with an
objective to respond to lAs and community training needs in terms of micro-project operations, supervision
and maintenance, an important area in the project which needed substantial improvement by ASIF PIU.
Mid-way through project implementation, the Promotion and Institutions Support Units were merged in
order to improve efficiency and effectiveness of ASIF operations, particularly in monitoring and building
capacity of communities for micro-project maintenance and supervision. Under this new structure and the
leadership of the new ASIF Director, the ASIF made some progress in strengthening the ASIF's procedures
for micro-project identification, design, implementation and monitoring, as well as improving some of its
intemal guidelines in relations to ASIF staff management. Also, some capacity building of lAs and
communities on issues of maintenance took place in a series of workshops. The experience of this training
led to the development of more formal training modules.
Quality of works and Procurement and Technical Reviews
- 19-



13.   As was noted above, the ASIF needed to make substantial improvements in its efforts to build
capacity of lAs, contractors, and community members in areas of supervision and maintenance in order to
enhance the overall quality of works performed. Unfortunately, there were significant delays in launching
the first annual Procurement and Technical review due to ASIF's concentration on getting the project
started, carrying out promotion activities, appraisals of micro-projects and due to delays caused by the
Board's long review process of the evaluation report of the winning firm. The review was finally carried
out and discussed many of the issues in the area of micro-project procurement process and quality of works
which needed major improvements. Originally, there were supposed to be four such reviews, one every
year. However, because of the delays, the 1998 review was the only one carried out during the project and
had some impact on the implementation of the ASIF but mainly on the design of the second ASIF. The
second Procurement and Technical review was carried out only after project close to access the overall
procurement and implementation status of project. The report was completed and sent to the Bank in
March 2001 and showed that the quality of works did improve since the last review.
Project Monitoring
14.   One of the project objectives, for which ASIF PIU was responsible, was to carry our regular
project monitoring and evaluation, including carrying out beneficiary assessments, client satisfaction
surveys, and using other more directly participatory methods of client involvement in monitoring and
evaluation to monitor outcomes on the ground. The aim was to develop and set up a systematic approach
to monitoring and evaluating the impact of development activities and adjusting related policies and
programs on a continuing basis.
15.   Three beneficiary assessments were carried out during the project, the report of the third
assessment only completed in February 2001. The results of the assessments showed that the majority of
communities and their members were well aware of the projects being carried out in their villages and that
they demonstrated greater interest in ASIF micro-projects, and their importance. Also, the majority of
beneficiaries were satisfied with the way micro-projects were executed and were confident of the ASIF's
ability to carry out the work and to meet the community's expectations. Overall the findings of these
surveys were very positive and revealed the high performance and dedication of the ASIF staff as perceived
by the communities benefiting under the project. This significantly increased the community's sense of
ownership of their reconstructed facilities.
16.   While beneficiary assessments were carried out, an area which needed further improvement was
the overall project monitoring and evaluation system set up under the ASIF and managed by the
Information Monitoring Unit. The Unit was to systematically collect and analyze all financial transactions,
using the MIS system, monitor physical and financial progress of micro-project implementation, to follow
up on micro-project completion and evaluation and to prepare regular progress reports for review and
decision making by ASIF Management. The staff of the Monitoring Unit worked hard to make some key
improvements, particularly during the last years of the project, including: (i) the creation of a more refined
sub-systems for data entry requirements for every level of the micro-project cycle; (ii) the training of ASIF
staff in usage of computers and programs; (iii) the regular updating of computer software and hardware;
(iv) the development a WEB-site for ASIF activities, shared with other social funds in the region; and (v)
the provision of summary data on the status of micro-project activities used for reporting requirements to
the Bank and to Government. Also, in mid-1999, the MIS system, managed by the Unit, was finally
integrated with the Accounting system. This further improved the flow of information on micro-project
financing and allowed for a more effective monitoring of ASIF activities and expenditures. While the Unit
worked well and provided useful and timely information, the Unit could have made more effort in analyzing
data and in evaluating the overall project impact.
- 20 -



5.4 Costs and financing:
1.    The original project cost was US$20 million, of which US$12 million equivalent was the IDA
Credit. At the close of the project, total project expenses were US$16.43 million, of which IDA Credit was
US$11 million, US$2.26 million was provided by the Dutch Government as a grant covering the period
until June 30, 1997. The Dutch Grant assistance was provided for micro-projects, goods for the
Institutional support to ASIF, support for household surveys and for technical assistance and training. In
addition, US$1.33 million was provided by Sponsors as part of the Matching Fund arrangement, US$1.28
million was provided by the Communities, and US$0.54 million was the Government cash contribution.
2.    It is important to note the extensive contribution provided to this project by local communities who
were the beneficiaries of the project. In addition to their considerable cash contribution of US$1.28
million, an additional estimated US$0.52 million was provided by them in-kind, in the form of construction
materials, labor costs, and project designs. In addition, the central Government provided an estimated
US$0.3 million as in-kind contribution in the form of office rent, while local governments provided an
estimated US$0.2 million during the course of the project.
3.     Therefore, while the total cash expenditures for the project represent US$16.43 million, the total
final cost of the project, including in-kind Government and community contribution, is estimated at
US$17.45 million. This total is US$2.5 million less than the original estimated project cost of US$20
million of which US$1 million was lost due to variations in the SDR exchange rate and the remaining
US$1.5 million represents funds which could have been spent through the Matching Fund arrangement by
private sponsors and by attracting additional grant funds.
6. Sustainability
6.] Rationale for sustainabilizty rating:
1.    In its assessment of potential risks of the operation at the project appraisal stage, the Bank team
acknowledged the need to find methods and to develop strategies to increase the sustainability of completed
rehabilitation works. A number of mechanisms and safeguards were set in place to help improve
micro-project sustainability, such as (i) requiring communities to include strategies for covering costs for
operation and maintenance as part of their proposals, (ii) signing Memoranda of Understanding between
ASIF and local authorities which ensures their agreement to maintain facilities, (iii) repairing only those
facilities which are operational and for which salaries of service personnel are budgeted, as an essential
criteria for micro-project selection, (iv) involving communities in micro-project design and implementation
so that their interest and commitment for the work and maintenance is ensured, and (v) beneficiary
assessments with particular emphasis on sustainability issues.
2.     While the intention and the substance of these mechanisms was clear, and while some of these
mechanisms were included in the design of the ASIF in terms of its organizational and operational
structure, the results did not entirely correspond to the original intentions behind these mechanisms. During
project supervision, lacking sustainability of micro-projects was identified as one of the most critical areas
which needed substantial improvement. The sustainability plans presented by the communities were poor
and not effective in ensuring continuous micro-project maintenance. This was partly due to ASIF's lack of
a strong unit dedicated to community outreach programs in order to involve all beneficiary communities in
the entire process of identification, design, implementation, operation and maintenance. While communities
were involved in identification and provided substantial financial contribution to the project, for the most
part, they did not participate in the rest of the process to the fullest extent possible.
- 21 -



3.    In general, it can be said that not sufficient progress was made in the improvement of sustainability
plans under the ASIF, although during the last two years of the project, some progress was made by the
ASIF in the training delivered to lAs and communities. A series of participatory workshops to discuss
maintenance and sustainability issues were held in Sevan, Krasnoselsk and Tavush districts. Based on this
experience and lessons leamed during project implementation, the ASIF was able to develop more
comprehensive training modules on sustainability mechanisms for schools and water micro-projects. The
ASIF staff also received valuable training throughout the course of the project, including a 2 day seminar in
1998 which covered all project matters and particularly sustainability issues, and a special seminar
organized in 1999 on the results of the Quality of Works Review which discussed quality of original
designs, problems associated with lack of supervision by qualified supervisors and general lack of
community involvement in implementation and maintenance of facilities, thereby reducing chances for
sustainability of these facilities.
4.     While incorporating lessons on how to improve the sustainability of completed micro-projects was
not achieved during the ASIF, much valuable experience and understanding was gained by the ASIF during
the five years of its operation with respect to this issue, laying a solid foundation for the ASIF II project.
Indeed, a major factor contributing to ASIF sustainability is the second ASIF which became effective in
October 2000, and which builds and improves on the experience of the ASIF by addressing and
strengthening institutional, structural and procedural issues of the ASIF program regarding targeting,
participation, capacity building, quality of works, and operations and maintenance. This five year project
provides a strong continuation to original ASIF goals as well as possibilities to improve the operation of the
first ASIF in numerous ways. ASIF II particular focus on sustainability issues will likely lead to improved
micro-project life. One potentially useful recommendation for ASIF II implementation would be to carry
out a post-review on a small sample of micro-projects completed under ASIF to gage their effectiveness
and sustainability to date, particularly focusing on the quality of works perfonned. This could be done as
part of the continuous training of ASIF staff, supervisors, and IA members and would likely be beneficial
for ASIF II implementation.
6.2 Transition arrangenica to regular operations:
Although the first ASIF project closed on December 31, 2000, the basic operational structure and main
project objectives remain in place under the second ASIF which was prepared based on lessons of the first
ASIF and which became effective in October 2000. Many of the original ASIF staff, including ASIF
Director, continue to work under the new project albeit under a different improved organizational structure.
The second project is expected to close at the end of 2005.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
1.    Bank performance during project preparation is rated as Satisfactory. The Bank team which
identified, appraised and negotiated the project worked very effectively with the Government of Armenia
throughout the preparation period. The project's primary objectives were very well defined from the
beginning and project components fit well with those objectives. A total of 95 staff-weeks were spent to
prepare and present the project to the World Bank Board from FY94 to FY96. One of the main successful
elements of project preparation was the early set up and organization of the core institutional structures of
the project, such as the Steering Committee and the project preparation team, which would later become
essential project implementation structures. The design of the project also benefited from ongoing projects,
- 22 -



such as the Earthquake Reconstruction Project, the Institution Building Project and the Health Project as
well as the preparation team's work on poverty issues as part of the preparation of the ASIF forth
component. All these projects and sector work facilitated substantive social policy dialogue and enabled
the Bank team to better identify critical areas where the project could yield maximum benefits.
2.     While the overall Bank efforts to prepare this project were very effective, there are two main areas
where the Bank team could have done more preparatory work. The first critical area is the quality of works
which was singled out as a major problem during project implementation. Probably more comprehensive
training to and by ASIF staff could be been carried out as part of project preparation by qualified architects
and engineers or included explicitly in the design of the project. The second area where more preparation
was critical concems the ASIF organizational structure, more specifically ASIF's lack of a unit in charge
of providing training and assistance to communities on all micro-project stages, thereby providing a link
with ASIF Appraisal and Follow-up teams of engineers.
7.2 Supervision:
1.    The Bank's supervision efforts are rated as Satisfactory. During project implementation, the Bank
team was very professional and committed, providing continuous assistance on all implementation related
issues, and worked very collegially with the ASIF team and with Government officials. Throughout the
implementation process, the ASIF and the Armenian Government openly praised the Bank team for its
close collaboration, technical expertise, and flexibility.
2.     A total of 165 staff weeks were spent on supervision from FY96 through FY00. The Bank
missions were very intensive and informative, matching the complex character of this project and the
multi-faceted nature of its operations. For example, by the Mid-term review, April 1998, the Bank staff
was able to visit close to 90 micro-projects as well as reviewed all procurement procedures, progress
reports and disbursement procedures of these projects with the ASIF team. The Bank team was extremely
thorough in its reviews and continuously followed up on recommendations made during preceding missions.
As a result, supervision mission reports on file are very detailed, analytical and consistent in their
recommendations.
3.     The Bank team was successful in providing assistance to the SDS regarding survey design and
sampling as well as integrating lessons from the first survey. The SDS staff were eager to improve their
skills and their range of competence and were very satisfied with the support they received from the Bank
team and from Bank hired consultants to assist the SDS in their work.
4.     One problem area which the Bank team could have identified earlier concems the quality of works
carried out by local contractors. While some general recommendations were made by the Bank to improve
quality of designs and works during the first three project years, it was not until the Bank carried out a
formal Quality of Works review in 1999 that the problem became more apparent and serious. The Bank
suggested that improvements be made in ASIF operations in order to improve the overall quality of work
and to ensure transparency in ASIF PIU procedures, guidelines and overall project implementation. As a
result, improvements were made and are being made under ASIF II, but had they been made earlier, they
could have affected more micro-projects in a positive way.
5.    The Bank task management was changed once during the course of supervision and the hand-over
arrangements worked very well, particularly because the new task team leader was already involved in
project supervision under the previous task manager. This greatly facilitated the transition process and the
ASIF PIU and Government counterparts were very pleased to continue to work with the new task team
- 23 -



leader.
7.3 Overall Baik per]jbrnance:
1.    The overall Bank performance in preparing and supervising the project was Satisfactory. Given
the novelty of this operation in the region, the Bank tearn was very successful in its efforts to introduce this
project to the Government of Armenia, to have it accepted and to gain such broad and enthusiastic support
from central and local governments as well as from communities, NGOs, sponsors and donors who
participated in this project. The Bank team also provided essential technical assistance and advice during
project implementation and carried out continuous dialogue on ways to continue to improve the ASIF
operations in order to meet project objectives. This was a notable achievement given the difficulty in
managing an operation of this nature and given the fact that this project was the first such project in the
region and in the country. While this was a learning experience for the Armenian Govermnent and its
people, the Bank team also benefited enormously and learned a great deal about aspects of implementing a
Social Fund in one of the ECA region's poorest countries.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
1.    The Government's preparation efforts are rated as Satisfactory; the Government demonstrated a
high level of commitment and pro-activity from the very beginning and expressed interest to complete
project preparation as fast as possible in light of urgent needs to rehabilitate deteriorated infrastructure.
This enthusiasm and dedication was evidenced by significant actions taken, such as the Government's
setting up a of a Steering Committee composed of representatives of the Ministries directly concerned with
overseeing the project preparation, and who would constitute the ASIF Board during project
implementation. The Government was also willing to test new approaches for micro-project
implementation, such as contracting of small private enterprises and NGOs to carry out works, a relatively
new concept for Armenia at the time. The project preparation also benefited from the early identification
and set up of the local project preparation team who would coordinate the entire preparation process and
would later become the core of ASIF implementation team. All these steps ensured a solid foundation for
implementing the ASIF.
2.     ASIF preparation was supported by a Project Preparation Facility in the amount of US$190,000
which financed some consultant services, equipment and operating costs for the establishment of the ASIF,
including the preparation of an Operational Manual, and other elements essential for project
implementation. The USAID also participated in project preparation and provided US$1 million for the
implementation of the pilot micro-projects to test the SIF approach for basic infrastructure rehabilitation.
This work was carried out by an international NGO "Armenian Assembly of America" (AAA) which had a
strong implementation capacity in the field. The AAA worked jointly with the ASIF preparation unit, with
AAA implementing micro-projects and the ASIF PU working to incorporate the experience of this pilot into
the Operational Manual. A total of 13 micro-projects were implemented and provided essential information
on implementation issues. This was a very effective collaboration and one which greatly improved the final
design of the ASIF.
7.5 Government inmplementationperfor7nance:
1.    Despite political uncertainties, changes among Governnent officials, and the highly vulnerable and
economically unstable period, the Government remained enthusiastic and supportive of the ASIF project.
- 24 -



The ASIF was quite effective in achieving most of the objectives and goals as were envisioned during
project preparation. As a result, overall implementation performance is rated as Satisfactory.
2.    During five project years, ASIF had a significant impact on improving the capacity of the SDS to
design and carry out household surveys with the aim to improve overall understanding of poverty in
Armenia and to design better programs and strategy to address it. In addition, the ASIF was able to
complete 259 micro-projects, most of which were identified by communities in the poorest and the most
vulnerable regions of Armenia. This provided employment opportunities to small-scale contractors at the
community level and increased the overall level of community participation in the project decision-making
process. ASIF was also extremely successful in ensuring community financial contribution for
micro-projects. Beneficiary assessments demonstrate the ASIF's strong impact on communities in terms of
increasing their sense of ownership of their facilities. However, as has been detailed in previous sections,
one important area which required substantial improvement was the need to ensure community's continued
participation in the entire micro-project process, most importantly in operations and maintenance of
facilities. The quality of works also needed improvement.
3.    Following up on the recommendations made during the Mid-term review in 1998, where many
implementation issues were reviewed, and the Quality of Works Review completed in 1999, progress was
made by the ASIF team to strengthen the projecfts procedures for appraisal, approval, implementation and
monitoring of micro-projects, by testing several innovative pilots in each stage of the micro-project cycle.
However, some areas still needed additional improvements, such as further strengthening (i) the targeting
strategy; (ii) institutional mechanisms to sustain community involvement; (iii) coordination of ASIF
activities with relevant sectoral policies and investment priorities; (iv) micro-project management and
accounting systems; (v) micro-project technical design, quality of works and follow-up of works under the
ASIF; and (vi) sustainability of facilities through more effective involvement of communities in all
micro-project stages, particularly in facility maintenance. Many of these issues and additional areas which
needed improvement are detailed in other sections of this ICR, particularly in the section on Lessons of
ASIF. Improvements in these areas are currently being implemented in the follow-on project, ASIF II.
4.    The project experienced some implementation delays due to a number of factors, including the high
number of change orders received from contractors, above the 15% limit and the slow micro-project
approval process by the ASIF Board. The numerous number of Audits conducted on ASIF operations,
particularly during early project years also led to delays. Lastly, delays in Government counterpart funds
for the project also caused considerable concem throughout the project, making the work of the ASIF
difficult to accomplish since implementation of micro-projects in part depended on the availability of
Government contribution. In the end, however, the ASIF project was able to meet most of its targets and
was extended for 6 months until December 31, 2000, mainly: (i) to enable the ASIF to use sponsor
contributions (mainly from UNHCR) for implementing micro-projects under the Matching Fund
Arrangement, and (ii) to provide the Govemment with additional time to carry out its commitment to pay
the overdue counterpart contributions under the Credit by end of 2000.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
1.    The ASIF PIU was the central coordinating unit for ASIF implementation, and worked extremely
diligently on all aspects of project execution. The ASIF was particularly exemplary in its continuous
reaching out to communities through its promotional efforts during micro-project identification as well as
gaining support and financial contributions from private sponsors and from communities. However, ASIF
could have improved the work of its Institutions Support Unit, as was continuously recommended by the
Bank, to monitor the project impact, to identify training needs and to deliver training in certain critical
- 25-



project areas, such as quality of works, community participation and sustainability issues.
2.     Several beneficiary assessments conducted on the ASIF project have revealed the high performance
and dedication of the ASIF staff as perceived by the communities benefiting under the project. These
assessments also revealed that the ASIF project has had a tremendous positive impact on communities.
This is primarily the result of ASIF's demand-driven approach, where the community priority infrastructure
facilities were rehabilitated.
3.     The ASIF PIU worked very well with the Bank and followed-up on all the Bank's many
recommendations and reviews during the supervision period. The flexibility and willingness of the staff to
learn and to improve was an essential element in the success of its operations, although ASIF needed more
trained staff, better overall organizational structure, better monitoring and evaluation tools and more clear
operational guidelines. These factors were carefully reviewed by the second ASIF preparation team and
significant improvements are expected in these areas under ASIF II.
7.7 Overall Borrow er performanice.
1.    The Borrower's performance is rated Satisfactory, particularly considering the significant
challenges faced by the Republic of Armenia, including the high levels of poverty among the people, the
consequences of the 1988 earthquake and the dispute over the Nagomo-Karabakh region. The project
enjoyed strong support from the highest levels of Government during project preparation and supervision,
which was vital in meeting project objectives. Strong Government commitmnent and interest was
continuously expressed both for the ASIF and the follow-up ASIF II, particularly given the project's ability
to contribute and support the country's decentralization reform efforts. Likewise, the ASIF team worked
very enthusiastically on project implementation, was dedicated to ensuring essential community
participation in the project, and worked extremely well with the Bank and with other donors and sponsors
who also participated in the project.
8. Lessons Learned
This project has significance for other similar SIF operations which are equally complex, which require
substantial implementation capacity, strong Government support and where local government and
community participation in all elements of project implementation is essential for a successful outcome of
the project.
Lessons learned can be divided into two categories: (i) general lessons applicable to other SIFs, and (ii)
specific lessons drawn from implementing the ASIF project.
(i)    Lessons generally applicable to other SIFs:
*   High level Government commitment and ownership is essential for the success of the project,
as well as timely provision of Government counterpart funds.
*   Autonomous organizational structure of SIF and transparency of operations.
*   Qualified and motivated staff of the ASIF working within a clearly mandated organizational
structure where staff are used efficiently and operational procedures are clear and followed in
accordance with a detailed Operational Manual.
*   Essential participation and financial contribution by involved stakeholders in all phases of the
project, from identification to maintenance, in order to ensure ownership and sustainability of
the project.
- 26 -



*   Quality, supervision and the degree of maintenance of rehabilitated facilities is largely
correlated to the extent of community involvement and the qualifications of SIF staff.
*   Regular beneficiary assessments to ensure that opinions of stakeholders are tracked and
incorporated to improve ongoing SIF operations.
*   Continuous training of lAs in charge of micro-project implementation in all micro-project
phases as well as training to contractors who carry out these micro-projects.
*   Intensive monitoring and evaluation focus, including a well functioning MIS system and
rigorous supervision of works.
*   Follow-up operations are essential for furthering project sustainability.
*   SIF's ability to reach out to commnunities, multiple donors, sponsors and other organizations to
solicit financing for its operations.
(ii)    Lessons from ASIF (incorporated in the design of ASIF II)
(1) Need to Improve Poverty Targeting: Experience of ASIF has underlined the need to improve
poverty targeting and to further refine the approval criteria and typology of micro-projects.
Improvements needed include: (a) a revised methodology for regional allocation using a formula
based on two factors: the share of population and the degree of a region's poverty; (b) revised
approval criteria for micro-projects based on the needs and conditions of infrastructure facilities,
cost per beneficiary, and the capacity of the lAs; (c) changes in the typology to better reflect the
emerging community demands; and (d) a monitoring and evaluation system for assessing poverty
targeting.
(2) Need to Improve consistency with Social Sector Strategy Priorities: The Bank supervision
missions indicated the need to improve inter-sectoral and inter-agency coordination and to focus on
greater consistency of social fund activities with relevant sectoral policies (i.e. health and education)
and investment priorities. This will be achieved through: (a) the development of a more effective
information, outreach, and communications strategy, and its implementation through a special
Community Outreach and Promotion Unit within the ASIF office; and (b) regular working level
contacts among the line ministries, NGOs, donor agencies, and Bank project management units.
(3) Quality of Works: Due to the experience gained by the ASIF staff, the quality of works need to
be further improved through more intensified ASIF efforts, such as the need to ensure: (a) the
inclusion of detailed technical specifications for all micro-project types; (b) the inclusion of technical
specifications and delivery periods in bid documents; (c) selection of winning bids based on lowest
price at the required quality; (d) demonstration by a contractor of completion of at least US$30,000
worth of projects in the previous five years as a pre-qualification to participate in bids; (e)
contracting on a competitive basis the design and supervision of micro-projects; (f) the use of quality
control monitoring techniques by ASIF staff at the follow-up stage; (g) training of ASIF staff on all
aspects of quality enhancement and procurement; (h) training of contractors on technical standards
and ASIF procedures; (i) recruitment of foreign and local advisors/supervisors in quality of works,
micro-project procurement, MIS and cost accounting, and (j) setting up a showcase room in the
ASIF Office to display the technical standards and quality of output expected under ASIF
micro-projects.
(4) Need to Improve Sustainability: The implementation of the ASIF clearly demonstrated the
critical need to improve project sustainability through a comprehensive framework encompassing
strong institutional support from the ASIF office, effective systems and procedures, and greater
involvement of the key stakeholders. The ASIF needs to focus on institutional mechanisms to: (a)
- 27 -



improve quality of works through compliance with technical standards and closer supervision; (b)
develop the capacity of local authorities and lAs through training and technical assistance to help
formulate budgets which provide adequate financing for operation and maintenance of completed
micro-projects; and (c) strengthen local government and community involvement in the design,
implementation, supervision and maintenance of micro-projects.
(5) Importance of Building Local Capacity: One of the objectives of ASIF I has been to build the
capacity of local government staff and comnmunities so that they can prepare and implement
micro-projects. While some progress in this direction has been achieved, the training efforts have
been insufficient due to the lack of an effective, well staffed institutional unit within the ASIF and a
lack of a well structured training program. In response to this problem, ASIF II focuses heavily on
delivering the needed capacity building service through: (a) the creation of a special Training and
Technical Assistance Coordination Unit, responsible for assessing, organizing, and coordinating
training and technical assistance at the local level; (b) enhanced micro-project training programs for
local governments and communities in the preparation, design, implementation, and operation and
maintenance of micro-projects, as well as on ASIF procedures and methods of ensuring quality of
works, through the services of qualified trainers, additional resources and better organization and
management of training programs; (c) new training programs for local government officials in
financial management, budgeting, taxation and asset management, building on the work of other
donors in these areas; (d) sector specific training programs for community-based organizations and
community members involved in micro-project activities; and (e) special training to contractors on
technical norms and standards, competitive bidding processes, and ASIF procedures.
(6) Importance of Monitoring and Evaluation mechanisms such as beneficiary assessments, client
satisfaction surveys, and other more directly participatory methods of client involvement in
monitoring and evaluation to monitor outcomes on the ground. The aim is to develop and set up a
systematic approach to monitoring and evaluating the impact of development activities and adjusting
related policies and programs on a continuing basis. Under ASIF 11, a special Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit was created to systematically collect data from other departments, analyze such data
and prepare regular progress reports for review and decision making by ASIF Management. In
addition, five impact assessments would be carried out, one at the end of each project year, and
special studies done on project sustainability, stakeholder participation, skill transfers, and
institutional development.
(7) Need to Minimize Delays in Micro-project Delivery: One of the main reasons for delays in the
completion of micro-projects has been the number of change orders received during micro-project
construction, over the 15% limit. Under ASIF II, the 15% limit will be strictly enforced and the
payment process will be simplified through a lump sum contracting procedure (with broad
expenditure groupings), in place of the current procedure which has a very large number of line
items per contract.
(8) Need for More Decentralized Decision Making: Under ASIF, steps were taken to encourage
decentralized decision making at the local level -- which has proven to help make projects demand
driven and to strengthen project ownership. These efforts are intensified under ASIF II by: (a)
building partnerships and stakeholder participation at the local level through information
dissemination and active involvement of stakeholders at all stages of the project cycle; (b) enhancing
project ownership through enforcement of maintenance agreements between the local government
and ASIF, promoting the provision of line items in local government budgets for operations and
- 28 -



maintenance of completed facilities, flexibility in generating community contributions based on
capacity to pay, and monitoring of project sustainability; and (c) progressively building local
capacity with the objective of preparing communities towards direct contracting of works.
(9) Matching Fund Arrangements: A total of US$2 million was set aside from the ASIF Credit to
finance micro-projects dollar-to-dollar, as a matching fund to attract private contributions. One of
the lessons learned was that private sponsors chose projects without reference to the formal criteria
set out in the Operational Manual. In response to this issue, under ASIF II donors can choose from
a pre-selected list of micro-projects, ranked according to project selection criteria established in the
Operational Manual. To control the amount going to each region, the total sponsor contribution to a
particular region cannot exceed 30 percent of the total amount allocated to that region.
(10) Need to Refine Micro-project Cost Calculations and Cost Effectiveness: The
cost-effectiveness analysis of ASIF micro-projects highlighted the need for: (a) information on the
full cost of micro-projects, including ASIF overheads, on a more accurate and explicit basis; (b)
continually monitoring the cost of micro-projects through well designed progress reports; (c)
developing a framework for implementing cost efficiency measures; and (d) a framework for
formulating budgets for future years. A cost accounting system, as part of the upgraded MIS, is
therefore, essential and would provide ASIF Management, on a quarterly basis, with a well
organized information system to ensure cost effective use of public funds in meeting the basic social
infrastructure needs of the poor. Such information will also be transmitted in quarterly progress
reports to the Bank to help assess the cost effectiveness in the use of IDA and public funds in
meeting the social infrastructure needs of the poor.
(11) Importance of Community Contribution: One of the effective mechanisms for community
participation and local resource mobilization adopted by the ASIF has been the mandatory
community contribution (in cash and in kind). This local contribution requirement provides
communities with incentives for choosing investments with high public good value as well as
motivation for operation and maintenance of micro-projects. During ASIF implementation, it was
found that a number of poor communities could not come up with the required 15% contribution,
and several projects with high potential benefits to the poor had to be dropped. As a result, the ASIF
lowered the community contribution to 10% for all micro-projects, with a minimum of 5% for poor
communities, based on assessment of poverty and capacity to pay. Under ASIF II, this flexible
approach is continued, with cash contributions coming from local authorities, community members,
and alternate sources. In addition, contributions include labor provided by community members and
in-kind contributions, mainly construction materials.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1
Borrower's Contribution to ICR
Implementation Completion Report
ON A CREDIT No. IDA 27840-AM
FOR THE ARMENIAN SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
MARCH 20, 2001
- 29 -



I. Introduction
The Armenian Social Investment Fund (hereinafter ASIF) commenced its activities in January 1996. The
ASIF goal is to support the most vulnerable groups among the Armenian population through the
rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure of the country and creation of employment
opportunities. ASIF's ideology and approaches are based on the principle that the communities should
identify their problems and participate in all the stages of the microproject implementation.
According to the Credit Agreement with the World Bank it was anticipated that at least US$ 20,0 million
would be disbursed during four-year activities of ASIF-1. This amount comprises US$ 12,0 million (SDR
8.1 million) World Bank credit, donations of Donor countries, contribution of the Government of Armenia,
private entities' and individuals' contribution, and contributions of beneficiary communities. Of the World
Bank Credit US$ 2 million is the matching fund. Within these limits the WB will provide an amount equal
to contributions provided to the ASIF by private entities or organizations.
The distribution of the ASIF funds by regions is fulfilled on the basis of their social and economic
conditions and the number of population.
II. Assessment of promect obiectives, design. implementation and operational experience
1. Original Obiectives:
The primary objectives of the ASIF project are:
a.    improve the living standards of communities through the provision of needed funding for
rehabilitation of small-scale social and economic infrastructure;
b.    assist communities and grassroots organizations in increasing their technical and managerial
capacities for micro-project preparation and implementation, and encouraging the attitude of self-help;
c.     provide employment generation through involvement of private contractors in labor-intensive
micro-projects;
d.    enhance the capacity of local organizations and private enterprises, involved in micro-projects,
to work in conditions of market economy; and
e.    participate in studies aimed at the improvement of the information database essential for the
improvement of the living standards of the population of Armenia.
2. Revised obiectives: none
3. Design:
The ASIF Project has 4 components:
Financing of ASIF microprojects to support of small-scale infrastructure;
Institutional support for the ASIF;
Capacity building of Small Contractors, Implementing Agencies and Communities;
Support for Living Conditions Monitoring by financing of two household surveys.
4.  Implementation and operational experience
Financing of ASIF microprojects to support of small-scale infrastructure
The ASIF finances implementation of microprojects of the following types:
Social Infrastructure
Rehabilitation or construction of local medical facilities, pre-school institutions and schools,
rehabilitation of orphanages, old age homes and houses for veterans, community centers.
- 30 -



Economic Infrastructure
Rehabilitation or construction of local potable water and irrigation networks, village carts roads
and access roads, power generating facilities, telegraph/telephone lines for small and isolated
village communities.
Sanitation and Environmental Infrastructure
Rehabilitation and enlargement of sewerage networks, disposal and treatment of solid and liquid
waste, environmental improvement in small towns and villages, erosion control activity.
Since 1996, the ASIF received 726 micro-project proposals, of which 334 were approved and 259
micro-projects completed. Data on micro-projects completed by typology are presented in Table
below. The approximate average cost of each micro-project was US$50,000 and it was increased to
$75,000 during the last years. Demand for micro-projects was very significant and demonstrated the
very high priority of communities for rehabilitation of infrastructure facilities. During the ASIF life
period, over 550 community meetings were organized with the participation of 150,000 community
members, of whom 61,000 were women.
Micro-project Type           Total Number of  Total Cost by
MPs            types
(in 1,000 USD)
Community Centers                                   5            149.78
Education Facilities                                   91         5,619.16
Health Facilities                                      12          522.99
Irrigation                                             29         1,721.40
Landscaping4_                                                      136.32
Orphanages, Old Age Houses                              6          221.79
Other      _  _                                         9          381.50
Poable Wates                                           84         3,624.45
Roads                                                   5          216.98
Sewage                                                  9          205.62
Telephone/Telegraph                                     1           49.11
Waste                                                   4           74.44
Total                                             259         12,923.52
Strengths:    ASIF's activity covered all regions of the Republic of Armenia. All microprojects
received are demand driven. By the completion of the project, it is estimated that approximately
640,000 community members benefited from the project and the ASIF's response to their
community's demand for priority social needs.
Weaknesses: Beneficiary assessments pointed out the need for complementary actions within
types of projects, such as furniture, equipment and other inputs in tandem with infrastructure for
school projects, or training for water and irrigation microprojects.
World Bank's requirement on the lowest cost selection of a contractor, frequently caused the
situation when the contractors understate their bid cost to obtain the job by all means.
Institutional support for the ASIF
This component supports the ASIF through the provision of equipment, vehicles, salaries, operating
costs, training, technical assistance and monitoring and evaluation.
The ASIF Executive office was created, which is capable to implement 120 to 150 microprojects a
year. The employees selected on competitive basis attended special courses and gained significant
experience during the years of the ASIF's operation. The powerful computerized accounting and MIS
- 31 -



based on high-speed computer network enable to generate not only any report necessary, but also to
follow-up the progress of each microproject. An international consultant experienced in construction
and rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure supported the ASIF management. An
international and local assistance was provided to maintain MIS. In 1997, 1999 and 2000 three
sociological studies were conducted aimed at the assessment of the impact of the ASIF activity.
Strengths:    The existence of the ASIF Executive office with experienced employees.
Weaknesses:  Limited number of special training sessions and study tours.
*.    Capacity building of Small contractors, Implementing Agencies and Communities:
The goal of this component was to support private sector development by increasing technical and
managerial capacity of local contractors, lAs and communities. The component was to provide
training and assistance on competitive bidding, the preparation of contracts as well as monitoring
work progress by lAs and communities.
About 700 community committees were set up that are able to consolidate communities, carry out
tenders, organize and supervise the ongoing construction work and assure operation and
maintenance of the microproject. Even after the completion of the microproject some of them
continue their activities aimed at the provision of sustainability of the facility and at the
implementation of another microproject for the community's sake. In addition, this reflected
substantial efforts made by the ASIF team to educate communities as part of its promotional efforts
in explaining project objectives, micro-project selection criteria and micro-project cycle as well as all
issues connected to procurement of works and goods and supervision and maintenance of works.
ASIF supported private sector development through contracts with small
construction firms. The construction works have been carried out by 178 private small-scale
contractors, the majority of whom were new. Private Contractors learned to work in new social and
economic conditions. A total of 294 pre-tender conferences were organized by the ASIF benefiting
both contractors and members of lAs.
Strengths: New enterprises and small contractors were provided with training to increase their
managerial capacity and construction trades under this component. The training was also
provided to local government personnel, NGOs and Implementing agencies.
Weaknesses: The lack of special training and technical assistance by microproject typology
concerning sustainability issues.
Support for Monitoring living conditions by financing of two household surveys.
State Department of Statistics was financed under this component to enhance its methods for
conducting sampling and household consumption surveys, and conducting two special household
surveys.
The first survey (Priority Survey) was Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) type survey of
the Armenian population on a sample of 5000 households. The SDS succeeded in adopting new
statistical methods. Special training was provided to the SDS staff. This survey produced a new set
of poverty indicators and survey results were presented to various Government sectors and the
donor community. The second Household survey was done on a sample of 3,600 households and
included a questionnaire, a diary for expenditures and incomes, and was based on the World Bank
Integrated Survey and the LSMS. The survey was completed in 1999. The surveys data were used
extensively for analytical work on poverty and living standards in Armenia which led to a greater
understanding of the diverse characteristics of poverty, and for the development of the poverty
targeting strategy under the second ASIF project.
Strengths: Both surveys helped to improve sampling techniques, survey design and
organization, data processing and analysis done by the SDS.
Weaknesses: In practice, data from the two surveys conducted was not actually used to
- 32 -



enhance targeting of ASIF funds to poorest regions. The Government is yet unable to sustain the
poverty monitoring system program fully and continues to rely on donor funding.
111. Evaluation of Borrower and Bank Performance
*.    Bank
The overall Bank performance in preparing and supervising the project was Satisfactory. The project'
s primary objectives were well defined from the beginning and project components fit well with those
objectives and responded to the needs of the country experiencing difficult transition period. During
project implementation, the Bank team was very professional and committed, providing continuous
assistance on all implementation related issues, and worked very efficiently in close contact with the
ASIF team and with Government officials. Though at the end of 1996 the provision of the second
tranch of the Dutch Grant (NETH 20343-AM) was somewhat delayed by the reason of documents
lost, no other delays took place in disbursement process. In 1998 the Bank treated positively the
Government's request to re-direct some additional funds to the Earthquake zone, which shows the
Bank's deep understanding of the Borrower's important problems.
Borrower
The Borrower's performance is rated as Satisfactory. Strong Government commitment and interest
was continuously expressed for the ASIF. The valuable endorsement of it is the fact that Prime
Minister of Armenia is heading the ASIF Board. Though the Government's counterpart financing was
by USD 159 thousand less than it was anticipated nevertheless high level of communities' and local
Governments' contribution allowed completing the entire Project successfully.
The ASIF Executive Office was the main coordinating unit for Project implementation, and worked
extremely diligently on all aspects of project execution. Following strictly to the provisions of the
Operation Manual allowed the ASIF avoiding numerous difficulties during the Project execution. The
Operation Manual was created at the Project pilot phase with the joint efforts of the Bank's team and
ASIF staff. Several changes in the Operational Manual reflecting the improvements in ASIF working
procedures were done during the Project implementation. The ASIF team worked very
enthusiastically on project implementation, was dedicated to ensuring essential community
participation in the project, and worked extremely well with the Bank and with other donors and
sponsors who also participated in the project.
IV. Lessons learnt
*:    The approach to rehabilitation of small-scale social infrastructure based on community
participation proved its viability. Even the poorest communities are able to participate in all stages of
micro-project implementation from identification and appraisal to provision of their contribution and
supervision of construction works.
Beneficiaries positively accept the idea of competitive selection of construction organization.
The Matching Fund mechanism for the financing of micro-projects could be used very efficiently
in addition to traditional schemes of financing.
*:-    The quality of construction works to the high extent depends on the project design and
supervision diligence. Though the quality of construction works in ASIF project has been improved
significantly nevertheless it is still subject to further improvement. Detailed recommendations of the
Bank's supervising missions and two Procurement and Technical reviews on this issue have been
incorporated in the design of ASIF-2 project.
Efficient mechanisms of micro-project sustainability should be developed through provision of
technical assistance and training to the communities and local governments.
- 33 -



V. Sustainability
The ASIF Project sustainability is substantiated by large number of implemented demand-driven
micro-projects that have solved the most acute social problems of the communities, number of
beneficiaries including the most vulnerable groups of population and by their high opinion of all aspects
of ASIF activity reflected in Impact Assessment reports. Sustainability of the ASIF Project is by all
means based on sustainability of implemented micro-projects, which always was regarded as a key
issue. Monitoring not provided for micro-projects after completion leaves a gap for ensuring still higher
sustainability. This will be partially overcome in ASIF i1 Project by two main factors:
-     changes in typology and maximum permitted cost concerning school micro-projects, that will
allow to implement more complete micro-projects including boiler houses and provision of school
furniture;
-      a new component for Local-Level Institution Building.
The latter has more strategic significance. Under the new component local governments will receive
special training closely linked to the ASIF micro-projects, especially in such areas as planning and
budgeting. And community based organizations (school councils, Water User Associations), school
principals and school accountants will receive special sector training covering all aspects of
sustainability.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOOs/private sectol):
10. Additional Information
- 34 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Imeact Indicators:
IndliaolrMatrix                    Pr**Wd in ast PSR                     Ac%#LAt Eta
1) Complete 500 small-scale micro-projects  248 micro-projects completed   259 micro-projects completed of the total 712
proposals received.
2) 480,000 beneficiaries of micro-projects   624,000 beneficiaries         640,000 beneficiaries
3) Improve living conditions of the poorest   Over 90% of micro-projects were carried out Over 90% of micro-projects were carried out
among the population by financing    in the very poorest regions           in the very poorest regions.
small-scale infrastructure projects in the
poorest regions
4) Generate employment, with creation of   4,500 persons received employment, of  Approximately 5,160 persons received
8,400 unskilled jobs for an average period of which 1/3 were for skilled jobs.  employment under ASIF for the duration of 5
4 months; creation of 500 skilled jobs                                      months, of which 1,720 were skilled jobs.
5) Stregthen capacity of small-scale  177 contractors participated in the project   178 contractors participated in the project,
contractors with the goal of having 450  and roughly 330 were trained.     the majority of which were small-scale
contracts w/ small-size contractors and 450                                 contractors, with staff of less than 50 people.
contractors trained by the project                                          More than 350 constnuction firms received
training during pre-tender conferences.
6) all projects managed by elected   All projects were identified and implemented  All projects were identified and implemented
micro-project committee.             by implementing agencies elected by   by implementing agencies elected by
communlites.                          communiites.
Output Indicators:
lncdicalor/MatrIx        _ld In .t _M                                    A           E--l
1) Procurement and Technical Reviews                                       2 Procurement and Technical Reviews
conducted annually                                                         canried out during the project
2) Beneficiary assessments conducted                                       3 Beneficiary assessments completed
annually
3) Project financial audits carried out                                     5 financial audits carried out
annually
4) A functioning MIS system in place                                        MIS system was developed and operated
during the project, providing important
financial and other information for project
implementation purposes.
5) 2 Household surveys conducted                                           2 Household surveys completed and reports
provided
6) Staff of State Department of Statistics                                  The project made significant contribution to
trained in survey design, implementation and                                capacity building of SDS staff to collect and
poverty monitoring.                                                        analyze data on household incomes,
expenditures and consumption.
End of project
- 35 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appra ; isal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Esiate    lEstinate       Appraisal
Project Cost By  P0Compone            tJ$ mifin    US miillion
1. Rehabilitation of Small-Scale InfrastructLre      15.70          13.37             85
2. Institutional Support to ASIF                      1.90           2.43            128
3. Capacity Building                                  0.40           0.01            2.5
4. Support for Monitoring Living Conditions           0.50           0.43             86
5. Project Preparation Facility                       0.40           0.19             48
Total Baseline Cost                                  18.90          16.43
Physical Contingencies                               0.90
Price Contingencies                                  0.20
Total Project Costs             20.00           16.43
Total Financing Required              20.00          16.43
Note: Actual project expenditures in the above table do not include additional in-kind contribution of
US$1.02 million which was provided during the course of the project, including approximately US$0.52
million by communities, US$0.3 million by central Government in the form of office rent for ASIF, and
US$0.2 million by local governments.
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
ExedtueCtgory                               NCR            ter l .' N 1 F.        Total Cost
1. Works                       0.00           11.90         2.30         0.00         14.20
(0.00)         (5.90)        (1.00)       (0.00)       (6.90)
2. Goods                       0.00           0.00          1.10         0.00          1.10
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.80)       (0.00)       (0.80)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00          2.80         0.00          2.80
(0.00)         (0.00)        (2.40)       (0.00)       (2.40)
4. Operating Costs             0.00           0.00          1.50         0.00          1.50
(0.00)         (0.00)       (1.50)        (0.00)       (1.50)
5. PPF                         0.00           0.00          0.40         0.00          0.40
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.40)       (0.00)       (0.40)
Total                       0.00           11.90         8.10          0.00        20.00
(0.00)         (5.90)        (6.10)       (0.00)       (12.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method&
expenditure Category    N0C'                        Ttw CostN.S.F.          T
1. Works                     0.00          13.20        0.17          0.00        13.37
(0.00)       (8.54)       (0.11)       (0.00)        (8.65)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00          0.49         0.00         0.49
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.20)       (0.00)        (0.20)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         0.67          0.00         0.67
- 36 -



(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.48)          (0.00)        (0.48)
4. Operating Costs                0.00           0.00            1.71           0.00           1.71
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.50)          (0.00)        (1.50)
5. PPF                            0.00           0.00           0.19            0.00          0.19
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0. 1 9)        (0.00)        (0.19)
Total                          0.00           13.20           3.23           0.00          16.43
(0.00)         (8.54)         (2.48)          (0.00)        (1 1.02)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal:Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA       Govt.      CoF.       IDA       Govt       CoF.    IDA    Govt   Co.
1. Rehabilitation of      9.30       1.00       6.50      8.65       0.48       4.24     93.0   48.0   65.2
Small-Scale Infrastructure
2. Institutional Support to  1.50    0.00       0.40       1.84      0.06       0.53    122.7   0.0   132.5
ASIF
3. Capacity Building      0.40       0.00       0.00      0.01       0.00       0.00     2.5    0.0    0.0
4. Support for Monitoring  0.40      0.00       0.10      0.33       0.00       0.10     82.5    0.0   100.0
Living Conditions
5. Project Preparation    0.40       0.00       0.00      0.19       0.00       0.00     47.5           0.0
Facility
- 37 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 38 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Projcct Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty              Perfoncc Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty                       Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
June 30, 1994               4   Task Manager
Statistician/Demographer
Infrastructure specialist
Microenterprise specialist
October 18, 1994            5   Task Manager
Infrastructure specialist
Social Fund Analyst
Operations Specialist
Microenterprise specialist
Survey specialist
December 17,                1   Task Manager
1994
Appraisal/Negotiation
May 14, 1995                5   Task Manager
Implementation specialist
Microenterprise specialist
Social Fund specialist
Engineer/Architect
September 22,               5   Task Manager
1995                             Legal Counsel
Disbursement Officer
Procurement Advisor
Project Implementation spec.
Supervision
April 14, 1996               4   Task Manager                        HS             HS
Implementation Specialist
Project Managem. consultant
Statistician/Demographer
July 6, 1996                 3   Task Manager                        S               S
Implementation Specialist
Project Managem. consultant
October 21, 1996             5   Task Manager                        S               S
Implementation Specialist
Project Managem. consultant
Statistician.Demograpber
Architect
March 22, 1997               3   Task Manager                        S               S
Implementation Specialist
Project Managem. consultant
October 9, 1997             4   Task Manager                         S               S
Senior Social Economist
Project Managem. consultant
Project Managem. assistant
- 39-



April 17, 1998               5   Task Manager                        S               S
Senior Social Economist
Implementation Specialist
Operations Analyst
Mentoring Program Recipient
November 23,                 4   Task Manager                        S               S
1998                             SIF specialist
Operations Officer
Financial Management Officer
April 30, 1999               6   Task Manager                        S               S
Operations Officer
Financial Management Officer
Implementation Specialist
Civil Works Specialist
HR Management Spec.
S              S
November 7, 2000             4   Task Manager                        S               S
Program Team Leader
Operations Officer
Financial Management Officer
ICR
November 7,                 2    Task Manager                        S               S
2000                             Program Team Leader
(b) Staff-
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
_No. Staff weeks             uS$ COOO)
Identification/Preparation               60.2                      106,500
Appraisal/Negotiation                    34.6                       60,700
Supervision                            162.84                      273,392
ICR                                        5.5                       9,300
Total                                  263.14                      449,892
-40 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
F Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
? Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
X Institutional Development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
E? Gender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
l Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
X Private sector development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
z Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
L Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Rating for Achievement of Social Objectives (Other):  Community development and involvement at the
local level in micro-projects financed by the ASIF.
- 41 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
2 Lending                                             OHS*S OU OHU
X Supervision                                         OHS OS  Ou  OHU
M Overall                                             OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
X Preparation                                         O HS * S   O  U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance               0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
E Implementation agency performance                   0 HS * S  0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS 0 U  O HU
- 42 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
ASIF Staff Appraisal Report, October 23, 1995.
ASIF project Aide-memoires, 1996-2000.
Audited Project Financial Statements, 1997-2001.
Procurement and Technical Assessments, 1998 and 2001.
Quality of Works Review Report, 1999.
Beneficiary Assessments, 1997, 1999, 2001.
Household survey reports: 1997 and 2001.
Operational Manual (last updated in 2000).
Miscellaneous disbursement, financial and procurement information.
- 43 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 29596
GEORGIA                                 . oDiso                                                                                         GEORGIA                                                                                          4
>TEgrnokz __i               1  _.                               )          . .                                                                                               UKRAINE              
-z~ s ,S.                               + 4 >Toshir  Al-verdi  NyemeriSn RUSSIAN                                                                                                                                             STAN
sgl '.r~             -~                                                           To KookE                                                                                STOVANJ4 f,0    FErD :                                   GERHATRSI<ONE  . - . KA<7ZE6AJFIFDE NSTAR
VTeor~~~     "0Ashqsk       &'
41''.;              lqhSthop'o,> rne.ei Ko > In i_OIA
t /  f P- -    Aragats  ) \  AZIT\HRAZDAN  r- C,   >    _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)--                                                                                              d
< .}                           Sp'.k              0I                            4           CEe'd                                               MINGECHAiLRSY URKOYE                                               AZER-BAIA'S.        . ,
>   g  >   ,,(    Edhmiodzig;;  N YEiEVAN  _-.   >  ,  .      <         =<o             \                                                          ?   RESERVOIRS~~~~~~~~~~~RSERVIR                   N5TA
G       . _ !                   VANADO                                                     /           /                                             RESERVOIR                         TURKEY        '         -AZEREAL             T ANTAL
0Korroct%                              t              ,.-i                    
TcRcEY.            Eec                                      --- ;
AkEvr,oe                                           *' qkh,JVaik                                          ' 01'11.,    '                                                                                               f. -.
AOe-                                                                                                                                                                                              SYRIAN f                       ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
\  Artik                                                                              0Arlsos-h-r                                                            $O*OpY                RElP   -    RAQ  /OF IRAN
Morolik ~  ~       ~       . OApcrc                                Kecee  }k o      _ ?Cf 4'            .'c SiinO-0fGoi
SorocEEp o                             A,  _                    c      i                                         AZERBAIJAN
5-~ ~ ~ ~~~~A.
losalPs o~f                      A,..t          b        U       b 0  oRAZ:d\( 
44_              /                                      4~ARA~  i$ MAAYR~                                                                           I~4f4<                                                                      99E. REPUBLIC  OF  ARMENIA
ASHTARAKkoevLO
R ESERVOIRS
d  VAN                                                                                                             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED) TOWNS!/VILLAGES
0           ~~V.rcri                                                                       REGION (MARZI CAPITALS
*NATIONAL CAPITAL
RI.-   VERT
40'  4VAKSR  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                                                                                                               PRIMARY ROADS                                   40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RMAY ODS4
RTASHAT~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~444  RAILROADS
REGION (MAARZI BOUNDARIES
I -NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
;EEGNADDOR  /0
TURKEY                                                      t               <           *'t          '    ~    .-N
-.  -. -                                ~~~~~AZERBAIJAN                   /              op                -
(NACHITbhVAN}                                          hev    
ISLAMIC                          A,~P                                                                                        ~0                   1          0         3         0Mh
Ar e~ 0040 porAuo.d                             REPUBLIC                                                                                                1        IZnee                              02                  DA  ie
-f- ~ep -.e,Reoe#oo                                        OF IRAN                                                                                                                                  U     1      D     3      D     5      CKlmlr
OlOOrodeeA: 00   1
Do39 op ooy o4erre.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0-No      39
44                -                                     45                                                                                                                                                                  4
MAY 1 998



