                                                                                                                  92504
In Armenia, Community Gets Warm School It Asked For                                                               March 31, 2006
                                          RAZDAN, Armenia – After years of physical neglect and loss of families to economic migration,
                                          the Number 7 Secondary School here has made a striking comeback. With its gleaming slanted
                                          roof, new walls, modern windows and autonomous heating system, it is the brightest thing
                                          around on the outskirts of Razdan, a bleak industrial town set on a high plateau north of Yerevan.

                                          Across a small field, the crumbling facades of two multi-story dormitories for seasonal workers
                                          give an inkling of what the school’s conditions used to be before its reconstruction: unsafe,
                                          shaken and cracked by the 1988 earthquake, and freezing in the winter-time.

                                         In a region where the poverty rate is over 50 percent
and factories slumber, residents would have had little hope for change if it weren’t for a special
institution known as the Armenian Social Investment Fund (ASIF), created with World Bank
financing.

ASIF has supported more than 500 small community projects across the country and had an
impact on tens of thousands of rural and urban Armenians since it started its activities in January
1996. The institution seeks to involve ordinary people at every step: citizens select their most
pressing needs, submit a proposal to the Fund and cover 10 percent of a micro-project’s cost
through contributions in cash, building materials or labor.

Education is a priority

Although the suburb of Razdan lacks drinking water, residents gathered in a town hall meeting organized by ASIF chose the reconstruction
the Number 7 School as their top priority – a sign of education’s place of honor in Armenian society and a reflection of the building’s
particularly alarming condition.

                                   Things were not always so dire, remembers Onik Sahakyan, 65, who retired as the school’s principal in
                                   2005. Sahakyan began his career as a math teacher at the four-classroom schoolhouse which used to
                                   be in the village center, now considered a suburb of Razdan. When the school moved in 1973 to its
                                   present location, “the school had central heating and was in good shape,” says Sahakyan.

                                   Under the Soviet Union’s peculiar rules of accounting, the school was part of a supportive network:
                                   heating was provided by the local state-owned power plant and subsidies flowed in from the local state-
                                   owned cement factory, one of Armenia’s largest.

When the Soviet Union collapsed, so did this support. A nationwide blockade and energy crisis forced Razdan into a steep decline. In
2003, cement production in Armenia (concentrated in Razdan and Ararat) was still only a quarter of what it was in 1990. The Razdan
power plant barely functioned after 1991 and the school’s pupils were left to shiver.

Struggling to keep warm

“We were unable to teach, it was so cold. We asked villagers if we could conduct lessons in their houses,” says the former principal. A
kerosene program run by USAID in the mid 1990s tied the school over for some time. Parents also collected wood to warm the classes.
But because of the region’s extremely harsh winters, the school was forced to close its doors each year between December 20th and
mid-February.

With the loss of central heating, the school exposed to icy drafts and leaks, rapidly deteriorated. School enrollment also suffered as a third
of the area’s families left for Russia or Europe in search of a better life. The school had fewer than 100 students in June 2005, down from
250 a decade earlier.

Students are returning

Now, for the first time, student rolls are increasing: 20 new students signed up at the beginning
of the school year. The school, fully reconstructed in the summer of 2005, was granted the
permission to teach 12 grades instead of 10 and will produce its first high school graduates in two
years.

Sahakyan hopes the new school will help the community stay put. The new gym will double as a
gathering hall and the school has plans to give the district population access to its computers for
a fee. “No one has left the school this year. They’re only coming,” he says proudly.


                                                                     ***
Read more about the World Bank projects behind this success: Social Investment Fund I (1995-2000),  Social Investment Fund II (2000-
2005). A follow-up project funded with a Japanese grant, is in the works.
