CREDIT NUMBER 2784 AM
Development Credit Agreement
(Social Investment Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  J 0 V GMZPe  S-  ,1995


﻿CREDIT NO. 2784 AM
Development Credit Agreement
AGREEMENT dated 0 V Ey"S 67e /  1995, between REPUBLIC OF
ARMENIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)    the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "SIF" means Social Investment Fund established pursuant to Decree No.
165 of the Prime Minister, dated September 12, 1995.
(b)    "SDS" means the State Department of Statistics, Analysis and State
Register.
(c)    "Microproject" means a subproject eligible, in accordance with the
provisions of the Operational Manual, for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and in respect of which SIF has entered into a Framework Agreement.
(d)    "Sponsored Microproject" means a Microproject to be financed, on a
pari passu basis, out of the proceeds of the Credit and the proceeds of private sector
contributions.


﻿2
(e)    "Microprojects" means any one or more Microproject and Sponsored
Microproject, collectively.
(f)    "Microproject Committee" means a committee established in accordance
with the provisions of the Operational Manual for carrying out Microprojects.
(g)    "Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Association,
containing eligibility criteria and appraisal, approval and supervision rules and
procedures for Microprojects, as well as other administrative rules to be followed by
SIF, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Association and SIF;
(h)    "Framework Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into
between SIF and an Implementing Agency, for purposes of carrying out a Microproject
or a Sponsored Microproject on terms and conditions as specified in the Operational
Manual, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(i)    "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated
August 24, 1994 and January 12, 1995 between the Borrower and the Association.
(j)    "Special account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement.
(k)    "Implementing Agency" means a local government, non-governmental
organization, Microproject Committee or other organization which meets all eligibility
criteria under the Operational Manual and is responsible for carrying out a Microproject
or a sponsored Microproject under a Framework Agreement with SIF.
(1)    "Project Account A" means the account referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement;
(m)    "Project Account B" means the account referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of
this Agreement;
(n)    "MIS" means Management Information System, the computerized,
internal monitoring system of SIF providing up-to-date data on operations to SIF
management.


﻿3
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to eight million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such date as the
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of


﻿4
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions
of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
March I and September 1 commencing March 1, 2006 and ending September 1, 2030.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 1, 2015 shall be
one and one-fourth per cent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as determined
by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above,
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.


﻿5
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE m
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project through SIF with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, environmental and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b)    Without limitation upon any of its obligations under paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain Project Account A in local currency and
replenish said Project Account A not later than June 15 and December 15 of each
calendar year, so that the amount deposited in said Project Account A at the beginning of
each semii-annual period shall not be less than the equivalent of $80,000; and (ii) use said
Project Account A for financing the Borrower's contribution to the Project expenditures.
(c)    The Borrower shall open and maintain Project Account B in a
commercial bank into which contributions from the private sector are to be deposited
and from which expenditures under each Sponsored Microprojects are to be financed on
a pai pau basis with the proceeds of the Credit.
(d)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a
plan for the future operation of the Project; and


﻿6
(b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause SIF to maintain records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause SIF to:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause
SIF to:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;


﻿7
(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Condition, the
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Operating Manual, or any
provision thereof, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in
such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of SIF to carry out the
Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a)    The MIS, including the accounting system, shall be fully operational on
the basis of indicators satisfactory to the Association;
(b)    SIF shall have selected and appointed a resident technical advisor to the
General Manager of SIF with qualifications and under the terms of reference acceptable
to the Association;
(c)    SIF shall have selected and appraised at least twenty-five Microprojects,
with a total cost of at least the equivalent of $500,000, in accordance with the rules and
procedures specified in the Operational Manual; and
(d)    the Borrower shall have opened Project Account A in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association with an initial deposit in
local currency equivalent to $80,000.


﻿8
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
1, Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan 375010
Armenia
Telex:
243331 LADA SU
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:             Telex:
INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By /OEA / *fft~~A 1W4I-2- A)
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /5I       ~      ~     IU1b7&
4e14k    Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit             % of
Allocated          Expenditures
(Expressed in         to be
Category                    SDR Equivalent)      Financed
(1)    Goods, works and
services in respect
of Microprojects
(a)    Microprojects (other    3,910,000        90%
than Sponsored
Microprojects) under
Part A of the Project
(b)    Sponsored               1,350,000        50%
Microprojects
under Part A of the
Project
(2)    Goods under Parts B              340,000        100% of
and D of the Project                            foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 80%
of local
expenditures
for other items
procured
locally


﻿11
Amount of the
Credit             % of
Allocated          Expenditures
(Expressed in         to be
Caegory                     SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(3)    Technical                       740,000         100%
assistance and
training
(4)    Incremental operating           810,000         100%
costs of SIF and SDS
(5)    Refunding of                    270,000         Amounts due
Project                                         pursuant to
Preparation                                     Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                         of this
Agreement
(6)    Unallocated                     680,000
TOTAL                   8,100,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "incremental operating costs" means incremental operating costs of
SIF incurred on account of the Project, including: (i) staff salaries and allowances
(provided, however, that government officials may be considered SIF staff for this
purpose only if relieved of their governmental responsibilities and assigned to SIF on a
full time basis); (ii) office maintenance, utilities and telecommunications; and (iii) office
equipment and consumable supplies.


﻿12
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) for Microprojects
and goods under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; (ii) for services provided
by consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $30,000 equivalent; and (iii) for
services provided by individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $10,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the lower income groups among the
Armenian population through improvement of basic social services and creation of
employment opportunities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A: Microprojects in Rehabilitation of Small-Scale Infrastructure
Carrying out Microprojects for rehabilitation of local clinics, primary schools,
sanitation work and water supply, energy saving repairs, repair of feeder roads, and
rehabilitation of degraded village and town environments through cleanup and tree
planting, and rehabilitation of other infrastructure in accordance with the provisions of
the Operational Manual.
Part B: Institutional Support for SIF
Strengthening of SIF's operational capacity through:
(a)    provision of training and technical assistance to SIF staff in the areas of
financial planning, management, participatory community development, institutional
analysis, contracting and bidding procedures, project supervision and computer training;
and
(b)    provision of equipment and vehicles.
Part C: Capacity Building of Small Contractors. Implementing Agencies and
Communities
(a)    Provision of technical assistance and training to small construction firms
and other micro-enterprises to increase their technical and managerial capacity.
(b)    Provision of training to local governments personnel, non-governmental
organizations and Microproject Committees in community participation, conducting
competitive bidding, preparing contracts, and monitoring work progress.


﻿14
Part D: Support for Monitoring Living Conditions
(a)    Assistance in improvement of the methods of SDS for conducting
sampling and household surveys.
(b)    Carrying out of two household surveys by SDS.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section 1.    Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable.
Part B: Procurement Procedures
1.     National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or less per contract and $5,900,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.     Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not to
exceed $600,000 in the aggregate, may be procured under lump sum, fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotations for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to
successfully complete the contract.
3.     International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per contract and $500,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.     National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract and $300,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the


﻿16
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.     Community Participation
Works in remote areas where contractors are not available estimated to cost
$30,000 equivalent or less per contract and $100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate
shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance. of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets,


﻿17
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment
of individuals estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent each. However, said
exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $30,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $10,000 equivalent or above.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.     SIF shall ensure that (a) Microprojects are identified, appraised, approved,
implemented and evaluated in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in
the Operational Manual and the applicable Framework Agreement; and (b) SIF's
operations shall be carried out in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to
in the Operational Manual.
2.     The Borrower shall carry out, on an annual basis, an independent technical and
procurement review of implementation of Microprojects, with specific focus on
community related procurement and disbursement, under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association.
3.     The Borrower shall make publicly available the data generated under Part D of
the Project to promote wide use of the information by interested users and analysts.
4.     Prior to approval of Microprojects estimated to cost more than $50,000
equivalent, SIF shall furnish to the Association the draft Framework Agreement in
respect of any such Microprojects as may be reasonably requested by the Association
for the Association's review and approval.
5.     The Borrower shall: (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis in accordance with indicators satisfactory to
the Association the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof; and (b) not later than November 30, 1997, review with the Association the
progress made in the implementation of the Project, and thereafter take all necessary
measures to execute the actions, identified and agreed upon between the Association and
the Borrower during such review.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set
forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$800,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal
to or exceed the equivalent to SDR2,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request
or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
(b)    (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the


﻿20
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the. respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit
reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all


﻿21
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6. (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
- Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


