Docu_@t of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5729-IVC Type: (PR)
KAPS, F.  / X34726 / J8 061/ AFiCO               RepuitNo. P-5729-IVC
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 10.9 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOR A
PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
APRIL 15, 1992
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             CFAF Francs (CFAF)
US$1              =       CFAF 280 (December 1991)
CFAF 1 Million    8      US$3,571
SDR 1             D      US$1.373380
US$1              .       SDR 0.7281
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BVA         Bourse des Valeurs d'AbidJan (stock exchange)
CAM         Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (debt service agency
of the Ministry of Finance)
CT          Cellule Technique de Privatisation (technical secretariat
for privatization)
DCGTx       Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux (Government agency
in charge of carrying out major studies)
EPN         Etablissements Publics Nationaux (national public agencies)
FDC         Foreign Debt Committee
MEFP        Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Plan
MTF         Medium-Term Economic Framework
PAGE        Projet d'appui a la gestion economique (economic management
project)
PC          Privatization Committee
PE          Public Enterprises
PH          Prime Minister's office
PTS         Permanent Technical (Foreign Debt) Secretariat
SE          Societes d'Etat (state owned enterprises)
SECAL       Sector Adjustment Loan
SEM         Societes d'Economie Mixte (mixed parapublic enterprises)
SPAGE       Secretariat of the PAGE
FISCAL AND PROJECT YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMFCAL UJSE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of COte d'Ivoire
Main
Beneficiaries:    Prime Minister's Office; Ministry of Economy, Finance,
and Plan
Amount:           SDR 10.9 million (US$15 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard with 35 years' maturity, including 10 years
of grace
Financing Plan:   IDA:                 US$15.0 million eq.
Government :         USS 2.7 million eq.
Total                US$17.7 million eq.
Economic Rate
of Return:        Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:           Not applicable
Not applicable
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanem
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disctosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMOENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OP THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO TEE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOR A PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
1.          I submit for your approval the following memorandum and
recommendation on a proposed credit to the Republic of C8te d'Ivoire
(RCI) for SDR1O.9 million (US$15 million equivalent) to help finance a
privatization support project. The credit would be granted on IDA terms
with 35 years' maturity.
2.          Background.  After a long period of sustained growth and
external and internal stability during the 19609 and 19709, the RCI
economy has been in a state of prolonged crisis, especially since the
mid-1980s. A sharp decline in terms of trade after 1986 resulted in a
contraction of real GDP per capita of about 20 percent and fiscal and
current account deficits reached very high levels (17.6 percent and
11.1 percent of GDP respectively in 1989). Faced with this situation,
the Government launched a new economic reform program in mid-1989,
consicting of two phases. The first, or stabilization phase, was
supported by an 18-month !HF stand-by arrangement, approved in November
1989, and by three World Bank financed SECALs in the agriculture,
energy, and water supply and sanitation sectors, which were approved
between October 1989 and June 1990. The program focussed on improving
budgetary results and reducing internal arrears so as to improve private
sector liquidity and confidence as well as structural reforms in the key
sectors in order to provide a basis for restoring growth. The second
phase sought to address the key medium-term issues of competitiveness,
including tax and regulatory reform, financial sector reform,
privatization, human resource development and restructuring of public
debt.
3.          Substantial progress has been achieved in implementing the
structural reforms of the stabilization phase, as demonstrated by the
full disbursement of the three Bank financed SECALs, and in reducing the
fiscal deficit, which at the end of 1990 was at the level targeted by
the IHF program. However, the 1990 stabilization program did not
achieve all its objectives, particularly those related to the reduction
of internal and external arrears, which precluded the disbursement of
the last tranche - December 1990 - of the IMF program. The financial
situation for 1992 and beyond remains difficult and RCI still requires
large amounts of external assistance.
4.          In mid-1991, the Government adopted the next phase of the
program - the medium-term economic framework (MTF) - which was drawn up
in collaboration with Bank staff. It is designed to address the
remaining obstacles to economic recovery - tax and tariff reform,
deregulation, privatization, the restructuring of the financial sector,
and overall restructuring and reduction of RCI's foreign public and
publically guaranteed debt, which, at the end of 1990, stood at US$13



billion, equivalent to 125 percent of GDP. After an initial period of
continued recession, during which the MTF aims at enhancing factor
mobility and increasing the incentives for the production of tradeables,
the structural measures to be introduced should help restore RCI's
competitiveness by the end of 1992. They should also return the economy
to a stable and sustained growth path, of around 5 percent p.a. by 1995,
as well as re-establish creditworthiness. The MTF is accompanied by
three BankIlDA financed SECALs in support of financial sector, human
resources development and regulatory and competitiveness reforms,
approved between October and December 1991. In addition, RCI receives
assistance from the IP under a 12 mouth stand-by arrangement, ap-proved
in September 1991. This stand-by arrangement could be followed in due
course by an extended arrangement in support of a longer term program.
5.           As part of the MTF, and in an effort to reduce the weight
of the parapublic sector on public finance, the Government is launching
a major privatization program, while making efforts to rationalize those
enterprises which would remain in the public domain. To this end, the
Government announced in December 1990 a major divestiture program. A
high level Privatization Committee was set up which regroups
representatives of the Government and the private sector; it is assisted
by a secretariat of experienced Ivorian professionals. The Committee
falls under the responsibility of the Prime Minister; it is headed by
the Prime Minister's senior economic and financial advisor. Conscious
that in order to restore confidence in the RCI economy it has to
normalize relations with its creditors, the Government also intends to
prepare itself for a debt reduction/restructuring program. To this end,
a Foreign Debt Committee, chaired by the Minister of Finance, also to be
assisted by a secretariat, was set up in September 1991 to review ways
and means to reduce and restructure the Government's foreign commercial
debt. Finally, the Government came to realize that a well functioning
stock excharge would have to play a major role in any privatization and
debt restructuring program.
6.          ProJect Obiectives.  The key objectives of the proposed
project would be to assist in reducing Government holdings and
alleviating the recurrent administrative and financial burden of public
enterprises (PE). The Government's privatization effort is part of the
MTF which aims to rehabilitate public finance and improve
competitiveness. Key actions under the MTF include improvement of
incentives for private investment, creation of private national
shareholding, and, eventually, establishment of the conditions for the
development of a capital market within the West African Monetary Union.
Also, prospects for restoring RCI's creditworthiness depend critically
upon an early reduction/restructuring of its sizeable foreign commercial
debt.
7.          Project Description: The project, described in detail in
paragraphs 20 through 47 of the Technical Annex, would cover a period of
three years. It would finance ti) general institutional support to the
Government entitities in charge of the privatization program, and (ii) a
total of about 400 man-months of consulting services for the preparation
and implementation of privatization plans, including advisory services
to give technical advice on sales strategy, valuation, financial



- 3 -
engineering, legal issues etc. Some limited assistance will also be
provided to develop national expertise in new debt reduction and
restructuring techniques - the Government is considering the possibility
of embarking on some debt/equity swap operations - and to reinforce the
Abidjan stock exchange which is scheduled to be involved in the
privatization effort. The matrix of project activities (Attachment 2 of
the Technical Annex) includes information on objectives, activities and
expected output and impact. Attachment 3 of the Technical Annex provides
timing targets and measurement criteria for each project activity. Total
cost of th4 project amounts to US$17.7 million, of which US$15.9 million
will be allocated to the privatization program, US$1.3 million will be
allocated to supporting the mana8ement of the foreign debt of C6te
d'Ivoire and US$0.5 millic,n will be allocated to the reinforcement of
the stock exchange (see Schedule A). The credit will cover 85 percent of
the total cost. Of the total cost, 73 percent is accounted for by the
services of short term consultants (see Schedule B). The procedures for
procurement are specified in paragraphs 52 and 53 of the Technical Annex
and summarized in Schedule B. The arrangements for disbursements _-_e
presented in paragraphs 54 through 56 of the Technical Annex and in
Schedule B.
S.          Proiect Implementation. The Technical Secretariat (Cellule
technique, CT) of the Privatization Committee will be responsible for
project coordination of the privatization component which accounts for
about 90 percent of total project cost. It has proven its ability while
executing a Japanese grant, which was put in place in August 1990, to
help prepare the project, and which involved the contracting of
consulting services as well as other technical assistance and training.
As to the debt and Abidjan stock exchange components which fall under
the supervision of the Ministry of Finance and consist primarily of
training of the concerned staff and the carrying out of some studies,
project coordination will be assumed by a special group within the
office of the Minister of Finance. This group, which consists of a
coordinator, an assistant coordinator and an accountant, is already
involved in the preparation of an Economic Management Project (PAGE), a
proposed FY 93 operation. It is currently administering a US$1.5 million
PPF in preparation of the PAGE.
9.          Project Sustainability. By its very nature, RCI's
privatization program will be limited in time. The advisory services
funded under the project are aimed to ensure that the Government is
adequately equipped to carry out the program.
10.         Lessons from Previous Bank Involvements A Technical
Assistance Project (Loan 2059-IVC) was approved concurrently with SAL I
in November 1981 to facilitate implementation of reforms in
macroeconomic and public sector management and in the agriculture and
industry sectors. It also provided support to SAL II (1983) and SAL III
(1986). The Project Completion Report of December 1989 and the Project
Performance Audit Report of June 1990 concluded that if the project's
objectives had been limited to the explicit and more tangible tasks of
providing operational support to the adjustment process in various
sectors, it could be viewed as a qualified success. However, the
project had further reaching, though more implicit, capacity building



-4-
objectives to strengthen policy-making, planning and management in the
RCI administration; these failed, largely because of a lack of
commitment to and internalization of the adjustment process of the then
4overnment authorities. Short term problem solving often took precedence
over addressing structural problems, with the result that the
institutional development issues were not addressed. In contrast
thereto, the proposed project is the result of detailed internal review
at the highest Government level and reflects the commitment of the
Government to implement an ambitious privatization program, a key
component of the WTF.
11.         Rationale for IDA Involvement:  The Bank Group's country
strategy for RCI is to assist the country in regaining its international
competitiveness as well as restoring sustainable growth and
creditworthiness. While the structural issues are addressed in a series
of FY 90 and 92 SECALs, the proposed project as well as the PAGE (para.
8), aim at providing the Government with the necessary institutional
support to achieve the above. Aware of the shortcomings of previous
administrations, the Prime Minister who was appointed in December 1990,
asked for IDA's assistance to ensure that the Government is indeed
equipped to carry through the ambitious program. Under his leadership,
the new economic team has redoubled its commitment to the program of
economic reform as set out in the HTF. The project has thus been the
subject of substantial internal debate which confirmed that the
Government is fully committed to the privatization program. The Bans's
experience in RCI and its comparative advantage in mobilizing and
coordinating support for structural adjustment enhance the intrinsic
value of the proposed operation both to the Government's economic
recovery program and to the implementation of a Bank Group strategy in
other sectors of the Ivorian economy.
12.         Agreed Actions. To manage the project, a Technical
Secretariat (CT) of the Committee for Privatization and Restructuring of
the Para-Public Sector will be set up. The Government has agreed that,
as a condition of effectiveness, the CT staff, including a coordinator,
an accountant, and three higher level staff, will have taken up their
duties. As a condition of effectiveness, a list of 32 enterprises that
will be privatized in the second phase of the program will be approved
by the government and submitted to IDA. In addition, the Government
will, submit to IDA for review, by January 1, 1993 and 1994, details of
its draft annual privatization program and a list of at least eight
enterprises which will be brought to the point of sale in each of these
years. During the annual review between the Government and IDA on the
progress in the implementation of the program particular attention will
be given to those enterprises for which offers were either not made or
deemed unsatisfactory during the previous twelve-month period. Further
details are provided in paras. 34 to 36 of the technical annex to this
memorandum.
13.         Environmerntal Impact. The project does not present the
prospect of any detrimental environmental impact. Cote d'Ivoire is
already equipped with environmental assessment procedures. We expect
these to be reinforced by the National Environmental Action Program
which is being prepared. Understandings have been reached with the



. 5 -
Government that in the course of the privatisation program precautionary
measures would be taken through the carrying out of an environmertal
audit of any companies to be privatized which potentially pose an
environmental hazard.
14.         Program Obiective Categories. The project represents an
important Institution/capacity building devise for the Government's
privatization efforts.
15.         Pro3ect Benefits.  The main justification of the project is
that it is an indispensable support mechanism to provide the Government
with the necessary institutional capacity to prepare and implement key
components of a complex and far reaching medium-term economic refonm
program. As a result of the privatization effort, substantial benefits
should accrue to the Government both in terms of revenues or proceeds
resulting from the sale of PEs as well as from savings for transfers
that will no longer be required.
16.         Risks.  The main risk is that the Government might wvaken in
its commitment to the program and that, as in the case of the earlier TA
Project, the project might not achieve its institution building
objectives. However, substantial preparation and the evident Government
commitment to carry out privatization suggest that the above risks are
minimal. In this regard, it is important to note that the project
management will rely entirely upon Ivorian nationals and expatriate
experts will only be called upon for highly specialized activities where
such expertise does not exist in RCI.
17.         Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit
would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and
recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 15, 1992



SCHIDULE A
----------
-6-
PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
% OF
PROJECT COST                        FOREICN       LOCAL        TOTAL        TOTAL
-----(US$ millon equivalent)------
Privatization Program                  10.0         8.2         13.2         88.0
Debt Reduction/Restructuring            0.5         0.6          1.1          7.0
Abidjan Stock Exchange                  0.3         0.1          0.4          2.0
PPF Refinancing                         0.6         0.2          0.7          6.0
Base Cost                              11.3         4.0         16.8        100.6
Total Contingencies                     1.8         0.8          2.4         15.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     13.1         4.0         17.7        116.2
FINANCING PLAN
__________ ___
Government                            --         2.7          2.7
IDA                                 13.1         1.9         16.0
TOTAL                               18.1         4.6         17.7



SCHEDULE 8
-7-
PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD
- ----------------
(USI miltlon equivalent)
TOTAL
PROJECT
LCB      OTHER      N.B.F.        COST
1.  SERVICES
Resident Experts                                               1.2                     1.2
(1.2)                  (1.2)
Short-Term Consultants                                        11.8         1.2        13.O
(11.8)                 (11.8)
Training ActIvities                                            0.9                     0.9
(0.9)                  (0.9)
2.  GOODS
Equipment                                          0.2         6.1         0.2         0.6
(0.2)      (0.1) a)                (0.3)
8.  PPF Refinancing                                                   O.1                    06.
(0.7)                  (0-7)
4.  OPERATING COSTS                                                               1.8         1.8
TOTAL                           0.2        14.8         2.7        17.7
(0.2)     (14.8)                  (16.0)
Note:    Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
N.B.F.:  Not Bank-Financed
ej       Procurement shopping on the basie of a minimum of three quotations.
IDA DISBURSEMENTS
CATEGORY                                        USIMILLION              PERCENTAGE
Resident Experts                                     1.1                  100 I
Consultants                                         10.1                  100 X
Training                                             0.9                  t00 %
Equipment/Supplies                                   0.8                100 X of foreign
expenditures, and
86 X of local costs
PPF Refinancing                                      0.7                   __
Unallocated                                          2.0                   --
16.0
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS                                     FY93        FY94        FY95
(USs milIIon)
Annual                                                           7.2 b/      4.9         2.9
Cumulative                                                                  12.1        16.0
b/  Includes PPF refinancing totalling US$ 750000.



- a -                      Schedule C
PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
Key Processing Events *
Identification Mission                           February/March 1990
Prepare4 by                                      Government with Bank
assistancel/
Appraisal                                        June/July 1991
Post-appraisal                                   January/February 1992
Negotiations                                     March 27 - April 3, 1992
Board Presentation                               May 1992
Anticipated Date of Effectiveness                May/June 1992
Relevant PCR and PPAR:
1.   Proiect Completion Report, CMte d'Ivoire, Technical
Assistance Project (Loan 2059-IVC), Country Operations
Division, Central and Occidental Africa Department,
December 1989.
2.    Proiect Performance Audit Report, Cote d'Ivoire, Technical
Assistance Project (Loan 2059-IVC), Operations Evaluation
Department, June 25, 1990 (Report No. 8828).
* Project identification through project appraisal was carried out in
connection with a proposed Economic Management Project. In November
1991, it became apparent that said project required more time to
prepare. It was then decided to split the project in two: the
Privatization Technical Assistance Project, the subject of this report,
and the Economic Management Project which is scheduled for FY 93.
1/Bank staff responsible: Franz Kaps (Task Manager) and Jamal Saghir.



-9-
RERUILIC OF COTS D'VtI'tE
StATLS OF SANK GRIUP OPERATIONS
SUMMARY OF LOA  AID CRDITS
(AS OF KARC  31, 1992)
Am.mt in USL  mi  l on
(less cancellations)
.....................
Loan or      Fiscal                                                                               Undis- Closing
Credit No.     Year  Borrow                         Purpose                    Bnk          IDA    buwed  Date
..........    ...... ........                       .......                    ....         ...    ...... .......
Credits
1 Credit(s) closed                                                                        7.M0
C23030-IVCCS) 1992   REPuBLIC Of COTE D'lOtRE       FIN SECTOR ADJ                        30.00      0.00 09/3/93
C23230-IVCCS) 1W8   REPUSLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE       HUAN RESIRCES ADJ                     25.00     16.14  12/31/92
C23240*IVC(S) 1992   REPUSLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE      REGULATORY REFORM                     25.00     25.41  12/31/92
TOTAL wmer Credits a   3                                                                   100.00     41.5S
Loas
S3 Loa(s) closed                                                            1,93S.39
L21670-IVC    1982   REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE      CENTRE-WEST R.D. It       10.85                   .39  12/31/90(R)
L23230-IVC    1983   REPUBLIC OF COTE DIVOIRE       RUBBER IV                 32.20                   .60  09130/91(3)
L26170-1VC    1986   REPUBLIC OF COTE 0'IVOIRE      IND. FIN. AND DEV.        30.00                  7.28  06/30/92
L26190-IVC    1966   REPUBLIC OF COTE 0'IVOIRE      HEALTH I                  22.20                  4.62  06/30/92
L26270- IVC    1986   REPUILIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE     PALM OIL V                13.40                  1.41  06/30/94
L26960-IVC    1986   REPUBLIC OF COTE OIVOIRE       TELECOM 11                24.50                  2.91  06/3092(R)
L276501IVC    1987   REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE      AG.EXTENSION              34.00                  1.32 06/30/92
L27890-IVC    1987   REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE      THIRD URBAN PROJECT      126.00                 29.29  12/31/92
L28740 IVC    1988   REPWLIC Of COTE D'IVOIRE       RUBER V                   11.90                  4.29  12/31192
L31280-IVC    1990   REPUBLtC Of COTE D'IVOIRE      NIWJICIPAL DEVPT.         66.00                 49.93  12/31/94
L31550-IVC    1990   REPUBLIC OF COTE l'IVOIRE      ABIJ1  ENV PROTECTI      21.90                 18.18  12/31/93
L3180-IVC     1990   REPUBLIC OF COTE D0IVOIRE      FORESTRY SECTOR           80.00                 73.06  06/30/95
L32510-tVC    1991   REPU8LIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE      PILOT WME IN DEvT.         2.20                  1.93  06/30/93
L34080-IVCCS) 1992   REPUBLIC OF COTE 0'IVOIRE      FIN SECTOR ADJ           150.00                100.00  09/30/93
34280-IVC(S) 1992   REPUBLIC OF COTE OIWVOIRE      HKUNA RESOURCES ADJ       125.00                100.00  12/31/93
L34290-1VC(S) 1992   REPULIC Of COTE D'IVOIRE       REGULATORY REFORM         75.00                 75.00  09/30/93
TOTAL   ker Loans a  16                                                        M2S.15                470.20
TOTAL**                                                      2,760.55     107.50
of which rpaid                                               664.25         .67
...... ;;......... .........i
TOTAL hold by Bank & IDA                                     2,096.30     106.82
Amount sold             5.10
of which repaid       5.10
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                    511.83
Notes:
.....................
* Not yet effective
** Not yet signed
Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(a) indicates formally revised Closing Data.
(S) indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Sank Repaments are historical value, all others are market value.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Departmnt offieal data and are not taken
frm the Task Budget file.
In order to clear up the project pipelines, especially of those projects whose feptuontatfon is laging behind, the Goverment and
ipletenting agencies have been advised that for those projects iAere the closing date expir s during CY92 an extension of said date
would only be granted provided specific  tions were put into place. If this mo not to occr, the resetive loans wld be closed
nd the loan balance cancelled.



-  10 -                          Schedule  D
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
SUMMARY OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of February 29. 1992
Orig. Gross Commitment
Fiscal                                      Type of                  USS Million ---
liar              Camany                    Business            Loan  fuftv  Total
1965/1978        Banque Ivoirienne          Development                 0.42   0.42
de D4veloppement          Finance
Industriet S.A.
(9101)
1977             Ets. R.                    Textiles &                  0.88   0.88
Confreville S.A.          Fibres
1979             Societe Ivoirienne         Fertilizers            5.12 1.27   6.39
d'Engrais (StIVENG)
1980             Moulin du                  Food & Food            2.90  0.41  3.31
Sud-Ouest                 Processing
1986             Ets. R.                    Textiles &            9.32  -      9.32
Gonfroville S.A.          Fibres
1987             Omnium Chimique            Food & Food           2.13  -      2.13
et Cosm6tique             Processing
S.A. CCOSMIVOIRE)
1987             Soci6t6 des Indus-         Food & Food           3.14  0.53  3.67
tries Alimentaires        Processing
et Laittlres (SIALIN)
1988             Industrial Promotion       Capital Markets        -     0.83  0.83
Services CIPS)
1989             Pechazur (AEF)             food 8 Food           0.47         0.47
Processing
1990             omium Transformations   Food & Food              0.66  0.17  0.83
Alimentaire_ (OTA)        Processing
CAEF)
1990             Soci1t6 des Indus-         Food & Food            1.84  0.34  2.18
tries Alimentaires        Processing
et Laitieres CSIALIM)
1991             Transformation Indus-    Wood &                   0.39  0.19  0.58
trielle de Bois           Wood Products
CTRIBOIS) CAEF)
1991             Plantfvoire (AEF)          food & Agribusiness   1.12  -      1.12
Total Gross Commitments                         27.0   5.0-4 32.13
Less repayments, write-otfs,                    10.75  2.09 12.84
sales & exchange adjustments
met Commitments held by IFC                               .1.9.29
Undisbursed                                      3.39  0.19  3.58
A  roved but uncommitted
1992             Interagri CAEF)            Food & Agribusiness   1.00  -      1.00
April 1992
rj',aIt '



- 11 -
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
Technical Annex
Table of Contents
Section A:        The Institutional Setting
Section B:        Overview of the Parapublic Enterprise Sector
Section C:        Detailed Project Description
(i)   Privatization Program
(ii) Foreign Debt Reduction and Restructuring
(iii) Reinforcement of Abidjan Stock Exchange
Section Ds        Project Management and Implementation
Attachments
1. Training
2. Project Activities
3. Timetable and Measurement Criteria



- 12 -
Section A: The Institutional Setting
1.          The Republic of C8te d'Ivoire (RCI) is currently
implementing the second phase of an ambitious and comprehensive
adjustment program: the establishment of a medium-term macroeconomic
framework (MTF) to restore the competitiveness of the economy and lead
it to sustained growth and renewed creditworthiness. The proposed
project is designed to provide institutional support to the Government
for key components of this effort.
2.          During the first phase of adjustment - the stabilization
program (1989-90) -, the Government realized that improvement of the
institutional and policy framework were critical to success.
Accordingly, in April 1990 an Interministerial Committee for economic
coordination was established to strengthen the management of economic
and financial policies. This was followed in mid-1990 by the opening up
of the political process and the organization, in October and November
1990, of RCI's first multi-party Presidential and parliamentary
elections. In December, a man of proven experience in economic and
financial management was nominated Prime Minister with wide ranging
powers to implement reform. A smaller, more effective Government was
formed to give further impetus to adjustment efforts. Concerned to
improve the management of the public sector and increase its efficiency,
the new Government carried out a major administrative reorganization.
These events have made it possible to develop and enhance democratic
transparency, debate and control and to strengthen public support for
the reform program which is underway with support from, among others,
three FY 92 Bank/IDA financed SECALs in support of: (i) the financial
sector; (ii) the human resources sector; and (iii) improved
competitiveness and regulatory reform.
3.          After detailed assessment of the departments and
institutions involved in economic and financial management, the
Government has concluded that in many areas it lacks the "in-house"
expertise to ensure successful implementation of the MTF and any longer
term economic reform program. The Government has also concluded that
past reliance on expatriate help - much of it in the form of
substitution technical assistance - has not given the expected results.
It is true that many Ivorians both inside and outside of Government are
well-qualified but they are often not in the right place to contribute
effectively to the national effort. Moreover, until recently there has
been very little interchange between the Ivorian economic research
community and the Government.
4.          In this context of real and perceived needs and of an
improved political and institutional setting, an economic management
project (Projet d'Appui a la Gestion Economique, PAGE) is being
appraised. Among other activities, the PAGE will help to build up
national capacity for long term economic management. It is scheduled
for FY 93 and is being prepared through detailed discussions between the
Government and the Bank, within the Government, and between the
Government and local economic research institutions to identify critical
areas where capacity most needs to be strengthened. This participatory
approach is designed to ensure full Government commitment. The project



- 13 -
will make the greatest possible use of Ivorian nationals and Ivorian
training institutions. Foreign technical assistance will be called upon
only where there is a clear ad hoc need for expertise not locally
available. The Bank is in close contact with other donors, notably
France and UNDP, to ensure that their technical assistance ties in with
the above concept.
5.           The project which is the subject of this report is a free-
standing technical assistance operation in support of privatization - a
key area of the MTF - where the reflection process is well advanced. The
Government is particularly concerned that the privatization process be
as transparent as possible so as to avoid the impression of a 'sell out'
of public assets. In contrast to the PAGE (para. 4), which is a long
term undertaking. the proposed Privatization Support Project would
provide short term technical assistance. This is appropriate since the
activities to be supported are expected to be completed in three years.
6.          In addition to actual privatization activities, the project
would also provide assistance in the closely related areas of
restructuring the foreign debt and revamping the Abidjan Stock Exchange
(Bourse des Valeurs d'Abidjan, BVA). RCI has a large foreign public and
publically guaranteed debt (US$13 billion at the end of 1990, or
125 percent of GDP) which has not been serviced since 1987. The
Government has come to realize that a reestablishment of its
creditworthiness requires that relations with its commercial creditors
be normalized. The EVA was among the first to be set up in Sub-Saharan
Africa; it is still the only one in francophone Africa but it has not
lived up to expectations. It has attracted few listings and less than
half of the listed securities are traded. The Government has now
launched a major reform program for BVA to enable it to play a full role
as supplier of long term and equity finance and an important instrument
in facilitating privatization and developing wider ownership.
7.          Drawing on their experience with similar reform programs
elsewhere, Association staff have already provided substantial technical
assistance to the Government to help it diagnose critical deficiencies
in the areas described above and develop an appropriate strategy for
addressing them. In addition, in August 1990, the Government obtained a
US$1.8 million equivalent grant from the Japanese Government to help
finance studies and training. The Bank acts as administrator of this
grant which has greatly contributed to the preparation of the proposed
project. As spelt out in greater detail below, the Government also
acted fairly quickly to set up high level focus groups on privatization
and debt - the members of these groups have been the IDA's interlocutors
in project preparation. The way in which the project was identified and
prepared has done much to foster within Government a sense that this is
their project.
8.          On the donors' side, IDA is the only one that currently
intervenes in the area of privatization as well as in debt reduction and
restructuring, and the BVA reinforcement. Nevertheless, close
consultations have been held in particular with the IDF to ensure that
the activities the project intends to support achieve a number of
objectives of the current IMF stand-by arrangement, notably in terms of
a lessening of the weight of public enterprises on public finance and an



- 14 -
alleviation of the Government's debt burden. Also, IFC has been apprised
of the operation, especially as regards privatization and the Abidjan
stock exchange. IFC has played an active role in promoting the
development of RCI's private sector. It currently has a sizeable
investment portfolio in the country, although the development of the
portfolio has been uneven as a result of the economic difficulties RCI
has been undergoing in recent years. To date, IlC has financed companies
in several industrial sectors, in terms of both large and small (through
the Africa Enterprise Fund) investments. It is also involved in the
financial sector and is currently assisting in recapitalizing the
commercial banking sector. IFC intends to further expand its role in
RCI, particularly in the minerals resource sector, and in participating
in specific transactions of the privatization program. A number of
bilateral donors have been approached with the view of participating
especially in the privatization program and extending funding for
specific privatization activities. Given that the project is likely to
be followed in FY 93 by the PAGE which has a number of common features
with this operation, consultations have also been held with France and
UNDP which have traditionally been active in the area of economic
management, to ensure that respective support is closely coordinated.
9.          As explained above, the project will finance primarily -
i.e. for about 90 percent of total cost - activities in the Prime
Minister's office (PM) which has the overall responsibility for
privatization. The project will also provide limited assisrance to the
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Plan (MEFP) in the areas of management
of the Government's foreign debt (about 7.5 percent of total cost) and
the reinforcement of the Abidjan stock exchange (about 2.5 percent of
total cost).
10.         Project Implementation.  Project preparation has benefitted
greatly from the early Government decision to appoint a high level
Privatization Committee (PC), which is chaired by the senior economic
and financial advisor of the Prime Minister. The PC is assisted by a
technical secretariat (cellule technique, CT). The CT will be
responsible for coordination of the project's privatization component.
It has proven its ability while executing the Japanese grant which
financed many activities similar to the ones under the project. The
project's debt and BVA components, which fall under the responsibility
of the MEFP, will be coordinated by a special group within the office of
the Minister of Finance. This group, which consists of a coordinator, an
assistant coordinator and an accountant, is already involved in the
preparation of the PAGE. It is currently administering a US$1.5 million
PPF in preparation of the PAGE.



- 15 -
Section B. Overview of the Parapublic Enterprise Sector
11.         Introduction.  Parapublic enterprises (PEs) have played an
important role in the RCI development process. PEs were establisheds (a)
to enable RCI to gain control over key sectors in the economy (e.g.
utilities, banking, etc.); (b) to diversify and modernize agriculture
productions (c) to exploit the country's natural resources; (d) to
promote a sound infrastructure network and services in sectors such as
energy and transportation; (e) to undertake large-scale, capital-
intensive projects and develop sectors where private entrepreneurship
was insufficiently active; (f) to encourage regional development and
housing and; (g) to pursue various regional and socioeconomic objectives
such as job creation.
12.         The statutory provisions governing PEs date back to 1962
(law on State-Owned Enterprises, and law on State Representation within
Joint-Stock Companies in which the State has a financial interest).
These provisions were amended a law in November 1970, establishing the
status of companies in which the Government has a financial interest,
and subsequently by a 1975 decree laying down the rules for supervision
and management of the parapublic sector. New regulations were issued in
1980 and 1983. The law distinguishes primarily between the National
Public Agencies (Etablissements Publics Nationaux, EPNs), State-Owned
enterprises (Societes d'Etat, SEs) and Mixed or Parapublic enterprises
(Societes d'Economie Mixte, SEMs), which are governed by different rules
depending on the degree of Government ownership set at 10, 33 and 50
percent plus.
13.         During the first half of the 1970s, the number of PEs
increased very rapidly and came to play a major role in the Government's
development policy. The rapid expansion of the parapublic sector
contributed to a deterioration in public savings and rising external
debt. In 1977, there were 113 SEs, EPNs and SEMs, representing about one
third of the country's total employment and producing 27 percent of
value added. They were responsible for 68 percent of capital formation,
accounted for 45 percent of the public investment program and amounted
to almost 39 percent of the total public debt.
14.          Although the data vary according to the sources, the most
reliable one is that of the Direction du Controle des Grands Travaux
(DCGTx); it shows that as of 1990 there is a total of some 140 EPNs, SEs
and SEKs. The State is represented in every branch of economic activity.
The recent economic performance of the parastatal sector is
disappointing. The Government has, over the period 1982-88, invested
more than US$500 million (net cumulative investment) in the sector but
the return on this capital has been extremely low, averaging 2 percent
per annum. The parapublic sector still accounts for almost 44 percent of
total value added in the formal sector and its net drain on public
finances, both direct and indirect, has reached almost 4 percent of GDP.
15.         Since 1977 the Government has implemented a broad program of
PE sector reform aimed at reducing the burden of the sector on public
finances and at improving the efficiency of enterprises. The PE program
was structured around three main objectives: (a) improving the



- 16 -
monitoring and management of the sector at the Government level; (b)
rationalizing the relationship between the Government and individual
enterprises; and (c) improving financial and technical management at the
enterprise level. The program of actions implemented in the framework of
three SALs between 1981 and 1986 led to an amelioration of the
performance of some PEs, through implementation of reorganization plans
and contract plans for major PEs such as PALMINDUSTRIE. Financial
control Was also enhanced by the establishment of synoptic tables
(tableaux de bord) in the Ministry of Finance to monitor key financial
and performance indicators of 31 PEe.
16.         Despite the above measures, major problems continued in the
1980s to affect performance of PEs, among thoses (a) lack of effective
management by the civil servants heading PEs; (b) absence of
entrepreneurial initiative or incentives to boost productivity; (c)
weakness of competent control bodies and organs both within the
enterprise and outside; (d) overstaffing; (e) inappropriate investment
decisions, operational constraints and excessive regulation; (f)
institutional impediments, political and Government interference in PEs*
management and operational decisions; and (g) absence of a real
monitoring process and Management Information Systems.
Government Strategy for the PEs
17.         To date, PE reform has been implemented in three phases. In
the first phase (1970-1980), a diagnosis of the overall public sector
was undertaken and a Minister responsible for Parastatal Reform was
nominated. In the second phase (1981-86), a restructuring of the PE
sector was initiated: some PEs were liquidated or merged and others were
given new legal status or economic mandates. In the third phase (1987-
89), divestiture became a clear option for the Government and almost 30
PEs were privatized. A variety of divestiture techniques were used such
as direct negotiation with private buyers, sale of shares on the Stock
Exchange and inviting bids from potential investors. The best known PEs
which were privatized are: FOREXI, a water exploration and drilling
company privatized through management buy-out; SONACO, an agro-
industrial joint venture sold to a foreign technical partner; and the
sale of Government shares in the cigarette and cigar manufacturing
company SITAB through the Abidjan Stock Exchange. In 1990, a private
company obtained a concession contract for the public electricity
company, EECI.
18.         The PE reform program described above was characterized by a
lack of clear procedures and guidelines for divestiture and limited
transparency in the process of privatization. There was no specific list
or target of PEs slated for privatization. In most cases, the Government
was privatizing following direct requests from potential buyers who were
offering cash. No strategic studies prior to divestiture were undertaken
and preference was given to Ivorian citizens. Therefore, until early
1990, there was little evidence that the privatization program was well
managed and carried out in a transparent way.



- 17 -
19.         Although the Government is determined to gradually divest
itself from most protuctive activities - the subject of the
privatization program -, it is aware that this will take time. It is
therefore determined to launch a major program of improved PR
administration and reform. The main thrust of the program is to ensure
that PEs that remain in the public domain operate more efficiently
through implementation of the following basic principles: (a) provide
autonomy to PE management, (b) seek greater accountability from them,
and (c) reward good and sanction poor performance. At the Government's
request, the Bank is assisting in this endeavor through the PE reform
component of the FY 93 PAGE project. There has been and continues to be
close consultation and coordination between the various actors involved
in the PE reform and in privatization; the head of the Government
department in charge of the PE reform is a member of the Privatization
Committee (see para. 22).
Section C: Detailed Project Description
(i) The Privatization Program
20.         Introduction: In late 1990, the Government made a new effort
towards a comprehensive privatization program for PEs with the aim of
reducing Governmeent holdings and alleviating the recurrent
administrative and financial burden of PEs. The Government has
reconfirmed its determination to divest itself both of profitable and
loss making PEs. The main motivation for divesting loss making PEs is
the immediate budgetary concern. Once these PEs are transferred to the
private sector, even for a nominal amount, the burden on the budget is
removed. However, the Government's interest in disengaging from PEs goes
also beyond the immediate budgetary concern: most PEs are
undercapitalized, thereby precluding the technological and marketing
investments essential for effective operation. Moreover, as the
Government has been proven to be a poor manager and entrepreneur, it has
recognized its failure to effectively supervise PEs or provide them with
the necessary strategic guidance for their efficiency and growth.
Lastly, the Government believes that privatization will also revive
private-sector confidence in the Ivorian economy.
21.         The privatization program is part of the MTF aimed at
rehabilitating public finance and improving competitiveness, as well as
increasing private investment, creating national private shareholding,
and, eventually, establishing the conditions for the development of a
capital market within the West African Monetary Union. In December
1990, a Privatization Policy Paper, a decree regulating the process of
privatization and a first list of 18 enterprises slated for divestiture
were issued. Privatization has now become an important policy tool of
the Govenment and no restrictions are imposed on the scope of the
program, the origins of investors, the sectors or the enterprises. The
target is to privatize over the next several years some 80 PEs from all
sectors, with an estimated book value of US$800 million.   A Technical
Secretariat (CT) of the Committee for Privatization and Restructuring of



- 18 -
the Para-Public Sector will manage the project. As a condition for
effectiveness, the CT staff, including a coordinator, an accountant, and
three higher level staff, will have taken up their duties. Also as a
condition of effectiveness, the Government will submit to the
Association the list of 32 additional enterprises that will be candidate
for privatization under the second phase of the privatization program
(eee para. 36 below).
22.         Project Description.  The project will further the process
of privatization by providing primarily technical assistance and
institutional support for the total or partial divestiture of selected
PEs. While considerable progress has been made in developing the
privatization program and in implementing the necessary regulatory
environment, the specialized nature of many aspects of the preparatory
work, and the accelerated time frame for divestiture, will require a
substantial amount of technical assistance. In some cases, such
assistance can be provided by local experts. In others, foreign firms
will have to be engaged to undertake major specialized tasks.
Assistance under the project will consist of:
(a)   general institutional and logistical support to the PC and
the CT, estimated at about $ 1.5 million. This support
should help enhance the PC's and CT's capabilities to
design, elaborate and implement the privatization program
and supplementing the staff of the CT whenever the necessary
skills and experience cannot be located in RCI;
(b)   support to the privatization of individual PEs in the next
three years by: (i) providing consulting services for the
preparation and implementation of privatization plans; and
(ii) supporting advisory services to give technical advice
on sales strategy, valuation, financial engineering, legal
issues. etc. This support which is expected to involve about
200 man-months for 1992 and a total of about 200 man-months
for 1993 and 1994. is estimated to cost about $ 10.8
million;
(c)   development of additional reforms and measures to facilitate
privatization, such as employee stock ownership plans, and
to undertake subsector studies in support of the program,
estimated to cost about $ .5 million; and
(d)   support for a comprehensive program of training, seminars
and workshops for Government officials in the area of
privatization, estimated at $ .75 million.
23.         Specifically, the project will finance the following
services, including relevant logistical and operational support, for the
CT: four long term professional staff - financial analysts and
economists -, an accountant as well as relevant support staff. The major
functions of the long term professional CT staff will be, under the
general supervision of the PC, to: (a) categorize enterprises slated for



- 19 -
divestiture; initiate privatization; (b) coordinate and supervise the
process of divestiture, contract and coordinate the work of short term
consultants; (c) prepare the various options and strategies for the PC;
and (d) negotiate and close the transactions. The function of the
accountant would be to manage project accounts, monitor compliance with
Bank Guidelines for the employment of consultants and regarding
procurement as well as submit withdrawal applications to the
Association. The project will also finance the services of short-term
consulting services to assist ins (a) formulating and implementing
detailed divestiture programs for selected enterprises; (b) addressing
legal issues; (c) preparing sectoral studies; (d) dealing with
regulatory issues; (e) preparing valuation; (f) preparing and
implementing financial restructuring plans; (g) assessing the follow-up
studies on the impact of privatization and other reform measures; and
(h) meeting other ad-hoc needs on issues arising during the
implementation of privatization.
24.         Support for Privatization of Specific PEs.  The Government
estimates that by end 1992, most of the candidates of the first list of
18 enterprises targeted for divestiture would either be privatized or
brought to the point of sale. The Government has already launched the
preparation of the second phase of the privatization program and a list
of 32 new candidates for privatization in the next few years has been
adopted. Hence, the project will provide funding to carry out
privatization of at least 34 PEs from all sectors (18 of the first list
and at least 16 out of 32 from the second list). Specifically, support
is required for the services of consultants to prepare and review
individual privatization transactions. Technical assistance for
preparing enterprises for privatization includes: diagnosis, review of
legal requirements, financial restructuring, management analysis,
definition of strategic objectives and constraints, valuation,
determination of options for divestiture, preparation of prospectus or
tender documents, and setting up a financial framework for implementing
employee participation programs.
25.         SuDport for Development of Additional Reform Measures.  In
order to lay the basis for further actions and in dealing with various
issues, the PC and the CT, on occasion, will need to undertake special
studies which will be funded under the project. Understandings
regarding the ranking and timetable of these studies have been reached
with the Government as follows: (i) a study to develop employee stock
ownership plans. Terms of reference for this study have been agreed
upon; (ii) a study concerning the retraining and redeployment of
employees affected by privatization; and (iii) a study of savings and
capital concentration in RCI. In addition, it is envisaged that sector
studies on the rubber, energy, and palm oil industries will be carried
out. The timing and the terms of reference for these studies will be
reviewed in the context of the semi-annual reports which the CT will
submit to IDA.



- 20 -
26.         Supnort for a Comprehensive Program of Training, Seminars
and Workshops. To support all of the operations envisaged, the project
will provide a comprehensive training program aimed at building up local
capabilities for carrying out privatizat.ion, undertaking enterprise
diagnoses, and mastering various techniques of divestiture and project
finance. Those in charge of the divestiture process and privatization
transactions in the PC, the CT, and the responsible technical ministries
are likely to require specialized training in topics such as asset
valuation techniques, divestiture techniques, prospectus preparation,
public tender procedures and bid evaluation, regulatory aspects of
privatization, use of alternative financial instruments, including
managementlemployee buyouts and debt/equity swaps. It is envisaged that
the training will be provided in the form of practical short-tenm
courses, seminars and workshops, followed by on-the-job training, rather
than extended overseas training or long tenm consultants. The training
program has been designed by a consultant who carried out a training
needs assessment. This assessment included: (a) the training needs of
the PC, the CT, staff of technical ministries, (b) the delivery
capability of local educational and training institutions, (c) the
availability of local individual expertise, and (d) the identification
of external training at appropriate commercial and international
institutions, such as banks, specialized seminars at the World Bank and
the IMF, the regional West African management school (CESAG) etc.
Understandings have been reached with the Government that the training
would focus on the following three main topics: introduction to
privatization, implementing privatization, and post privatization. The
PC is currently reviewing the consultant's training proposal and a final
decision on the details of such training will be taken and communicated
to IDA by June 1,1992, at the latest.
27.         Implementation Arrangements.  The Prime Minister and the
Council of Ministers are the decision making authorities responsible for
the privatization and restructuring program. A Privatization Committee
(PC, Comit6 de Privatisation et de Restructuration du Secteur
Parapublic), chaired by the senior Economic and Financial advisor to the
Prime Minister has been created with the mandate to oversee the
privatization program, to set up operational guidelines and to define
and submit to the Council options and strategies for divestiture. The PC
members are in the majority private sector representatives and a few
civil servants. In addition, the decree regulating the process of
privatization provides for a technical secretariat (Cellule technique,
CT), to carry out the necessary analyses, studies and valuations of the
companies to be privatized, to contract external consultants, where
necessary, and to prepare for the PC the various options and strategies
for divestiture of the selected PEs.
28.         The implementation process follows a systematic approachs
(a) the Government fixes a target of companies for divestiture within a
limited time frame; (b) the PC designs an agenda for implementationt (c)
the CT, under the supervision of the PC and in collaboration with
sectoral ministries and the management of the enterprise slated for
divestiture, undertakes the preparation of different studies and



- 21 -
proposals for privatizationt (e) the CT, if necessary, contracts
consultants to undertake the required analysis and valuations and, on
the basis of the technical work, recommends to the PC a divestiture
strategy and a plan for selling off the enterprisel (f) the PC
recommends to the Prime Minister and the Council a sale price and
strategy and; (g) decisions by the Prime Minister and the Council are
implemented by the PC.
29.         So far, this structure is working well and the process of
privatisation of a first batch of 18 PEs is progressing. In this
context, the PC has initiated the strategic studies and the various
options for privatizing enterprises engaged in the palm oil
(PALMINDUSTRIE, SICOR) and rubber sectors (SAPH, SOGB and DHE). The
process of privatizing the telecommunications company (ONT) is
proceeding and studies regarding the regulatory framework and the
valuation are under preparation. Studies for the valuation and
preparation of a sales strategy for privatization of G6vernment shares
in 10 jointly held companies (SEM) as well as for the sale of the Hotel
Ivoire, the country's largest hotel and convention center, are underway.
The negotiations for the sale of tourist installations of the Club
Mediterranee and the privatization of a livestock public enterprise
(CEIB) have been completed.
30.         The Government recognizes that there is an important
difference between the transfer of state assets to the private sector
where the state will no longer hold the assets or have the
responsibility for the performance of the sector or the company in
question, e.g. Hotel Ivoire, compared to circumstances where the state
retains, for strategic reasons, a more substantial interest in the
performance of the sector despite the main operator becoming a private
company, e.g. ONT in the telecommunications sector. In the latter case,
the ministry responsible for the sector needs to be directly involved in
the privatization because it can arrange for sector expertise to be fed
into the process and it will be responsible for administering the
policies and regulatory controls within which a private entity will
eventually operate. The ministry in question needs to have a major say
in the way these policies are established. These contributions
complement the expertise in the privatization process which will be
established at the level of the PC and the CT. In order to bring about
the necessary linkage between the PC and the technical ministries, it is
envisaged to set up subcommittees to the PC in which the technical
ministry responsible for the PE in question may, by decision of the PC,
supervise relevant sectoral studies on a case by case basis.
31.         Satisfactory treatment of regulatory issues wvil have to be
given high priority in the privatization process. The Government has
recognized that in the tradeable, commercially oriented sectors,
regulatory provisions entailing the deregulationlliberalization of
imports, prices and marketing and the removal of other barriers to
competition will have to be introduced in the context of privatization.
In the non-tradeable, utilities sectors which generally require large
investments (such as for telecommunications, electric power, water



- 22 -
supply), the establishment of transparent and independent regulatory
bodies would be essential to ensure private investors' confidence and
long-run economic and financial efficiency.
32.         Risks Facing Privatization.  The Government is fully
committed to privatization and has already demonstrated its willingness
to proceed with the program. However, a number of obstacles could hamper
further progress. First, a substantial risk exists that the
privatization of PEs could contribute to centralization of economic
power in RCI and concentration of capital in the hands of only few
individuals. The privatization regulations include no restrictions on
type of ownership but the Government will attempt to promote wider
ownership, through public offering of shares and by attracting foreign
investment and encouraging employee/management buy-outs. Second,
although there is no restrictions on new owners concerning the retention
of employees, the RCI labor code was, until recently, inflexible
regarding employee retrenchment; this issue is now addressed in the
context of the FY 92 competitiveness/regulatory SECAL. Potential buyers
will need flexibility to adjust the staffing levels and mix as
necessary. Third, bottlenecks to privatization efforts, i.e. realistic
valuation of assets, availability of buyers, could delay privatization.
The reasons may be the private sector's (domestic or foreign) loss of
confidence in the RCI economy or its unwillingness or inability to
purchase available assets at "market" prices. Finally, the critical
situation of the financial sector in RCI and the weakness of the Abidjan
Stock Exchange, could limit the availability of credit and might hinder
some privatization transactions. These constraints are addressed in the
context of the PY 92 Financial Sector SECAL and the relevant technical
assistance under this project.
33.       Monitoring and evaluation. Progress of the implementation of
the privatization program would be monitored by the Office of the Prime
Mifrister and the PC. Beginning June 30, 1992 the CT would prepare a
semi-annual report, whose outline and format has been agreed with the
Government and which will be made available to the Association. The
report will include the following key indicators:
-     the expected budgetary implications of the privatizations in
process;
-     the approximate book value or the stipulated minimum price
of the new shareholdinglassets offered for sale during the
semester and the number of entities and transactions
involved;
-     the number, type and value of enterprises partially or
completely privatized, with an indication of the degree of
privatization and the proceeds of the sales;
-     the number and value of offerings still on the market;
-     the number of enterprises in the process of preparing sales
offering/prospectus, the divestiture technique envisaged,
and the number of entities closed and liquidated;
-     the impact of privatization on capital market development;
and



- 23 -
the number of employees affected by privatisation and the
compensation policies applied.
Progress in implementing the privatization will be evaluated
by the Association twice a year, using performance criteria, such ass
best efforts made (i.e., notice of availability for
privatization, issues. decision taken, valuation completed,
bids invited) to offer the assets for sale. The indicators
used to assess progress could include the number of entities
for which the process of preparing sale offering has been
initiated and the number of offerings brought to the point
of sale;
efforts made to aggressively market the privatization,
offering them locally and internationally. The indicatot
used could be the cumulative value of completed transactions
or the amount of assets privatized;
the relative shares of the public enterprise sector and the
private sector in GDP and in investment; and
the overall public entities surplus/deficits as a percentage
of GDP.
34.         ARreements Reached.  The Government agreed tot
(a)   as a condition of credit effectiveness, appoint key staff of
the Cellule Technique de Privatisation (CT), namely the CT
coordinator, a financial analyst and a project accountant,
all with experience and qualifications acceptable to the
Association;
(b)   as a condition of effectiveness, submit to the Association
the list of 32 additional enterprises that will be candidate
for privatization under the second phase of the
privatization program (see para. 36 below).
(c)   submit to the Association, by January 1, 1993 and 1994, for
review its draft annual privatization program with explicit
targets, including the timetable and agenda to bring
enterprises to the point of sale, i.e. audit, valuation,
strategy and modalities for sale, preparation of
prospectuses or tender documents, preparation and
publication of advertisements and notices. The Government
would thus submit to the Association by January 1, 1993 and
1994 an additional list of at least eight enterprises which
will be brought to the point of sale in each such year as
part of the second phase of the privatization program;
(d)   promptly adopt and implement the privatization program for
each such year, taking into consideration the Association's
comments;



- 24 -
(e) review with Association on an annual basis, by June 30 of
each year and starting June 1992, progress in the
implementation of the privatization program, with particular
attention to those enterprises for which offers were either
not made or deemed unsatisfactory during the previous
twelve-month period;
(f)   in order to coordinate the debt and BVA components, maintain
a project implementation unit at the level of the office of
the Hinister of Economy, Finance and Plan, which would be
staffed with a project coordinator, an assistant coordinator
and an accountant; and
(g) submit to the Association for review and approval detailed
proposals including justification, terms of reference and
relevant budget for training being provided under the
project.
35.         The Government also agreed to the following principles which
would govern the privatization program:
(a) define an appropriate regulatory framework for the sector in
which enterprises will be privatized;
(b) to the extent practicable, not to carry out new public
investments nor physical rehabilitation (except for regular
maintenance) in enterprises which are on a privatization
list;
(c) assets and shares of enterprises to be privatized will be
priced realistically to reflect their fair market value;
(d) to the extent practicable, the privatization program shall
not provide any special privileges t market protection,
Government financing, subsidies etc) to investors buying
PEs; and
(e)   privatization should not result in a redistribution o 4n
increase of Government participation in mixed parapubl c
enterprises (SEM)in which the State is a majority
stockholder.
36.        Finally, understandings have been reached with the
Government on the following additional issuess
(a) the privatization program is carried out in two phasess
the first phase (1990-1992) includes 18 enterprises,
the second phase (starting in 1993) includes 32 additional
enterprises of which 16 enterprises will be supported
under the project;



- 25 -
(b)   in conformity with the Government's comitment under the
medium-term framework (U'TF), the possibility will be
examined, on a case by case basis, of liquidating those
enterprises which have been offered for sale in a given
year without having attracted firm offers by investors or
where offers are deemed unsatisfactory to the Governments
(c)   the CT will make available to IDA all information concerning
the sale of assets, draft and final prospectuses for the
sale of shares of enterprises covered by the privatization
program;
(d)   in conformity with the Government's commitment under the
MTF, no new parapublic enterprises will be created in the
productive sectors; and
(e)   revenues resulting from privatization will be identified
separately as sale of Government assets in the budget.
(ii) Foreign Debt Reduction and Restructuring.
37.         Introduction. A major factor of RCI's economic and financial
crisis is the large stock of public and publicly guaranteed foreign debt
which has been accumulated over the years. At end 1990, total debt
outstanding, including short term debt, is estimated at over
US$13 billion, of which about US$9 billion is owed to official
creditors, and US$4 billion (including interest arrears) to the London
Club. The task for regularizing RCI's relations with the banking
community is complicated by the fact that the authorities suspended
external debt service payments to its commercial credi,;ors in May 1987.
Furthermore, they were unable to implement the multi-year rescheduling
agreement arranged in principle in April 1988 because of the severe
liquidity crisis. At end 1990, external public and publicly guaranteed
debt had attained 125 percent of GDP, and the debt service ratio on an
accrual basis was approximately 60 percent over the period 1988-1990.
Despite extensive debt relief granted by the Paris Club since 1984 and
de facto debt relief obtained from the London Club resulting from no
debt servicing since 1987, there has been a rapid accumulation of
external arrears which at end-1990 represented 22 percent of the debt.
The Government's inability to service its external debt has had serious
negative effects on its creditworthiness and has resulted in a cut off
of its access to medium- and long-term flows in commercial markets. The
resulting uncertainty regarding the state of public finances is also
inhibiting foreign private investment. A large scale commercial debt
reduction and restructuring program and more generous debt relief by
official creditors are important factors in any program leading to a
resumption of sustainable growth.
38.         In order to become a qualified interlocutor with its foreign
creditors and to familiarize itself with new debt reduction and
restructuring techniques, the Government established in September 1991 a



- 26 -
high level Foreign Debt Committee (FDC) which is supported by a
permanent technical secretariat (PTS). The FDC is chaired by the
Minister of MEFP and includes senior officials of the Prime Minister's
office, the national director of the Central Bank, and the department
heads of the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), the Treasury, the
General Plan Directorate, the Directorate of the Parapublic Sector, and
the Directorate of International Economic Affairs. The FDC has the
following responsibilitiest (i) to coordinate and supervise public or
parapublic institutions involved in foreign borrowing; (ii) elaborate
and adopt a debt strategy compatible with the medium-term macroeconomic
framework (MTF); (iii) following recommendations by the PTS, adopt the
regulatory and legal framework for debt/equity swaps; and (iv) define
RCI's foreign financing policy in conformity with the balance of
payments objectives of the MTF.
39.         The PTS, which will provide the necessary technical support
to the FDC, will consist of two economists with an MBA degree and a
lawyer with experience in foreign debt issues. Their terms of reference
have been agreed upon and the two economists have already been
recruited. The lawyer is in the process of being recruited. The FDC,
supported by the PTS, is to be instrumental in carrying out a dialogue
with the Paris and London Club creditors with regard to restructuring of
the country's external debt as well as in maintaining the ongoing flow
of economic and financial information to private and official lending
entities. The technical expertise which will be provided under the
project to the FDC and the PTS to familiarize them with the commercial
banks' obJectives, strategies, and regulatory regimes, should make it
possible to prepare an external debt restructuring and medium-term debt
management strategy. Given the potential that the privatization program
may have to help reduce RCI's debt, including through debt/equity swaps,
the CT and the PTS will have to work closely together.
40.         Project Description.  The debt component of the project
would pursue the triple objectives of (i) providing technical assistance
for designing the debt strategy and specific techniques of conversion/
reduction schemes in relation with privatization of PEs; (ii) improving
the registration process of external debt liabilities as well as the
coordination and centralization of debt management; and (iii) providing
equipment and training for the PTS. The debt component would thus
support the following sub-components:
(a)   Debt Restructurink Strategy:  the project would help design
an overall financing strategy, including debt restructuring
workouts, and an evaluation of the impact of different menu
options on the financing needs of the country. It would
assist the debt managers in developing expertise in debt
restructuring techniques, including mapping out various debt
restructuring schemes, assessing the costs/benefits of debt
conversion/ reduction workouts, and designing the regulatory
and macroeconomic framework for debt/equity conversion
programs. The project would include training seminars for
the country's debt managers with a view to improving



- 27 -
economic and financial information memoranda for private and
official creditors. It would also help develop a medium-
term debt and external liability strategy and program,
relating the country's resource mobilization needs to the
sources of external finance RCI can access, the range of
financing to which the country has access, and adapting
financial instruments to RCI's needs; and
tb)   External Debt Managements  the project would strengthen the
debt management capability of the FDC and the PTS by
providing intensive training and computer equipment. In
particular, the PTS staff would be trained in using computer
programs for maintaining accurate, 11p to date information on
liabilities and projecting alternative debt service payment
trends according to various exchange and interest rate
assumptions.
41.         The project will fund the recruitment of the members of the
PTS as well as related logistical support, estimated at $ .54 million.
Training and short-term consulting services, estimated at $ .53 million,
will be provided to the PTS by highly skilled professionals who can
adequately blend substantial market experience and academic credentials.
The following areas of technical assistance would receive priority
attention: (a) developing a strategy for external debt restructuring
and management; (b) designing operational frameworks for drafting and
updating economic and financial memoranda; (c) briefing debt managers
and high-ranking officials of the commercial banks' tax, accounting and
regulatory regimes; (d) developing a medium-term strategy to regain
access to markets over time; (e) developing and adapting computer
programs for analyzing the cash flow impact of borrowing and debt
restructuring techniques, such as debt for equity (or for nature) swaps
or bond conversions; (f) preparing and adapting computer programs for
external debt management so as to obtain debt and debt service structure
by debtor, creditor, maturity and exchange rate. The training will
consist of study trips or short term technical assistance to be provided
by the above-mentioned professionals. Agreement on the terms of
reference and the training calendar of all the above activities has been
reached.
(iii) Reinforcement of Abidjan Stock Exchange (BVA).
42.         Introduction. The BVA was set up in 1974 and started
operating in 1976. However, it has never succeeeed to gain the needed
momentum to fully play its role as a supplier ot' term and equity finance
and as an instrument of the Ivoriazation of the economy. There have been
no new listings since 1983, and market capitalization only accounts for
4 percent of GDP, compared to 12 percent in Zimbabwe and 17 percent in
Thailand. Out of the 23 stocks listed, only 10 are traded during the
one-hour, bi-weekly sessions, and transactions have accounted for less
than 1 percent of capitalization compared to 21 percent in the
Philippines and 64 percent in Thailand. BVA has been plagued by



- 28 -
excessive operating costs. Until recently, the operating budget
(CFAP 489 million) represented about 25 percent of the volume of
transactions. The staff of 47 bore no relation to the volume of activity
(the stock exchange of Lyon in France has a staff of 12, for a volume of
activity 400 times that of the Abidjan market). The high operating costs
translated into excessive fees which discouraged investors and
businessmen from transacting on the stock exchange. After 15 years, the
BVA still depends on Government subsidies averaging CFAF 175 million
annually over the last five years. An inefficient quotation system fails
to match supply and demand on the small Ivorian market for shares.
Brokerage services supplied by the largest commercial banks, as an
adjunct to their banking activities, are limited in scope and quality;
they are not available outside Abidjan, hindering the participation of
the rural population.
43.         The Government recognizes that the BVA could provide a most
needed source of long term and equity finance for productive activities.
It could also be an active instrument in support of the Government's
privatization program, providing much needed transparency to the
privatization process and wider access to the ownership of privatized
state enterprises.
44.         In the context of the recently approved Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan and Credit, the Government submitted to the Bank a
detailed BVA restructuring plan. It entails: (i) a significant reduction
in annual operating expenses from CFAF 489 million to about CFAF 180
million with a reduction in staff from 47 to 14; (ii) the streamlining
of internal procedures and regulations; (iii) modernization of quotation
system; (iv) elimination of listing fees and reduction of quotation fees
by 30 percent; and (v) the setting up of an independent advisory board.
45.         In addition, the Government decided to undertake a number of
measures aimed at developing capital markets and facilitating the
privatization process, including: (i) setting up new mutual investment
funds; (ii) fostering the creation of venture capital enterprises; (iii)
developing new instruments and mechanisms for privatization of state
enterprises through BVA; and (iv) reorganizing the brokerage function in
order to improve its efficiency.
46.         Finally, recognizing the limited scope of the Ivorian
capital market, the Government has indicated its readiness to develop
BVA into a regional body serving the seven countries of the West African
Monetary Union. A study in this respect is undertaken under the co-
sponsorship of the French Ministry of Cooperation, USAID, BOAD, and the
Bank. The study will, among others, address issues of extra-
territoriality, sovereignty, taxation, communication and supervision.
47.         Project Description. The BVA component of the project would
support the Government program of reform of the Abidjan stock exchange
by: ti) funding a consultant who will provide assistance in (a) the
introduction of a new quotation system; (b) its institutional
reorganization and supervision; (c) the development of appropriate



- 29 -
instruments antd mechanisms for BVA's role in the privatization process%
(d) the reorganization of the brokerage function; and (e) the conduct of
a study on the development of a regional capital market anchored in
Abidjan; (ii) funding a legal expert to modify existing legislation and
regulation to accommodate the institutional reorganization of the stock
exchange and brokers; (iii) finance training of staff in assessing firm
values, particularly in the context of privatization and in the use of
computer programs; and (iv) funding the acquisition of essential
equipment, such as computers needed to enhance the efficiency of BVA's
operations. The total IDA contribution for this component is estimated
at $ .39 million.
Section D: Project Management and Implementation
48.         The Project Management Secretariat.  As explained in para.
10 project coordination for the privatization component, which accounts
for about 90 percent of total cost, will be assumed by the Secretariat
(Cellule Technique, CT) of the Privatization Committee (PC) which has
already acquired substantial experience during the execution of a
Japanese grant which helped prepare the project and financed the same
type of activities envisaged under the project, i.e. consulting
services, training and operational support. In administering the
project, the head of the CT will be assisted by four higher level staff,
a full time accountant and adequate office support. The head of the CT
and the other members of the CT will work full time and, under the
general supervision of the PC, will be responsible for: (a) coordination
of the work programs and national counterpart training programs prepared
by experts working under project financing; and (b) the preparation of
six-monthly reports which set out in detail the concrete achievements
made under the project and compare these to projected achievements for
the period, give a calendar of actions for the next six months and
specify the measures needed to fulfill it. Project coordination of the
debt and BVA components will be assumed by the a special group with the
office of the Minister of Finance. This group has been in place for some
time and is succesfully administering a US$1.5 million PPF for the PAGE
project.
49.         The project will provide the financial and material
resources necessary to carry out project execution in the most effective
way. Some of the operating costs, including office space, utilities and
vehicles, will be financed from the Government's counterpart
contribution to the project. A workshop in relevant Bank procedures and
practices has already taken place. It focussed, among other things, on
agreed methods for recruitment and periodic evaluation of locally and
internationally recruited technical assistance.
50.         Coordination.  Adequate arrangements for the coordination
between the CT, which falls under the general supervision of the Prime
Minister's office, and the special coordinating group within the office
of the Minister of Finance have been made.



- 30 -
51.         Project Costs and Financing. Total project costs are
estimated at US$17.7 million, of which US$13.1 million in foreign costs.
The IDA credit of US$15 million equivalent would finance 100 percent of
foreign, 41 percent of local and 85 percent of total costs. The
Government will finance the balance of 15 percent of total costs.
Preparation of the project has been greatly facilitated by a US$1.8
million equivalent grant from the Japanese Government, for which the
Bank is acting as administrator.
52.         Procurement.  The Association and the Government attach high
priority to mobilizing Ivorian expertise which is considerable by
regional standards. It is not possible, however, to rely entirely on
the local market to supply the expertise needed for all project
activities. The qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment of all consultants would be in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for the use of consultants and would be submitted to the
Association for review and non-objection.
53.         Equipment to be financed from the proposed credit is not
large enough to attract international competition. Contracts for office
equipment and computers to be financed from the credit valued in excess
of US$30,000 but less than $100,000 equivalent per contract and up to an
aggregate total of US$200,000 equivalent will be awarded on the basis of
local procurement procedures acceptable to the Association. Procurement
of small items financed from the credit and estimated at less than
US$30,000 equivalent and up to an aggregate total of US$100,000 will be
done locally, after seeking quotations from no fewer than three
suppliers. The threshold for IDA's prior review has been set at the
equivalent of US$30,000. For items under this threshold, an ex-post
review will be carried out by IDA. Procurement arrangements are
summarized in Schedule B.
54.         Disbursement.  The project is expected to disburse over
three years. All disbursements would be fully documented except for
payments against contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent, which
would be made on the basis of SOEs and retained in the CT and the
special coordinating group within the office of the Minister of Finance
for review by IDA supervision missions antd independent auditors. Given
the importance that the Government and the Prime Minister, in
particular, attach to the successful implementation of the privatization
program and given that highly competent staff is assigned to implement
the project, it can be anticipated that disbursement will take place
within the envisaged time frame. Disbursement arrangements are
sunmarized in Schedule B.
55.         Revolving Funds.  To expedite implementation, the Government
will establish two Special Accounts at Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
(CAA) to be operated as revolving funds for IDA's contribution to the
privatization and debt/BVA components of the project, respectively.
These accounts will be financed with initial deposits of CFAF 60 million
and CFAF 30 million, respectively, from the proposed credit upon
effectiveness. The accounts would be used to finance the local and



- 31 -
foreign cost of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. IDA would
replenish the accounts upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred
expenditures and evidence that such expenditures were eligible for
funding out of the Special Accounts. Up-to-date bank statements and
reconciliation of the Special Accounts would accompany the replenishment
requests which would be on the basis of fully documented reimbursement
applications except for contracts under US$20,000 equivalent, which will
be submitted on the basis of SOEs.
56.         The CT and the special coordinating group within the office
of the Minister of Finance will be responsible for preparing withdrawal
applications and SOEs to be submitted to IDA by the CAA and will
indicate on the SOEs the nature and origin of any goods and the payment
date. These would be retained along with all other relevant supporting
documentation (invoices, evidence of shipment, evidence of payment,
etc.) for review by IDA supervision missions and by the independent
auditors. In addition, the above implementing entities will maintain
records not only of project expenditures, but also of commitments,
reimbursements and the status of project funds, in accordance with
accepted accounting principles. At negotiations, assurances have been
obtained that the project's financial accounts will be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and the audit reports sent to
IDA no later than six months after the close of the fiscal year.
57.         Reporting and Monitoring.  In addition to the semi-annual
progress reports and training and work programs to be submitted jointly
through the CT and the coordinating group within the office of the
Minister of Finance to IDA, they will: (a) submit brief but substantive
semi-annual reports on project implementation; (b) prepare an annual
report summarizing progress in all key project areas of activity and
defining a work program with monitorable outputs for the following year;
and (c) submit a Project Completion Report to IDA no later than six
months after the closing date of the credit.



- 32 -
Technical Anness Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
TRAINtIG
1.          Cote d'Ivoire's trained manpower base is strong by regional
standards. However, the highly technical services required for the
project do exist only on a very limited basis within the country. Most
of the training will thus be provided from abroad.
2.          Training activities account for about 5.3 percent of total
project cost (US$ .8 million equivalent). In addition, it is likely that
further training needs will be identified during project implementation
and these could be financed from presently unallocated funds.
3.          Under the project's grivatization component, a comprehensive
training program is included which aims at building up local
capabilities for carrying out privatization, undertaking enterprise
diagnoses, and mastering various techniques of divestiture and project
finance. Those in charge of the divestiture process and privatization
transactions in the Privatization Comnmittee, the Cellule Technique (CT)
de Privatisation, and the responsible technical ministries are likely to
require specialized training in topics such as asset valuation,
divestiture techniques, prospectus preparation, public tender procedures
and bid evaluation, regulatory aspects of privatization, use of
alternative financial instruments, including managementlemployee buyouts
and debt/equity swaps. It is envisaged that the training will be
provided in the form of practical short-term courses, seminars and
workshops, followed by on-the-job training, rather than extended
overseas training or long-term consultants. The training program has
been designed by a consultant who already carried out a training needs
assessment which included an assessment oft (a) the training needs of
the Comittee, the CT staff or technical ministries, (b) the delivery
capability of local educational and training institutions, (c) the
availability of local individual training expertise, and (d) the
identification of overseas training at appropriate commercial and
international financial institutions, such as banks, specialized
seminars at the Bank and the IMF, etc. The training program will focus
on the three main following topics: (1) Introduction to Privatization,
(2) Implementing Privatization (3) Post Privatization.
3.          The consultant proposed three alternatives to the design and
implementation of the programs
-   Option 1, called a comprehensive approach, allows for the
institutionalization of the training process by assuring that a
foreign professional training institution joint ventures with a
local RCI institution to assume the overall management and
development of the project over the full three-year period of the
project.
-   Option 2, called the customized approach, involves a contractor to
focus on designing a country-specific training content. In this
context, the CT would handle all of the training, management,



- 33 -
Technical Annext Attachment 1
Page 2 of 2
administrative and logistical tasks while three (3) contractors
(companies as opposed to individualss and not necessarily
professional training organizations) would concentrate on
elaborating the training design under each of the three components
(1) Introduction to Privatization, (2) Implementing Privatization
(3) Post Privatization.
- Option 3, called the off-the-shelf approach, envisages the CT to
be responsible for the overall development and administration of
the training program; however, management oversight is minimized
by accessing off-the-shelf, pre-fabricated training and the
services of a training broker. By accessing professional training
search services, the CT can generate a large list of programs,
seminars and workshops that are already developed and slated for
delivery--commonly called *off-the-shelf'.
It was agreed during negotiations that by June 1, 1922, at the latest,
the PC would take a final decision on which one of the three options to
choose.
4.          Under the project's debt reductionlrestructuring component,
training would focus on the members of the technical secretariat of the
Government's Foreign Debt Committee. The training would be provided by
highly skilled professionals who can adequately blend substantial market
experience and academic credentials. The following areas of technical
assistance would receive priority attentions (a) developing a strategy
for external debt restructuring and management; (b) designing
operational frameworks for drafting and updating periodic economic and
financial memoranda; (c) preparing memoranda on commercial banks' tax,
accounting regulatory regimes; (d) developing a medium-term strategy to
regain access to markets over time; (e) developing and adapting computer
programs for analyzing the cash flow impact of borrowing and debt
restructuring techniques, such as debt for equity (or for nature) swaps
or bond conversions; and (f) preparing and adapting computer programs
for external debt management so as to obtain debt and debt service
structure by debtor, creditor, maturity and exchange rate. The training
will consist of study trips or short-term technical assistance to be
provided by the above-mentioned professionals. A Bank consultant has
already elaborated detailed terms of reference for the above activities.
5.          Under the Abidjian stock exchange component (Bourse de Valeur
d'Abidjan, BVA), training will be provided in (a) the introduction of a
new quotation system, (b) the institutional reorganization and
supervision of BVA, (c) the development of appropriate instruments and
mechanisms for BVA's role in the privatization process, and (d) the
reorganization of the brokerage functions. Terms of reference for the
above training have been adopted and a qualified consultant is already
in place. Under this component, an additional study will be launched
regarding the potential for the development of a regional capital market
anchored in Abidjan. Terms of reference for this study have been also
been agreed upon.



Attachment 2
Page 1 of 6
COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
MAIN OBCTIVES                   PROJECT COMPONENT              EXPECEDOUTU                            TIMING TARGETS
ACTIVITIES                   IMPACT
t. PROJECT                       (a) Prepare and submit to IDA       gm=:
MANAGEMENT                       an additional list of 32           List of 32 enterprises                  Effectvene
Strenhen Government's            enterprises candidate for           Imp.ac:
Administratie Capacity to         privatization in phase 2 of the   Efficient planning of a
design, daborate and              progrm.                          substantive privatization
implement the Program.                                             program.
(b) Create and set up project      Output:
implementation units. The        Mechanism to monitor ad
Technical Secretariat of the      administer progran executon.            Effecivees
Privatization Commitee (CT)        Impac:
would be responsible for         Timely and efficient
project management of the        implementation of Program
privatization commintee. The      activities.
debt and Abidjan stock
exchange components would
be under the Project
Management of the Secretariat
of the Economic Management
Project (SPAGE) in the
Ministry of Finance.
(c) Appoint project                 o=u:
Coordinators and Accountas.      Manage IDA finncial and
technical support to the
proiect.                                Effectiveness
Efficient administration of
program activities and
interphasing between
Govenunent and IDA.



Attachment 2
Page 2 of 6
MAIN OBJECTIVES                PROJECT COMPONENT               EXPECTED OUTPUT                       TIMING TARGETS
ACTIVITIES                  IMPACT
(d) Adopt six monthly work        Output:
programs and send six monthly    Definition of systematic action         June and December
progress reports to IDA.         plans.                                     1992-1994
Impact:
Ensure timely implementation
of program activities and
appropriate technical expertise
provided.
U'



Attachment 2
Page 3 of 6
PROJECT COMPONENT                  EXPECTED OUTPUT
MAIN OBJECTIVES                ACTIVITIES                          IMPACT                       TIMING TARGETS
2. SUPPORT TO
PRIVATIZATION
PROGRAM
(a) Gt' ral institutional         Output:
(a) Enhance capability of the    suppc. .o the Privatization       (a) Comprehensive and reliable
Privatization Committee and      Committee and the CT.             information for decision           Continuous
CT to elaborate and implement                                      making.
privatization program.           (b) Staffing the CT with four     (b) Proposals and strategies for
long term and full time          privatization of PEs.
professional staff, an             Impact:
accountant, support staff and    Improved decision-making for
short-term consultants.          Government privatization
program.
Support for privatization of at    QOu:
() Privatization of specific     least 34 PEs.                     (a) Diagnosis of PEs and
PEs.                                                               review of legal requirements;    Bring to the point of sale at
(b) Audit and Valuation;        least:
(c) Divestiture strategy;        . 18 PEs in 1992
(d) Preparation of bidding       . 8 PEs in 1993
documents or prospectus;         . 8 PEs in 1994
(e) Publication amid issuance of
documents.
Impct:
(a) Reduce financial and
administrative burden of PEs
on public finance.
(b) Rehabilitate public finance,
improve competitiveness and
promote private sector
development.



Attachment 2
Page 4 of 6
PROJECT COMPONENT               EXPECTED OUTPUT                  TIMING TARGETS
MAIN OBJECTIVES                    ACTIVITIES                       IMPACT
Outut:
Development of additional       Preparation of:                    1992-1994
(c) Lay basis for further        reform measures.                (a) Sector studies on rubber,
actions.                                                         energy, palm oil industries;
(b) Study of savings in RCI
and capital concentration;
(c) Program of retraining and
redeployment of employees of
PEs to be privatized;
(d) Study of employee
stock ownership plans.
Facilitate implementation of
the privatization program and
improve decision-making
process.
Provide a comprehensive         Training assessment and            1992-1994
(d) Building up local           program of training, seminars    actions Plans.
capabilities for carrying out    and workshops.                    Impact:
privatization, underaking                                        (a) Improved decision making.
enterprise diagnosis and                                         (b) Ensure availability of
mastering various techniques                                     appropriate expertise to PC
of divestiture and project                                       and CT for implementation
finance.                                                         and acceleration of the
program.



Attachment 2
Page 5 of 6
MAIN OBJECTIVES                     PROJECT COMPONENT                   EXPECTED OUTPUT                        TIMING TARGETS
ACTIVITIES                        IMPACT
3. EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION             (a) Set up Permanent Technical 
AND RESTRUCTURING                      Secretariat (PTS) with adequate staff   Institutional mechanism to design and  Done
and equipment ressources.              assess debt management policy
options.
Efficient institutional focus to help
centralize and coordinate debt
management.
(b) Approve and disburse budget for     Qiat
PTS (counterpart funds).               Fully operational PTS
bmoact
Ensure efficient data gathering and    Spring 1992
anatysis; timely technical assistance
provided to Debt Committee.
Strenthen Govenment's                  (c) Carrying out training program.      Outapt
Administrative and Technical                                                   Two-year training program covering
Capacity to effectively manage                                                 financial, legal and regulatory        Spring 1992-1993
exteral debt obligaions with a view                                            dimensions.
to alleviate debt overhang.                                                     .mml
Building up strong technicallanalytical
sktills.
(d) Designing operational frameworks    gumt
for debt restructuring negotiations.   Operational computer programs for
external debt management.
In                                    September I992
- Ensure timely and comprehensive
briefing of debt policymakers.
- Ensure efficient preparation of debt
negotiations.
(e) Developing medium-term strategy     gum
to regain market access for specific   Information system on financial
purpose financing.                     markets.



Attachment 2
Page 6 of 6
MAIN OBJECTIVES                             PROJECT COMPONENT                   EXPECTED OUTPUT                        TIMING TARGETS
ACTIVITIES                         IMPACT
Improve decision-making process for    Spring 1993-1994
external financial policy.
4. ABIDJAN STOCK EXCHANGE
Support the Government program of       (a) Continuous assistance by foreign    - Establish a new supervisory           Ongoing - June 1993
Reform of BVA.                          expert                                  mechanism, independent of BVA;
- Train BVA staff in assessing new
companies and monitoring listed
companies;
- Develop strategy for regional stock
market.
(b) Other training                      Continuous training to newly
established stockbrokers through
seminars and on the job training        April 1992-June 1993i



COTE O'IVOIRE
PRIVATIZATION SPPlRT PROJECT
TINETABlIE ANUD  EAStRENEWT CRITERIA
ACTIVITIES                   KEY RESPONSABILITY                   1992                    1993                       1994                EASUREM
1   11   111   1V        1 11 I11   IV             I   11  II   IV IVITERIA
1. PROCT  AAXEX              Technical Secretariat
(CT) of Privatination
Committee (PC) and
Secretariat of the PAGE
(SPAGE) In the Mtinistry
of finante
(a) Project                 CT; SPACE                          X
lsptementation Units.
(b) Appoint project         PC-CT
coordinator and
Accountant.
K
(b) Setting qp software     CT; SPACE
preoga- for managinr
unit.
xK                            x                    x         x IC        uaiawal spevision mission.
(c) Adopt slx monthly       CT; SPAGE
work progra and six
monthty progress
report.
2. SUJl TO
,PR AIZATIUNl
(a) Design. etdorate        CT - PC                            X          X             X         X              X         X            (a) CSe-mviuslprgresar eport
and Imptement                                                                                                                          and supervision lmssion.
privatization poreq.                                                                                                                   Cb) Semi-amuat workptans.
(b) Privatization of at     PC-CT                         X    X    X     X        X    X    X    X          X    X   X      X         (a) eSt efforts Olde to offer
least setected 34 PEs.                                                                                                                 for sate (18 In t992, at teast a
In t993. nd at least 8 In 1994).
(b) Efforts nadb to aggrssively
market privatizatian. offering
them locatly and Internationally.
(c) Relative shares of pubtic
sector fn CDP and In estment.
(d) over atl PE surptusldeflcit
as a percentage of GOP.
(e) Oevelopent of           CT                            X    X    X     X        X    X   X     X          X    X   X     X          Pesent ter  of reference and
additional reform                                                                                                                      Action ptans for each activity.
measures (studies)
(d) TRAINING PROGRAM
(a) Identify training       World Sank (V.B.). CT,        X    X                                                                       Best response to terms of
Institutions: tocal (L)     PC                                                                                                         reference.
and foreign (F)



Page-2-  3
ACTIVITIES                        KEY RESPOcSABILiTY               1992                   1993                        1994               MEASUREMENT
I   II   III   IV        I   It  III   IV        I   II  III   IV           CRITERIA
(b) Develop overalt          Consultants (LI)                                                                                            Semi-wual progrss report (PC.
training progrmn for                                                                                                                     CT. IS monitor report).
1992 for PC a;d CT
(topies, objectives.
tentative schedtaes,
proposed methodology.
etc.)
cc) Coaplete Progren         Consultents (L/F)                   X                                                                       sei-a,wu   progress repot (we
(Design all mteralds,                                                                                                                   mSnitor report)
all treiners) for
"first in-service (1)
for CT; (2) for PC
(d) Conduct first in         Consultents CL/f)                                                                                            Evaluations PC/CT XW iB
service for PC                                                                                                                          sEuervision mission
(privatelation topies,
dossier analysis and
critique)
Ce) Develop Progra           Consultants (L/F)                       N                                                                   Semi-auut progress report.
Design, Agenda for
first observation study
tours for PC and CT
rfe) Condct                  consmAtents (L/F)                              X                                                            Evaluations by PCICT.
first Observtion Study
Tours /PC and CT
(g) Coendut Second and       Consultants (Lt/)                                               X        X                                  Evaluations by PC/CT.               3
third In service
training progris for
PC end CT
(C) Conduct fInat            tonsuttants (.t/f)                                                                     K   K                Evaluation  by PC/CT (suerision
fourth in service                                                                                                                        msElion).
training fer PC/CT
Cf) Cond4ct secnd,           Consultants (L/F)                               X                        K            K                     Evaluation  by PC/CT (supervision
thIrd, fourth,                                                                                                                           misstion).
observation study tours
(for PC, Cl and their
corterparts)
(j) Identify overseas        Consultants (L/F)                                             X     X
prograv                                                                                                                                  CT evaluations.
(k) Arrameemnts for 2        Consultants (L/F)                        X
prfcessional (NWT
level for CT complete
registrations etc)
oversess.
(I) Program evatuation       Consultants (PC/CT)                                                                                K        IB stuervison mission; exteral
(internal and external)      (fnternal and external)



Attacbxent3
Page 3 of-3-
ACTIVITIES
KEY RESPONSABILITY            1992                   1993                       1994              NEASIRENENT
I  It  III  IV          I   1I  III  IV          I  it III  IV             CRITERIA0
(a) Developinh strategy
for debt   _ae.ntu wd       SPACE wnd                   X   X   X    X          X   X  X    X             X   X   X   X             (a) Fuly opettion  OMU by
debt restructuring          Csultent                                                                                                06/92.
(b) Training en
finncial, tegat end         SPA, IERD, end              X   X   X    X          X   X   X   X                                       (b) On sogw difsrisents of
regulatory 1 e C_tonsutant                                                                                                         ceutterpat funds.
(c) Setting databases
end infor ation systems     SPAGE                       X   X   X    X                                                              (e) Carebenhlwe databases on
Consultont                                                                                             debt rest itrin  iwkeuts.
(d) Develeplng emdlus-
term strategy to regain     SPAGE  IBIM  and                                    X   X  X                  X   X  X    X             (d) Efficlent snd tliely
arket access                Consuttunt                                                                                              assistnce to Oebt Ccffttee.
* uamtitatlve crfterif
(a) Training by Stock
Exchage Expet               Consutant                   X   X   X    X          X   X  X    X                                      Evatuation sup.rlsln  issfon
(b) Training of Stock
Brokers                     Consultant                                  X       X   X  X    X                                      Evatuatfen s4rvision mission



