Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20268
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 23630-IVC)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.9 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FORA
PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
April 4, 2000
Private Sector Group (AFTPS)
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1999)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 590 = US$ 1
US$ 1 = SDR 0.7372
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNETD               Bureau National d'Etudes Techniques et de Developpement
BRVM                Bourse Regionale des Valeurs Mobilieres
CFAF                Franc de la Communaute Financiere Africaine
EPs                 Public Enterprises
HIPC                Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IFC                 International Financial Coorporation
IPO                 Initial Public Offering
PAGE                Economic Management Project
(Projet d'appui a la gestion &conomique)
SONATEL             Societe Nationale de Telecommunications (Senegal)
SOTRA               Societe des Transports Abidjanais
UEMOA               Union Economique et Monetaire Ouest-Africaine
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:   Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager:    Demba Ba
Task Team Leader:    Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 9
6. Sustainability                                                                    11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   14
9. Partner Comments                                                                  16
10. Additional Information                                                           23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                36
Annex
Annex
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P00 1207                                     Project Name: PRIVATIZATION SUPPOR
Team Leader: Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly                 TL Unit: AFTPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: April 4, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: PRIVATIZATION SUPPOR                             LIC Number: 23630
Country/Department: COTE D'IVOIRE                                      Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: BP - Privatization
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/07/87                               Effective: 04/07/87           07/23/92
Appraisal: 07/05/91                                  MTR:                      06/29/94
Approval: 05/05/92                                Closing: 12/31/95            09/30/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/Technical Unit of the Privatization Committee
Other Partners: Debt Secretariat; Stock Exchange
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib                         Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Mamadou Dia                              Michael J. Gillette
Sector Manager:      Demba Ba                                 Robert S. Drysdale
Team Leader at ICR:   Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly             Franz H. Kaps
ICR Primary Author:   Francois Nankobogo; Oliver
Campbell White
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objectives of the project as stated in the Memorandum of the President were to assist the
Government in reducing its holdings and alleviating the recurrent administrative and financial burden of
public enterprises (PEs). The project was also designed to help C6te d'lvoire reestablish its
creditworthiness, which depended critically upon an early reduction/restructuring of its sizable foreign



commercial debt.
Following strong and sustained growth in the 1970s, C6te d'Ivoire entered into a protracted economic
slump, which resulted from adverse external shocks that affected an economy marked by structural
rigidities, limited diversification, and deficiencies in the implementation of macroeconomic policies. In the
late 1980s/early 1990s, efforts to rein in C6te d'Ivoire's budget deficit and to put the country on a
sustainable growth path were being frustrated by the burdens of the public enterprise sector and increasing
debt service such that, by 1990, growth in GDP had become negative. At end 1991, domestic public debt
stood at FCFA 980 billion, of which about one-third was in arrears, while total external public debt was
CFAF 3,465 billion, of which one-third was also in arrears. The economy was characterized by a lack of
competitiveness leading to a severe contraction of the real sector, high dependency on two major export
crops (cocoa and coffee which accounted for some 40% of exports), and fiscal disequilibrium exacerbated
by the poor performance and fiscal burden of the PE sector.
In 1990, there were 114 enterprises in C6te d'Ivoire in which the Government held equity. Performance of
these enterprises was mixed but the larger enterprises, which were wholly state-owned, were incurring
substantial deficits. An internal Government evaluation revealed that between 1982 and 1988 the PE sector
benefited from CFAF 165 billion in direct subsidies while the accumulated profits of public enterprises
were reported to have been:
Enterprises with 100% Government ownership:   CFAF -85 billion (US$ -205 million)
Enterprises with 50-99% Government ownership:  CFAF -10 billion (US$ -24 million)
Enterprises with <50% Government ownership:   CFAF +134 billion (US$ 323 million)
However, if account were taken of indirect subsidies, the position was worse than those figures suggest.
By mid-1990, EECI (the sole electricity generation and distribution company) alone was incurring losses of
CFAF I billion per month and had accumulated losses of CFAF 110 billion. From 1989 to 1991, direct
subsidies to PEs totalled some FCA 50 billion while their debt burden on Government increased.
Privatization was therefore part of the Government's Medium-Term Framework (MTF) which aimed to
rehabilitate public finance, transfer some of the debt service burden to the private sector, and improve the
competitiveness of the economy. Key actions under the MTF included improvement of incentives for
private investment, creation of more private national shareholders, and, eventually, establishment of the
conditions for the development of a capital market within the West African Monetary Union.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not modified in the course of implementation. However, the mid-term review, which
took place in June 1994, emphasized the short-term objectives (reducing subsidies to PEs and increasing
government's resources, mobilizing private sector participation for the financing of the economy) as well as
its medium-term goals of: (a) improving productivity and competitiveness; (b) increasing job market
opportunities; and (c) promoting domestic savings, shareholdings and capital markets.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had three components: (a) the privatization of public enterprises (which accounted for about
90% of the Credit); (b) foreign debt reduction and restructuring; and (c) strengthening the Abidjan Stock
Exchange.
-2 -



3.3.1   Privatization of Public Enterprises
The project was intended to finance: (a) general institutional and logistical support to the Government
entities in charge of the privatization program : the Privatization Committee and its Technical Secretariat (
Cellule Technique du Comite de Privatisation); (b) consulting services for the preparation and
implementation of privatization plans, including technical advice on sales strategy, valuation, financial
engineering, legal issues, etc.; (c) development of additional reforms and measures to facilitate
privatization, such as employee stock ownership plans, and to undertake sector studies in support of the
program; and (d) support for a comprehensive program of training and workshops for government officials
in the area of privatization.
3.3.2 Foreign Debt Reduction and Restructuring
This component was intended to help develop national expertise in new debt reduction and restructuring
techniques, including possible debt/equity swaps. It was to pursue three specific objectives: (a) providing
technical assistance for designing a debt strategy and specific techniques for debt conversion/reduction in
relation to the privatization of PEs; (b) improving the registration process of external debt liabilities as well
as the coordination and centralization of debt management; and (c) providing equipment and training for the
Debt Secretariat.
3.3.3 Strengthening the Abidjan Stock Exchange
The project was intended to help strengthen the Abidjan Stock Exchange so as to facilitate implementation
of the privatization program by providing funding for:
(a) consulting services needed for: (i) the introduction of a new quotation system; (ii) the reorganization
and the regulation of the stock exchange; (iii) the development of appropriate instruments and
mechanisms for the stock exchange's role in the privatization process; (iv) the reorganization of the
brokerage function; and (v) a study generate proposals for a regional capital market anchored in
Abidjan;
(b) a legal expert to draft modifications to legislation and regulations so as to accommodate the
proposed reorganization of the Stock Exchange and the brokerage system;
(c) training in assessing firm values, particularly in the context of privatization and in the use of
computer programs; and
(d) the acquisition of essential equipment such as computers.
Project costs were allocated to the components as follows:
Comronent                                  Cost           Rating
PRIVATIZATION                              $13,500,000           S
FOREIGN DEBT REDUCTION & RESTRUCTURING        $ 1,100,000           HS
ABIDJAN STOCK EXCHANGE                           $400,000           S
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no revision of project components.
-3 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was designed in a timely manner to provide support to the Government of C6te d'Ivoire in its
efforts to: (a) reduce the weight of the parapublic sector on public finance; (b) reduce its debt burden and,
at the same time, normalize relations with its creditors; and (c) improve the functioning of the Stock
Exchange. The Government had announced its privatization program and had set up a Privatization
Committee in December 1990, and it had decided to set up a Foreign Debt Committee in September 1991.
Two technical secretariats were put in place, one for the privatization component, the other to deal with the
external debt and stock exchange components.
In hindsight, project design did not take sufficient account of the prevailing economic situation and
uncertainty which meant that the pace of privatization was very slow until after the 1994 devaluation of the
CFA Franc. Two other important factors also influenced the pace of privatization: (a) public opinion,
which at that time was not prepared for such a program; and (b) legal aspects were overlooked which
necessitated the passing of legislation. When the "Loi d'habilitation " was tabled in Parliament, debate
arose about the legitimacy of the privatization program and this delayed its adoption.
Other factors, known but difficult to quantify and which the project sought to tackle, which also
contributed to delays were: (a) technical capacities; (b) investor confidence in the economy which was low;
and (c) the quality of the management information on the various companies which was of variable quality.
Earlier attention to these matters might have assisted in an earlier improvement in the pace of the program
but it is doubtful that any significant improvement could have been attained until after the 1994
devaluation, which removed much uncertainty and went a long way to restoring investor confidence and the
competitiveness of the economy.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4. 1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall project's outcome is satisfictory. As a result of the project, the Republic of CMte d'Ivoire
(RCI) was able to roll back an overextended public enterprise sector, to improve dramatically its foreign
debt management thus restoring creditworthiness, and to enhance the operations of the Abidjan Stock
Exchange which eventually became a regional exchange. The following table shows the improvement in
key economic indicators over the project implementation period.
-4 -



C6TE D'IVOIRE:
Selected Indicators                                                                        _
1992     1993    1994    1995   1996   1997   1998   1999          2000
GDP at market drices (Cur. US$m)  11.153    10.405   7.666    9.992 .7    10.251  11.041  12.625      3.726
GDP at market Drices (Const. 1995  9.179    9.163   9.343    9.992  10.681  11.317  11.957  12.674   13.410
Gross dom. invest. (Cur. US$m)      772       864     962    1.352   1.437   1.640   2.010  2.348     2.649
Gross dom. invest. as share of GDP     7        8       13      14      13      16      18     1'         19
Gross priv. invest. as share of GDP (%)  5      4        7       9      10      11      13     14         1C
Foreign direct invest. (Net. cur. US $m)  35   24     (25)    234    223    314    247    2            29
Foreign direct invest. as share of GDP,
t%)                                    0        0        0       2       2       3      2       2          2
Primary deficit /surplus, as share of
GDP. (%)                              -1        -3       1        3      4       3       3 
Overall surplus/deficit, excd. all grants
as share of GDP. (%)                 -12       -12     -7        4       -3     -3      -3      2         -1
Extemal debt, end year (Cur, US$m)    12 728    13.510  14.593   15.60      21.699.    2   13.2 -
Total External Debt to exoort ratio.%  94      5       511     408    3861   323 .287   274              23
Total Extemal Debt to GDP ratio. %     6       1831   227       1891   18212     1     130      7        102
Note: Estimated amounts for years 1999 and 2000.
Into the second year of the project (1993), following several years of high budget deficits, the public
debt/GDP ratio had nearly tripled compared with the level prevailing in the late 1970s, reaching 205
percent, 80 percent of which was owed to foreign creditors. Attempts to improve the fiscal balance,
coupled with structural deficiencies and the deterioration in the terms of trade, heightened by the economic
slump, pushed GDP growth to below 1 percent on average in the period 1988-93. During the four years
preceding the devaluation (1990-93), the overall deterioration in competitiveness brought about a decline in
real GDP, at an average annual rate of about 0.4%. After the 1994 devaluation, C6te d'Ivoire experienced
a major economic turnaround. The economy responded to stabilization and structural reforms, including
privatization, and grew at an average of 6% between 1995-99. Gross domestic investment as a share of
GDP almost tripled: it increased from 7% in 1992 to 19% in 1999; and gross private investment as a share
of GDP increased from 5% to 14% over the same period. Although foreign direct investment still
represented a modest 2% of GDP in 1999, its growth in dollar amounts over the 1992-99 period was about
709%. Government finance improved with the primary fiscal balance shifting from a deficit to a surplus
starting in 1994, and the overall fiscal balance improved from -12% of GDP to -2% of GDP. The total
external debt to GDP ratio declined from 166% in 1992 to 117% in 1999.
The project's objectives were achieved. The Government reduced significantly its shareholding in the PE
sector and placed the energy sector under private management. The Government relieved the pressure on
public finance by eliminating direct subsidies to PEs and by generating revenues from privatization
transactions. Total privatization proceeds are estimated at about US$450 million. Privatization deals also
transferred responsibility for enterprise debt servicing to the private sector. It also led to new capital being
introduced into sectors which had suffered from a long period of lack of investment. The private sector
increased significantly its role in the economy as the Government withdrew from commercial and industrial
activities. This trend was reinforced by the fact that, during the same period, the Government undertook an
ambitious program of involving private investors in the financing of large infrastructure projects, under the
special program of the "Twelve Works of the Elephant of Africa". Enterprise efficiency and
competitiveness improved over the period.
The Government's capacity to service its external debt was restored. Creditworthiness was re-established,
as agreements with commercial creditors were reached. At the same time, the Government embarked on a
reform program which would allow the country to qualify for the HIPC Initiative public debt reduction.
- 5-



The objective to improve the structure and operations of the Abidjan Stock Exchange was fully achieved;
and it became a regional stock exchange in 1998.
Achievements under the project contributed to the increase in foreign direct investment from nil to 2% of
GDP over the project period.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1. Privatization Component (US$13.50 million)
The privatization component provided technical assistance to the Government's Privatization Committee,
mainly through its Technical Unit set up in the Prime Minister's Office. This support consisted of: (a)
advisory services including strategy, evaluation, financial and legal issues, and social dimensions; (b)
negotiation and conclusion of privatization transactions; and (c) institutional capacity building.
The achievements under this component were:
(a)   the privatization of most of the PE sector, made possible by strengthening institutional capacity;
(ii) the transformation of the role of the State;
(b)   the reduction of the PE burden on public finances and the raising of resources for public
investment financing in priority sectors;
(c)    the involvement of employees as shareholders in most privatization deals;
(d)    the improvement of conditions for private sector development which also has had an indirect
positive impact on UEMOA as potential investors look at the opportunities in Cote d'Ivoire;
(e)    Bank-organized visits to Benin, Chile, Mexico, and Senegal for policy makers and implementers to
help them to gain a better understanding of privatization issues. They were able to see the
dynamics of the post-privatization markets and to meet with employees of privatized firms, private
shareholders, and new managers. This made a big difference to their outlook and confidence in
managing the process;
(g)    a workshop for journalists to assist them to better understand the privatization process and issues
and to improve the standard of reporting. This was a landmark event in Africa; and
(h)    the record and status of the implementing agency. The achievements of C6te d'Ivoire's program
have attracted many delegations from both Anglophone and Francophone African countries who
have visited Abidjan in order to obtain more insights into: the execution of the program, the nature
of policy issues and how these were dealt with, and the development of capacity to regulate
monopoly sectors.
In 1990, there were 80 public enterprises, with a total book value of some US$800 million. The initial
program consisted of 54 enterprises in two phases: 22 in the 1991-92 period and 32 enterprises planned for
1993-94. 17 PEs were later added to the program, making a total of 71 enterprises. 3 PEs were, for
various reasons, eventually removed from the privatization list, so the privatization portfolio can be
regarded as constituting 68 enterprises. Further enterprises were more recentlyapproved for privatization.
Implementation of the program was slow until the January 1994 devaluation for several reasons: (a) a
distorted business environment because of macroeconomic imbalances; (b) the lack of sufficient
competition in some sectors; (c) lack of export competitiveness due to the CFAF exchange rate; (d)
financial information on PEs was not reliable; (e) resistance to the reform program because of vested
interests and/or public opinion was not yet fully on board; and (f) limited experience in carrying out
-6 -



privatizations.
In spite of the slow beginning, 59 enterprises were privatized. From the 22 enterprises representing the
first phase of the program, 20 were privatized; and from the 32 enterprises targeted in the second phase, 25
were privatized. In addition, 14 other enterprises were privatized. Further information on the transactions
and status of the privatization program are provided in Section 10 (Tables 10.1-10.4).
The mass urban transportation company, SOTRA, was expected to be privatized during the project period,
but work did not go beyond the strategy formulation stage. A privatization study was carried out and
several options were tabled. However, an increasing number of users benefit from subsidies which are not
based on revenues but on the socio-economic situation. SOTRA is presently not viable as a fully
commercial concern. In view of the pricing and service policies and the public's dependence on SOTRA, a
thorough analysis of the entire urban transport sector is needed in order to assess the implications for
changes in its structure and to redefine the financing of services.
It had been expected that the privatization program would be completed by end 2000 with most of the
privatization transactions carried out through the Regional Stock Market. Following the political change in
December 1999, privatization objectives and priorities are under review by the Transitional Government so
some slippage is now expected.
Enterprise assessment studies, prepared by independent consultants under the project, proved to be highly
useful in assessing options and determining privatization strategy. Advisory services from investment
bankers during negotiations with potential investors also proved to be useful in securing deals and in raising
revenues in the privatization process. While the public record of privatization timetable (Bank-Fund
documentation) may have reduced the government's bargaining power, it can nevertheless be argued that
the government retained flexibility in determining the enterprises for priority action and the methods of
divestiture.
This is one of the first privatization programs in Africa where an independent impact study was
commissioned by the Government. It was carried out by the Boston Institute for Developing Economies in
1998 and concluded that: (a) profitability and labor productivity increased in privatized firms; (b) the fiscal
impact was substantial with the elimination of subsidies and the collection of corporate taxes and other
revenues; and (c) employment increased by an average of about 4 percent in privatized sectors. The study
noted a modest welfare impact on consumers, although in the power sector, P. Plane (1999) indicates, in
an article on technical efficiency and welfare consequences of the electricity company privatization, that the
consumers have been the main beneficiaries of productivity gains associated with a cost-reduction strategy
through a significant decrease of their relative price of electricity.
The main shortcomings of the privatization component were: (a) delayed attention to communications;
while this was corrected from 1996 onwards, it has not been systematic; (b) low participation of national
investors. Efforts were made through the press, radio, and television to advertise public offerings and
encourage people to subscribe. However, low savings levels and the lack of appropriate supporting
instruments inhibited participation. Perhaps more shares could have been put on the market together with
more incentives to attract more first-time investors; and (c) the low response from non-traditional foreign
investors; more effort could have gone into trying to attract new potential investors but additional effort
would have required more funding and would likely have involved delays to the program.
-7 -



4.2.2. Debt Reduction and Restructuring (US$1.1 million)
In 1992, C6te d'Ivoire needed to restore its creditworthiness and to be able to resume its debt service. It
had no access to financial markets as its external debt was as high as US$13 billion, of which US$4 billion
was interest arrears. Debt service to both the London and Paris Clubs had been suspended since 1987.
During the project implementation period, the Government embarked on a sound and successful external
debt management program. The Government refrained from foreign borrowing on non-concessional terms,
and it started to eliminate domestic debt arrears. The project supported this effort by helping set up a Debt
Technical Secretariat, a team of professional staff who subsequently received very specialized training on
debt issues, located in the Budget Minister's office. Owing to these capacity building efforts and
Government commitment, the debt technical secretariat prepared a regulatory framework for debt
conversion in 1994 as well as a strategy for external debt restructuring. The Paris Club agreed to a
rescheduling of official bilateral debt on highly concessional terms (enhanced Toronto terms) in 1994, and
an additional debt reduction was agreed to on Lyon terms in 1998. Negotiations with the London Club led
to a final agreement to restructure commercial debt on highly favorable terms in March 1998. Further
progress was made toward multilateral debt relief with the inclusion of C6te d'Ivoire under the HIPC
initiative in 1998, with a completion point expected in 2001.
4.2.3 Abidjan Stock Exchange (US$0.4 million)
In 1992, the Abidjan Stock Exchange, which was created in 1974, had not floated a new company since
1983 and had a market capitalization equivalent to only 4% of GDP. The Stock Exchange benefited both
from the project's direct support for its institutional strengthening and development and from the
privatization program: (a) its capacity and systems were improved (e.g. company assessments prior to
flotation); (b) market capitalization increased, boosted by the privatization of PEs through the stock
exchange. Fifteen companies were listed through initial public offerings (IPOs), a method that contributed
to increased transparency and credibility of the privatization program; (c) a number of bonds were issued
by several banks and private companies; and (d) the ground was laid for a smooth transformation into a
regional stock exchange.
Attempts were made to identify ways to expand and diversify shareholding, particularly by marketing
shares outside Abidjan. However, structural difficulties such as the lack of familiarity with financial
mechanisms, the low income levels and the very limited presence of financial institutions outside Abidjan,
were compounded by a number of legal and institutional issues. All these issues were identified but no
major effort was made to resolve them.
Following a study on regional options, a stock exchange regulatory body, the "Conseil regional de
l'epargne publique et des marches financiers", was set up in October 1997, in line with a convention
adopted by UEMOA countries-in July 1996. The Abidjan Stock Exchange was then converted into a
regional bond and equity market, the "Bourse Regionale des Valeurs Mobilires" (BRVM), in April 1998.
The BRVM's capitalization is currently about CFAF 950 billion (about US$1.6 billion).
With its headquarters located in Abidjan, the BRVM is privately owned and managed under a public
service concession. It has national antennas in UEMOA countries (currently in Benin, Burkina Faso, Mali,
Niger, Senegal, and Togo) which provide on-line access to the exchange's main computer and back office
activities in Abidjan. Besides C6te d'Ivoire-based enterprises, only the Senegalese telecommunication
company, SONATEL, is listed on the BRVM. Beyond the revitalization and the expansion of the stock
exchange, it appears that this instrument helped create a culture of savings and investment in Cote d'Ivoire
-8 -



as well as, to some extent, in the region.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact has been substantial. Expertise was developed in various
areas supported by the project, thus allowing both ownership and commitment to deepening the reforms to
materialize.
The management of the privatization process was improved over time as both the Privatization Committee
and the Technical Unit acquired and strengthened their expertise. This was reflected in processes such as
the preparation of enterprises for privatization, the involvement of investment banks, the negotiation of
transactions, and the organization of communication activities (e.g. "Journeesportes ouvertes de la
privatisation"). Professional staff of the Technical Unit have acquired the expertise required to handle the
residual privatization program.
With respect to the external debt-related activities, the Debt Technical Secretariat has the skills needed to
manage the external debt and to handle related negotiations. It is now been located in the Public
Accounting and Treasury General Directorate.
Owing to the support provided by the project to the Abidjan Stock Exchange, which allowed it to settle
both regulatory and operational issues, the Regional Stock Exchange (BRVM) is now operating on a
private basis and according to international standards.
Overall, the developments supported by the project have contributed to Abidjan becoming recognized as a
hub for financial expertise in the region. This is strengthening the demand for and professionalism of
financial experts.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were two main factors outside the Government's or implementing agencys control that affected both
implementation and outcome: (a) the perception of country risk by investors; and (b) the limited capacities
at the beginning of the program.
The country risk perception that prevailed at the beginning of the program was unfavorable to its
implementation. The country was non-creditworthy and it required some time to create conditions which
would renew foreign investors' confidence that they would be able to enter into profitable business in C6te
d'Ivoire. In addition to efforts deployed to restore creditworthiness, the devaluation of the CFA Franc in
January 1994 helped to boost the competitiveness of the economy and the confidence of foreign investors
(and thus their interest in bidding for PEs being privatized).
Capacity limitations were recognized at the design stage of the project. Previous Bank-supported efforts to
strengthen institutional capacities for policy-making, planning and management in the Ivorian
-9-



administration had failed. In spite of Bank-supported adjustment and technical assistance operations, the
Government's focus had been on short-term problems instead of structural issues, including institutional
development. The program therefore had to go through a learning process before expertise to accelerate the
pace of implementation was secured.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors subject to government control that affected project performance were: (a) lack of internal consensus
on the opportunity of efficiency gains through the privatization program; (b) insufficient communication;
and (c) failure to use broader-based shareholding mechanisms.
A major obstacle to timely implementation was the lack of sufficient understanding and consensus on the
opportunities for increased economic efficiency that the privatization program presented. Lengthy
discussions on the program took place between the Government and Parliament in 1993-94. This was
compounded by the death of President Felix Houphouet Boigny in December 1993 which created political
uncertainties. As a result, the speed of privatization was particularly slow until 1994. By July 1994, only
9 out of 22 enterprises had been privatized which had been targeted for privatization during the first phase
of the program, which was supposed to have been completed by the end of 1992. Some of these delays
were unavoidable when there were existing private shareholders with preemptive rights and the enteprises
concerned were in poor financial condition. There was no progress yet on the second phase of the program.
The Privatization Law was adopted by the Government and enacted by Parliament in June 1994. While the
law was under review, the program virtually came to a standstill. Throughout program implementation,
delays in decision-making occurred because of political considerations (e.g. the case of the refinery SIR -
Societe ivoirienne de raffinage).
Partnership with each enterprise's management team has been a feature of Cote d'Ivoire's program that has
facilitated transactions. This and general public communications has helped maintain a consensus in
favour of privatization. However, more emphasis on and dissemination of information about the impact of
privatization might have garnered even more interest and support.
In order to foster a broad-based national shareholding community, the Govermment had reached the stage of
setting up a national privatization fund in 1996, but failed to make available the CFAF 5 billion earmarked
in the 1997 budget. Such a fund would have facilitated the acquisition of public enterprise shares by
Ivorian individuals as well as those listed on the Stock Exchange.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Factors subject to implementing agency control included: (a) until mid-1994, a lack of clear definition of
tasks and responsibilities of staff in the Technical Unit of the Privatization Committee; (b) the lack of
incentives for the unit staff (in order to sustain the unit's performance at the highest level, the Bank had
suggested that the technical staff of the privatization unit be granted performance-based bonuses, but this
did not materialize); and (iii) a relatively high staff turnover rate in the unit which was compounded by
subsequent delays in the replacement of those who left, thus making it difficult to keep up the desired pace
of implementation.
- 10-



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
There were no problems related to project cost and financing. However, government financing of the
privatization fund which was decided upon in 1996 to provide support to a broad-based shareholding
scheme was not made available until the closing of the credit.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is very likely, given the institutional strengthening that resulted from a successful
implementation experience and the fact that today investors look to Cote d'lvoire as the center for business
growth in the region.
The Bank's support was supposed to last a limited amount of time (about three years since the original
credit closing date was December 1995) and advisory services were therefore tailored with the aim of
ensuring that the Government was adequately equipped to continue its program. The project's capacity
building endeavor required more time than initially expected. However, with the credit closing date
extended to September 30, 1999, sustainability is considered as very likely in all components. The project
achieved its overarching objective of institution/capacity building for the Government's privatization
program, debt management and stock exchange operation: With the expertise built over the project period,
the second phase of the privatization program is being carried out by the Ivorians themselves. The debt
technical secretariat is able to deal effectively with all debt management activities. The Abidjan Stock
Exchange has graduated into the regional stock exchange (BRVM), a privately managed business which
has been operating for over three years. It is expected that the BRVM capitalization will increase over time
as new enterprises from UEMOA countries are listed.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1. The Technical Unit of the Pivatization Committeehas continued successfully its operational
work since the project closing date and is able to bring the privatization program to closure. In addition to
the few remaining large public enterprises supported by the project, the Technical Unit is responsible for a
residual privatization program consisting of 20 public enterprises. The Government holds only a minority
equity interest in most of these enterprises. In many cases, the Government intends to divest through the
BRVM.
As the Government's privatization program comes to an end, the technical staff should have little difficulty
in finding job opportunities, particularly in the private sector. As the economy has picked up, there is new
demand for financial and general management expertise; and those who have been working on privatization
are well-suited for those positions.
An issue that the Government needs to address is the monitoring of post-privatization performance in key
sectors (agriculture, energy, telecommunications, and transport). The Bureau National d'Etudes
Techniques et de Developpement (BNETD) was contracted in the past to make an assessment of: (a) actual
business plan implementation, as of end- 1997, in line with property transfer contracts; and (b) the impact
of privatization as measured by trends in privatized enterprises' performance. The main commitments
made by private operators were: to pay the sales price, to execute their investment plan, to retain PE
personnel and eventually create additional employment, and to transfer an agreed portion of equity to
- 1 1 -



employees. The study found that:*
(a) owners of the privatized companies have, overall, delivered on their commitments vis-a-vis the
Government (i.e. business plan implementation) made at the time of transaction completion. However,
the Government has failed to provide long-term leases to private agri-business operators, although this
was supposed to take place within six months. In spite of this uncertainty, private operators have
continued to invest;
(b) investments are being made by privatized enterprises from a long term perspective, taking into account
business opportunities and constraints. Moreover, privatized firms complied with the 1995 Labor
Code requiring that, in a case of change of ownership, the new operator should retain existing staff;
indeed, additional jobs have been created; and
(c) in those cases where private operators failed to deliver on their commitments, the Government has
sought their replacement, usually through competitive bidding. This was the case of two companies
where private operators failed to pay the sales price (Sinematiali and CEIB agri-businesses), and a
third one, SICAFCA, which did not meet its investment obligations in the sugar company of
Marabadiassa.
The responsibility for post-privatization follow-up when the program is completed has not been clarified.
The Ministry of Finance, through its Portfolio Directorate, or the Ministry of Planning should integrate this
responsibility into its permanent mandate.
6.2.2. The Debt Technical Secretariat was integrated into the Public Accounting and Treasury General
Directorate at the closing of the Credit in September 1999. The three professional staff and their assistant
will continue to monitor the implementation of arrangements concluded with commercial debt creditors. In
addition, their skills will be most useful in the management of the public debt. However, maintaining the
country's creditworthiness requires that the Government sustain sound economic management so as to
avoid any payment default and to reach the HIPC Initiative completion point without delay.
6.2.3. The Abidjan Stock Exchange became a regional stock exchange in 1998. The expertise acquired
during project implementation greatly facilitated this achievement. The focus is now on the formulation of
regulatory instruments, as well as on the development strategy of the stock exchange so as to involve more
enterprises from other regional countries. As indicated earlier, the development of the stock exchange
benefited from privatization transactions, and the residual privatization program will also be carried out
mostly by sale of Government shares on the stock exchange.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank was effective in the preparation of the project. The project was itself an outgrowth of another
project, the Economic Management Project (PAGE or "Projet d'appui a la gestion economique') which
was appraised in July 1991. It was during the September 1991 post-appraisal mission that the principle of
proceeding with a stand-alone privatization support project, while the PAGE still needed further
internalization, was decided. The Bank built on the local momentum for reform gained from the adjustment
ptogram started in 1989 and boosted by the appointment of a pro-reform Prime Minister. Program
activities were defined in line with the Government's privatization strategy and sequencing since the
program was to be implemented in two phases. A Japanese grant and Bank staff support allowed the
preparation of a strategy for the reduction and restructuring of Cote d'Ivoire's foreign debt. The decision to
- 12 -



handle the present project separately from the Economic management project (PAGE) was correct and
allowed an adequate focus on issues pertaining to privatization, debt management, and stock exchange
development.
7.2 Supervision:
The supervision period was initially planned for the period 1992-1995. Since the program implementation
pace was slow during the first three years, the project had to be extended three times, thus bringing the
closing date to September 30, 1999. The project was thoroughly supervised on average twice a year.
Specialized skills for every industry were brought in over the project implementation period and issues were
addressed in a timely manner. The implementation period benefited from continuity in responsibilities both
on the Bank and the Government sides. In eight years, there was only one change of Bank task manager
and the same applied to the Head of the Privatization Committee. The supervision experience was thus
smooth and able to grasp the substantive issues, deepening ideas that underlined the initial project design.
The studies included in the project were satisfactorily conducted, and the project was regularly audited,
without any major issue arising.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance was highly satisfactory; response times and coordination were good. In
hindsight, the project design could have been more realistic on the time needed for implementation. The
Bank was flexible, taking into account the constraints of the business environment particularly before the
1994 devaluation, and the Bank team brought the international experience. A Bank-organized visit to Chile
and Mexico for policy makers and implementers was instrumental in helping them to understand the issues
related to such a complex program. The support to external debt restructuring and rescheduling was also
effective given the agreements that were concluded with both the Paris and the London Clubs and their
impact on C6te d'Ivoire creditworthiness. Bank support also allowed an improvement in the operations of
the Abidjan stock exchange and its effective conversion, with a contribution from the International
Financial Corporation (IFC), into a regional stock exchange.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower took the lead in the preparation of the project. The Government, led by Mr. A.D. Ouattara
as new Prime Minister, had decided in 1990 to undertake an ambitious adjustment program. To launch its
privatization program, a formal privatization strategy was adopted in December 1990 and a Privatization
Committee, supported by a small secretariat, was appointed. The Government provided the Bank with a
list of enterprises to be covered by the program. By mid-1991, at the time of project appraisal, the
Government had realized that to achieve success, an improved institutional and policy framework were
essential, and had already determined the list of public enterprises involved in the first phase of the
program.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. The Government consistently carried out
an ambitious privatization program, deciding to move forward with a privatization program in spite of the
difficult economic situation before the death of President F. Houphouet-Boigny in December 1993, the
1994 devaluation and reluctant public opinion. It went on to exceed the number of public enterprises
originally targeted for privatization. In order to have a comprehensive privatization framework, the
- 13 -



Government undertook in 1993 the conversion of the 1990 privatization decree into a law which was
enacted in July 1994. This action allowed the Government to accelerate the execution of its privatization
program as soon as the context became favorable between 1994-1999. Lessons of international experience
were integrated into the process over time. However, significant delays in the divestiture of some important
enterprises, such as the refinery (SIR), the petroleum products storage company (GESTOCI), or the mass
urban transportation company (SOTRA), resulted in the non-completion of those transactions by the credit
closing date. The Government's effort to find a solution to its external debt led to foreign debt reduction/
restructuring with bilateral public creditors and commercial creditors over the same period. The stock
exchange component activities were satisfactorily completed before the credit closed.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Each of the three project components was implemented by a specific implementation unit, although,
consistent with the resource allocation, the main implementation agency was the Technical Unit of the
Privatization Committee. All these entities performed satisfactorily during the project life. The Technical
Unit of the Privatization Committee became fully effective in the implementation of the privatization
program, integrating lessons learned in the management of new transactions, and working effectively with a
wide range of partners. Staff turnover did not have a negative impact on the overall implementation
performance as timely action was taken to find necessary replacements. Progress reports were produced
annually, and both financial management and procurement were well handled. The Debt Technical
Secretariat was instrumental in reaching debt restructuring agreements with both the Paris Club and the
London Club. Early on in the project, a misunderstanding (subsequently resolved) over the procedures for
ensuring confidentiality of information delayed disclosure of some debt-related information to Bank staff
and this may have limited the breadth and scope of advice that could have been beneficial to the overall
external debt management process. Activities pertaining to external debt as well as to the stock exchange
were placed under the responsibility of the Economic Management Project Implementation Unit in the
Budget Ministry in charge of the Budget, and performance was satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the borrower's performance was satisfactory. Major delays in program implementation during
the first two years are largely explained by the fragile socio-political and economic context prevailing at the
time. Moreover, key staff in charge of every set of project activities had to go through a learning process.
Between 1994-1999, the Borrower carried out a program which was broader than the original one; and the
course of action for the residual privatization program, to be carried out within 2-3 years after the closing
date of the Bank-financed credit, has been defined. In hindsight, the Government had at times to make
trade offs between privatization revenues for budget financing needs and tackling the divestiture of
important public enterprises such as SIR and SOTRA. The action taken in the areas of foreign debt and
the stock exchange was swift and consistent with the original objectives.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons to be drawn from this project implementation experience are the following:
1. High level commitment to a multi-dimensional program is key to the achievement of its objectives, even
though some tradeoffs have to be made during the implementation period. Political considerations must
also be addressed along with the technical work needed to carry out a privatization program. In the case of
C6te d'Ivoire, the locus of the program was situated in the Prime Minister's Office and this helped ensure
that the various activities were kept on track and carried out with adequate attention and, to the extent
- 14 -



possible, on time.
2. Privatization is complex, especially where an entire sector is being restructured (as was the case of the
palm industry). This requires time to evaluate options, to consult with stakeholders, and to consider ways
to resolve stakeholders' concerns.
3. Time and resources are required to build experience and the consensus for reform. Building a
consensus requires an appropriate communication strategy. This strategy should be linked to the overall
government economic development strategy. However, governments tend to avoid the difficulty entailed by
a privatization program communications campaign. The Cote d'Ivoire authorities opted for an alternative
strategy of getting the message out through disseminating the results achieved from the actions carried out.
4. To be completely successful, the privatization process should be more closely linked to specific policies
and actions for private sector development. Two key areas which stand out are: (a) assistance to the
domestic private sector, especially emerging SMEs; and (b) the need to achieve broad-based ownership.
However, trade offs have to be made and, after 1994, it appeared that the Government gave priority to the
pace of divestiture and to revenue maximization over the objective of broadening local share ownership.
5. A sound legal and regulatory framework facilitates the implementation of the privatization program. In
the case of CMte d'Ivoire, in addition to the hostile business environment, the lack of a privatization law was
one of the main factors that impeded the program until 1994 as the Government and the Parliament had no
agreed framework on the way to proceed.
6. Capacity building and institutional strengthening can be achieved over a project's life if the team is
carefully selected, the appropriate training provided and the right incentives such as empowerment are put
in place. This was a key factor in achieving good results in the privatization program, the debt
management component, and development of the Regional Stock Exchange. Investment banks can play a
pivotal role in privatization transactions and were used extensively.
7. Unless a country takes bold action to minimize non-commercial risks through an effective program of
second generation reforms, attractiveness to foreign investors will remain limited. In the case of CMte
d'Ivoire, foreign investor response to the privatization program remained below expectations. This was due
to the existence of non-commercial risks, such as a piecemeal regulatory framework rooted in
administrative law, a dysfunctional judiciary system and corruption within the administration. As a result,
the country was not very successful in attracting a diverse group of private investors despite many fora and
road-shows. High concentration of capital ensued and, in some sectors, competition remains insufficient.
The Remaining Agenda
To derive further benefits from the experience of the reform program, follow-up action is required to:
(a)   organize post-privatization monitoring of: (i) compliance with contractual commitments; and (ii)
enterprise performance in order to observe the extent to which benefits are sustained;
(b)   review the competition law in order to be able to prevent over-concentration of capital;
- 15 -



(c)   review the evolution of those sectors which have undergone radical change. For example, in the
palm industry sector it is important to track the effects of change on farmers and the effectiveness of
land lease arrangements; and
(d)   review options for creating new financial instruments and procedures that will facilitate the
broadening of ownership, in particular, aimed at enabling persons outside the capital city to more
readily access the capital market.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's contribution to the ICR is as follows:
CABINET DU PREMIER MINISTRE
COMITE DE PRIVATISATION
RAPPORT D'AVANCEMENT DU PROJET
D'APPUI A LA PRIVATISATION
(CREDIT No 2363 IVC)
03 Decembre 1999
I - DESCRIPTION ET EVALUATION DES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
i) Description des obiectifs
Le gouvernement de la Republique de Cote d'Ivoire et l'Association Internationale de
Nveloppement ont signe le 12 Mai 1992, un accord de credit (credit N 2363 IVC) d'un montant de
10.900.000 DTS avec comme objectifs de permettre au gouvernement ivoirien : (i) de mettre en oeuvre
son programme de privatisation (ii) de renforcer sa capacite a gerer sa dette et (iii) de renforcer la
Bourse des Valeurs d'Abidjan (BVA).
Le financement est mobilisd dans le cadre du Projet d'Appui i la privatisation, construit autour des
trois composantes Privatisation (partie A), Dette (partie B) et BVA (partie C). La plus grande partie du
financement (75,8 %) a ete allouee a la composante privatisation, tandis que les composantes Dette et
BVA recevaient respectivement 7,5 % et 5 % des ressources du projet. Les fonds non affectes
correspondaient au debut du Projet a 11,7 % des ressources totales.
Le programme de privatisation du gouvernement ivoirien comprend au total 54 entreprises, dont la
- 16 -



privatisation etait initialement rdpartie en deux phases: la phase 1 (1991-1992) et la phase 2
(1993-1995). La phase I comprend les 22 entreprises suivantes : PALMINDUSTRIE, HMtel Ivoire,
ONT/CI-TELCOM, Office des Semences et plants, SOGB, SAPH, SICOR, BP Cote d'Ivoire,
SHELL-Cl, SIR, SICABLE, FILTISAC, CAPRAL, PFCI, IPS-CI, COSMIVOIRE, CEIB, le village
vacances d'ASSINIE, le village vacances d'ASSOUINDE, BINEA, CEDA et SIFAL.
La phase 2 comprend les 32 entreprises suivantes: CHOCODI, SACO, GDCI, GESTOCI,
MORY & Cie, PHCI, SAFBAIL, SAFICA, SAG-Cl, SBB BOUAKE, SICOGI, SIDELAF, SIEM,
SIFERCOM, SIPRA, SITRAM, SIVOM, SIETRANS/SISA, SODESUCRE, SOTRA, Rizeries d'Etat,
SICF, CIDT, SHAD, SMB, TRITURAF, Hotels de l'ex-SIETHO, Nrimetre semencier de SEREBOU,
complexe sucrier de MARABADIASSA, perimetre legumier de MARABADIASSA, complexe
agro-industriel de SINEMATIALI, Hotel President.
Les actions qui sous-tendent les differents objectifs sont decrites A l'Annexe II de l'Accord de
credit. La duree initiale du Projet etait de trois ans (1992-1995).
ii) Evaluation des obiectifs
Les objectifs initiaux definis dans l'Accord de Credit ont ete maintenus et executes jusqu'A I'
achevement de chacune des composantes du Projet. Ceci s'explique par le fait que le Gouvernement
ivoirien n'a pas modifie fondammentalement la strategie de politique economique mise en oeuvre depuis
1989, annee de lancement du Plan de stabilisation et de relance economique. Cette politique continue de
s'appuyer, entre autres, sur les axes suivants : (i) ma^itrise des depenses publiques au moyen d'une
modemisation de l'Administration et de la mise en place de mesures rigoureuses de gestion des
ressources publiques et de la dette, (ii) desengagement de l'Etat de toute activite commerciale
susceptible d'&re reprise par le secteur prive, couple avec un recentrage du r6le de l'Etat sur ses
fonctions regaliennes traditionnelles ; (iii) promotion active du developpement du secteur prive par la
mise en place de cadres institutionnel, juridique, administratif et fiscal incitatifs pour le developpement
des affaires ; (iv) poursuite de l'assainissement du secteur financier et valorisation de l'epargne
nationale, notamment a travers le ddveloppement du marchd boursier et la promotion d'un actionnariat
populaire.
A ces objectifs initiaux, qui ont progressivement pris la nature d'objectifs generaux, se sont greffe
des objectifs techniques et budgetaires (semestriels) a la faveur des revues annuelles du Projet et des
negociations d'accords financiers entre le gouvernement ivoirien et respectivement la Banque Mondiale
et le Fonds Monetaire International.
Ces accords se sont souvent traduits par l'etablissement de relations conditionnelles entre les
decaissements attendus par l'Etat et certaines mesures souhaitees par ces bailleurs de fonds. Ces
mesures ont concerne des aspects critiques de la strategie de privatisation, du cadre reglementaire ou de
la fiscalite. Dans certains cas, elles ont meme lid des decaissements de fonds au lancement des appels d'
offres et meme a la selection de repreneurs (PALMINDUSTRIE, CIDT, et SGMTP, notamment). Ceci
A contribue A mettre une pression considerable sur la gestion des operations de privatisation ; ce qui est
contraire A l'esprit de l'Accord de Credit qui a ete concu de maniere A mettre le gouvernement ivoirien
dans les meilleures conditions pour gerer la privatisation, notamment A travers une tres grande flexibilite
dans l'approche du marchd. En effet, la seule exigence de l'Accord de Credit, sur le plan operationnel,
ne se limite qu'A amener au cours de chacune des annees 1993 et 1994, un minimum de 8 entreprises au
point de vente, en respectant les regles de l'art et les principes (dnonces A l'Annexe 4 de l'Accord de
- 17 -



Credit) qui devront gouverner les operations.
Le projet aura cofute au 31 Decembre 1999 plus de 10,300 milliards F.CFA, avec 93 % de ce cout
a la charge de la Banque Mondiale.
It - ATTEINTE DES OBJECTIFS
Chacune des composantes du Projet a evolue en fonction des problemes rencontres dans son
execution. La composante privatisation a ainsi connu trois prorogations (en 1995, 1997 et 1998) avant
d'etre close le 30 Septembre 1999. La composante Dette a ete prorogee deux fois (en 1995 et 1997)
avant d'etre close le 31 Decembre 1998. La composante BVA n'a connu qu'une seule prorogation
(1995) et a ete effectivement close le 31 Decembre 1997, pour ceder la place a la Bourse Regionale des
Valeurs Mobilieres, commune aux Etats de l'Union Economique et Monetaire Ouest Africaine.
En ce qui concerne la composante Privatisation, 19 des 22 entreprises de la phase I ont et
privatisees, les infrastructures de l'Office et des Semences et des Plants ayant ete transferees au
Minist&e de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales et IPS-CI ayant ete retire des operations en
raison de sa vocation d'instrument de promotion du developpement. La SIR constituera la vingtieme
privatisation de cette liste lorsqu'elle sera achevee d'ici le 31 Decembre 1999. Pour les entreprises de la
phase 2, l'on relevera que 25 entreprises ont ete privatisees, I entreprise (la SITRAM) ayant ete
liquidee. II ne restera donc plus que GESTOCI, SICOGI, SOTRA et l'H6tel President a privatiser, le
perimetre legumier de MARABADIASSA et le perimetre semencier de SEREBOU ayant ete transferes
au Ministere de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales pour servir a la promotion de projets
agricoles. En revanche, la liste des entreprises a privatiser s'est enrichie de 10 nouvelles operations, a
savoir AIR IVOIRE, ABIDJAN-CATERING, BIAO-CI, BIAO Investissement, OIC (Office Ivoirien
des chargeurs) PETRO IVOIRE, SMI, RANHOTEL, I'HOTEL SEBROKO et la SGMTP. Sept de ces
entreprises ont deja et privatisees, l'une d'elles est en cours de privatisation (AIR IVOIRE) et 2
entreprises (RANHOTEL et HOTEL SEBROKO) n'ont pas eu de repreneurs (appel d'offres
infructeux).
Poursuivant son effort de desengagement, le Gouvernement ivoirien a identifie une nouvelle liste de
20 entreprises a privatiser sur la periode 1999-2000. Ce sont: UTEXI, MOTORAGRI, ERG,
COTIVO, HEVEGO, 12T, SONITRA, PETROCI, EDIPRESSE, SOMIAF, SIB, CNA, SEPBA,
SIVAC, AIR INTER IVOIRE, SIPRIM, SOGEVRI, CIERIA, TV2 et Frequence II. Quatre de ces
entreprises ont deja e privatisees: AIR INTER IVOIRE, SEPBA, SIPRIM et CIERIA. Cette liste s'
est allongee avec l'addition, en Novembre 1999, de deux nouvelles entitids : la gestion du tout nouveau
Palais de la Culture d'Abidjan, fruit de la Cooperation entre la Republique Populaire de Chine et la
Cote d'Ivoire et I'OCPV (Office d'Aide a la commercialisation des produits vivriers.
Au total 55 entreprises ont ete privatisees a ce jour.
La privatisation a genere plus de 294 milliards F.CFA de recettes nettes a l'Etat de Cote d'lvoire et
a permis la reprise par le secteur prive de 50, 2 milliards F.CFA de dette. Le montant des
investissements realises sur la p6riode 1994-1998 s'6leve a 330 milliards F.CFA.
On peut donc relever que la privatisation a 6te effectuee dans presque tous les secteurs de I'
economie ivoirienne: filieres heveicole, palmicole et du coco, filieres cotonniere et de l'usinage du riz,
les services de telecommunication, la production et la distribution de 1'energie electrique, les services de
- 18 -



manutention et d'administration portuaire, diverses activites industrielles (notamment, genie mecanique,
coserveries, production de cable electrique), production de bitume et la distribution des hydrocarbures,
1'entretien routier, etc.
Les effets induits de ce desengagement impotant et volontariste se manifestent aussi A travers des
activites s'executant en dehors du Projet. Notamment, la privatisation de la gestion de l'A&oport
International Felix Houphouet-Boigny d'Abidjan, la construction et l'exploitation de la troisieme
centrale thermique d'Abidjan, la construction du troisieme pont d'Abidjan, ainsi que la reorganisation,
avec l'appui de la Banque, des organismes de gestion du secteur prive. On assiste ainsi A l'emergence d'
une vraie economie liberale dans presque tous les secteurs. La part relative des investissements prives
represente aujourd'hui plus des 2/3 des investissements totaux: le secteur prive est veritablement
devenu, en l'espace de quelques annees, le moteur de la croissance economique ivoirienne.
En ce qui concerne la composante Dette, les resultats poursuivis ont aussi et largement atteints. L'
ampleur de la dette interieure qui avait atteint 7.811 milliards F.CFA au 31 Decembre 1993, constituait
une entrave majeure au developpement du pays. Les actions menees avec l'appui de la composante
Dette ont abouti A la signature de plusieurs accords, notamment (i) un accord en mars 1994, selon les
termes de << TORONTO renforces >> qui a permis la restructuration de 1.270 milliards F.CFA de dette
assortie d'une annulation de 570 milliards F.CFA de creances, (ii) un accord en mars 1997 avec le Club
de Londres pour l'annulation de 78,5 % du stock en valeur actualisee de la dette commerciale, faisant
passer celle-ci de 4.058 A 1.495 milliards F.CFA; (iii) un accord en Avril 1998 avec le Club de Paris
selon les << termes de Lyon >>, permettant d'obtenir une reduction de 80 % en terme de valeur actualis6e
nette du stock des echanges compris entre le ler Avril 1998 et le 31 Mars 2001 et des arrier6s au 31
Mars 1998 ; le montant de la dette restructuree est de 1 147 milliards F.CFA et le montant de la dette
annulee s'etablit A 830 milliards F.CFA.
Au terme de ces accords, l'encours de la dette totale exterieure est passe de 7 811 milliards A fin
1993 A 6 581 milliards A fin 1998. Le montant de la dette annulee par le biais des differents accords, de
septembre 1993 A Aout 1999, se chiffre A 120 milliards F.CFA
Comme prevu dans l'Accord de Credit, la bourse des valeurs immobilieres a joue un r6le essentiel
dans la privatisation, A savoir, permettre au plus grand nombre possible de personnes d'acheter des
actions. La privatisation a, en retour, permis A la BVA de developper ses activites. En effet, 17 des 18
introductions de societe A la c6te, de Juin 1992 au 30 Septembre 1999, sont le fait du Projet. Ce
dynamisme a permis A la BRVM de commencer ses activites dans de bonnes conditions.
Ces resultats mettent en evidence la pertinence et la convergence des objectifs du Projet avec ceux
du Gouvernement ivoirien. Les resultats obtenus sont donc tres satisfaisants et traduisent l'engagement
du gouvernement ivoirien a poursuivre la politique economique initiee en 1989.
III - FACTEURS MAJEURS AYANT AFFECTE LE PROJET
Le Projet a ete affecte par des facteurs negatifs et des facteurs positifs.
Au premier rang des facteurs negatifs, on denombre l'absence, au debut de l'execution du Projet,
d'un cadre juridique approprie pour la mise en oeuvre de la politique de privatisation. Ceci a suscite des
prises de position aussi bien du Parlement que de la societe civile, qui ont gene l'execution du projet. Le
cadre juridique souhaite a finalement e mis en place A travers la loi N 94-338 du 9 Juin 1999, qui
- 19 -



constitue donc une etape majeure de la privatisation en C6te d'lvoire.
Le deuxieme facteur negatif a etd le cadre macro-economique defavorable qui a prevalu jusqu'A la
devaluation du Franc CFA le 12 Janvier 1994. La plupart des investisseurs et des operateurs
dconomiques jugeaient une devaluation du Franc CFA ineluctable, du fait des graves desequilibres
macro-economiques qu'il etait devenu urgent de corriger, notamment la tres forte surevaluation du
Franc CFA, par rapport au Franc Fran,ais, la devise de reference. Les marches ne reagissaient pas aux
opportunites offertes par la privatisation, la dette ou la bourse.
Deux autres facteurs ont aussi eu une incidence negative sur l'execution du programme de privatisation
: l'absence de fiabilite des informations techniques et financieres relatives A un nombre important d'
entreprises publiques, d'une part, et d'autre part, l'image negative de l'Afrique que vehiculaient les
medias aupres des investisseurs internationaux. Dans de nombreux cas, les informations disponibles n'
ont pu servir de base pour le diagnostic ou la valorisation des entreprises A privatiser. Des inventaires
exhaustifs des actifs et le retraitement ou la reconstitution des etats financiers ont e  necessaires pour
preparer et organiser la mise en vente de ces entreprises. Souvent aussi (notamment pour
PALMINDUSTRIE, SODESUCRE, CIDT et CI-TELCOM), il s'est avere necessaire de redistribuer
les activites entre plusieurs entites concurrentes etlou de mettre en place un cadre reglementaire
specifique afin que la privatisation produise ses meilleurs effets. Ceci s'est traduit par de longs delais
(plusieurs annees, parfois) pour finaliser le processus de privatisation de ces entreprises.
Les facteurs qui ont affecte positivement la privatisation sont constitues par les actions correctives
des facteurs negatifs identifies ci-dessus. Ils incluent la devaluation du Franc CFA, A travers
specifiquement l'amelioration generale du cadre macro-economique qui est resultee des mesures mises
en place, ainsi que l'adoption d'un cadre juridique approprie pour la privatisation, l'utilisation de la
bourse comme moyen pour rendre la privatisation plus populaire et la politique de promotion de la Cote
d'Ivoire aupres des investisseurs intemationaux. L'effort de promotion, conduit par le Premier Ministre
lui-meme, a permis de creer une image distincte et positive de la Cote d'Ivoire.
Un autre facteur important a ete la disponibilite de ressources financi&es, malgre la prolongation
du Projet de 4 ans au delA de son terme initial.
L'Emprunteur avait une influence relativement limitee sur la decision de devaluer le Franc CFA,
celle-ci devant faire l'objet d'un acte conjoint de 1'ensemble des pays africains de la zone franc et de la
France. Cependant, il a agi tres vite pour exploiter les opportunites creees par la devaluation pour
ameliorer le cadre macro-economique et promouvoir l'economie ivoirienne aupres des investisseurs. Le
projet a profite largement des perspectives positives qui en ont resulte.
IV - DURABILITE DU PROJET
La durabilite des resultats de la privatisation est assuree par la qualite des repreneurs selectionnes,
pour la cession des participations majoritaires, et par le dynamisme demontre du secteur prive local,
pour la cession des participations minoritaires. Le processus rigoureux de selection des repreneurs a
abouti A ceder le contr6le des entreprises A participation publique majoritaire A de grands groupes
internationaux, financierement solides et operant A travers des reseaux commerciaux sophistiques et
performants. Ces groupes se sont souvent allie A des investisseurs prives locaux de premier rang pour
developper les entreprises rachetees.
-20 -



Les resultats obtenus par la composante Dette sont le fruit de 1'effort d'assainissement des finances
publiques mis en oeuvre par le gouvernement ivoirien. La durabilite des resultats obtenus est renforc6e
par la poursuite de cet effort et par la mise en place de mesures supplementaires d'e1aboration des
budgets et de contr6le de depenses publiques.
La perennite des resultats acquis A travers la composante BVA est materialisee par l'avenement de
la BRVM et l'elargissement du marche financier. Les regles de fonctionnement de la BRVM, qui sont
alignees sur celle des marches financiers intemationaux, constituent un puissant moyen de preservation
des resultats acquis et de protection des investissements. Le dynamisme affiche par la BRVM est la
meilleure expression de la perennite et de la confiance qu'inspire celle-ci aupres des investisseurs locaux
et internationaux. Aucune des entreprises introduite A la bourse depuis 1992 n'a ete radiee de la c6te.
V - PERFORMANCES DE LA BANQUE
La Banque a joue un r6le ce dans toutes les etapes du Projet, particulierement dans l'identification
et la preparation de celui-ci. La Banque a permis que la reflexion devant aboutir A la conception et A I'
elaboration du projet soit le fait des nationaux, apportant partout oui cela etait necessaire un appui
materiel, technique et financier tres apprecie. Ceci a abouti A la mise en place d'un Projet entierement
gere par des nationaux, conformement A une perspective ivoirienne.
Cependant, le projet parait avoir sous-estime, dans sa conception, les difficultes que constituaient
les facteurs negatifs examines ci-avant. Il en est resulte une programmation irrealiste de la duree initiale
d'execution du projet. A savoir, privatiser au bout de trois ans 54 entreprises, alors que les efforts de
privatisation mis en oeuvre par le Gouvernement sur la periode 1991-1992 n'avaient abouti qu'a
privatiser trois entreprises (B1NEA, CEDA et les Villages-Vacances d'Assinie et d'Assouinde) sur les
22 entreprises identifiees.
La non prise en compte des facteurs negatifs a aussi joue sur l'execution des composantes Dette et
BVA. Des prorogations ont et necessaires pour apporter les ajustements necessaires.
Les ajustements dans l'execution de l'ensemble du projet ont pu etre effectues A l'occasion des
missions de supervision. Celles-ci ont permis A la Banque d'apprecier la realite des problemes
rencontres et de rechercher avec l'Emprunteur des solutions acceptables pour les deux parties. Il est A
noter que le programme de privatisation, initie dans le cadre du plan de stabilisation et de relance
economique, a ete concu dans un contexte de crise economique grave. II repondait A un souci de
desengagement rapide de l'Etat, afin d'arreter l'hemorragie financiere que constituaient, dans un
contexte de ressources financieres amoindries, les transferts substantiels effectues par le Tresor public
au profit des entreprises des secteurs public et parapublic. Dans un tel contexte, les performances de la
Banque en matiere d'identification, d'assistance A la preparation et A l'evaluation du Projet sont jugees
satisfaisantes.
La supervision, par l'impact positif qu'elle a eu sur l'amelioration et les resultats du Projet, est
jugee tres satisfaisante.
VI - PERFORMANCES DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
La contribution de l'emprunteur au cours de la phase d'identification et de preparation du projet a
consiste essentiellement A exprimer ses preoccupations et les objectifs qu'il vise, ainsi que ses attentes
-21 -



par rapport au Projet. II a aussi participe aux differents arbitrages qui ont ete effectues au niveau des
principes qui devaient rdgir l'organisation et la gestion du Projet.
Le projet a ete concu en tenant compte du fait qu'aucune experience similaire n'existait en Afrique
subsaharienne et que les operations de meme type qui etaient executees en Europe centrale ou de l'Est
ou en Amerique latine, demandaient A etre adaptees au context africain. Une approche prudente et
mesuree a donc ete adoptee dans I'6laboration du projet : ceci s'est traduit par la tres grande flexibilite
dont disposait l'Emprunteur, dans le cadre de l'Accord de Credit relatif au Projet, pour conduire les
differentes operations. A l'execution, force a cependant ete de reconnaitre que la dimension politique,
materialisee par un cadre juridique consensuel pour la privatisation, n'avait pas e  prise en compte
dans l'elaboration du projet. Ceci a ete corrige par la suite. Le projet avait ete concu avec suffisamment
de flexibilite pour permettre les autres ajustements qui se sont averes necessaires (voir sections II et III).
11 correspondent bien, malgre les problemes releves, aux objectifs economiques du gouvernement. Sa
preparation est donc jugee satisfaisante.
L'execution du projet est aussi jugee tres satisfaisante, eu egard aux resultats obtenus par rapport
aux objectifs initiaux et additionnels qui ont ete fixes. Les objectifs budgetaires assignes A la
composante Privatisation ont et largement atteints. Les resultats obtenus sont cependant
insuffisamment connus, du fait de la faiblesse de la communication. D'une maniere generale, les
problemes rencontres par le projet, en dehors de ceux mentionnes ci-avant, sont d'ordre operationnel
(etudes, audits, negociation, etc) qui ont souvent allonge les delais programmes pour le denouement des
operations. II s'agit cependant de situation inherente A la nature des operations (privatisation et
renegociation des dettes).
Au total, la performance de l'Emprunteur est donc jugee tres satisfaisante.
VIl - ENSEIGNEMENTS CLES
Les principaux enseignements resultant de l'execution du Projet sont les suivants:
1.     Le Projet etait tres pertinent pour le ddveloppement economique de la C6te d'Ivoire. Le lien
6tabli entre la privatisation et la BVA etaitjudicieux, car d'une part, il a facilite l'acceptation de la
privatisation par la population et en meme temps il a permis d'assurer le developpement des activites de
la bourse, malgre l'absence d'une culture boursiere suffisante;
2.     le traitement de la dimension politique de la privatisation, A travers la mise en place d'un cadre
juridique consensuel, doit etre la premiere etape de la mise en place d'un projet de privatisation;
3.     Ia gestion effective des operations de privatisation par des nationaux competents et motives a
permis de gerer celle-ci A partir d'une perspective ivoirienne et de participer efficacement au debat que
suscite la privatisation, notamment par rapport au r6le des bailleurs de fonds, A la participation des
nationaux et des investisseurs etrangers;
4.     le projet a permis de developper des capacites locales en matiere de gestion de transactions
importantes dans les domaines de la privatisation, du traitement de la dette ou des op6rations boursieres
5.     les investisseurs sont tres attentifs au cadre de vie, A la s6curite sur le plan physique et des
-22 -



affaires offerts par un pays. Les decisions d'investissement ne sont pas determinees par le seul attrait d'
une entreprise ou d'une operation financiere. L'image du pays est un facteur important a prendre en
compte. Une campagne de promotion tous azimuts organisee et geree par le gouvernement s'est revel6e
plus efficace que les road shows ou campagnes organisees dans le cadre du projet;
6.    Ia Banque a apporte un appui critique a travers les conseils, les informations et l'expertise mis
a la disposition du projet tout au long de son execution. Sa contribution sur les plans financier et
intellectuel a donc et considerable dans la reussite du projet.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.
10. Additional Information
The following tables set out details of the privatization activity under the project. Table 10.1 provides an
overview of the outcome of each phase of the privatization program. Table 10.2 provides information on
the 22 enterprises in Phase I of the program. Table 10.3 provides the same type of data for the 29
enterprises in Phase II and Table 10.4 the data for the 10 enterprises added to Phase II.
The Government has indicated that, to the extent possible, remaining divestitures will be through public
offerings on the stock exchange.
Table 10.1
Number of        Sold      Removed                  Ongoing
enterprises
Initial program         22            20           1        1 (SIR)
Phase II                32            25           2        5 (SOTRA, HOT. PRES.SICOGI, GDCI,
GESTOCI
Additional              17            14                    3 (Ranhotel, SEBROKO, AIR IVOIRE)
Total                   71            59           3        9
- 23 -



Table 10.2 Privatization Program: Phase I (22 enterprises):
%      %       %                                                            Sale
Enterprise            Sector       Gov't Gov't   Gov't           Method         Trans.        Name of           Price
Before  Sold  Retained                         Date          Buyer          FCFA m
1  CEDA                   Publishing          33.3   13.3     20.0 Sale of assets + public   1991   ATTIE / IMH             218.0
nioff   ring                _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _
2  ASSINIE-ASSOUINDE  Tourism (services)  100.0  100.0          0.0 Sale of assets         1992   CLUB                     1,500.0
___________                                                            MEDITERRANNEE
3   BINEA/NEI             Publishing         100.0   55.0      45.0 Public offering         1992   Groupe Hachette/         630.0
_  _________      ____                    ______________  _____ EDICEF / CEC
4/5 CAPRAL/Novalim        Food/agroindustry   15.75    7.0     8.75 Public offering         1993   Various Investors        823.9
6  COSMIVOIRE             Cosmetics           13.2   13.2       0.0 Direct sale (pre-emptive  1993   Existing shareholders  196.0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _       rights)
7   FILTISAC              Industry            24.4   24.4       0.0 Public offering         1993   Various Investors        881.0
8  SAPH                   Agriculture         55.3   45.3      10.0 Direct sale            1994   OCTIDE                   5,450.0
9   SICOR                 Agriculture         51.0   51.0       0.0 Public offering         1994   Various Investors       1,213.1
10 SICABLE                Industry            35.0   35.0       0.0 Public offering        1994   Various Investors         724.8
11 BP                     Petroleum distrib.                        Merged with ELF OIL   1995
12 Elf Oil                Petroleum distrib.    50.0   30.0   20.0 Direct sale (Pre-       1995   ELF-OIL/ Various        1,260.0
emptive rights) + public      Shareholders
_______________  ______   offering
13 PFCI                   Agroindustry        18.2   18.2       0.0 Direct sale            1995   Major shareholder         181.2
(17.2%), employees
(1%)
14 Shell CI               Energy              50.0   30.0     20.0 Direct sale (14%) (pre-   1995   SHELL ! Various        1,691.6
emptive rights) +             Investors
public offering (16%)
15 SOGB                   Agroindustry/       94.8   80.0      14.8 Competitive shares sale  1995   SOCFINAL             21,264.5
Rubber                                  + Public offering              (60%)/'Public (20%)
16 SIFAL                  Industry            30.0   20.0      10.0 Direct sale (pre-emptive  1995   SHELL / MOBIL!         284.8
rights)                       Emplovees
17 PALMINDUSTRIE:
- Blocs Cocotier      Agriculture        100.0  100.0       0.0 Sale of assets          1996   SICOR / COPAGRI         5,092.5
- Huilerie/Graine     Agriculture        100.0  100.0       0.0 Sale of assets          1996  IPS                     3,300.0
- Palm-Club           Hotel              100.0  100.0       0.0 Sale of assets          1996  ACI                       700.0
- Blocs Palmier       Agriculture        100.0  70.0       30.0 Sale of assets          1996  PALMCI/SIPEF/           40,010.0
_ _______________                                      ______                                 SAFIPAR _
- ATN                                    100.0  100.0       0.0 Sale of assets          1997   Consortium led by        949.0
________________                                       ______                          _____    M ACI
- Terminal Vridi      Agriculture        100.0  100.0       0.0 Sale of assets          1997   SACI
_  - Terminal San-Pedro    Agriculture       100.0  100.0      0.0 Sale of assets          1997   PALMCI                   900.0
- COCO. Port Bouet                       100.0  100.0       0.0 Lease / management      1997   CAIMPEX                  120.0
_______ contract
- Plantation d'hevea  Agriculture        100.0  100.0       0.0 Sale of assets          1997   Local Investors          813.0
_ Dabou____ ___
18 CI-TELCOM              Telecoms            98.0   51.0      47.0 Direct sale            1997   Consortium - France    105,000.0
_____                                  Telecom
19 CEIB                   Agriculture        100.0  100.0       0.0 Direct sale (but see   1998  NEMBEL INVEST              250.0
Note A below)
20 Hotel Ivoire           Hotel              100.0    0.0    100.0 Lease / management       1998
contract                     Intercontinental/SCMB/
I___IC&G
21  SIR                   Refinery                                                       l Ongoinig
22 IPS                    Financial                                                       With
I____________ ____________   I________________   I________   ____I__draw n
(A) In 1991, the Govemment leased this enterprise to SEBOVIA for $1.3 m. It was then transferred to the lessee in 1994 but became insolvent.
Ownership reverted to the Government and the company was resold 1998.
-24 -



%      %        %                                                               Sale
Enterprise            Sector        Gov't  Govl    Gov't            Method           Trans.         Name of           Price
Before  Sold  Retained                            Date           Buyer          FCFA m
I   Comp. Sucr.           Agroindustry         100.0  100.0        0.0 Competitive sale of      1994   SICAFCA                    800.0
Marabadiassa           ______assets
2   SICF                  Transport           100.0  100.0         0.0 Transfer to SPF          1994   SITARAIL Concession          0.0
3   CHOCODI               Industry             14.0   14.0         0.0 Direct sale (pre-emptive   1995   Barry SA                 485.1
rights)
4   Complexe Agro-        Agroindustry        100.0  100.0         0.0 Competitive sale of      1995   Conserverie Tropicale      250.0
Industriel de                                                      assets
Sinematiali
5   Les Rizeries de l'Etat  Agroindustry      100.0  100.0         0.0 Debt/equity swap (A)     1995   Local Investors
6   SACO                  Agribusiness         35.0   35.0         0.0 Direct sale (pre-emptive   1995   Barry SA                1,214.9
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _            _ _ _ _ _ _   rights)
7   SITRAM                Transport           100.0  100.0         0.0 Liquidation              1995
8   SMB                   Mining               91.4   71.4        20.0 Competitive shares sale   1995   SIR/ Various Investors    4,036.0
and public offering
9   SAFBAIL               Financial            41.1   41.1         0.0 Direct sale (pre-emptive   1996   SAFCA                   1,121.0
I Ii_ rghts)
10  SAFICA                Paper                16.6   16.6         0.0 Direct sale (pre-emptive   1996   Shareholders              55.0
rights)
I I SIDELAF               Electricity          45.2   45.2         0.0 Direct sale (pre-emptive   1996   Local Investors          488.0
riahts)
12  SIFERCOM              Metallurgy           19.6   19.6         0.0 Direct sale (pre-emptive   1996   CIFE                      80.9
rights) 
13  SIPRA                 Agriculture          33.0   33.0         0.0 Direct sale (pre-emptive   1996   STEPC                    495.0
________________________  ~ ~   ~      1      1rights)                                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
14  SIVOM                 Services             49.0   49.0         0.0 Direct sale (pre-emptive   1996   BlLLONNVarious         2,203.5
rights) + public offering      Shareholders (16.97%)
15  Hotels de 1Vex Sietho    Services         100.0  100.0         0.0 Competitive sale of      1997   Local investors            485.0
.__ ___ ___ ___ ___ __   ___shares
16  PHCI                  Industry             17.2   17.2         0. 0 Public offering         1997   Various Investors       1.004.0
17  SIEM                  Industry             10.4   10.4         0.0 Public offering          1997   Various Investors         1,870.0
18  SODESUCRE             Agroindustry        100.0   55.0        45.0 Competitive sale of      1997   BGI/SIFCA-Harel         24,915.0
assets                         Freres
19  TRITURAF              Agroindustry         10.0   10.0         0.0 Public offering          1997   Various investors          603.0
20  CIDT
--Lot Nord Est        Cotton              100.0  100.0         0.0 Competitive sale of      1998   IPS/Reinhart            23,401.0
________ _______ _______ ___   ___ _______ _______assets                                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
--Lot Nord Ouest      Cotton              100.0  100.0         0.0 Competitive sale of      1998  LAiglon/Rivaudl           17,902.0
_ _____________________    _______________                             assets                          Shorex
21  SHAD                                        2.3    2.3         0.0 Direct sale (pre-emptive   1998   Local investors             9.9
rights)
22  SAGA-Cl                                    0.05   0.05         0.0 Local investors           1998   Actionnaires ivoiriens       6.0
23  SBB                                                                 Merger + share dilution   1993
24  SICOGI                                                                                     Ongoing
25  SISA                                       75.0   54.0        21.0 Sale of shares            1998  SET DIOT/EDT.CI             130.0
26  SOTRA (ongoing)       Transport                                                            Ongoing
27  Per. Semencier de     Industry                                      Removed from list              Returned to Ministry of
Serebou                                                                                            Agriculture
28  Per. Legumier de      Agroindustry                                  Removed from list              Returned to Ministry of
Marabadiassa                g_ Ariculture
29  Hotel President       Services                                                             Ongoing
30  GDCI                  Distribution         61.0                                            Ongoing
31  GESTOCI               Petroleumn           12.5                                            Ongoing
_______ __    distribution
32  Mory et Cie           Services                                      Merger + share dilution
(A) The sale of the rice mills took place via a write-off of outstanding debt between the leasing operators and the government.
-25-



Table 10.4 Privatization Program: Phase m   (Enterprises Not Originally Included):
Sale
%      %       %                                                         Price
Enterprise           Sector       Govt Gov't  Gov't            Method         Trans.       Name of        (FCFA m)
Before  Sold  Retained                       Date          Buyer
I  EECI                  Energy            100.00  71.00    29.00 Lease and IPOs        1992  SAURJEDF- Various   Formula
shareholders
2  DHE Anguededou        Rubber plantations  100.0  80.0     20.0 Competitive sale of    1995  TROPICAL RUBBER         1,600.0
assets
3  DHE Bettie            Rubber plantations  100.0  80.0     20.0 Competitive sale of    1995  EUROFIND               4,500.0
assets
4   DHE Cavally          Rubber plantations  100.0  100.0     0.0 Competitive sale of    1996  CDC                     2,610.0
assets                 _
5  SMI                   Mining             60.0   11.0      49.0 Direct sale (pre-emptive  1996  Various Shareholders    3,201.0
rights)
6  OIC (Office Ivoirienne   Electrical       60.0  40.0      20.0 Direct sale            1997  GCCI                     420.0
des Chargeurs)       distribution                    .____
7  PETRO-IVOIRE          Petroleum           34.0  34.0       0.0 Direct sale            1997  Local Shareholders       171.0
distribution                                                    _
8  SGMTP
-Lot I               Road maintenance  100.0  100.0       0.0 Competitive sale of    1998  ETCBE                    350.0
_____________________          __________  assets
-Lot S               Road maintenance  100.0  100.0       0.0 Competitive sale of    1998   SITRANE                 300.0
_________   assets
--Lot Principal      Road maintenance  100.0  100.0       0.0 Competitive sale of    1998  TIINET                  4,350.0
_ ____  assets
9   SIFROID              Cold Store          49.0  49.0       0.0 Direct sale            1998  SCODI                    389.0
10 SOCEF                 Cold Store operator  44.4  44.4      0.0 Competitive sale of    1998  OMNIUM TROPICAL          640.0
_____ assets
I I Abidjan Catering     Catering           34.0  34.0         0 Public Offer            1999                           820.0
12 RANHOTEL              Hotel              100.0                                      Ongoing
13 SIVOA                 Distribution        210   21.0           Sale of shares         1999                          1110.0
14 BIAO- Investissement   Finance           100.0  100.0      0.0 Sale of shares         1999  COFIPA                  3100.0
15 BIAO- Cl              Finance            100.0  80.0      20.0 Sale of shares        2000  Belgolaise               5600.0
16 Air Ivoire            Air transport      100.0                                      Ongoing
17 Hotel Sebroko         Hotel                                                        lOngoing
-26 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
_  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _                    It K;  X
(i) Significant reduction of the State's PE    Increased fiscal and non fiscal revenues    Subsidies were eliminated and corporate
portfolio both performing and non-performing generated by privatized enterprises  taxes and other revenues were collected from
privatized enterprises.
(ii) Increase of private sector investment in  Private investment to GDP ratio standing at  The estimated private investment to GDP
productive activities                 least at its 1998 level, i.e. 13%; Privatized   ratio in 1999 is 14%; the BNEDT study
firms deliver on their business plans.  confirmed that privatized enterprises'
investments are in line with their original
commitments. Employment levels increased
by 4% on average.
(iii) Reduction of factor costs in Cote d'lvoire Increased competitiveness in key sectors,   Data show increased productivity and
particularly utilities and transport.  compettive cost levels in key sectors (e.g.
power, telecom, transport) compared to other
regional countries.
(iv) Restore RCI's creditworthiness   Capacity for debt management strengthened Debt management capacity built (Debt
and sound relations with foreign creditors    Technical Secretariat) and RCI's
restored.                             creditworthiness restored with both the Paris
Club and the London Club. HIPC Initiative
completion point in 2001.
(v) Improved stock exchange operations    Increased stock exchange capitalization  Increased savings and corporate financing
through new public offerings.         through the Abidjan-based regional stock
exchange. Enterprises in the pipeline to be
listed, including some of the residual
privatization program.
Output Indicators:
(i) Reduction of public enterprises remaining The objective was to complete the  The State's PE portfolio was reduced by 55
in the State's portfolio              privatization of 60 public enterprises.  enterpnises over the project's implementation
period. However, a few important
transactions scheduled for the last year, e.g.
BIAO, SIR and Air Ivoire, were not
completed in time.
(ii) Specialized training provided under all   Intemal and extemal training provided in line  High quality training was provided to the
project components                    with the original project's objectives.  Technical Unit of the Privatization
Committee, the Debt Technical Secretariat,
and the Abidjan Stock Exchange staff as
originally spelled out in the projects
objectives.
(iii) Increase in the number of companies    Reach the number of 15 public offerings;    There were 15 companies listed at the stock
listed on the Abidjan stock exchange  and encourage government to pursue the    exchange; many companies in the residual
strategy.                             program would sell some of their shares
through the stock exchange.
(iv) Agreement on Commercial Debt with    Agreements reached with the London and    Final agreement with the London Club signed
London Club creditors                  Paris Clubs implemented.              in March 1998 on favorable terms; debt
reduction for about CFAF120.2 billion with
the Paris Club
End of project
-27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Com onent (in US$ million equivalent)
1. Privatization Program                                13.20          12.66         0.96
2. Debt Reduction/Restructuring                          1.10            1.10           1
3. Abidjan Stock Exchange                                0.40            0.40           1
4. PPF Refinancing                                       0.70            0.70           1
Total Baseline Cost                                     15.40           14.86
Physical Contingencies                                  0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies                                     2.30           2.00          0.87
Total Project Costs                17.70           16.86
Interest during construction
Front-end fee
Total Financing Required                 17.70          16.86
Source: Project files
-28 -



Project Costs by Procureme t Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Experlti:ur Category     ICB           NCB         O 2          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.20          0.20         0.20         0.60
(0.00)       (0.20)       (0.20)       (0.00)       (0.40)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         13.90         1.20         15.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (13.90)      (0.00)       (13.90)
4. PPF Refinancing           0.00          0.00         0.70         0.00         0.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.70)       (0.00)       (0.70)
5. Operating Costs           0.00         0.00         0.00          1.30         1.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                     0.00          0.20         14.80        2.70         17.70
______________________  =(0.00)     (0.20)      (14.80)       (0.00)       (15.00)
Source: Project files
- 29 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent
1. Works                        0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                        0.00           0.14           0.18           0.15           0.47
(0.00)         (0.14)        (0.18)         (0.00)         (0.32)
3. Services                     5.96           3.96           3.85           0.72          14.49
(5.96)         (3.96)        (3.85)         (0.00)        (13.77)
4. PPF Refinancing              0.00           0.00           0.70           0.00           0.70
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.70)         (0.00)         (0.70)
5. Operating Costs              0.00           0.00           0.00           1.20           1.20
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                        5.96           4.10           4.73           2.07          16.86
(5.96)         (4.10)        (4.73)         (0.00)        (14.79)
Sources: Project Files; Implementation Agency.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2'Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of
the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
1roject Financing Plan at Appraisal:
Foreign                Local                   Total
Government                                     2.7                     2.7
IDA                    13.1                    1.9                     15.0
Total                  13.1                    4.6                     17.7
Actual/Latest Estimate Project Financing:
Government                                                                                2.07
IDA                                                                                      14.79
Total                                          16.86
Source: Project files.
- 30 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N.A.
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions,
Stae of Project Cycle                No. of Persos and Secialty                 Performnc Rating
(e.g. 2 EcOnomists 1 FMS etc.)     lImplemntaion        Developnent
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Prtogress          Objective
Identification/Preparation         3   Principal Operations officer,
Identification                Economist, Operations Analyst
mission
(Feb./March
1990); Initial
Executive Project
Summary (May
1991)
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal                6   Principal operations officer,
(June/July 1991)              Economist, Financial
Negotiation                   Analyst, Operations Officer,
(March 92)                    Legal Advisor, Sr. Private
Sector Specialist, Operations
Analyst
Supervision
June 92                   7  Principal Country Officer,            S                  S
Operations Analyst,
Economist, Sr. Council,
Consultant, Private
specialist,
Information specialist
Oct- Nov 92              5  Economist Res. Mission,                HS                HS
Principal Country Officer,
Operations Analyst, Economist,
Economist Resident Mission
March 93                 4  Economist Res. Mission,                S                 HS
Principal Country Officer,
Operations Analyst, Economist
Res. Mission
July 93                  2   Principal Country Officer, Sr.        S                  S
Private Sector Specialist
March 94                 2  Mission Chief, Sr. Private Sector      S                  S
Specialist, Economist resident
mission
June 94                  5  Mission Chief, Operations              S                  S
Analyst, Sr. Private Specialist,
Privatization Specialist, P.E.
Specialist
-32 -



October 94                5  Mission chief, P.E. specialist, Sr.     S                  S
Privat. specialist, Privatization
specialist, Operations Analyst
March 95                  3   Privatization Specialist, Mission      S                  S
Leader, Telecoms Specialist
March 96                  4   Information Tech. Specialist,          S                  S
Economist for RCI, Economist
Mission Leader
April 97                  7  Privatization Specialist,               S                  S
Principal Economist, Office
Technology Assi., Privatization
Specialist,
Task Team Leader, Air
Transport Specialist, Operations
Officer
May 98                    4   Telecoms specialist, Sr. Energy        S                  S
Specialist, Public Enterprise
Spec., Consultant/Agribusiness
ICR
August 99                2    Principal PSD Specialist,              S                  S
Economist
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
________________________ _        . No. Staff weeks                 US$  (,0O)
Identification/Preparation                  3.2                           7.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                      14.5                        32.45
Supervision                               239.4                        580.5
ICR                                        6.02                        32.48
Total                                   263.12                        653.13
From Identification/Preparation to Appraisal, the project activities were part of the Economic Management
Project. The assumption made is that the share of this project in the overall cost at those two stages is
50%.
- 33 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
IMacro policies                             O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Z Sector Policies                           O H  * SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                  O H OSUOM O N * NA
i Financial                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development                 0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
M Environmental                             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
I Gender                             O H OSUOM O N * NA
Z Other (Please specify)             O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
Although the project had no direct poverty
reduction focus, it had an indirect effect on poverty
through the revitalization of several sectors which
created employment and increased incomes.
Z Private sector development            .       H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
X Public sector management                  O H  0 SU O M  O N  O NA
0 Other (Please specify)
Owing to the Privatization program, the private sector developed in several areas where it had previously
been crowded out by the public enteprises. This development also had substantial positive spill-over effects
on the population and the poor in several areas of the country.
-34 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
E Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
Z Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
* Overall                                           OHS OS  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
? Preparation                                       OHS OS  Ou  O HU
F Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                 0 HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
N Overall                                           OHS OS  O U  O HU
-35 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Privatization Support Project, Memorandum and Recommandation of President of the International
Development Association to the Executive Directors, April 15, 1992.
2. Supervision Missions, Aide-Memoire.
3. Rapports d'activite annuelle, Cellule Technique du Comite de Privatisation.
4. Impact of Privatization in Cote d'Ivoire (Draft Final Report), Boston Institute for Developing
Economies, November 1998
5. Patrick Plane (1999), "Privatization, Technical Efficiency and Welfare Consequences: The Case of the
C6te d'Ivoire Electricity Company (CIE)", World Development, Vol. 27, No. 2, pp. 343-360
- 36 -



