Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2363 IVC
                  (Privatization Support Project)
                              between
                     REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated May 12, 1992
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2363 IVC
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 12, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF COTE
D'IVOIRE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Page  2
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)  "BVA" means the Bourse des Valeurs d'Abidjan, the stock
exchange of the Borrower;
      (b)   "CAA" means Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, a financial
public institution of the Borrower;
      (c)   "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (d)   "CPRSP" means the Comite de Privatisation et de
Restructuration du Secteur Parapublic of the Borrower established by
Decret No. 90-1610 of December 28, 1990, responsible for the
coordination of Part A of the Project;
      (e)   "CT" means the Cellule Technique of CPRSP, established
by Decret No. 90-1610 of December 28, 1990;
      (f)   "STP" means the Secretariat Technique Permanent, the
permanent technical secretariat of the Foreign Debt Committee of the
Borrower established by Arrcte No. 683/MEFCP/CAB of September 12,
1991;
      (g)   "UGP" means the Unite de Gestion du Projet d'Assistance
 la Gestion Economique (PAGE), the Project Management Unit of the
Borrower established by Arrcte No. 846/MEFCP/CAB of November 7,
1991, responsible for the coordination of Parts B and C of the
Project;
      (h)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to a letter dated March 13, 1992, countersigned by the
Borrower on March 19, 1992; and
      (i)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies that
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to ten million nine hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF two special deposit accounts in CAA on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Special
Account A shall be used exclusively for Part A of the Project, and
Special Account B shall be used exclusively for Parts B and C of the
Project. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
Page  3
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 2002 and ending April 1, 2027. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on April 1, 2012 shall be one and
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  4
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
through the Prime Minister's Office and Parts B and C of the Project
through the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Plan, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project
in accordance with the Principles set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. In order to coordinate the implementation of
Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain CT until the
completion of the Project, staffed with qualified and experienced
persons in adequate numbers satisfactory to the Association,
including a Project coordinator, three high-level staff and an
accountant.
      Section 3.04. In order to carry out Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
      (a)   submit to the Association, for comment, its draft
privatization program, including the proposed timetable and agenda
to bring enterprises to the point of sale, i.e. audit, valuation,
strategy and modalities for sale, preparation of prospectuses or
tender documents, publication and preparation of advertisements and
notices, with explicit targets as follows:
            (i)    by January 1, 1993, for at least eight
                   enterprises to be brought to the point of sale
                   in 1993; and
           (ii)    by January 1, 1994, for at least eight
                   enterprises to be brought to the point of sale
                   in 1994;
      (b)   promptly adopt and implement said program for each such
year, taking into consideration the Association's comments; and
      (c)   annually review with the Association, by June 30 of each
year, progress in the implementation of said program, particular
attention being given to those enterprises for which offers were
either not made or deemed unsatisfactory during the previous twelve-
month period.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall have the shares or assets of
any enterprise to be privatized valued prior to their offer for sale
Page  5
in accordance with appropriate valuation principles consistently
applied by independent experts acceptable to the Association.
      Section 3.06. In order to coordinate Parts B and C of the
Project, the Borrower shall maintain UGP until the completion of the
Project, staffed with qualified and experienced persons in adequate
numbers satisfactory to the Association, including a Project
coordinator, an assistant coordinator and an accountant.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall submit to the Association,
for review and approval, detailed proposals including justification,
terms of reference and relevant budget for the training programs
under Parts A.4, B.3 and C.4 of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than six months after
                   the end of each such year, the report of such
                   audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                   such detail as the Association shall have
                   reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records and accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of a
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
Page  6
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
      (a)   that CT staff, including a Project coordinator, a
financial analyst and an accountant have been appointed and have
taken up their duties; and
      (b)   that a list of 32 additional enterprises to be
privatized under the second phase of the Borrower's privatization
program has been submitted to the Association.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Economy, Finance and Plan
            B.P. V-125
            Abidjan
            Republic of Ccte d'Ivoire
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   MINFIN                    23747 MINFIN
                   Abidjan
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT)
                   Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                              82987 (FTCC) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
Page  7
                         By /s/ Charles P. Gomis
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Michael Gillette
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Part A of the Project
(1) Long-term                      550,000      100%
    consultants'
    services
(2) Short-term                   7,100,000      100%
    consultants
    services
(3) Training                       465,000      100%
(4) Equipment and                  150,000      100% of foreign
    supplies                                    expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
Parts B and C of the Project
(5) Long-term                      300,000      100%
    consultants'
    services
(6) Short-term                     265,000      100%
    consultants
    services
                             Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(7)    Training                  150,000        100%
(8)   Equipment and              100,000        100% of foreign
      supplies                                  expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
Other
(9)   Refunding of               550,000        Amounts due
      Project                                   pursuant to
Page  8
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement
(10) Unallocated               1,270,000
                              __________
      TOTAL                   10,900,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
     (c)   the term "long-term consultants' services" includes
salaries of contractual staff in CT and STP.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower in
the preparation and execution of its privatization program, and in
the strengthening of its debt management and its stock exchange.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Privatization
1.   Strengthening of CPRSP's and CT's human and material resources
in the design, elaboration and implementation of the privatization
program.
2.   Support to the privatization of individual enterprises through
the preparation and implementation of privatization plans, including
the provision of technical advice on sales strategy, valuations,
financial engineering and legal issues.
3.   Preparation and implementation of measures, such as employee
stock ownership plans, and the carrying out of sectoral studies to
facilitate the execution of privatization.
4.   Design and implementation of a comprehensive program of
training, workshops and seminars for the Borrower's staff in the
area of privatization.
Part B:    Debt Management
1.   Design of the debt strategy, including specific techniques of
conversion/reduction schemes in relation to the implementation of
the privatization program.
2.   Strengthening of the registration process of external debt
liabilities, and of the coordination and centralization of debt
management.
Page  9
3.   Acquisition of equipment, and design and implementation of
training programs for STP.
Part C:    Stock Exchange
1.   Assistance in the introduction of a new quotation system, the
reorganization of the brokerage function, and the institutional
reorganization of BVA.
2.   Study on the development of a regional capital market based in
Abidjan.
3.   Development of appropriate instruments and mechanisms for
BVA's role in the privatization process.
4.   Acquisition of equipment and computers, and design and
implementation of training programs in company value assessment and
the use of computer programs.
                               * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:    Procurement Procedures
1.   Items or groups of items for office equipment, supplies and
computers estimated to cost between the equivalent of $30,000 and
$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Items or groups of items for office equipment, supplies and
computers estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $30,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part B:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)   With respect to each contract for office equipment,
computers and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of a Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of said Special Account in respect
of such contract.
     (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of a Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
Page  10
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ experts or consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such experts or
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                            Principles
     The Borrower shall implement its privatization program
referred to under Part A of the Project in accordance with the
following principles:
     (a)   definition of a sound regulatory framework for the sector
in which enterprises will be privatized;
     (b)   to the extent practicable, no new public investments or,
physical rehabilitation (except for regular maintenance), shall be
made by the Borrower in any enterprise which is on a privatization
list;
     (c)   the assets or shares of the enterprises to be privatized
shall be priced realistically to reflect their fair market value;
     (d)   to the extent practicable, the privatization program
shall not grant any special privileges (market protection, public
sector financing, subsidies) to investors; and
     (e)   privatization should not result in a redistribution or
an increase of the State's ownership in any Societe d'Economie Mixte
where the State is the majority shareholder.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) for Special Account A, and (5) through (8) for Special
account B set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of FCFA
60,000,000 for Special Account A, and of FCFA 30,000,000 for Special
Account B to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the relevant Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
Page  11
2.   Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish said
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the relevant Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)   For replenishment of a Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits into said Special Account at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                the relevant Special Account such amount as the
                Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                been shown by said documents and other evidence to
                have been paid out of said Special Account for
                eligible expenditures.
     All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
     Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit into a
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
Page  12
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into said Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into said Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
