Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11254-SE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
SECOND HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)
FEBRUARY 11, 1993
,,   h8j  .il:  if         i " ,r 
.h  h                 PI?   L  .: @Xf.   l             Jpi . i .j-
-~~~~~~~~~~  r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -
Population and Human Resources
Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
,|is doument has a restricted dit_bution and may be used by redpients oly in the performance of
thefr offici~ai dotes. Its contents Mnay Dot otberwie be diWcloed wltbou World Bstik authoazatlon.



ÇURRENCY OUIVALENT
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF) / US$1  250 CFAF
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 m. = 1.09 yd.
I sq.m.   10.76 sq. ft.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         African Development Bank
AGETIP       Agence d'Exécution des Travaux dI'ntérêt Public
BAC          Baccalauréat
BFEM         Brevet de fin d'études moyennes
BPE          Bureau des Projets d 'Education et de formation technique professionnelle
CF           Coopération Française
DCES         Division des Constructions et des Equipements Scolaires
DEPEE        Direction de l 'Education Préscolaire et de I 'Enseignement Elémentaire
DPRE         Direction de la Planification et de la Réforme de l 'Education
EFI          Ecole de Formation des Instituteurs
IA           Inspection d'Académie
INEADE       Institut National d 'Etudes et d 'Actio,z pour le Développement de l 'Education
KfW          Kreditanstaltfur Wiederaufbau
MEN          Ministère de l'Education Nationale
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization (Organisation Non Gouvernementale)
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
UCAD         Université Cheikh Anta Diop
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
FISCAL YEAR                                    SCHOOL YEAR
January 1-December 31                          October-June



FOR OMCUFL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC 0F SENEGAL
SECON HnDdAN RESOURCE$ DEMOELMENT PRO.ENCT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIE   AND PROIECT SUMMARY ..................................... i
1.  E RDU1O    ................................................1
SEcTORAL CONTEXT.                    .........................................
A.    Background .............................................  1
B.     Economie Developments ...........            ..........................  2
C.    Medium-Term Prospects and Policies .............................  2
D.    Education and Training  .....................................  2
1.     1he Educaion System  .................................  2
2.     Sector Development ssues  ..............................  3
3.     The Government's Education and Training Strategy .....        .......... 7
E.  Lessons Learned .......................                                             7
lu. TUE PRO1 ECT  ................................................    8
A.    Project Objectives, Scope and Description ..........................  8
1.     Expand Access to Primary Educadon and Improve its Quality and
Efficiency ....                                                          9
2.     Improve the Quallty and Efficiency of Secondary and Higher
Education .17
3.     Strengthen Sector Planning and Managerial Capacities .18
B.    Project Cost and Financing Plan ............ .............   20
IV. PRQOECTIMPLEMENTAT.ON                            .         .         .............. 21
A.    Stats of Project Preparation and Readiness ........................  21
B.    Project Coordination and Management ...........................  21
C.    Monitoring and Evaluation  ..................................  21
D.  Procurement ............................................ 22
E.     Disbursemeents ..........................................  25
F.     Accounting, Auditing and Reporting  ............................  26
V.  PROJECT BFEFITS AM RISKS  ..................................  27
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHE AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............. 28
This document las a rostricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performac
of their offiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authwoization.



TABLE OF CONTENS (Cont'd)
1      BasicData, 1990  .............................................   30
2-1    Fow Cart of the Forna  Education System         ............................  31
2-2    Orgaigrmme--MiDstèredel'Educadon Nadonae  ......              .................    32
2-3    EducationData  .............................................  33
3      Lettre de Politique Générale du Secteur Educadon et Plan d'Acton  .    .    ...   37
4      Pdmay School Construcion and Rehabilitation.                   .     .      ...    42
5   Scolarisaoln des   ......le.                                .         .... 49
6   Primary Student and Teacher Books ..                        .      . .....
7  Civil Works Summary.....  56
8      Système Nadonad'Evaludon du Rendement Scoiqir (SNERS)    8..             ..
9         eignmentSecondaireetSupnrleur                  .       .        ....             61
10     Backgrund Studies on Sendary Gene       a Education ......... ..............        62
1 1    Terms of Reference for the Project Coordination Unit .... ..     .........  63
12    Project Cost and Financlng .      ......................................   75
13    Project Monitoring and Supervision Plan            ...............................  82
.14     Monioringlndicators  ........................................... 84
15    Procurement ArmngmeMs          .......................................   8
16     Disbursement Profie ...........................................   88-
M&~ IBRD 24252



IlLIuC OF S^
REM a pMm RESCICS D Pamu2aum
CRED1T MaN Pll Sagan
Republic of Senegal
Ministry of National Education
SDR 29.1 million (US$40.0 milion equivalent)
an":         Standard, with 40 years maturity
Government of Grmany, DM 10 million (US$5.8 equivalent)
'lbe projea wouid asslst !he Government in implementing its education development
pogrm for the period 1993-98 whiiih aim mainly to improve aocess to, and tihe quaity
aid efficiency of, pray educatio, with tie spefc targets of raising tihe plmay
enrollment ratio from 58% in 1992 to 65% by 1998. Secondary objectives include
improvig the quality and efficlency of secondary aid higher education and strenghenlng
education sector placnnW ani management To achieve tese objecives, tihe project
s'port policy  easuwes: (a) in phary educaion to cotin cots, diversfy sources of
fùanclng, and reduce inequities between uban and rur are., and between boys and
gids; (b) in secondary education to improve internaI efficiency; and (c) in sector planning
and management, to decentalize education planning, administraon and supervision to
the regional and depautmental levels. In addidon, the project would finance investments
desigued to:
1.    Exp»nd access to primary education and improve hi aualy ani efficieny by: (a)
providing for tihe consruction of about 1,310 new classrooms in six educationally
disadvantaged regions (to increase the enrollmeu ratio la the regions by 8 perceutage
points) amd tihe rehabiitation of 1,080 classrooms; (b) supporting speCial me4s  to
boost girls' participation; (c) eng a sustable supply of good quality t.xbol; (d)
stre   ning pre-service and in-service teacher training; (e) supporting quality
improvement inives at tihe school level; and (t) esablishing a national system to assess
student achievement.
2.    Imro  the quality and efficieny of 8çcondary andt higbier educain by: (a) funding
studies leading to a long-tem developmeu progam for general secondary education and
(b) supporting physlcd improvemuets needed in the short-run.
3.    Srgten seco plannng and mn&gMM  MM    by: (a) stngthening the capacity
of the inpectorates aid the planning dieorate; aid (b) stengthning project
management and coordination.



- ii -
and Rsks:   Project benefits would be widespread. Over the five-year period 1993-1998, the project
would provide about 65,000 additional student places ln the six regions where access to
primary education is lowest, representing a capacity increase of about 30% in these
regions, mostly (77%) in rural areas. Implementation of the Goverument's full program
supportee by the project would provide about 200,000 additional student places resulting
in an enrollment increase of about 25% over the lif of the project. Mutually reinforcing
qualitative improvements, iu the form of better trained teachers, an adequate supply of
textbooks, more effective supervision by inspectors, and student assessment and feedback,
would improie internal efficiency, reduce wastage and improve the quality of learng.
Achievement of these objectives will be closely monitored according to a set of indicators
developed and agreed upon with the Government. The project would introduce several
innovative measures, with possible far-reaching effects, such as: (a) the introduction of
an experimental 'School Development Fund," designed to finance quality improvements
initiated and developed by schools; (b) well-targeted measures and programs to boost
girls' primary school enrollment in selected departments where girls comprise less fan
41% (the national average) of enrollment; (c) establishment of a sustalnable supply of
good quality primary textbooks, expected to benefit ail primary school children, through
delegation of textbook production, distribution and sales to the private sector and
institution of a cost recovery system; (d) increased delegation of responsibility for
education planning, management and administration from the central rniistry to regional
and departmental offices in an effort to make the system more responsive to local needs
which, in the long run, would benefit all schools; and (e) improve the efficiency and
lower the cost of classroom construction by delegating responsibility for school
construction management from the Ministry of Education to a non-governmental contract
management agency. Local communities would also be required to participate financially
in school maintenance, reducing the burden on the Government's budget.
There are threc main risks. EÎrM, the Government's capacity to manage a classroom
construction program of the scope envisaged under the project is inadequate, as
demonstrated by long delays and high costs ia school construction under the ongoing
education project (Cr. 1735-SE). This problem would be addressed by delegating
responsibility for managing school construction to a non-governmental contract
management agency (AGETI?) which is already managing the bulk of the third phase of
classroom construction under the ongoing education project (Cr. 1735-SE). Second, the
innovative programs proposed under the project, in particular the 'School Development
Fund" program and programs to boost girls' participation, are risky and may not fully
reach their objectives. Risks in these areas would be addressed by carefil monitoring of
program development during the first year of the project and by structured annual
reviews of progress, with the expectation that the programs would require modifications
during project implementation. Third, full cost recovery for textbooks may not be
feasible and Government may be required to partly subsidize their provision. Preliminary
studies indicate, however, that parents are willing to pay provided that books of good
quality are available at a reasonable cost when needed. The project would take great care
in assuring the reliability of the supply network, turning to the private sector to handle
all distribution and sales activities, against agreed profit margins. No environmental risks
are foreseen; classrooms and latrines would be sited and constructed following design
standards and procedures already approved by the Bank under the ongoing education
project (Cr. 1735-SE). School buildings are also small and located on vacant
Government or community property; they do not displace anyone.



- iii -
ESIIMA13 pROJECT COSITS AND FINANCING  Lb
(US$ milliony
ESTIMATED PROJEC1 cOSTS2
LOCAL        FOREIGN       TTAL
1. Impove Access, Quality and
Efficiency of Primarg Eduction                      31.4          25.7           57.1
2. Improve Quality and Efficiency
of Secondary and Higher Education                    1.4           3.1            4.5
3. Streugten Sector Planning
and Management Capacities                            1.6           2.2            3.8
4. Refl_aning PPF                                        0.3           0.4            0.7
Total Base Cosbs                                    34.7          31.4           66.1
Physical Contingencies                              0.4            0.7            1.1
Pdice Contingencies                                  1.7           3.9           5.6
TOTAL PROJECT COSIS                                 36.8          36.0           72.8
Financing Plan (US$ million)
IDA                                                                   40.0
Govemment                                                             21.0
communities                                                            6.0
<ermany (KfW)                                                          5.8
TOTAL                                                                 72.8
Estimated IDA Disbursemnents:
US$ million
IDA FY                           94         95        26         97        98         99
Annual                           2.0        6.0       9.0       10.0       9.0       4.0
Cumulative                       2.0        8.0       17.0      27.0       36.0     40.0
Economic Rate
ofReturn:     Not applicable
ka:           IBRD 20660
1. Totale may not add up due to wmuding.
2   Net af t and duties.



WUIUIIC DE MAWAL
SECOND HUMAN R139UItCIS DEVENI Ml« S)
1. -BOD
1.1          TIb Government of Senegal bas rnquested IDA's assistance in financing a projec
designed to help implement its Human Resources Development Pgram, focusing on education and
training. lbe proposed project's principal objective is to assist Senegal to signiflcantly increase
access to and the quality of primary education, with a particular foeus on rural areas and girls'
partipation. Secondary objectives include improving the quality and efficiency of secondary and
bigher education and strengtening education sector planning and management.
1.2          lbe project would b. IDA's fffth education project in Senoga. Tbe policy measures
and associated Investmsnt program have been developed through dialogue with the Senegalese
authorities based on a series of pre-investment studies conducted under the ongoing Prîmary
Education Development Project (Cr. 1735-SE), the GovernmeWt's Education Sectr Policy Letter
(992), and extensive dlscussions wih Govermment and donors during supervision of the ongoing
education project and preparation of this proposed project.
1.3          Total project costs re esimated at about US$73.0 million equivalent, net of taxes
and duties (with a foign exchange component of US$36.0 million), of whit IDA would finance
US$40 million. Flnanclng by the German Government (KfW) is estimated at US$5.8 million
eulvalent.' Contributions from the Govermment of Senegal are esmated at US$21.0 million, and
those from communities at US$6.0 million. In parallel to this proposed operation, the French
Government ls supporting a complemtary four-year operation at an estimated comt of FF100 million
(US$20.0 milion equivalent) to support the training of teachers, teacher trainers, supervisors and
admlsiao  in prmay and secondary education.
il. SECTORAL CONTI
A. hnd
2.1          Senea is a coastal semi-arid country situated in Africa's Sahelian zone. Its income
per capita is US$710 (placing it among the lower-middle-income economies), and its population of
7.2 million is growing at a high ate of about 3. 1% a year. While the level of urbanization is well
above the Sub-Sahar African average of 28%, the majority of the population (60%) lives in rural
area, and half is under 1he age of 16. Although agriculture's share in GDP (12%) is low relative
to the service (60%) and Industrial (18%) sectors, about two-thirds of Senegal's labor force is
employed ln this sector. Within the sector, groundnut cultivation accounts for 60% of farm cash
income, and groundnut producta are Senegal's main export.
3. TMm. omma Oamwna  (Y.f bu ggrad i pd=ip to «aia êv!lb to th Gmment abo 10 miUi
DM (abot USS6 mli equha) to finn pnuy clasmom condca ia to POas of Fadck and
KRMc (about 440 oam). Ia       l o ius ia is sbdd b tae plae in Ma  1993 wih
e-ff u vlogo t. foIow in se8_tb 1993.



-2 -
B. Eonok~micDeeopmnts
2.2          Over the past decade, the (3overnment has been strugglirg to reverse economic
stagnaion. In the wake of a short-lived boom ln groundnut and phosphate export earnings in the
mid-1970s, the Government embarked on an ambitious infrastructure investment program and
expanded public enterprises, creating an unsustainably large resource gap. The gap was exacerbated
by two severe drought years, a drastic fall in world market groundnut prices, and a sharp rise in
petroleum import prices. Distortions in the structure of economic incentives, including price controls,
import restrictions and excessive regulation of the economy, also contributed to the stagnation.
2.3          In response to the crisis, since mid-1983 the Government has implemented a series
of adjustment programs through which it has liberalized the economy, reduced distortions ln the
agricultural and industrial sectors, strengthened public investment programming, initiated reforms in
the public enterprise sector, restructured the banking sector, and put in place a more prudent external
debt management policy.4 Both fiscal and external balances have improved significantly and inflation
bas been restrained to under 3% a year. Problems remain, howcver. Progress in implementing
structural adjustment measures has been slow. Small and medium size enterprises remain severely
constrained by lack of access to credit and by high labor costs, and frequent policy changes have
discouraged new investment. Real wages of farmers, labor productivity, and per capita food
production have fallen due to declining soil fertility in the main growing region (the Groundnut
Basin), bigh population growth, and the consequent expansion of farming into marginal lands where
yields are lower. Critical expenditures on supporting infrastructure have also lagged.
C. Medium-Term Prqpeçts  d Policies
2.4          With the assistance of the IMF and Tie World Bank, the Government has prepared
a medium-term economic and financial policy framework (PFP). T'e framework emphasizes
continued promotion of the private sector and efficiency umprovements in publie sector resource
management. On the structural side, the strategy aims to put in place a comprebensive agricultural
policy, further liberalize the labor market, introduce greater flexibiity in wage setting, reduce the
cost of energy, and accelerate public enterprise reform. On the financial front, the program aims to
improve the efficiency of tax administration, increase the private sector's access to credit, and reduce
the civil service wage bill. Budgetary allocations for the maintenance of infrastructure, basic
education, and primary health care are expected to increase. In the health sector, the Govermnent
is undertaling measures to improve the efficiency and coverage of health care so that at least 45%
of the population has regular access to maternai and child care and essential medicines. In education,
the Government's main long-term objective is to provide primary education for all school-aged
children, with a medium-term objective of increasing the primary enrollment ratio from 58% in 1991
to 65% in 1998. To this end, the Government plans to allocate sufficient resources tO cover the cost
of teachers' salaries and of instuctional materials and supplies.
4.     Tl» p>gn bave bee auppxw     by four ucoosvae uaad-by arn_u  wih the lidmonal Moneay
Pund, tihe .naoed atucviae adjutact facility, four *tnzclucl adjumt loans snd a financial er
adjiuunet opedmon wiu to Wod Bank



-3.-
D. Education and Traihlng
1. The Edution SvteXn
2.5           The education system consists of a six-year cycle of primary education, a four-year
lower-secondary cycle and a three-year upper cycle of general or technical education. Higher
education is offered through two- or four-year programs at the Universities of Dakar and St. Louis
or at specialized training institutions, The Ministry of National Education (MEN) is responsible for
all formai education and training. Professional and vocational training is under the Ministry of Labor
and Vocations! Training, while most technical minLstries operate sector-specifle programs. Anex
2:1. provides a flow chart of the formal education system; Annex 2-2 shows an organigram of the
MEN; and Annex 2-3 provides statistical data on the coverage, costa and efficiency of the system.
2. Sector Development Issues
2.6          Following a period of rapid expansion during the 1970s and early 1980s, factors both
external and internai to the education system have undermined its sustainable development.
Externalîy, slow economic growth, declining government budgets and competing priorities during the
1980s, combined with a high school-age population growth rate of 3.3%, have constrained the
Government's capacity to meet the rising demand for education and maintain its quality. Within the
sector itseif, heavy dependence on central government financing, inadequate planning, management
and use of resources, and a failure to develop and implement sound sectoral policies, especially in
higher education, have contributed to the stagnation. School expansion, quality, and efficiency have
suffered as a resuit. Today, (a) access to primary education remains limited and inequitably
distributed across regions, between urban and rural areas, and between girls and boys; (b) the
effectiveness of education at all levels is poor; (c) financial constraints combined with an inefficier.t
use of resources adversely affect access and quality, and (d) weak planning, programming, and
management capacities limit the Government's ability to develop the education sector effectively.
(a) limiftd and ineouitable access to primary education
2.7           Literacy and primary enrollment rates in Senegal are substantially below the average
for Sub-Saharan Africa and for countries at a similar level of income. According to the most recent
estimates, only 27% of Senegal's population 15 and older is literate compared with a Sub-Saharan
average of 49%, and enrollment in primary school represents only 58% of the school-aged population
compared with the Sub-Saharan average of 79% .5 The average primary enrollment ratio, however,
masks extreme disparities among regions, between urban and rural areas, and between boys and girls.
Geographie disparities largely retlect an urban bias in the allocation of schools. Although rural
children account for about 60% of the primary school-aged population, only 38% of them are
enrolled, compared with nearly 100% of school-aged children in urban areas. In tlie predominaely
rural regions of the country, enrollment ratios are as low as 27% in Diourbel, 35% in Louga, and
38% in Tambacounda, while those in the urban regions of Dakar and Ziguinchor are 96% and 105%,
respectively. Gender disparities in enrollment, aithough less pronounced than those between urban
and rural areas, are also significant. Girls represent only 41% of primary enrollment, and only 48%
of the school-aged girls are enrolled compared with 68% of boys." Given the existing distribution
5.    Sources: RPpub&«oe du Sénégat L,s Pinncioaux Rultats Provisoirs du Recem   de la Ponulation do
l'Habitat du a né« Dakar: DirecMon de la PrévIon et de la Sk*tLUiw, Décembre 198, UNESCO,
s i.  e oarboaok, Pa3ris                                     .
6.    Girls comprise 3,5% of tota enrollmoti lower scouday, and 33% in upper secondluy.



-4-
of educational opportunities, raising primary
enrollment and literacy rates depends importanty
on expanding access to oducation in rural areas,           geo a P
and on increasing girls' enrollment.                       R      . t
(b) I ow schol effectiveess.r
2.8          TIie effectiveness of education is   g
low at all levels as evidenced by poor intea
efficiency and low examination pass rates. In 
primary eduation, repetitlon rates average 16%,
rangig between 10% in grade one to 34% in
grade six. The average number of student years    *0
necessary to graduate from the 6-year primary
cycle is 8. In 1990/91, only 56% of students      .
passed the school leaving exam. In.lower- and
-pper- secondary education (collèges and lycées),
about 15% and 16% of students are repeaters,   ,
* espectively - ranging between 12% in the tkst
grade to 20% in the fourth grade. Ibe average
number of student years nocessary to graduate is
6 in the 4-year lower cycle and 5.5 in the 3-year
upper cycle. In 1990/91, only half the students passed the baccalaureate exam. In higher education,
iMternal efficiency is particularly low. More  ian 40% of students at the University of Dakar are
repeaters. Promotion rates between the first and second year average only 25%. The number of
stulent years nucessary to graduate from a four-year program averages 18 in economics, 21 in the
humanities and 27 in the sciences.
2.9          Low effectiveness is due to a number of factors. In primary education, only very
limited resources are available for quality improvements - 95% of the budget is spent on salaries and
3% on subsidies to private echools, leaving only 2% (US$3 per pupil) for equipment, materials,
furniture and the operating costs of schools, inspectorates, and teacher support servit s. As a result,
textbooks are in short supply, an estimated 1,600 classrooms (out of a total 11,000) need major
rehabiitation, inspectors lack the physical means aud Snancial resources to provide supervisory
services and in-service teacher training programs are defunct. At the post-primary levels,
inefficiencies are related, on the one hand, to the failures of previous levels of education and, on the
other, to uncontrolled expansion with insufficient and poorly allocated resources (para. 2. 11). Tie
result is overcrowded facilities, temporary shelters serving as secondary school classrooms, severe
shortages of pedagogical materials and equipment, no funds for in-service or continuing education
for educatioen personnel, and programs that are poorly matched with labor market needs.
(c) Financdal oontraints, ineffiderdes, and hrgh oosts
2.10         Limited resources.  Measured in constant prices, total government expenditure
declined in real terms by 2% a year throughout the 1980s, falling from 34% of GDP in the early
1980s to 21% in 1990. Government expenditure on education also fell by 2% a year during the early
1980s, but has been increasing in real terms by 3.8% a year since 1986 (with a sharp increase in
1989190 due to salary increases for cvil servants). Education's share of the government budget,
therefore, has risen steadily from 21% in 1986 to 26% in 1990, a share 50% higher than the average
for Sub-Saharan Africa. Resources for education cannot be expected to grow any faster over the
coming years - educations' share of the government budget is already bigh, prospects for economic



-5.-
growth are modest, and rigid budget cellings wUI continue to contain govermment expenditure.
Within the most likely economic growth scenario, If education retains its curt share of the
government recurrent budget, recurrent education expeuditure would grow by 3.9% a year in real
terms.' Although significant, the resources would only be sufficient to cover the salary cost of
additional primary teachers required to reach the Government's modest target of increasing the
primary enrollment ratio from 58% in 1991 to 65% by 1998.'
2.11          Jnefficiencies and high cos. High rates of repetition crowd classrooms, limit access
and increase the cost of obtaining graduates from the system. In primary education, the unit cost of
a completer is increased by 18%, and by about 14% for a lower- or upper-secondary sehool graduate.
Resources are also poorly used. In upper-secondary schools (lyces), teachers teach on average 30%
less than the minimum time prescribed (16 hours per week instead of 24); student:teacher ratios are
low (16:1); and the number of non-teaching staff is excessive which results in a cost per student of
US$366 (2.4 times higher than in primary). Teacher Training Colleges are particularly inefficient.
Expenditure pet student is nearly US$3,000 due in large part to a low student:staff ratio of 4:1 and
an excessive number of administrative staff. M.t the University of Dakar, uncontrolled enrollment
increases, coupled with very generous scholarships and student subsidies for social support services
(free housihig, meals, medical care, transport) and inefficient management, have caused expenditures
to soar and per student costs to reach US$3,200. 'he sharply increasing budget of the University
of Dakar (between 1986 and 1990, it's share of the recurrent education budget increased from 15%
to 24%) has to a large extent been financed by diverting resources previously allocated to secondary
education. As a result, secondary's share of the education budget fell from 25% in 1986 to 21% in
1990, barely sufficient to finance teachers' salaries and with disastrous consequences for the
availability of materials and other non-salary inputs essential to ensure adequate quality of education.9
(d) Weak Sector Planning and Resource Management
2.12          Sector planning and resource management are weakc at all levels of education. In
prirary education, planning and management deficiencies are most evident at the regional and
departmental inspectorates, to which the Ministry of Education (MEN) has recently delegated certain
administrative, management and planning responsibilities, in addition to regular professional support
functions. However, the ability of inspectors and supervisors to provide professional support to
principals and teachers is already severely constrained by a lack of physical resources (transport, in
particular) and inappreciable operating funds. Additionsl administrative and planning tasks cannot
effectively be carried out by regional and departmental inspectorates without additional resources.
Resource constraints also affect educational planning and programming at the central level of the
MEN: the processing of education statistics by the Ministry's Planning Unit (DPRE) is several years
behind schedule due to out-of-date computer equipment, and basic data are not available on time for
planning purposes (school mapping, posting of teachers, etc.). Planning and management of
secondary and higher education are also weak, as demonstrated by the uncontrolled expansion of
enrollments, particularly at the University of Dakar (from 6,000 in 1986 to 18,000 in 1991), and by
the absence of plans to set their development along a more rations! and sustnable course. The
management of physical resources (construction and maintennce of educational infrastucture and
7.    "Mcdium-Tonn Econon}c ad PÎinacial Policy Fraimwo* Paper (1990/91-1992/9)," Affca Region, SeluI
D<paitm, Tho World Ban, 1991; "Public Expendto Reviow.- Africa Reion. Sahd Depam, Tihe
World Bmnl, 1991.
8.    The osmte assum  a contiation of oaat mavi4 uioasuresii as double-  and mVultivad teaching (sut
pua. 2.13).
9.    In 1990, 95% of the seoonday educadon budget went go «alaWe.



-6-
provision of educational materials and supplies) is constrained by inadequate budgets, inexperienced
technical staff, and inefficient systems and procedures.
3. The (overnment's Education and Training Sfrateg
2.13         The Government's Education and Training policy is based on the work of a national
conference on education (Etats Généraux) held in 1981. The conference's recommendations were
translated into a strategy for education reform adopted by the Government in 1985 which has guided
sector development since then. The reform program geherally aims to make the education system
more equitable, effective, efficient and responsive to national development needs, and specifically
aims to attain universal primary education. 'he Government has made some progress in
implementing this program. Due to a moderate expansion of capacity combined with efficiency
measures such as double-shifiUng in urban schools and multigrade teaching in rural schools, public
primary school enrollments increased at a rate of about 3.5% a year between 1985186-1990/91,
contributing to an increase in the enrollment ratio from 54% to 58% over that time.
2.14         For the coming years, the Government's priorities are spelled out in a 'Letter of
Education Development Policy," attached as Annex 3. Primi edu nio will continue to remain
the priority sub-sector with a focus on expanding access in rural areas, raising the primary enrollment
ratio from 58% to 65% by 1998, raising the enrollment of girls, improving quality and internal
efficiency, and containing costs through a continued use of double-shift and multi-grade teaching.
In general secondarv education, the Government's focus will be on strengthening the quality of
education, containing costs, and developing medium and long-term plans for the sub-sector. In
vocational training, the Government intends to develop a program to restructure and consolidate
vocational training institutions, improve the quality of training programs, adapt them better to labor
market demand, and promote the participation of employers in their design, operation, and financing.
In post-secondary education, plans are being prepared to restructure professional training institutes
and to correct inefficiencies in the university system. The current dialogue between the Government
and IDA on post-secondary education aims at restructuring professional training institutes and at
developing and applying concrete measures to limit admission, repetition, and student subsidies in
higher education, to be followed by investments to improve quality and management.
E.    Leson Led
2.15         The Bank Group has been involved in the education sector in Senegal since 1971.
The first three projects, all completed, supported vocational, technical, and agricultural education (Cr.
253-SE, US$2.0 million; Cr. 530-SE, US$15.0 million; Cr. 408-SE, US$22 million). The ongoing
Primary Education Development Project (Cr. 1735-SE, US$12.0 million) was prepared within the
context of the recommendations of the Etats Généraux. It supports the Government's priorities to
improve access to, and the quality of, primary education and was the first project to include policy
measures to improve resource use within the education sector, focusing on primary education.
During its implementation, the Bank continued its dialogue on education policies and programs with
the Government and worked closely with other donors to coordinate activities. Pre-investment studies
covering primary and higher education, and vocational and post-secondary professional training were
financed by the ongoing education project (Cr.1735-SE) between 1989 and 1991. Studies on
vocational traiuing and higher education were conducted jointly by the Bank and the French
Government in 1990-91. The studies led to the decision to prepare three separate operations, of
which the proposed project, which fowuses mainly on primary education, is the first. Two follow-up
operations, a vocationalf professional education project and a higher education project, are currently
under preparation.



,7 -
2.16         Prom an operational perspective, completion reports for the first three projects report
delays in contract awards, and inadequate projtct monitoring and coordination. Implementation of
the ongoing project has been constrained by: (a) linking disbursements for investments in primary
education to reductions in spending for higher education (which bas proven difficult to achieve,
especially those regarding cuts in student subsidies); and (b) inadequate capacity and inefficient
procedures of the concerned Government departments to undertake a relatively modest (400
classrooms) school construction program. The proposed project would address these problems by:
(i) requiring the preparation of sample bid documents and a procurement plan as a condition of
negotiations, (ii) delegating responsibility for managing school construction from the Government to
AGETIP; (iii) linking sub-sectoral policies to their respective investments; and (iv) requiring up-front
implementation of a minimum set of measures in higher education. Each is discussed in Section Iml
of this report.
m. THE PROJECT
A. Projeect Objectives, Scoen and Description
3.1          Obiectives. The project would assist the Government in implementing its education
development program for the period 1993/98 which aims mainly to improve access to, and the quality
and efficiency of primary education, with the specific targets of raising the primary enrollment ratio
from 58% in 1992 to 65% by the 1997/1998 academic year (para. 2.14). Secondary objectives
include improving the quality and efficiency of secondary and higher education and strengthening
education sector planning and management. The Government's policies and programs are described
in a "Letter of Education Development Policy" atached as Annex 3. Progress in achieving these
objectives will be assessed against monitoring indicators, developed and agreed upon with the
Government, which include annual targets for classroom construction, teacher recruitment and
deployment, girls' enrollment, rates of repetition and double-shifting, and student:staff ratios as
shown in Annex 14.
3.2          To achieve these objectives, the project would support policy measures: (a) in primary
education to contain costs, diversify sources of financing, and reduce inequities between urban and
rural areas, and between boys and girls; (b) in secondary education to improve internai efficiency;
and (c) in sector planning and management, to decentralize education planning, administration and
supervision to the regional and departmental levels. In addition, the project would finance
lnvestments designed to: (1) expand access to primary education, focusing on underserved (mainly
rural) areas and participation of girls, and improve its quality and efficiency; (2) improve the quality
and efficiency of general secondary and higher education; and (3) strengthen sector planning and
managerial capacities, as summarized in the following box.



-8-
PROJECT MUAIIY <Total Cost UES72. ai Uionia/
1.  Expand Access to Primsry Education (tocusing on rural ateas and the participation of girls).
snd Improve its Ouality and Efliciency CUS$62.5 million)
o Expanding classro3m construction, maintenance and rehabilitation
o Supporting special measures to bout girts' participation
o Establishing a sustainable textbook system
o Strengthening pre-service and ln-service teacher training
o Supporting schoot initlated quality lrprovements
o Establishing a national system to assess student achievement
2.  lmprove the Quality and Efficiency of Secondary and iligher Education (US$5.2 million)
o Financing pre-investment studies ln secondary education
o Supporting physical laprovements needed ln the short-term
3. Strenethun Sector Planning and Managerial Capacitites US$4.4 million)
o Strengthening the capacity of the Inspectorates and the planning di rectorate
e Strengthening project management and coordination
a/ Includes base coste and contingencies. Totals do not add up due to US$0.7 million PPF
refinancing.
3.3           S£m.  The proposed project would provide broad-based support for primary
education, both in ternms of the types of interventions proposed and in geographic coverage.
Qualitative improvements, such as teacher training, the provision of textbooks, improved supervision
and management, and policy measures designed to improve efficiency, contain costs and diversify
sources of financing would apply to the entire primauy system. Primary classroom construcdon,
however, would be concentrated in five of the country's ten administrative regions, selected on the
basis of their low primary enrollment ratios (below 45%). Ibe proposed experimental 'School
Development Fund" and pilot programs to boost girls' participation are also geographically llmlted
because of their experimental nature (paras. 3.27-31, 3.12-15). Proposed support for secondary and
higher education is modest, focusing the development of plans and programs to strengthen the quality
and efficiency of these sub-sectars and meeting some immediate needs for physical rehabilitation and
libraries. In parallel to this proposed project, a program financed by the French Government would
provide broad-based support to primary and secondary education in the areas of pre- and in-service
teacher training, school mapping, and management training for school inspectors and administrators.
1.  Expand Access to Primary Educadon and Improve ts Quality and Efrideny (US$%J
million)
3.4            Ibis component contributes to the Government's objectives to increase the primary
enrollment ratio from 58% to 65% by 1998, spread educational opportunities more equitably between
urban and rural areas, and between boys and girls, maintain the value of investments in educational
infrastructure, and pursue programs and policies to improve the quality and efficiency of primary
education. There are six sub-components: (a) expanding classroom construction, maintenance and
rehabilitation; (b) supporting special measures to boost girls' participation; (c) establishing a
sustinable textbook system; (d) strengthening in-service and presrvice teacher training; (e)
supporting school-level quality improvements; and (f) establishing a national system to assess student
achievement.
3.5            To support tis investment program, the Government would continue to apply policy
measures to contain costs and diversify sources of financing introduced under the ongoing project
(Cr. 1735-SE). Ile measures include: 1) continuation of double-shift teaching in 30% of urban
classrooms (37% of urban enrollment), ii) recruitment of candidates into teacher training at a ratio
of Instieur-adjoftssto instuteurs of 80 to 20 (para. 3.11), and iii) recovering textbook costs (pra.
3.18). Ibe Government would also develop a policy and an approach, satisfactory to IDA, to reduce



-9 -
repetition to be Implemented not later than academic yea 1994195. The Government gave assurances
during negotiations that these measures would be lmplemented during the projeat period.
(a)    Expanding  Classroom   Construction,  Malntenance  and  Rehabilltatdon
(US$48.8 million)
3.6          Scope and Objectives.  Tibe objectives of the Government's primary school
construction and maintenance program for the period 199311998 are to provide about 200,000
additional student places to accommodate an increase in the national enrollment ratio from 58% to
65% by 1998 (with most of this increase taking place in rural areas), and to maintain the existing
educational infrastructure. The proposed project would contribute to this program by financing the
construction and furnishing of about 1,310 new classrooms (65,000 student places) and the
rehabilitation of 1,080 existing classrooms, and by pursuing an ongoing program of school
maintenance. Details are provided in Annex .
3.7          Classroom Construction. To increase the primary enrollment ratio to 65% by 1998,
the Government would need about 3,500 new classrooms over the flve-year project period
(199311998), for a total investment of about 12 billion CFAF (US$48 million).'° For reasons of
equity in the distribution of educational opportunities between urban and rural areas, the Government
would locate about 1,100 classrooms (30% of the total) in the high-enrollment urban regions of Dakar
and Ziguinchor, and about 2,400 (70% of the total) in the other eight, mostly rural, regions. This
would have the effect of maintaining enrollment ratios in Damar and Ziguinchor at current levels
(96% and 105%, respectively), and increasing enrollment ratios in each of the eight other regions by
8 percentage points.
3.8         T'e project would support this program by financing the construction of about 1,310
classrooms and related facilities and furniure at an esfimated cost of 5.3 billion CFAP (US$21.1
million) in five of the six most rural regions: 260 in Diourbel, 160 in Louga, 240 in Tambacounda,
360 in Kaolack, 215 in Fatick and 75 in Kolda. Of this total, the IDA credit would finance 75% of
the cost of civil works and 100% of specialist services and furnishings for 875 classrooms (US$12.5
million) in the regions of Diourbel, Louga, Tambacounda, Kaolack and Kolda. Communities would
finance the remaining 25% of the cost of civil works (US$4.3 million). Tie KfW would finance the
remaining 435 classrooms in the regions of Kaolack and Fatick (US$5.8 million) under the same cost-
sharing arrangements. Combined, tie classrooms would provide 65,000 additional student places
(77% in rural areas) and would satisfy about 30% of the total needed to attain the national target of
65% enrollment by 1998. Tie remaining requirement (2,190 classrooms) would be. financed by
Government, communities, NGOs and other donors, under ongoing or planned progræms. On-going
programs include those financed by the OPEC Fund (200 classrooms), the AfDB (300 classrooms)
and the Japanese Government (200 classrooms). Î'rospects for additional support from donors for
the financing of a substantial part of the remalnig classroom construction program are also good.
10.   Mi requirm  wer decnnd by Mm uag gpcopfiw population th , at  io cha am ,
crta lvoIb of multi-o and doub-eift chasa, amn assmmmg an avoa. coat pm t block of 3  ooms
at 9.9 million CPAP - inUdig prinopab' offices, aog for matoeias ot taxtboo, lati, a foce, and
fiunium.



- 10-
3.9          School Rehabilitation and Maintenance.  To maintain the value of existing
investments, the projeat would rehabilitate and furnish 1,080 classrooms (about 25% of total nseds)
at an estimated total cost of 2.5 billion CFAF (US$10. 1). Of this, the Credit would finance te  osts
of architectural studies, supervision and school furniture (US$3.0 million); Government and
communities would finance the cost of all civil works (US$5.3 and US$1.8 million, respectively).
To ensure the availability of Government resources, MEN budgetary allocations would be reviewed
each year during joint annual implementation reviews (para. 4.4). Responsibility for managing the
school rehabilitation and maintenance prcgrams would remain with the MEN's division of school
construction and equipment (DCES). To strengthen the capacity of the DCES to manage the
programs, the project would also finance vehicles, equipment and 8 months of short-term local
training in computer programs relevant to its work.
3.10         Responsibility for Implemenation. 'Me classroom construction program would be
based on site selection criteria and school location maps prepared by the Directorate of Planning
(DPRE) and on regional development plans submitted by the inspectorates. The DCES would be
responsible for setting and disseminating building standards and construction norms and for managing
school rehabilitation and maintenance programs. Responsibility for managing the primary classroom
construction and rehabilitation programs would be delegated by the MEN to the Agence d'ExEcuton
des Travau d'Intdrt Public (AGETIP), a non-governmental contract management agency established
undar the IDA financed Public Works and Employment Project (Cr. 2075-SE) which is managing the
bulk of the third phase of classroom construction under the ongoing education project (Cr. 1735-SE).
3.11         In preparation for project start-up, the MEN has transmitted to IDA the flrst-year
program of new construction and rehabilitation, an official agreement to delegate the management of
the works to AGETIP and a draft contract between the MEN and AGETIP (mnluding a manual of
operational procedures and a staffing plan). Execution of the latter documents is a condition of credit
effectiveness. During negotiations, the Government also gave assurances: (a) that adequate budgetary
provisions would be made to finance the rehabilitation and maintenance programs, and (b) that it
would implement, beginning with the 1993/94 academic year, a program, satisfactory to IDA, for
training and deploying on an annual basis the number of primary school teachers (at an Instiweur-
adjoins to nutaeur ratio of 80 to 20) to attain a gross enrollment rate 65% by the 199711998
academic year. Construction programs for the remaining four years of project implementation would
be discussed and agreed during joint annual implementation reviews (para. 4.4).
(b) Supporting Speclal Measures to Boost Girls' Psrlcipation (US$0.8 million)
3.12         Sioe  and objecti. Although the classroom construction program will significantly
extend access to primary education, it is only the first step to increase girls' participation. Research
from many countries shows that girls' enrollment often depends not only on the availability of schools
but also on a variety of other factors related to the school, home, and community (the distance to
school, exclusionary school policies, concern for girls' moral safety, poor quality and seemingly
irrelevant education, high opporunity costs and poor employment prospects, to iwme just a few).
Given past trends in Senegal, simply building schools will not guarantee that girls will enroll, attend
and complete the cycle. Therefore, the Government's education policy places priority on the need
to develop effective interventions to boost girls' participation.'1
Il.    A team from tihe DPRE has already conducted a atudy (financed by UNICEF) in a sanle of communites
to detennir» the asons for Bina' low crollmnet which will be incoipostd into thi study design.



- 1l -
3.13         To support the Government's policy and efforts to boost female participation, the
project would support a program to assist the MEN in developing and implementing broad based
interventions at the level of the achool, home and community, and pilot well-targeted interventions
in departments where girls comprise less than 41% (the national average) of primary school
enrollment. With respect to broad based interventions, the project would support: (a) a national
information campaign to advertise the benefits of educating girls and to encourage girls' attendance,
(b) an evaluation of school policies and textbooks to eliminate disincentives, (c) studies of the
distribution of girls' enrollment and attendance barriers from which would be developed (d) policy
reforms and pilot interventions in selected departnents where girls comprise less than 41% of
enrollment. (Annex 5 provides a list of the departments). Studies under (c) would analyze available
data from the MEN and the 'Priority (household) Survey" to identify schools and communities where
girls' enrollment is low, describe the economic and demographie context of the families and
communities, assess the relationship between education and socio-economic indicators (mortality,
fertility, etc.), and interview community leaders, educational personnel (especially teachers), students,
and girls in and out of school to identify the reasons for girls non-participation, to assess intervention
options and to inform the national information campaign.
3.14         Responsibility for implementation. Overall responsibility and supervision for the
component would lie with the DPRE which would nominate a task manager. The DPRE would draw
on the expertise of other ministerial staff and local research and media consultants to develop and
implement the program. In particular, the evaluation of learning materials would be done by
INEADE as part of its evaluation of existing textbooks and those to be produced under the proposed
project. Project support for this is included in the textbook component. In carrying out the program
described in para. 3.13, the MEN would: (i) complete studies under (b) not later than June 30, 1995,
under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, (ii) complete, no later than June 30, 1994, studies under
(c), conducted under terms of reference satlsfactory to IDA, (iii) begin a national information
campaign, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, not later than December 31, 1994, taking
into account the results of the studies in (c), and (iv) not later than August 31, 1995, implement MEN
designed pilot programs, under tenns of reference satisfactory to IDA, to increase girls' enrollment.
3.15         Project        . To support the national information campaign, the project would
finance 6 months of international and 10 months of local specialist services, the cost of promotional
materials and radio broadcasts, and three seminars for education policy makers to sensitize them to
the issue and to disseminate the results of the studies. For the studies sub-component, the project
would finauce 5 montis of international and 16 months of local consultant and research assistant
services, the cost of field work, and materials reproduction. The project would aiso provide
US$400,000 to support pilot interventions as agreed with IDA. 'he Government has submitted an
implementation calendar for the program and terms of reference for a consultant to holp design the
national information campaign.



- 12 -
(c) E;sablishing a Sustainable Textbook Systemn (US$6.4 nmllion)
3.16         Scp and        Tbhive. Ile objectives of this component are to establish a susinable
textbook supply system by ftnancing the publication and distribution of an initial stockl of bookaS
putting ln place a textbook sales system to finance stock replenishment, and controlling book quality.
Toward these ends, the IDA credit would finance: (a) the publication, sales and distrbion costs of
1,180 million copies of 14 new textbook titdes for grades 3 to 6, (b) about 260,000 textbook reprints
to account for enrollment growth, (c) 52,000 teachers' guides for 5 subjects and 5 grades, and (d)
a pedagogical evaluation of the books published under the ongoing education credit (Cr. 1735-SE).
(Annex 6 provides details). To ensure that an adequate supply of books are available on the market,
the MEN would procure about 3.1 million reprints over the life of the project, financed from a
textbook revolving fund. As a condition of Board presentation, tie Government has transmitted to
IDA terms of reference for the evaluation and for related consultant services.
3.17         Responsibilitv for imnlementation. The national pedagogical institute aNEADE)
would be responsible for defining curricula, preparing the pedagogical and techcal speifications
for textbooks to be procured, participating in the evaluation of bid proposals submitted by publishers
and evaluating the quality and content of textbooks produced. Private publishers (local or
mternaional), selected through Intnational Competitive Bidding, would handle all production taska,
including designing textbooks and teachers' guides, commissioning and supervising authors and
lllustrators, editing manuscripts, contracting printers and delivering books to MEN warehouses. Ihe
textbook procurement process would be handled by the MEN's Project Coordinating unit (PCV),
following established procedures.
3.18         Distribution and sales. Books fiuanced under the ongoing project (Cr. 1735-S  are
being sold by 59 private sector booksellers throughout the country at 350.600 CFAP, under a contract
between the MEN and a private sector distributor. 'Me sales price includes a 48% margin for the
distributor and book sellers but does not in all cases reflect the full cost recovery price. Proceeds
from the sale of the books are deposited lnto an account at a commercial bank and are to be used
exclusively for stock replenishment. Textbooks procured under tie proposed project are expected to
cost students about 800 CFAF on the average,12 including a 30% margin for distribution and
sales.13 (Different scenarios for cost recovery are shown in Annex .) Teachers' guides would be
distbuted to schools free of charge. Distribution and sales services would be procued through ICB
procedures. A study to assess the availability and affordability of books being sold under the exisdng
scheme was completed in January 1993. As a condition of credit effectiveness, die Government
would review the results of tie study, and adopt an operational plan, satisfactory to IDA, for the
distribution and sale of textbooks provided by die proposed project «mcluding provisions for an
annual audit of die revolving fund). The proposed procurement schedule for books is shown mu
Annez6
3.19         P»jet suvvQr  Tbe project would finance the production and distrbution costs of
1.18 million copies of 14 titles for grades 3 to 6, 0.26 million reprints needed for enrollment growth
and 52,000 teachers' guides. To assist INEADE and strengthen its capacity to exercise its functions
as summarized in para. 3.17, the project would finance 18 montbs of technical assistance to develop
book specifications, assist in evaluating bid proposals, and assess the content and quality of books
12.   TIb pice dWforera i d in por to a bigir oa of boof for ho upper prma anmdu, sd, in pant 
abou a 50% Govomnut  sbsidy.
13.    fi 48% marejn wuas oosddoed too high by the nions textbook speai.



- 13 -
published under the ongoing project (Cr; 1735-SE). The project would also finance 24 months of
felowsiips for INEADE staff responsible for setting and evaluating pedagogical and technical
specifications for science, history/geography, mathematics and reading books, and seminars for
approximately 100 inspectors and teacher trainers to introduce them to the objectives, content and
organization of books developed and procured under the project. Annex 6 proyides auponj
dgiu.
(d) Strengthening Pre-service and In-service Teacher Tralning (US$4.3 million)
3.20          Si ad  objecthres. The project would support the strengthening of pre-service and
ln-service teacher training by lmproving the leaning enviroument and resource use ln the écols de
fonnation du ltaieurs (primary teacher training colleges) and in the Inspections d'AcadM4e
(regional inspectorates). In parallel, a program proposed by tie Coopération Française (CF) would
strengthen pre- and in-service training in core subject areas by upgrading thi competencies of teachers
and their trainers and supervisors.
3.21          Pre-service teacher training. Pre-service teacher training is the responsibillty of the
écoles de formation des uiteurs (EFIs), located in the major regional capitals. The ongoing
project (Cr. 1735SE) supports a number of efficiency measures to lower the cost of teacher tralning
by: (a) reducing the number of colleges from six to four (Kolda, St. Louis, Louga and Thies); (b)
increasing the student:teacher raio to 13:1, and (c) restructuring the training programs offered by
the four remaining colleges to three one-year programs: (i) pre-school teacher certification; ili)
primary teacher certification at the level of Intiueur (BAC+ 1); and (iii) pr,imry teacher
cerification at the level of instieur-adjoln(BFEM+ 1). Previously, four teacher training colleges
offered a four year nsituteur program (BFEM+4), one offered a one-year nstiteur program
(BAC+1), and one offered aone-year lsineur-adjolntprogram (BFEM+1). Startng in 1991192,
the (BFEM+4) program was discontinued. Tie four EFIs that remain will offer the BAC+ 1 (20%
of enrollment) and the BFEM+ 1 programs (80% of enrollmentj and retain a capacity of 1,000-1,200
student places. During negodations, the Govermment gave assurances that the restrucQuring program
would be maintained during the project period (1993198).
3.22         To accommodate the programs and the larger enroliment, the EFls require physical
rehabilitation, equipment, and library facilities. Staffng resources allocated to the colleges, however,
remain generous (para. 2.11). lIue four EFIs could accommodate teacher training needs over the
coming years with 40% fewer budgeted staff.14 Tie MEN has transmitted to IDA a tine-table to
increase student:teacher ratios to 14:1, reduce the number of administrative staff, and reassign
redundant staff.
3.23          In-service teacher ICAining. In-service training is mainly the responsibility of school
inspectors and principals. Through supervision visits, inspectors review teacher performance and
offer advice on how to improve their practice. Inspectors, with assistance from INEADE, are also
responsible for disseminating instructional innovations associated with the reform (underway since
1989, under the responsibility of INEADE). School principals provide pedagogical support through
bl-weeJdy animation sessions for teachers. Overall, the system functions poorly. Inspectors are
14.    Abo 330 nw toit. wwd bo noedod annually fortJb c_samoom finaed by the projoo. Uf   ful
conatruct  prom woer iuhmp_.d to rauh ti na    target of 65% enroilL, about 750 uw
onu womuld bc nodd aom&uy. Evo at min_  nood, if td.attoaeh  ratios woea 14:1, a toa of
58 u4iring stff would bc 1oo in h four coioegs ompad with 94 budggted in 1990-91 and 97
budgeted in 1991-9.



- 14-
constrained by the insufficient resources (operating funds and transportion) to supervise and assist
principals, and in-service training programs are rare.
3.24        pfçet support. To equip the consolidated EFIs to accommodate the new programs,
the project would finance the cost of rehabilitating, equipping and furnishing the four EFIs - Kolda,
St. Louis, Louga and Thies (Details are in Annex 7.) and periodic evaluations of the effectivenes
of the restructured pre-service teacher training prograns. The program proposed by the CF supports
qi...tative improvements in the pre-service programs by financing 6 technical assistants to help
revie'v and establish plans for pre-service training and assist in its implementation. Tecbnical
assistants would be recruited for four years and in two multidisciplinary teams (Math, French and
integrating school in the local environment), based at the EFIs in St. Louis and Thies. T'e Fretch
Government would also finance documentation and materials reproduction centers at each ofthe four
EFIs, vehicles and scholarships, and local training through a twinning arrangement with specialized
French institutions. In in-senri  teacher training, the program proposed by the CF helps develop
and implement programns to upgrade the professional competence of inspectors, teacher trainers,
school principals and teachers by strengthening the existing structure under the responsibility of the
MEN's in-service training unit (Structure de Formation Continue). Regional training centers (poles
regionaux) would be established at 6 of the 10 Inspecaons d'Acadnmie (As). Linkages between pre-
service and in-service training would be reinforced through collaboration with the pre-service teacher
training colleges.
3.25         The French Government would finance techical assistance consisting of teams oftwo
based at 6 regional inspectorates (Ziguinchor, Thies, Tambacounda, St. Louis, Kaolack and Dakar)
but covering the entire territory, pedagogical reference libraries and materials reproduction centers
at each pole regional, two vehicles for each of the six inspectorates, a mobile van-library to service
three regions and operating costs of the training programs. 'he proposed IDA Credit would support
improved management and supervision by inspectors as well as in-service teacher trainlng by
continuing the program to rehabilitate the lAs started under the ongoing education project (Cr. 1735-
SE).  The proposed IDA  credit would finance the rehabilitation of 8 lAs (mcluding a
conferenceltraining room and associated office equipment and furniture), vehicles for the 4 lAs not
financed by the French Government and two vans for conversion into mobile resource libraries to
cover the remaining regions. In-service training programs would be reviewed during joint annual
implementation reviews.
(e) Supporting School Initiated Quality Improvements (US$13 milon)
3.26         Scope and objectives. In support of Government policy to decentralize the planning,
management and administration of education, and to increase community participation in education
development, the project would support the piloting of an experimental Sco  Developme  Pud
(SDF) to encourage school-initiated programs that meet the objectives of improving the quality of
primary education and girls' participation. Programs would consist, for example, of activities that
improve student achievement in core subject areas (such as developing supplenientary learning
materials, providing supplementary reading materials, workshops on effective teaching methods and
school leadership), and of those that increase girls' participation (such as active recruitment of girls
by teachers and principals, providing textbooks free of charge, developing materias for independent
study, financing workshops to sensitize teachers to discrimination in the classroom, etc.).



' 15-
3.27          To support these Initiatives, the project would pilot an experimental SDF in three
regions to provide small grants to 200 schools through a competitive process. Grants would be
modest, averaging 1 million CFAP  pet project, and would not exceed 1.25 million CFAF per
project.15 For reasons of eqiity, 60% of the grants would be awarded to 0high riskw schools, 25%
to "avege risk" schools, and 15% to "low risk" schools. Risk would be determined by indicators
such as repetition, dropout and examination pass rates, availability of instructional materals and
furniture, and higli pupil:teacher ratios. Schools (public and private) in the pilot regions would
compete for the grants by preparing and submitting proposals for a school improvement project.
Proposais would be endorsed by the teachers involved, the school principal and a representative of
the local management committee and would be assessed on their relative mnerits of meeting the MEN's
sector objectives. Implementation would be gradual, allowing for close monitoring and evaluation.
Tbe prograin would be introduced In one region toward the end of the fil protect year, awards to
about 70 schools in that region would be announced at the beginning of the second project year, and
implemented during the next two years. During project years 3 and 4, the program would be
extended to about 130 schools in the other two regions.
3.28          Resonsibllity for implementation. Tbe DEPEE would bave overall responsibility
for the program and would nominate a task manager for the purpose. The DPRE wou!d assist the
DEPEE to establish risk criteria and to rank schools by higb, average, and low need. The DEPEE
in collaboration with INEADE and the lAs would be responsible for setting proposai evaluation
crteia, advertising the program, and training departmental inspectors, teachers and school principals
in proposal preparation. A team of inspectors would be responsible for evaluating the proposals for
their region and for recommending grant recipients wbich would be endorsed by the Director of the
DEPEE.
3.29          SDF funds would be deposited into a commercial bank account managed by a local
school committee (the Parent Teacher's Association or a committee formed for a particular school
or group of schools). Schools would receive 75% of the funds needed at the start of the project and
the remainder upon satisfactory completion of the project. Teachers, in collaboration with the school
principal would submit a progress report, endorsed by a representative of the management conmmittee,
to the IA every six months.'6 An evaluation of the program would be conducted at the end of each
year by the DEPEE with inputs from the IAs and departmental inspectorates. Any proposed changes
to the program resulting from the evaluation would be submitted to IDA for review and agreement.
In depth case studies would also be conducted on three to five of the pilot schools to identify factors
associated with effective improvements at the school level to both evaluate the effectiveness of
specific project proposals and to inform further school improvement initiatives."7 During the life
of the project, about 30 primary inspectors would be trained to evaluate school projects through a
two-day workshop in each pilot region. To assist teachers and principals to participate in the
piogram, a three-day seminar would be held in each region for a representative from each school (a
teacher or the principal) to develop a shared vision of what factors contribute to school effectiveness
and an understanding of the progam's objectives, proposai requirements and evaluation criteria. A
tcnical audit of the SDF program would be conducted semi-annually under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA.
15.    Projeoci ww)d not oxceod two yea' dusio.  r" reipints wowd b. nitld to nc  gm during the
projeo p.riod, and smals scl»ols with few teachols would b. .nou_gcd to colleborat on a single prpopi
16.    Depataitl insposs would, in thei coume of their regular sohool superviion, also monkor and r    on
the implomntatioa of the sohool projct to th regional Acadonic Inspeor.
17.    To undeAe "iis ssdy, Senegal would participa. in a resesrah progim on aneging sachoo1s for effectiveneas
nt vanjwM for te Afriea rmion hv the Teoinimia Deaburt of the WoM Bank



- 16-
3.30         P»Ject &UuM . The project would finance grants of a maximum of I million CPAF
each ($US4,000) to 200 schools; taining for about 480 inspectors, teahers and pricipals in projeat
preparation; 5 months of international consultant services for program development and ovaluation;
local staff training in program evaluation; vehicles for the DEPEE; and the costs of materials printing
and program operations and evaluation. As a conijtion of dsburDement the Goveriment would:
(a) adopt terns of reference satisfactory te IDA for tie operation of the SI)F, including an
implementation timetable and a draft manual of procedures (containing proposal evaluation criterla
and a list of allowable expenditures), and (b) employ an auditor, with qualiflcations and experience,
and under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, to conduct semi-annual technical audits of the
SDF operations. Financial audits of the SDF would be conducted in conjunction with the required
audits of ail project accounts (para. 4.14).
(1) Establishing a National System ta Asses Student Achlevement (US$.9 millon)
3.31         Scope and obiecives. The project would support the MEN to establish a sample-
based system to assess student achievement in grades 2, 4 and 6 in French, Mathematics, and
Science. The assessment would: (a) evaluate the extent to which curriculum objectives are attained;
(b) evaluate the effectiveness of innovations introduced under the ongoing education project, and of
the proposed project investments;t' (c) relate the evaluation results to school, teecher and student
characteristics to identify potential explanations for differences in achievement and areas in need of
improvement; and (d) disseminate the results to textbook specialists, teachers, teacher trainers,
supervisors and administrators, explaining the implications of the results for improvements in
classroom instruction, classroom and school management, and curriculum.
3.32         Resoonsibility for implementation. The MEN's planning department (DPRE), in
collaboration with an overseas institution with internationally recognized expertise in student
achievement assessment, would be responsible for developing and implementing tii evaluation
system. The cooperating institution would assist in determining staffing, equipmeut, organizational
and training needs, provide workshops and training on specialized topics, offer advice throughout the
development and implementation of the system, assist in data analysis and in preparing plais for the
effective incorporation of the lessons learned into teacher training systems. TIe DPRE would limit
its staffing to a core group of project manager, measurement specialist/test developer, statistician and
education researcher. The remaining assistance required such as computer programming, data coding
and entry, and statistical analyses would be supplied through short-term contracts with local
consultants. To prepare the design of the system, the Director of the DPRE and the task manager
of this component visited several institutions with expertise in the field of student assessment. Each
institution transmitted a proposal of assistance. lbe MEN will evaluate these proposals and propose
its selection to IDA for approval.
3.33               iuppout. To support this program, the project would finance: (a) 26 montlis
of technical assistance to be provided through a twinning arrangement with an international institution
having recognized expertise in assessment of student achievement; (b) 78 months of local consulting
services to provide support to tie DPRE; (c) local workshops to develop test objectives and items and
to disseminate tie results of tie evaluation; (d) requisite equipmuent and software, and program
operating costs; and (e) 26 months of fellowsbips for local staff trainig. Details of this component
and its investments are given at Annex S.
18.   Inavtin lud  INADts oilot schoo -ef-n         f-1.-1m -dd oanmut  e:



- 17-
2.
3.34         Scope. objectives and pro3ect suppot. lbe main objective of this component is to
support
Governuent initiatives to develop and iniplement long-tern policy and investment programs to
improve the quality and efficiency of secondary and higher education. In slcondaa eduahon, the
project would support the preparation of a long-term pollcy anid inveatment program based on
analyses of the efficiency, quality, equity, costs and fînancing of the collèges and lycées, an
asssement of policy and investment options, and estimates of the costs associated wlth these options.
To support tis actvity, tii project would fince nine months of consultant services to help prepare
background studies, conducted under terms of reference satisfaetory to IDA, on the supply, quality,
inta  and external efficiency, costs, financing, control, management and adminsation of the
system, as well as the policies that goverm them (US$.2 million). Annex provides details. While
the studies are being prepared, the project would finance the most urgently needed physical
rehabilitation and improve access to instructional materials in an effort to improve the learning
enviroament. Towards these objectives, the IDA Credit would finance tiie rebabilitation, furnishing
and equipping of temporary classrooms in 6 collèges and the rehabilitation and furnishing (furniture
and books) of libraries ln 15 lycées (US$2.7 million). Annex 10 provides detaUils. In parallel to thils
investment, the French Government would support a program to strengthen teacher training in three
cmr. areas (French, Mathenatics, and Physical Sciences), improve resource management and develop
a sciool mapping program for secondary education by financing technical assistance, local taining,
and training abroad in a French institution with expertise in teacher training and school management.
3.35         In higher education, a consultative process was initiated in June 1992 to develop a
broad-based consensus on a set of rdorma designed to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
resource alloaion and use at the Uniwrsié Ceik Anta Diop (UCAD). Tbe consultative process is
assisted by a sector study which identifies many of UCAD's inefficiencies.1' The study concludes
that to be sustainable, investrents to improve the quality of teaching and research at the UCAD
would need to be preceded by measures to control new admission, limit repetition, and improve the
efficiency of student support services, permitting reallocation of a part of the resources now used for
student subsidies in favor of pedagogical puIposes. As part of the preparation of the proposed project,
and assisted by a PPF, the Government has started to develop a stratey to implement measures in
these areas. Within this framework, in November 1992, the UCAD began taking measures to control
and reduce repetition and to conduct management audits of the UCAD and of the Centres des Oeuvres
Unersres de Dakar which administers student support services (food, housing, transportation and
health). While project prepration for an IDA credit to support higher education continues, the
present project would finance the stocking of UCAD's contrai library with books and professional
journals (US$0.9 million) as well as urgently needed minor repairs to sanitation and electrical systems
as agreed upon with IDA (US$1.4 m"llion).e
3.    Stra hep Sector Planning and Managerll Canacities (US$4.4 millonl
3.36         To strengthen the Government's educational planning and managerial capacities, the
project would develop the capacity of regional and departnental inspectorates and the MEN's
planning directorate (DPRE) to plan and to manage resources, strengtlien project management and
19.    Wotld Bnlk, uRCvtalizg Highr Eucatiuc in Soewgal: TIb Chalkoge of Refonn," Populatio snd Human
Rosou Divon, Sahdon Dqtean, Afica Rogion, ApAI 1992.
20.    Sio. a futwr opetion wfil addus bs'ad infnicur needa at the UCAD, thib propoed pojec wll
r        d nlv  mnnwmd to Imm tohe UCAD functioin.



- 18-
coordination, and finance pre-investment studies (US$0.2 million), conducted under terms of
refertence satisfactory to IDA, to enable the MEN to further the development of the educatlon system.
(a) Strengthen the Capaclty of the Inspectorates and the Planning Dretorate (US$2,2
million)
3.37         SCOD  ob         . This component would improve education planning by updating
equipment and programs in the DPRE, and supporting the Governments' objective to decentralize
authority for planning and management to the regional inspectorates, a prograin begun under tihe
ongoing education (Cr. 1735-SE). l'e DPRE is responsible for collecting, analyzing and publishing
education statistics, for school mapping, and developing, monitoring and evaluating education plans,
projects and proposals. T'e Government has decided to devolve some of these responsibilities to
the regional inspectorates (lAs); the ongoing education project supported the initial phases. Under
the proposed deconcentrated system, the lAs would be responsible for collecting and inputting annual
education statistics to be used in the preparation of regional education plans which would include an
updated school map, identification of classroom needs, a statistical and summary report of
developments over the past year, and proposed needs.
3.38         Pric suppr. To support the devolution of these functions, the project would
finance: (a) computers and related equipment, furniture, and vehicles for the DPRE and the lAs;
(b) extensions to and/or rebabilitation of the physical facilities of 8 out of 10 lAs (also a support to
li-service training, se. para. 3.24-3.26); and (c) a study to examine options for training education
planners, including the development of a university level program. T'e French Government would
finance the development and implementation of training programs for MEN staff to support the
annual collection of education statistics, school mapping, data analysis, and the preparation of
regional education plans according to guidelines established by the MEN.
(b) Stregthening Project Management and Coordinr ion (US$2.2 million)
3.39         BaçkgMnd. TIhe MEN's project management office (BPE) was established in 1986
to coordinatethe implementation of the ongoing education project (Cr. 1735-SE) and other externally-
financed education projects (AfDB, OPEC Fund, Japan, etc.). lhe BPE serves the MEN in an
advisory capacity and assists the Minister with the development of sector policies and programs, the
preparation of budget submissions, relations with external financiers, etc. T'e BPE is managed by
a director, and has a professional staff of four (accountant, procurement officer, civil engineer, and
education advisor) and about 20 support staff. It receives technical assistance and logistic support
from both IDA and the AftB.
3.40        T'e BPE would continue to manage the implementation of the ongoing education
project (Cr. 1735-SE, expected to be completed in 1993) and other externally financed projects. The
scope and complexity of the proposed project, however, exceeds the implementation capacity of the
BPE and requires the establishrment of a separate coordination unit uniquely dedicated to this new
operation. With responsibility for managing all new primary school construction delegated to
AGETIP (para. 3.10), the new project coordination unit (PCU) would focus its attention on
coordination, facilitating implemenitation, providing professional advice, and monitoring and
evaluating project outcomes.
3.41           oinect Coordinaion Unit. lbe PCU would be staffed with a Director, reporting to
the Minister of Education, and four professional staff (senior education adviser, project administrator,
accountant and procurement officer). If the senior education advisor and project admnsator are
recrulted internationally, the project would finance these services for a maximum of four years



. 19 -
combined. Local counterparts to the consultants, with qualiflcations and experience acceptable to
IDA, would be appointed withln one year of the date of Credit effectivenesa to assume these
positions, also financed by the credit. The accountant and procurement officer would bc recruited
locally. Support staff would incdude two secretaries, an administrative assistant and an accounts
clerk. All staff would be recruited on a competitive basis under terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA and would be appointed subject to IDA's approval. Agreed upon terms of reference for the
PCU and key positions are lu Annex sl.- As a condtit  oj     effeiveness, the PCU would be
fully established, with the Director and the four senior professional staff in post. The Goverment
gave assurances at negotiations that it would operate the PCU under the agreed termis of reference
(including staffing) and that key staff wouüi aot be replaced without IDA's prior consent.
3.42         Project spo. 'Me Credit would finance the investment costs associated with
setting up the PCU, including office equipment, vehicles, and furniture, supplies and operating
expenditures, a maximum of 48 months of technical assistance (education advisor, 24 months; project
administrator, 24 months); about 430 months of local salaries for an education advisor, administrator,
a procurement specialist, accountant, (2) secretaries, administrative assistant and chauffeur, and about
25 months of local professional assistance in the areas of accounting and auditing, preparation of
procurement documents and other technical areas if necessary, under service contracts subject to IDA
review and approval. Civil servants seconded to the PCU would be financed by the Government.
Details are in Annex 1 1. In addition, the credit would finance consultant services and operating costs
associated with pre-investment studies, conducted according to terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
B.    Proiect Cos and Fnandng Plan
3.43         The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at about US$73.0 million, with
a base cost of US$66. 1 million and a foreign exchange component of US$36.0. Price contingencies,
esimated at US$5.6 million assume an annual domestic inflation rate of 3.0% and a foreign inflation
rate of 3.9%; physical contingencies are estimated at US$1.1 million (2% of base costs). IDA would
fiance 54% of total project costs (US$40 million); Government and communities would finance 29%
and 8% respectively (US$27.0 million); financing from the KfW is estimated at 8% (US$5.8).
Detaied project cost estimates are given in Annex 12.
3.44         Lcurrent cost implications. Recurrent costs generated by project investments (mainly
teachers' salaries) can be financed within the budget or through cost savings rusulting from the
project. To attain Uie target of 65% primary enrollment by 1998 implies the need for an additional
16.0 billion CFAF over the five-year project period to finance the salaries of about 3,500 new
teachers. (Ime additional teacher salary cost is estimated by year as follows: 1993/94 - CFAF 0.94
billion; 1994/95 - CFAF 1.9 billion; 1995196 - CFAF 3.0 billion; 1996197 - CFAF 4.2 billion;
1997/98 CFAF 5.5 billion.) Tbe estimates assume a continuation of the efficiency measures currently
enforced (i.e., an nsttuweur-adjointinsdfuew ratio of 80 to 20 for new recruits, and 30% of new
classes in urban areas double-shifting; para. 3.5) without which the salary costs would be 21%
higher. Assuming that the education budget grows in real terms by 3.9% a year over the project
period (para. 2.10) and all the real increase is allocated to primary education, sufficient rsources
siwuld be available to finance the increased number of teachers and primary's share of the education
budget would increase from 48% in 1992 to 58% in 1997. Increasing student:teacher ratios from 9:1
to 14:1 in the EFIs while reducing administrative staff by 35% would release about 0. 1 billion FCFA
to improve the provision of education at that level. Ihe second important recurrent cost Implication
of project investments is the cost of maintaining a growing network of primary schools. 'Me
Government's share of school rebabilitation under the project is 1.8 billion CFAF (0.45 billion CFAF
a year between 1993/94 and 1996/97) to which should be added about 0.5 billion CFAF a year for
regular maintenance. Given that the capital budget for education bas ranged between 2 and 6 billion



-20 -
CFAF between 1986 and 1990, maintaining the infrastructure ls feasible withln existing budgets but
would require the tramfer of some .5 billion CFAF from the lnvestment to the recurrent budget to
finance maintenance. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would: (a)
implement, beginning with the 1993-94 academie year, a program, satisfactory to IDA, for training
and deploying on an annual basis the number of primary school teachers needed (at an instwneur-
adjolm to Indlweur ratio of 80 to 20) to attain a gross enrollment rate of 65% by the 1997/1998
academic year, and (b) that adequate budgetary provisions would be made to finance the project,
including the primary school rehabilitation and maintenance programs (para. 3.11).
IV. PROJ1CT MPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Projeet  l e on and Readiness
4.1           Project preparation was conducted by technical committees of the MEN, assisted
by external agencies where neussary (e.g. AGETIP for construction management), coordinated by
the BPE, and supported by pre-investment studies financed under the ongoing education project
(Cr. 1735-SE) and a PPF advance of US$700,000. Throughout project preparation, discussions were
held with other donors, particularly with France and Germany, to agree on sector strategies and
priorities (para. 2.15). 'Me Government has satisfactorily met all conditions of negotiations and
board presentaton. Upon effectiveness of the proposed project, implementation can begin promptly
as sample bid documents for all procurement will have been prepared and the Ministry of Education
is reasonably well organized and ready to begin.
B. rQiect Coordination and Managnemt
4.2          Day-to-day management and implementation of each project component would be
carried out by designated units in the MEN. The responsibilities of each of the major partners would
be as follows. The prim    education component would be managed by the Director of the DEPEE.
Implementation of each sub-component would be under the responsibility of designated senior staff,
with INEADE playing a coordinating role in textbook development and distribution and in education
reform, and the lAs having main responsibility for coordinating in-service teacher training and
qualitative improvement programs. The sçcndary education component would be the responsibility
of the Director of Middle and Secondary Education (DEMSG). Responsibility for managing new
primary classroom construction would be delegated to AGETIP under contract to the MEN, following
a procedure manual acceptable to IDA (para. 3.10). 'Me project's poliy measures are integrated in
the various components and will be implemented by the respective units, with the PCU providing a
monitoring and advisory function.
4.3          Day-to-day coordination of project activities, administrative and financial matters,
monitoring project implementation and outcomes, and inter-agency coordination would be the
responsibility of the PCU. The PCU would: (a) coordinate the preparation of annual work programs
and budgets for all project components; (b) procure goods and services and recruit consultants, with
the exception of procurement direcdy related to civil works managed by AGETIP; (c) maintain and
consolidate all project accounts, including special accounts and accounts kept by AGETIP for its
project-financed construction activities; (d) prepare the necessary documentation for withdrawal of
proceeds from the IDA Credit; (e) make arrangements for the audit of project accounts and SOEs;
(f) prepare and submit biannual and annual progress reports to IDA and cofinanciers, as required;
(g) organize annual and mid-term reviews of project implementation; and (O) liaise with cofinacieras
and maintain an effective dialogue with key donors and agencies in the education sector.



-21 -
C. Monitodng. adL  !ua l
4.4          Monitoring and evaluation of program performance, including investments and
policies, would be carried out by the implementing units over the life of the project, with the PCU
playing a coordinating role. Key monitoring indicators based on the Government's action plan (para.
3.1) are shown in Annex t4. In addition, special efforts would be made to measure the impact of
the project's investments on qualitative improvements by assessing student performance througb a
sample-based assessment system to be carried out by the DPRE in collaboration with an international
institution witb expertise in this area (paras. 3.32-34). In its role as project coordinator, the PCU
would: (a) transmit to IDA progress reports on the implementation of the project and program not
later than October 31 and April 30 eacb year following the format being used in the ongoing
education project (Cr. 1735-SE); (b) submit annual projected work programs and budgets not later
than October 31 of each year; (c) organize and carry out, jointly with IDA, and during the fourth
quarter of each year, a review of progress made ln carrying out the project and program; and (d)
carry out, jointly with IDA, a mid-term review of progress made in carrying out the projet and
program at an agreed upon time between April and October 1995. Based on the review, the MEN
would prepare and implement an action plan, acceptable to IDA, for further implementation of the
project. Details on the Bank's supervision plan and on the annual and mid-term reviews are provided
in Annex 13. Within six months of the Credit closing date, the PCU would also transmit to IDA a
completion report, prepared in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that these requirements would be met.
D.
4.5          Table 1 summarizes the project elements by disbursement category, their estimated
costs, and proposed procurement methods. Procurement arrangements and sehedules are given in
Annex 15. Senegal's procurement laws and regulations conform with IDA Guidelines. No special
exemptions, permits or licenses need to be specified in Credit documents for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) as Senegal's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take
precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations.
4.6          Civil works. Tie proposed civil works program (totailing US$33.0 million, net of
taxes and duties and including contingencies) includes: (a) construction of about 1,310 new
classrooms and related facilities such as storage, principals' offices, latrines, and enclosures (US$17. 1
million); (b) rehabilitation of 1,080 classrooms (US$7. 1 million); and (c) other civil works (US$8y.8
million) consisting of renovating: (i) four EFIs (US$3.3 million), (ii) classrooms in six collèges and
15 lycée libraries (US$1.9 million), (iii) eight regional inspectorates (US$1.3 million), (iv) water and
electricul systems at the UCAD (US$1.3 million); and (v) 80 boreholes for new primary project
classrooms (US$1.0 million). Of the civil works under (a) above, the IDA credit would finance 75%
of the construction of 875 new classrooms (US$8.5 million); communities would contribute 25%
(US$2.8 million); the KfW and communities would finance the remainder under the same cost-
sharing arrangements. 'he Government and communities would finance part (b) above. For civil
works under part (c), the IDA credit would finance 100%.
4.7           Classroom construction and rehabilitation. Civil works contracts, constructiongrants
and contracts for construction materials for the primary classroom construction program would be
managed and awarded by AGETIP, according to procedures approved for the Second Public Works
and Employment Project, and as agreed upon with IDA. AGETIP would maintain a roster of pre-
qualified contractors eligible for Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), would permit additional
applications at any time, and would not preclude large or foreiga firms from particlpating. Standard
bidding documents will propose a reference price and indicate unit prices and quantities. Contractons



-22 -
would be invited to bid by way of discounat elther on the total or on the unit prices. Contracts would
be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid based on criteria specified in bidding documents. llbe
contract award committee of AGETIP would open bids In public and have full authority to contract.
It would justify, however, in writing and prior to signing the contract and with reference to the
bidding documenta' criteria, any decision not to select the lowest evaluated bid. For contracts with
fewer than fIlve bidders, or contracts greater than or equal to US$250,000 equivalent, the award
committee would request IDA approval prior te signing the contract. Primary school rehabilitation
would be financed by Govermment; IDA would finance only the cost of consultant services and
furniture to this component.
4.8          Other çivil work. Civil works contracta financed by IDA for remodeling and
extending the four teacher training colleges (US$3.3 million) would be awarded through ICB. lIb
remaining civil works contracts (US$5.5 million for inspectorates, secondary schools, the UCAD and
boreholes) would be awarded through LCB in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA;
however, foreign firms would not be prevented from biddlng.21 Contracts would be grouped, to
the extent practical, into packages estimated to cost less than US$0.5 million each. In the event any
conraCt exceeds this amount, ICB procedures would apply. No preferential margin would be given
to domestic contractors when LCB is used.
4.9          Goods. Goods financed under the project (US$12.7 million) include fiurniture,
equipment, office supplies, vehicles, textbooks and library books. Because foreign bidders are
uaikely to be interested ia school furniture which local firms can produce below international market
prices, içol  i&r   flnanced by the Credit (US$4.5 million) would be procured through LCB in
accordance wîth procedures acceptable to IDA. Other furniture, as well as equipment, office supplies
and vehicles (US$2.1 million) would be grouped into packages of at least US$0.5 million each and
procured througb ICB in accordance with the Bank's Guidelzes for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credks (May 1985). Goods that cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$0.5 million
would be procured through LCB (US$0.3 million) as there is expected to be adequate competition.
Textbook publishing (manuscript writing, editing, illustrations, design and printlng, US$4.5 million)
and library books and journals (US$1.2 million) would be procured through ICB.2 A preferential
margin of 15%, or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less, over the c.i.f. prices of competing
goods for ail ICB procurement would be given to domestic fins in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines. Office supplies and spare parts which are available off-the-shelf and cannot be grouped
into bid packages of at least US$30,000 may be procured through prudent local shopping based on
price quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers, provided that the aggregate amount
of such procurement does not exceed US$0.15 million equivalent.
21.    Duo to s   mall dz., g.ogpic sprad, and bigh mnoton cos, ties civil wodks con s ar
ualkoy to atnwt foroi or largo fmr  duat us moem consa o equipe.
22.    For textbook bid evt, bido would bc ovaaed, in a fir stgpe, for thdt technii  ad podagoelo
qualie. Pr  of bdmeetung minimum tchual sud pedagogical rquiomeus would b. osated lm
a cond g.  Pfi4es wod mm towwrd 80% of th total bid ovaluaon teucal ad pedaogical
valutow wod conrbu 20% to tl ov.i evaluah



-23 -
Tabte 1.
Siumry of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(us$ million equivatent, including contingenctes)
Nethods for IDA fi nancin
________     Mot Dank
Category of Expenditure                              ICs     LCB     Other       Finaneed   Total
1. Civil    ks---
1.1  New Prinary classroom construction                  t11.3       -        5.8 a      17.1
(Part A only)                                        (8.5) C-->                     <8.5>
1.2  Primary clasaroom rehabilitation              -       -                  7.1         7.1
(Part A only)                                                            C--'       C--'
1.3  Other (general contracta)                  3.3 bi  5.5                    -          8.8
(Excluding Part D)                        <3.3)    (5.5)                            (8.8>
2.  Goode
2.1  Primary textbooks                          4.5        -        -                     4.5
(Part A onty)                             (4.5)                                     (4.5>
2.2  Furniture ci                                0.5      4.7       -         0.9 d/      6.1
(0.5>    (4.7)                C-->       (5.2)
2.3  Office equipment & supplies                 1.0      0.1      0.05        -           1.1
(1.0)    (0.1)    (0.05)                 (1.1)
2.4  Vehicles                                    0.6       -       0.1         -          0.7
(0.6)             (0.1>                  (0.7>
2.5  Llbrary books                               1.2                -          -           1.2
<1.2)                                    (1.2)
3.  Contractual services
3.1  Design/Engineering/Supervision                        -       2.4        0.5 et      2.9
(2.4)       e->        (2.4)
3.2  Textbook Distribution mnd Sales              1.3      -        -                      1.3
(Part A only)                              (1.3)                                    (1.3)
3.3  Speclalists Services (International)         -        -       2.3                    2.3
<2.3>                  (2.3>
3.4  Speeialist Services (Local)                  -        -       1.2         -          1.2
(1.2)                  (1.2)
4.  Training                                          -        -       0.3                     0.3
(0.3)                  (0.3)
5. Fund for Piltot Interventions & Pre-
Investment Studies                                                1.4                     1.4
(Part A onty>                                                     (1.4)                  (1.4)
6.  Incrementat O»eratin Costs                        -                0.4       15.6 fi      16.0
(0.4)      (->         (0.4)
7.  PPF Refirnncin                                    -        -       0.7         -           0.7
(0.-7                  (0.7)
Total Costs                                         12.4    21.6       8.9       29.9        72.8
IDA Credit                                         (12.4>  (18.7>     (8.9)      C->)       (40.0)
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.                           d Financed by  ermany and Commuuities
Figures ln parentheses are amoumts financed by the IDA credit.   b/Four teacher training coltlees
Project components are des)gnated as follois:                     c/Office mnd school furniture
Part A: Access, Efficiency and Ou.lity of Primary Education       d/Financed by Germany
Part B: Quality and Efflclency of Secondary and Migher Education elFiranced by Germany
Part C: Strengthening Planning and Hanagement Capacitles          f/Teacher's sa lafes, f inanced by Gvt
Part 0: Project Manago mt and Coordination



- 24 -
4.10         Çpaunkud other services. IntenIo  and locd consiutant services flnanced
by IDA (US$7.2 million Wivalent) would be ctacted ln accordance with the Bank's G ebw
for the Use of Cmnsla   (August 1981). -hn services ilclude traling, tecbnic  aistance,
architetal services for the design ad supervision of toe prmary constuction prograa, and
procrement and auditng. AGEJPs construction management services (not to exceed US$1.2
million equivalent) would be procured tbrough a sole source contract bec     contracts with f aoreig
firms would be more expensive and there are no other local fms with similar conta management
expertse. Textbook distrbuton and sales services would b. treated as a service contract and would
be procured through ICB procedures. Prior IDA review would not apply to contracts estimated to
cost less than US$1Q00,OO equhvalent. However, this exception to prior IDA review would not apply
to the terms of reference for such contracta, to the employment of individuals, to single-source hiring
of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA, and to amendments of contracta
raising tihe contract value to US$100,000 equivalent or more.
4.11            em     t statps of onjolng projects and popoaed arran&ements. Although
disbursements under the ongoing education project are ahead of schedule by 69%, proceme  is
slowed by cumbersome proaement procedres aMn weak management capacity, particularly for
classroom construction. Under the proposed project, AGETIP would manage new primary classroom
construction and proement of frniture for those dassrooms (paras. 3.10-11); the PCU would be
responsible for all other procurment wlth support from consultants when necessary (para. 4.3). Ihe
PCU would report bid evaluations and contract award nfiormation, and would review prouement
progress in biannual reports to IDA (par  4.4). Mme Goverment has furnished IDA a draft
procedural manual for AGETIP and contract for its services. As a g iton of effectivenesst.he
Government would furnish bid docments, sat}sfactory tO IDA, for: (i) civil works and furniture for
the flirst year of the primary scihool constuction program, and for (i) civil works for the teacher
talning colleges, the inspectorates, colges, ad yc&e libraries.
4.12         Review bv MA  IDA-financed contracta for works and goods above a treshold of
US$250,000 million equivalent would b. subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review
process would cover 80% of the total value of the amount contrcted for goods and 40% of tbe
amount contracted for civil works (10% of the ttal amouncontracted for the primary classroom
construction progr and 100% of other major civil works contracts, Aunzx ). Selective post-
review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels would applyto about oe in three contracts.
AGETIP's conuract awards will b. reviewed by its auditors. Draft standard bidding document for
LCB would be reviewed by and agreed wlth IDA. Contrats for goods and services financed under
parallel cofinancing arrangements would be awarded in accordance with the cofmancieres prourement
regulations.
E.  pi*zomlm
4.13         lheeproject is expected to be completed over a flive-year period, wih the IDA Credit
disbursed over six years, according te the categories shown in Table 2I   'Me esthmated
disbursemnt profile is shown in Annex 16Diabursement of he Credit would be fully dcumee
except for expendr  valued at less thad  US$20,000 equvalent which would be made agaist
Statements of Expditure (SOEs). Dounon for w ithrwals under SOEs would be reaned
at tihe PCU for review by IDA supervision missions and for semiaual audits. To facflitate
disburwmenx, the Goverment would open a Spechia Account (SA) la a commercia bank to cover
IDA's share of eligible expe r  managed by the PCU. fIe aozed allocation for the Special
23.   So.epeg tadau disbuuemat ptofbis ws  yeus.



- 25 -
Account would be 75 million CFAF. IDA would make an initial deposit of tht amount from the
proposed Credit upon credit effectiveness and would replenish the SA upon receipt of satstory
proof f inrred eligible expenditures. Replem t reqest would be accompanied by up-to-d
bank statements and reconclations of the SA. Applications fotr dret  payment and reimbursemment
or requests for special coumnitmentS would apy ta contcts above US$20,000 equialent.
Table 2
Aloation Mnd DiabrsMen cf tii IDA Ciedi
CdeRy of Expndiut             Pgopos IDA AloaIol   X ot Apniu
Financed by IDA
1. Civil worl for new pzimary
classoom conotucos                8.2                  75
2. Civil Wo,k excluding 1. ai         8.4                 100
3. Paimary waxboo                    4.3                  100
4. Fuhitu                            4.5                  100
5. EquipmB   & Supplies, Vebicles, &
Library Books                     2.7                 100
6. Conunts' Svices & Trainu          6.1                  100
7. Pilot Opeaio                       1.4                 100
8. Inemental Opeting Cots             0.5                 100
9. PPF Refund                         0.7                 100
10. Unacaced                          3.2
TOTAL                                 4"
a/ Icudes civi wos* for sodaay shoola, ti IAs, F sud UCAD.
F.    Auninhm   AuIdIing and Rogreing
4.14         TIe PCU would b. responsible for tihe project's finaca management and would
maintain consolidaed project accounts following thi system established under te ongoing education
project (Cr. 1735SSE) wihich ls functioning safactiy. Project accounts, including the SA, would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; a-ll ds -i under SOEs would
be udited sm      ly.  Ib audit repoq  would be ubmlt   to IDA wl tbre. months of the
end of eadi fisc year. Te"cncal audits of the SDF, conducted under tma aid conditions
satsctoy to IDA, wod be couducted semianmially (para 3.31). During  egoations, the
Government gave alaXaîM dmt it will submlt to IDA annual audit teports, of reasonable scope and
detail, withun dtree months of the end of te Govenme's fiscal year aid, ln thi case of thie SOEs,
h  it will submit semiam    reports wlitbn  ree mos  after tie end of ad audit period. The
yppointn    of an independent auditor under a nmlti-year contact acceptable to IDA is a mditiQn
of credit effectveness.



-26 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1          Boeflits. Project benefits would be widespread. Over the five-year period 1993-
1998, the project would provide about 65,000 additional student places in the six regions where
access to primary education is lowest, representing a capacity increase of about 30% in these regions,
mostly (77%) in rural areas. Implementation of the Government's full program supported by the
project would provide about 200,000 additionat student places reaulting in an enrollment increase of
about 25% over the life of the project. Mutually reinforcing qualitative improvements, in the form
of better trained teachers, an adequate supply of textbooks, more effective supervision by inspectors,
and student assessment and feedback, would improve internal efficiency, reduce wastage and improve
the quality of learning. Achievement of these objectives will be closely monitored according to a set
of indicators developed and agreed upon with the Government. The project would introduce several
innovative measures, with possible far-reaching effects, such as: (a) the introduction of an
experimental "School Development Fund", designed to finance quality improvements initiated and
developed by schools; (b) well-targeted measures and programs to boost girls' primary school
enrollment in selected departments where girls comprise less than 41% (the national average) of
enrollment; (c) establishment of a sustainable supply of good quality primary textbooks, expected to
benefit all primary school children, through delegation of textbook production, distribution and sales
to the private sector and institution of a cost recovery system; (d) increased delegation of
responsibility for education planning, mnanagement and administration from the central ministry to
regional and departmentat offices in an effort to make the system more responsive to local needs
which, in the long run, would benefit all schools; and (e) improve the efficiency and lower the cost
of classroom construction by delegating responsibility for school construction management from the
Ministry of Education to a non-govermnental contract management agency. Local communities would
also be required to participate financially in school maintenance, reducing the burden on the
Government's budget.
5.2          lUsks. Tiere are three main risks. Eirsg the Government's capacity to manage a
classroom construction program of the scope envisaged under the project is inadequate, as
demonstrated by long delays and high costs in school construction under the ongoing education
project (Cr. 1735-SE). Ibis problem would be addressed by delegating responsibility for managing
school construction to a non-governmental contract management agency (AGETIP) which is already
managing the bulk of the third phase of classroom construction under the ongoing education project
(Cr. 1735-SE). Second, the innovative programs proposed under the project, in particular the
'School Development Fund' program and programs to boost girls' participation, are risky and may
not fully reach their objectives. Risks in these areas would be addressed by careful monitoring of
program development during the first year of the project and by structured annual reviews of
progress, with the expectation that the programs would require modifications during project
implementation. Thiird, ftl cost recovery for textbooks may not be feasible and Government may
be required to partty subsidize their provision. Preliminary studies indicate, however, that parents
are willlng to pay provided that books of good quality are available at a reasonable cost when needed.
'le project would take great care in assuring the reliabiity of the supply network, turning to the
private sector to handle all distribution and sales activities, against agreed profit margins. No
environmental risks are foresoen; classrooms and latrines would be sited and constructed following
design standards and procedures already approved by the Bank under the ongoing education project
(Cr. 1735-SE). School buildings are also small and located on vacant Government or community
property; they do not displace anyone.



-27 -
VI. AGREEMEN  TQ B        REAaHED    RECOMMENDATONS
6.1         T'e Government has met the conditions of negotiations by frnishing the following
documents for discussion and finalization at negotiations:
(a)    A letter of sector development policy and an accompanying action plan, including
quantitative targets;
(b)   A letter confirming the delegatdon of responslbility for managing primary classroom
construction and rebabilitation to AGETIP;
(c)    A draft contract between the MEN and AGETIP for the management of prinary
classroom construction and rehabilitation;
(d)    A manual of operating procedures and a staffing plan for the unit in AGETI
responsible for the project;
(e)    Classroom construction program for the first year of the project;
(t)   Infrastructure requirements for coUège, lyce, EFI and IA faciities to be renovated
under the project;
(g)    An operational plan for the School Development Fund;
(h>    Proposais from institutions with expertise in student assessment to establish a
twinning arrangement with the DPRE for the implementation of a student assessment
system, as well as a stafting plan for the activity;
(i)   Terms of reference for the implemenation of an information campaign to promote
girls' education;
()    A consultant's evaluation of the textbook sales and distribution system being piloted
under the ongoing education project, including recommendations to expand and
improve it;
(k)   Report on plans to implement new programs in the EFIs;
(1)    Draft bid documents for architectura studies for the renovation of tie EFIs, lAs,
collèges, and blce libraries;
(m)   Standard bid document for ICB procurement of goods;
(n)   Standard bid document for consultant services; and
(o)   Tbe curriculum vitae of proposed candidates for the position of PCU Director, and
the Government's recommendations for interim Director, education advisor and
project administrator.



-28-
6.2          During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would:
(a)    Maintain, during the project period, ongolng measures to contain cosm ln primary
education (i.e. double-sh ifting in 30% of urban classrooms, recruiting candidates into
teacher training at a ratio of  eteur-aoelms to instueurs of 80 to 20, and
recovering textbook costs) ad develop a policy and approach, satisfactory to IDA,
to reduce repetition to be implemented not later than academic year 1994195 (Para.
3.5);
(b)    Make adequate budgetary provision for the project, including tihe primary school
rebabiitation and maintenance programs, to b. reviewed on an annual basis (para.
3.11);
(c)   Implement, beginning with the 1993-94 academic year, a program, satitcory to
IDA, for training and deploying on an annual basis a sufficient number of prmary
school teachers (at an MstIweur-a#éItto Istweur ratio of 80 to 20) to attain a
gross enrollment rate of 65% by the 1997/1998 academic year (para. 3.11);
(d)    Complete by June 30, 1994, studies on girls' enrollment and school attendace
barriers, conducted under tems of reference satisctory to IDA (para. 3.14);
(e)    Begin, by December 31, 1994, a national information campalgn to promote girls'
enrollment, conducted under terms of reference satisfaory to IDA (para. 3.14);
(t)    Complet. by lune 30, 1995, studies on school policies and txtooks to identify
gender bias, under terns of reference sadsfactory to IDA (para. 3.14);
(g)   Implement, not later than August 31, 1995, pilot programs to increase girls'
enrolîment, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA (paa. 3.14);
Lb)    Maintain the EFI resuring program during the project period, and ncrease
student:teacher ratios in the EFIs to 14:1, reduce the number of administradve staff,
and reassign redundant staff (para. 3.21);
(i)    Operate the PCU under terms of reference (includlng staffing) acceptable to IDA Md
would not replace any key staff without IDA's prior consent (par 3.41);
(j)    Submit biannuad reports on project implementation and outeomes no later than the
October 31 and April 30 each year, and anna projected work programus and budgets
no later than October 31 of each year para 4.4);
(k)    Organize and carry out, jolntiy with IDA, during tiie fourti quartr of each year a
review of the progress made in carrying out the project and program; cary out,
joltily with IDA, a mid-term review of progress made in carrying out the project and
program at an agreed upon time between April and October 1995, on whiclh bais an
action plan, acceptable to IDA, would be prepared for furtier implemention of the
project (para. 4.4); mad



-29 -
0)    Submit to IDA annual audit reports of the project and special account, within tr
months of the end of the Government's fiscal yoa and, semiannual audit reports of
the SOEs within three months afRer the end of each audit period (para. 4.14).
6.3          As a condition of Boad presenaion, the Goverument bas furnlsbed IDA terns of
refrence for the evaluation of textbooks published under Credit 1735SE and for related consultant
evices  ra. 3.16).
6.4          As condition of Crtdit effectips, ihe Goveriment wouid:
(a)    Sign a conct, satisfactory to IDA, with AGETIP for thi management of primary
classroom construction and rebabilitation financed under the project (para 3.11);
(b)    Adopt an operational plan, satisfactory to IDA, for the distribution and sale of
textbooks provided under the proposed project, including provisions for an annua
audit of tihe textbook revolving find (para. 3.18);
(c)    Estblish the PCU, under terms of reference saisactoy to IDA, with tihe Director
and tihe four senior professional in post (para 3.41);
(d)    Furnish to IDA drft bid documens for civil works and furniture for the flrst year
of the prmary school construction program, and for civil works for l8 teacher
training colleges, inspectorates, collèges and cWe libraries (para 4.11);
(e)    Appoint an independent auditor under a multl-year contract acceptable to IDA (par
4.14); and
(t)    Provide IDA with the audts reports requlred psuat to the Development Credit
Agreements for the following credits: First Energy Sector Rebabilitation Project (Cr.
1710-SE), Financlal Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2077-SE), and the Foutth
Stuctural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2090-SE).
6.S          As a conditpn of disbursernent for School Development Fund, the Goveriment would
(a) adopt terms of reference satisfactory to IDA for the operation of the SDF, including an
implemetation timetable and a draft manual of procedures (containing proposa evaluation criteia
ad a list of allowable expenditures), and (b) employ an auditor, with qualifications and experience,
and under terns and conditions satisfactory to IDA, to conduct semi-annual technical audits of the
SDF operations (para. 3.31).
,RCOMomn"dation. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$40.0 million equivalent on stadard IDA terms.



-30-
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC 0F SENEGAL
$ECON HUIMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJEC
{EUCAÇON VI
BASIC DATA. 9Q
GNERAL                                           Senegal          Sub-Saharan Africa ai
GNP per capita  (SUS)                              710                    635
Total population (mithion)                         7.4                    530
Percent urban                                    40X                    28X
Population growth rate                          3.1X                   2.9X
Population grouth rate ages 7-12                3.32                    NA
Adult tlteracy rate (Total)                          27X                   49X
Adult ltteracy rate (Female)                         18X                   38X
Total fertility rate                               6.3                    6.5
Under f ive mortality                               185                   169
Life expectancy at birth (years)                    48                     52
Primary gros, enroliment ratio (Total)               58X                   79n
Primary gross enrollent ratio (girlsô               492                    722
a/ Unwielhted means
Sources: UNESCO Yearbook (1992), Vorld Development Report (1992), Humn Developsent Report (1991).
Percent     Gross enroliment   Pupi1/teacher
UATRM ON (1990191)           Enrollment       feoale           ratio (2)          ratio
Primary                         708,300        42                58             58 :1
Total secondary                 179,950        34                13             25 :1
Louer secondary              132,350        35                1S             28 :1
Upper secondary               47,600        32                10              16 :1
Teacher training                    911        NA                NA              9 :1
Nigher Education a/              17,819        21                 3             24 :1
at University of Dakar.
Per studmnt
1991/92 budget   X of education           1990/91
EUCATI  BUDGET                          (million CFAF)        budget        CFAF 000      US S
total                                          64               100              59       236
Prirnry                                        31                48              44       174
Secondary                                       14               21             91        366
teacher training                                 1                1             730     2,919
Migher education                                15               24            812      3,248
Other aJ                                        4                 6
ai Other includes centralt services  professional training, and unallocated by level.
Sources: Ninistry of Education Data, Annual Statisticts and Govemment Budgets.



-3t -
~~~~~~~~~~~~Page I of I
L C~~~~~~~~~~~t3
ç,        ~
eaiII~u* |-&* mi
L ~ ~~~ .___ _
G               r .   l                       - .J.. 
~~~~~~~~~~~f._. _  f._ . S_I



^32 -
ANNEX2S
Ipug I of X
tW    tI -
i   -!  Et
i..                                sll 



-33 -
Page 1 of 4
MmON HUlMAN RLSOURE3 DIEVEIT ROJ;C
OEDUC£A m
EDUATON DATA
Avero                     Year                        A*ra
1960/81- ____________________   986/8?-
198%485  1968?T 198788  1988189   1989O   t990m   1990/9,
Total govoment sppnditure          289.6  344.6   38.4    351.6    354.9          333   34.5
(biltion CFAF)
Recurr«t                         181.7    Z30  236.4    241.6         242    232.1  236.42
Capital                          107.9  114.6    102        110    112.9    100.9  108.08
As X of CDP                       33.5%  25.7X  23.6%      23.71    23.1X      20.6X    23.4%
Rest grouth rate                  -2.2K   -3.9X   -3.8K     2.2X     -1.2X     -8.4X    -3.0X
i.Gtien enditur.                    41.7   54.4   57.3       57.2        69        NA    59.5
bitlion CfAF)
Recurrent                        38.3   51.3   53.7       55.2      62.5        NA    55.7
Ceptal                            3.4    3.1    3.6          2       6.5       INA      3.8
As   of  vermmnt expenditure        24.5%  15.8K  16.9X      16.3X     19.4K       N4    17.1t
kcurrent                          21.4X  22.3S  22.7%    2z.8x    25.8X          NA    23.4%
cmPital                            3.2X   2.7X   3.5X       1.8X      5.8%       NA      3.5X
Reos  grolth rate (total)           -2.7K  -0.0   3.2%    -1.8X    18.0X          NA      4.9%
Recurent                          -2.1K   0.7X   2.6X       1.1%    10.8J        NA      3.8%
moto: 1990/91 le a buGwt tigur.
T*él 2. bDitrib%ton of Edétion EHpoture
-986/87  1987/US   1968/89  1990/9    11n2
Percent of Eipnditure:
Central Services             4        4         4        5        5
Priury                      46        45       44       46       48
Niddte &Se emdary           25        26       27       21       21
Niddte.                         .              .       9       10
8econdary                 22        23       23       10       10
Technicat                  3         3        3        2        2
Teacher Trainin              2         2        1        1        1
Professlonai Training        4        4         5        2        0
digler Educotion            15        16       17       24       24
Other                        3         3        3        1        1
Per Student Expenditure
(00o, eomtant 1987 CFAF)
(a) Prim"                   39       37        37       NA       40
(b) >8condary              119       125      118       NA       85
(c Lower                «A        MA       NA       MA       49
(d) Upper              333      399       434       NA      153
-       (e) Technicai          440       401       448        A     227
Cf> Teocher training     2,290    2,147       926       NA      676
(>) Hlher education        496      466       581      695      752
fExpnditure ratios:
(b)/(a)                      3        3         3       MA        2
(f)/(a)                     59       59        25       NA       17
(tg)(a)                     13        13       16       NA       19



-34,
ANINEX 2-3
Ttle 3. UEêation Reeurrent Eudbet £llocatiose, 19fIM                          Page 2 of 4
Percent to:
Personnel Rateriats Transfers Maint. Total
Percent Iithin Category:
Central Services            64        17         0       19      100
Primary                     96         2         3        0      100
Niddle & Secondary          97         3         0        0      100
Technieal                 92         8         0        0      100
Teacher Training            «          5        51        0      100
Professional Training       90        10         0        0      100
Higher Education             4         2        95        0      100
Other                       13        40        48        0      100
Total                           71         3        25        t      100
Percent Across Category:
Central Services             4        26         0      100        5
Primary                     65        29         5        0       48
iddle & Secondary           28        21         0        0       21
Technical                  2         3         0        0        1
Teacher Training             1         2         3        0        1
Professional Training        0         0         0        0        O
Illher Education            1        il        91        0       24
Other                        0        il         2        0        1
Total                          100       100       100      100      100
Table 4. Eaueisne ent -l,emntaire
82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87    87/88   88/89    89/90    90/91
Ecotes               1,969   2.150   2,247   2.322    2,372   2,420    2,432    2,422    2,458
Pubtie            1,78    1,984   2,080   2,160    2,207   2,249   2,253    2,237   2,267
Private            171      166      167      162       165      171      179      185      191
Effectifs
Total           496.066 533,394 567,059 583,890  610,946 642,063 658,102  682,925  708.299
CI (Public>      99.185  102,272  103,260  92,983   100.901  109,825  104,598  116,048  125,206
X variation                 7.5      6.3      3.0       4.6      5.1      2.5      3.8      3.7
X privee                    9.9      9.5      8.9       8.8      8.5      8.7      8.9      8.9
X urbain                   65.0    63.2    62.0        60.7    60.7    61.1       61.9    62.5
X female                   39.9    40.0    40.2        40.3    40.6    40.9    41.4    41.8
Taux bruts de scolar.  52.0   54.2    55.9    55.9         56.7    57.8    57.5    57.8    58.1
Urbain              86.7   87.9    88.9    86.9         88.2    90.5    91.2    92.4    95.3
Rural               29.8   32.7    34.8    36.0         36.6    36.9    35.9    35.6    34.1
Enseignement Public
nouveau Adcis CI a/  88,094  90,589  90,453  80,755   90,836  100.444  93,937  104,720  113,110
taux de croissance          2.8    -0.2    -10.7       12.5    10.6    -6.5       11.5      8.0
X redoublement        15.7    15.2    16.0    16.4        16.4    14.9    16.0    16.4         0.0
CM2               35.4    34.7    36.3    34.7         34.6    32.4    34.0    35.1         0.0
X abandons            4.9      5.5      5.8      4.7       3.6      5.8      4.8      5.4      0.0
Maîtres bi          9,963   10,399   10,247   10,537    10.864  10,793   10,691   10,548   11,008
Eleves/maitres bl      45       46       50       51        S1       54       56       59       S8
Salles de classe             8,685   9,137   9,479    9.683   9,855    9.835    9,857   10,037
Nouvelles                            452      342       204      172      (20)      22      180
Eleves/elasse                   56       57       56        58       59       61       63       64
Classes a double flux                                      712      850      780     1032     1362
Classe axultigrade                                         147      172      163               142
et Redoubtants non corpris    bl  af tres d'arabe non compris



- 35 -
Tabte S. Louer Secondary Ed5wtion                             &NEX-3
Page 3 of 4
1987/88 1988/89 1989/90  1990/91
Schools                   235     247      ZS3      Z64
PublSc                 125     128      131      134
Private                110     119      122      130
Enrot lent
Total              107.024 123,405  127.375  132,348
6 eme               31,291  46,119  33,889  34,852
X incr ase
Total                       15.32    3.22    3.9X
6 ome                       47.4%  -26.5%    2.8%
X private             30.3%   28.4%   26.92   25.2X
X feoate              34.6X   33.9%   34.4%   35.1%
6ross enrotiment rate    12.6%   14.1%   14.3%   14.5X
Teschers - Totat        4,282   4,637   4.550
Students/teacher         25.0    26.6    28.0
teuchers  Public        2.625   2,775   2,755   2,m
Students/teacher         28.4    31.8    33.8    35.6
Clasoroom- Total        2,212   2,536   2,512   2,821
Students/class           48.4    48.7    50.7    46.9
Classrooms - Public     1,477   1,752    1,718    1,768
Students/class           50.5    50.4    54.2    56.0
Table 6. Louer Secondary Eéication by Reguon
Schools  Classes    Enrolt  FPles  Teachers St:Class  St:Tch X femaWe
Dakat                 118    1,340    56,364    24,393                    42              43.3%
Public               48      634    37,933    15.716       1.098        60       35     41.42
Private              70       706    18,431      8,677                  26              47.1%
Ziguinchor             17      233    12,330       2,826                  53              22.9%
Public                8       165     9,081      1,608       221        55       41     17.7%
Private               9       68      3,249      1.218                  48              37.5%
oiourbet               il       99      4,907      1,415                  50              28.8X
Public                4       67      3,650        925       107        54       34     25.3%
Private               7       32      1,257        490                  39              39.0%
Saint Louis            23      200      9,502      3,047                  48              32.1%
Public               16       170     8,191      2,443       228        48       36     29.8X
Private               7       30      1,311        604                  44              46.1%
Tsabacounda             7       55      2,601        607                  47              23.3X
Public                4       40      2,127        416        83        53       26     19.6%
Private               3        15       474        191                  32              40.3%
K.tolack               17      202    11,384       3,343                  56              29.4X
Public               10       152     9,057      2,377       251        60       36     26.2%
Private               7       50      2,327        966                  47              41.5%
Thies                  33      368    19,899       7,144                  54              35.9X
Public               19      266    15,041       5,032       389        57       39     33.5%
Private              14       102     4,858      2,112                  48              43.5X
Louga                  13       102     4,515      1,248                  44              27.6%
Public                6       75      3,740      1,055       143        50       26     28.2%
Private               7       27        ns         193                  29              24.9%
Fotick                 14      117      5,904      1,615                  50              27.4%
Public               10       102     5,350      1,420       161        52       33     26.5%
Private               4        15       554        195                  37              35.2%
Koldu                  il       105     4,942        763                  47               15.4%
Public                9       97      4,762        713        97        49       49      15.0%
Private               2        8        180         50                  23              27.8X



-36 -
ANNIBX 2-3
Page 4 of 4
TJbt 7. 8ecoendar Eduatton (jYce>
1987180  198/89  1989/90  1990191
Schools                    55       56       67       67
Public                  27       27       37       37
Private                 28       29       30       30
Total               35,182   38,308  44,946  47,577
2 nd                 16,624   16,454  19,059   18,339
X Increase
Total                         8.9%    17.3X     5.9X
2 nd                         -1.02    15.8J   -3.8X
X private             16.9%   18.02    12.8X    11.5%
X feute               33.4%   30.4X    31.52    0.02
6ross enro tuent rate     8.1%    8.6%    9.9%    10.2X
Teachers - Public                                  2,664
Studentaiteacher                                    15.8
Ctassrocn - Total         894      924    1,033    1,098
Studants/ctass           39.4    41.5    43.5    43.3
Tabie 8. Public Secoadsry Schaools (lcj
lasseo Enrot ment Fmste  Teachers   ST:Course St:Tch Tch:Course X feaet,
TOTAL                 865   42.103      13.286      2,627      1,599        16      3.0
Lamin Gueye            60    3,541       1,147        150         59        24        3      32.2%
NE Nariam  A           il       ,4         74         29          7         3        3     100.0X
TS Nourou Tatt          1S      756        349         74         50        10        5      46.2X
BlaiseODaige           66    3.654         973        166         55        22        3      26.62
John KIenwdy           48     1,953      1,953        145         41        13        3     100.0%
Galandau Diouf          18      946        297         67         53        14        4      31.42
Nixte DeUFosse          13    1,150        431        109         88        il        8      37.52
Abdoulaye Sadji        39     1,769        652         83         45        21        2      36.9%
S. Limaouu Laye        69    5.115       1,258        208         74        25        3      24.62
CEN I Forster           1       106         34         43        106         2       43      32.1%
CEXNl.Luther King        1       54         54         37         54         1       37     100.0%
C. AJta Nbacke          1        44         15         34         44         1       34      34.12
A. Batta Nbake          2        93         15         17         47         S        9      16.12
LTC DeLaFosse          22     1,154        496         60         52        19        3      43.02
LTI DOLaFosUS          30       540         51         83         18         7        3       9.4%
DJignabo               59    2,906         570        156         49        19        3      19.6X
Ahoume                  9       538         78         58         60         9        6      14.5%
LT Ahuad Saiba         21     1,063        261         80         51        13        4      24.6%
CEN Diery Fa(t          3       120         37         32         40         4       il      30.8%
Aeth Fatt               10      285        285         50         29         6        5     100.0%
CH DeGaulle            35     1,340        258         84         38        16        2      19.3X
D Foutiyou Talt        28       984        241         57         35        17        2      24.5%
PN C. tchorere         10       171          0         43         17         4        4       0.0%
LTA Peytaevn           20       407         97         60         20         7        3      23.8X
_ a Ch Nbaye            18      587        108         49         33        12        3      18.4%
Vatdiodio Ndiaye       54      3340        794        103         62        32        2      23.8X
Abdoulaye liass        22       714        226         47         32        15        2      31.7%
Derba Diop             39       1776       457         72         46        25        2      25.7%
EtH Natlck SY          70      3958       1394        140         57        28        2      35.2%
CEN Ababacar SY         s       228         64         49         46         5       10      28.1X
Talba ICS Xboro         3        91         31         26         30         4        9      34.1%
nalick Satt            22       911        237         47         41        19        2      26.02
C. Ndof Diouf          20       867        227         54         43        16        3      26.2%
A.  tolo Balde          14      629         94         70         45         9        5      14.9%
Ibou Dlatto             7       219         28         45         31         5        6      12.8%



-37-
ANNX
Page I of 5
REUBLIC: OF- SEN jQ
SECOND HUMAN RESQJOURCàNQ DMOPENT POJEC
(EDUCAllOQN V1
LETTRE D-E P-OLllU}! G13NERAL DU SEC1EU EDUCAIIONMORMAIION
,ET PLAN D'ACI]ON
I. ORIMENTA1ON GENIM
La politque éducationnelle du Gouvenement s'bmcri dam le cadre des conclusions
des Etats Généraux de l'Education et de la Formation M1GEF), des rsoo sde la
ComissonNaionale de Réforme de l'Educatlon et de la Formation (CNREP) et de la Loi
d'Orientation no 91/22 du 16 févrer 1991. Dans ce cadre, le Gouvernement a retenu les options
l.t   EnseigRne"n élémenuair Son développemane  constitue la priorité nationale. Cette
priorité se justife par le fait qu'il conaitue d'abord un droit fondamental, et qu'il contnbue
seniblement à l'accroissement de la productivit de la main d'oeuvre, à la tentabilîsation des
invemumsemet et à 1laamdlioration de la santé de la population. Cette priorité se traduira par une
allouaton conséquent des ressources fianciore  de IAt.. Tout en corrigeant les disparités
réifonales, des mecanimes d'accroissemen,t quanttatif de la populadon scolarisable 7-12 ans seront
mis en oeuvre en vue de tendre vers la généraisation de l'ensegnemellt élmntie,Ian 2000
cosduanun objecdfifimmédiaire (70nS5%). Une rdeelepriorité derecutment d'enseignatsest
mise en oeuvre et sera poursuivie à ce niveau.
1.2   Enseignement moye et secondaire I1 sera mis en oeuvre des mécanimes pour
contenir et rtguer ses effecifs. Des mesures meont prise pour préever et améliorer la qualité de
cet enseignement et la geston des établissments concernés.
1.3 Enseignement supérieur: Les priorits viseront l'amelioration de la qualité des études
universitaires dans le sens d'une meilleue adaptation aux besoins du devioppement et au marche du
travail, à un renforcement de la rechetche scientifique et technque, à une meilleur articulation ente
le secondaire et le supérieur et à l'amélioration du redement intere et exteJe. Le Gouvernement
s'attelle à rendre les stucues de 1brmation supérieure moins dispersées, moins onérese, plus
perfommmte et mieux MM"ie aux besoins nationaux. Les mesures seront prise pour restructurer
le réseau des établissments de formaton supérieur dans ce sens.
l1.4    AlUhbÈâLdg: Elle sera fonctionnelle, sélective ou de nmas en vue de l'éradication
de l'aalha-  sm  au sein de la population adulte, et d'une meillemr performance professionnelle
de la population active, particulièrement en direction des femmes des zones rmales.



- 38-
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
1.5   Fomation prfionnell : Elle sera restructurée et adapte au marché du travai sur
la base d'une autonomisation des centres de formation professionnelle et la participation financière
des bénéficiaires et des enteprises aux coûts de la formation. Ce volet, qui d4pend du Ministère du
Travail et de la Formation Professionnelle, constitue avec l'enseignement élémentaire, et en liaison
avec lui, la priorité du Développement des Ressources Humaines au Sénga. A ce titre, il est prévu
la restructuration en profondeur de l'appareil national de formation professionnelle en vue d'une plus
grande adaptation aux réalités socio-économiques fondées sur la base de principes clairement définis,
tenant compte du potentiel éducatif et des possibilités du marché de l'emploi. Ces principes se
résument comme suit: (a) renforcement de la spécificité et de la cohérence des activités de formation
professionnelle au plan national; (b) liaisons directe de formation/emploi; (c) capacité de générer des
ressources proptes; et (d) plus grande autonomie des centres de formation en vue de faciliter leur
adaptation aux besoins du marché du travail.
II.    STRAT EGIESDE    IS  EOE R
Le développement de l'éducation subit les effets conjugués de deux facters externes
au système: d'une part, la forte pression démographique et d'autre part, les limites des ressources
disponibles dans un contexte marqué par la mise en application de mesures de rigueur budgétaire et
d'ajustemen structurel. Tenant compte de ces contraintes, il est mis en oeuvre une struegie dont les
élements sont:
2.1 Pour l'enseignement létmentaire, (a) une plus grande mattrise des coûts unitaires
publics par une meilleure utilisation des enseignants, par des procédés de construction moins coûteux
et par une diminution du nombre des redoublements et des abandons; (b) la diversification des sources
de financement extrabudgétaire par la participation des familles et de la société civile au financement
de l'enseignement public; (c) la participation des collectivités, des entreprises, des ONG pour réadiser
les programmes de construction et équipement de nouvelles classes; (d) la mise en oeuvre d'une
politique de formation des formateurs et l'incitation du perfectionnement et recyclage de tous les
agents; et (e) la poursuite du programme de production de matériels didactiques, en premier lieu de
manuels scolaires adaptés et compétitifs au niveau des coûts.
2.2   Pour l'enseignement moyen et secondaire (a) la rationalisation de la gestion des
institutions Educaives, particulièrement les collèges et lycedes; (b) l'amélioration de la qualité de
l'enseignement; et (c) la mise en place de la politique de décentralisation administrative.
2.3   Pour l'enseignement sMu«dreur, (a) mattriser l'accès des nouveaux bacheliers; (b)
ameliorer les flux. internes (redoublements, abandons, etc)., et (c) mattriser le coût social (COUD).



-39-
ANEX 3
Page 3 of 5
lu.   PLAN D'ACION
Au regard des orientations et des stratégies ci-dessus définies, un plan d'action de
l'éducation est retenu. Il est conçu selon les axes suivants:
3.1                                          . LeprojetEducationlVquisedéroule
avec succès dans trois régions-pilotes constitue une expérimentation qui sera étendue à l'ensemble du
pays dans le cadre du Projet de Développement des Ressources Humaines (PDRH) en vue de la
scolarisation universelle. Toutes les études menées sur l'enseignement élémentaire montrent la
nécessité d'arrêter un programme fondé sur 1' extension de la scolarisation et sur l'amélioration de
la qualité de l'enseignement.
(a)    Extension de la scolarisation. En référence aux engagements de la conférence de
Jomtien et dans le but d'augmenter dans les meilleures conditions le taux de scolarisation des enfants
de la tranche d'âge 7-12 ans, le plan national de développement de l'enseignement élémentaire est
défini en termes d'objectifs quaitatif faisant passer les effectifs de 801.000 en 1993 à 1.040.000
en 1998. Pour ce faire, les mesures suivantes sont envisagées:
-     Un programme de construction de 3.350 salles de classe sera réalisé de 1994 à 1998,
soit 670 en moyenne chaque année. Le recours au partenariat de type ONG,
AGETIP, Associations locales et la participation communautaire, ... sera renforcé en
vue d'augmenter les capacités de réalisation aux moindres co0ts et la qualité
d'exécution.
lUn programme prioritaire de réhabilitation de classes vétses, de renouvellement des
abris provisoires sera également mis en oeuvre en rapport avec la carte scolaire et
avec la participation des collectivités de base.
-     La maltrise des coûts unitaires sera poursuivie de façon systématique en vue de
contrôler les dépenses aussi bien de fonctionnement que d'investissement, grîte à
l'amélioration de la gestion et de l'ajustement sectoriel.
-     La politique de carte scolaire sera consolidée dans le but de dégager une perspective
de réduction des disparités et de rationaliser les programmes d'intervention prioritaire
en matière de construction et de réhabilitation de classes. L'accent sera mis
pardculibrement sur le développement de la scolarisation en zones rurales et
suburbaines.
-     Le recrutement et la formation d'enseignants en nombre suffisant sera renforcé.
-     Le systame de classes à double flux en zones urbaines et suburbaines sera étendu à
tout le cycle élémentaire.
-     Les classes multigrades seront élargies en zone rurale pour accueillir le maximum
d'élèves possible dans les zones à faible densité.



-40-
ANEX 3
Page 4 of S
L'amélioration de l'efficacité interne du système sera accentuée notamment par la
réduction des taux de redoublement.
La politique de décenlsation sera rendue effective par la mise en place des
Inspectins d'Académie aux pouvoirs décisionnels plus étendus à travers lesquels
seront décetralisés, la carte scolar, les statistiques, l'entretien du patdmoine
scolaire, la formation des enseignants et des projets pédagogiques.
La scolarisation des filles sera renforcée par des mesures appropriées notamment dans
les zones rurales où l'inéDité d'accas à l'école pose problème.
(b)    Amélioration de la qualité de l'ensein t. Il est prévu trois mesures
essentielles:
Ci)    Ré a          de  woes soelai. Ce point concerne la mise en oeuvre de
l'expérimentation actuelle des nouveaux programmes et méthodes d'enseignement. Le plan
de base est constué de 100 Ecoles-pilotes appuyées par le progrme UNICEF 1992/1996.
L'évaluadon systématique intervient à chaque étape et ses résultats conditionneront l'extension
progressive de la réornme à l'ensemble du systbme. Le travail productif constituera un
élément majeur de cette réorme.
(il)   Fonmain  etementds maltres. La formation initiale des mattres sera révisée.
Les écoles de formation des instituteurs (EFI) restrucres seront chargées de la formation
des enseignants sur la base d'un nouveau profil, selon la formule Insdtuteurs: Bac + 1 an
et lItiteurs-Adjoints: BFEM  + lan. Eu égard aux cots récurrents pour la fonction
publique, le recrutement aux EFl sera chaqWe année conforme au quota suivant. 20%
d'instituteurs, 80% d'insteu-adjoints, l'évaluation des classes-pilotes ayant montré que
la différence qualitative n'est pas évidente entre les deux catégories d'enseignants. La
formation continue sera systématisée en utilisant les compétences des Inspections d'Académie,
au niveau régional. De nouveaux maltres additionnels seront recrtés à fitre transitoire, en
attendat la restructuraton des EPI sur la base d'un quota moyen de 700 enseignants par an.
Ces mattres seront affectés en priorité en zone ruale.
(iii)   Manuels scolaires et matériel didcue.  Afin de renforcer la qualité de
l'segnement, il est prévu l'extension de la politique nationale d'édition scolaire. Le
processus de production, d'édition, de distribution et de vene sera délégué au secteur privé.
Le principe de recouvrement des coûts sea adopté soit par la vente, soir par le systême de
location. Il sera cir un fonds d'édition du Mintre de l'Education Nationale pour le
refinancement des stocks de manuels. Les livres seront vendus ou mis en location à coût
social. Il sera founi gratuitement aux matres des guides pédagogiques dans les disciplines
enseignées.



-41 -
ANNEX 3
Page S of 5
3.2    Amdlioration de la q"kalgt et de la gestion des enseignewme   Moye et secondaire.
Concernant oe volet, les mesures suivantes sont envisag4es à court et moyen termes: (a) les
recrutements dans les classes des nouveaux cycles (sixibme et seconde) se feront sur la base des
places réellement disponibles; (b) il ne sera autorisé qu'un seul redoublement par cycle; (c) la
pratique du recasement sera interdite et le système de contrôle renforcé; (d) il est prévu une
r6partition plus rationnelle des professers et un redéploiement du personnel d4aché das des postes
administratifs. Un plan de recyclage sera également mis en oeuvre; (e) Il'orientation scolaire et
professionnelle sera renforcée au sein des collèges et lydes, notm_m dans les classes de tansition
(seconde et terminale), afin de mieux réguler les flux; (t) la décentralisation de la gestion des
établissements sera tlargie. Les CEM seront placs sous la tutelle des Inspecdion d'Académie. Quant
à l'amElioration de la gestion des lycées, elle commencera par un cycle de formation du personnel
administratif de direction (proviseurs, intendants, censeurs et surveillants généraux) et la mise au
point de nouveaux crltbres de nomination.
3.3    Alph"iation
(a)    Orlentations génras.  Complément indbpensable à l'enseignement de base,
l'alphabéisation revêt une Imporace capitale dans la stragie de lutte contre l'analphabisme. Le
Gouvernement, à travers sa déclaration de Politique de Population (1988) et le plan d'oriention
économique et social (1989-1995) ainsi que les recomm ns de la Conférence mondiale de
lomtien (1990), définit la priorité accordée à l'alphabi tion  nctionnelle. Le Mlnistère chargé de
l'Alphabétisation et de la Promotion des Langues Nationales a pour mission de conduire et de
développer une politique cohérente et efficace en direction des populations analphabàtes, notamment
en zone rurale et milieu suburbain.
(b)    Stratégie de mise en oeuvre. La stratégie repose sur trois principes essentiels: (i)
la participation effective (en moyens humain, financier, physique) des populations à la réalisation des
actions d'alphabétisation; (ii) la sous-raitance des progrmmes d'alpbéion par des acts
reconnus pour leur expertise dans ce domaine (ONG, GIE, ASC, etc); (iii) la supervision, la
coordination, le suivi et l'évaluation de tous les programmes d'alphabisation en vue d'améiorer
leurs performances.



- 42 -
ANNE 4
Page I of 4
REPUBLIC OF SENEGA
SECOND-HULMAN RESOVRCES ANQD )E-VELOP-MENT PRO1ECT
(EDUCA-TtON y)
PRIMARY -SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION
1.    Baclaound
The objective of the Government's primary school construction program for the
period 1993-1998 is to provide about 203,000 additional student places and permit the national
enrollment ratio to increase from 58% to 65% by 1998. For reasons of equity in the distribution of
educational opportunities between urban and rural areas, the Government would locate about 1,400
classrooms (40% of the total) in the high-enrollment urban regions of Dakar and Ziguinchor, and
about 2,100 (60% of the total) in the other eight, mostly rural, regions. This would have the effeat
Of maintaining enrollment ratios in Dakar and Ziguinchor at current levels (96 and 105%,
respectively), and iocreasing enrollment ratios in the eight other regions by at least 8 percentage
poimt.1
Table 1 shows the number of classrooms needed, by region, to reach these targets.
The estimates assume region-specific population growth rates, class sizes (56 studentlclass), and
current levels of ;uble-shift (30% in urban areas) and multi-grade teaching. Under these
asumptions, about 700 new classrooms would be required each year, for a total of 3,500 classrooms
over the five-year project period (FY 94-98), 60% of which would be in rural areas. The anticipated
impact of this program on enrollment and enrollment ratios by region is shown in Table 2. In
addition to new classroom construction, out of the existing stock of 11,000 classrooms, an estlmated
1,600 need major and 3,200 need miner rebabilitation over the project period.
Experience with the Primary Education Development Project (Cr. 173-SE) shows
that, using prevailing public sector methods of procurement and conutacting, (a) the cost of a
classroom is high, avetaghig 3.3 million CFAF (US$13,200); and (b) the <overnment's
implementation capacity is too limited to undertake an infrastructure program of the scope eulvsaged
under the proposed project. 'be proposed methods of project management and implementation are
designed to address these problems.
1.    Ti esuiun wmm demlnsd by tnoe ulng reiooif poulon gow& mt, avnW cla ace.,
cunent lbwb of ui-grd and double-t classe, nd asuing en aveup cot per block of 3 lauoom of
9.9 million CPAP - including con _tcon at 2.3 million per ea_roon, addikionu facilitos aet 1.5 million pr block
of 3 clasoo  for h deoe office, stoage of pedagogical meial  nt atebo, a bbock of latnos and a
foneo, ard fuhmit at 0.5 million per clasroom). Proc expote_   (Cr. 1735-S showms t the conauction of
a singb lnm   ompleeId by privae onhacton on a tunkey beai, cost up to abot 4.4 nillion CPAP cach -
which hab bemn conidmd as too high; thoa cf snilhr dumbiity, aulne equatt sandauds, consoud with
c.enuky puticipation or NOOs, acd comp!ted by mall local onrpreneus, eoat bawe«n 2.0 a 2.8 milio



-43-
Page 2 of 4
Table 1.  lue tlassro   Ueole     1992/-1997/8 (Ft 1993-1998)
Total Classroom Needs     Number of Ptaces Created
Urben   Rural  Total      Urban    Rural   Total
1 Olourbel            60    2Lt      260       4,447     10,029  14,475
2 Louga               15    145      160       1,044     6,435   7,479
3 Tambaconda          20    220      240       1,542      7,001   8,542
4 Kaolack             75    285      360       5.786    14,000   19,786
5 Fatick              20    195      215       1,414      9,836  11.250
6 IColda              35    330      365       2,184    14,255  16.438
7 St. Louis           60    235      295       3.760     10,309  14,069
8 Thies              155    355   S510        12,780    20,590  33,370
9 Dakar              865       0     865      64,286         0  64,286
10 Ziguinchor          75    155      230       5,925     8,082   14,007
AII Sogl            1.385  2.115  3,500       103,166   100,35M 20,701
Reluu 1-5             19011,045    1.3        14,M      47.301   61.534
table  2.    Enroll_t  Targets,  1990/91-1997/98  F  1991-986
Enroîlment      Av$. AMn.    6ross Enrotlment Classrooms
c000 s)        6roth           Ratio (Z)       NOeded
1990/91 1997/98      iF     1990/91  1997/98
Region        (FY 91)  (FY 98)  1991.1998 (FY 91) (FY 98)  Total Yearly
Diourbel       30.277  50,542      7.6%    27.3    35.2       360   51
Lou8a          30,757  41,227      4.3%    35.2    43.3       220   31
tatâscounda    23,733  35,692      6.0%    37.8    45.6       330   47
Kaolack        58,427  86,127      5.7%    40.5    48.3       500   71
Fatick         43,125  58,875      4.5%     44.3    52.3      300   43
Koltd          46,201  69,215      5.9X  44.8    52.3         510   73
St. Louis      59,541  79,237      4.2%    50.4    58.4       410   59
Thies         102,228 148,946      5.5%    58.7    66.6       710  101
Dakar         234.893 324,893      4.7%    96.3    96.2   1,200  171
liguinchor     79,118  98,72       3.2%   105.0   105.0       320   46
Total         708,299 993,41       5.01   58.2    64.9   4,i60  694
Rural         305,272 446,022      5.6%     41.0    49.1   2,955  369
Urban         403,027 547,459      4.5%     85.0    88.1   1,905  238
a/ Aasuing girls comprise 50% of enrolltitnt ln the  w clasesroaos.
2.      Project Objectives, Desurption and Sbope
The project would support the Governnnents school constucdon program
described above, as well as a sehool maintnance and rehabilitation program, and introduce
measurs to reduce the cost and hnprove the efflciency of school construction.
New coqsn ucdon. To support Uhe Government's objecives to expand access to
prinary education in rural areas, the project would provide for the constuction, fnising and
equipping of 1,310 classrooms in the six niost educatlonally disadvantaged regions (able 1,
regions 1-5 and 75 classrooms in region 6), allowing their enrollment ratios to increase by an



- 44.
ANNB&4
Page 3 of 4
average of 8 points. lbe classrooms - 260 in Diourbel, 160 li Louga, 240 la Tambacounda, 360
in Kaolack, 215 in Fatick and 75 in Kolda - would provide a total of 65,000 addîtiona student
places, 77% rural areas. lIe total cost of this investment (Cmnlud4ng contingencies) is estdmated
5.6 billion CFAF (US$22.5 million), of whicb tIie IDA Credit would finance 100% of the com of
school furniture, of construction design, contract management and supervision fees, and 75% of the
cost of construction materials for 875 classrooms. T'M  remaider is expected to come  otm  tihe
German Government (KfW) and local communities. This program of 1,310 classrooms would satfy
about 35% of tie total classrooms needed to reach the national target of 65% enrollment by 1998.
8Ie remaining requirement of some 2,190 classrooms would be fiuanced by the Goverment,
communities, NGOs and other donors, under ongoing or planned programs. Ibes   rendy include
those financed by the OPEC Fund (200 classrooms), the AfDB (300 classrooms), and tie Japalea.
Goveumment (200 classrooms) leaving an outstanding need of about 1,490 classrooms (Table 3).
Rehabilitation and maintenance. To maintain the value of existing investm, the
project would provide for the rehabilitation of about 1,080 classrooms (280 major, 800 mhor, or
about 20% of curent rebabilitation needs) at a total cost of 2.7 billion CFAF (US$11.0 millio).
IDA would finance 30% of the cost (100% of supervision and furniture); Goverament would finance
52% (75% of materials and labor); communities with NGO assistance would provide the maing
17% in cash or in kWid corresponding to 25% of construction costs.
1abte 3. ttCalo_   Constuatien Sdle&te by Fiscel Taer
99   1995  T996  1997  1998i  To~taL
New clastroons eeded    700   700   700   700   700  3.500
IDA f inanced       300   330   340   340          1,310
Other donors                                         700
Remaing no de                                      2,190
Rehabitlitation (N»)    220   220   220   220    220  1,100
Nfinor             160   160   160   160    160   800
Nejor               60    60    60    60       60   300
Modalities of School          'lbucti  . Ibo project would apply four modalites of
executing school construction, matched to conditions of the communities concerned. le project
would assist eligible communities to finance up to 2.1 million CFAF per classroom (represent_ng
75% of the estimated average construction cost of 2.8 million), in four ways: (a) by provkdng
a standard kit of construction materials (developed under Education IV and costing about 1.8
milion CFAP); (b) by flnancing up to 2.1 million CFAF per classroom constructed by private
contractors using standard commercial contracting procedures acceptable to IDA; (c) by financg
up to 2.1 million CFAF pet classroom constructed by NGOs acting as executlng agencies on
behalf of the MEN; or (d) in tie form of a 2.1 million CFAF grant to eligible comm_nies,
payable in three tranches of 0.7 million CFAF each, under a contracual arrangement bwoeen
the community and the MEN. In choosing one of these approaches, AGETIP would evaluate the
organizational capacLy of the beneficiaries according to ciarl  agreed wvith IDA. In each of hie
four modes, participating communities would commit themselves to supply tIie addo
resources, with support from NGOs if necessary, in the form of labor, construction materials or



-45-
ANNBX 4
Page 4 of 4
finmaial contributions. lbis commitment would be formalized thsough a contract between the
MEN ad the participating community, following strictly applied selection criteria (Appendix 1).
=I=  _entatign Argme.   To improve tie efficiency and speed of
implementtion and keep costs low, the Govemment would delegate responsibllity for implementing
the school construction program to AGETIP, a private sector cotract management agency.
Simplified procurement and disbursement procedures would bs adopted, similar to those curreuty
iu use by the Second Public Works and Employment Project. AGEIIP would provide constuction
management services to thi MEN, including contract management, accounting, financial management,
and supervision services. Ib. responsibilities of the various paties involved would be as follows:
o  Basd on a school mapping exercise done by the planning unit (DPRE) in collaboration with the
regional inspectorates (lAs) and the school construction unit (DCES), global construction
objectives would be assigned by the MEN te the regional inspecrates. An information campaign
orgaized by the DCES and DPRE would provide regional staff witi standards sud criteria for
preparing regional work programs. lbe DCES would also liaise with AGETlP and the lA to
ensure that the techcnial speciflcations and construction norms are satisfied.
o  At the decentralized levels, tei regional inspectorates withi tie assistance of a technical coordinatr
would iform depatmental mpectors and the local organizations about the assistance for school
constuction available tirough the project, and identify school locations based on school mapping
crkerîa and the availabiity of counterpart contributions. Tbe proposed sites would be reviewed
by the regional inspectorates (lAs) for conformity to the criteria for establishing schools
(Appendix 1).
o  At the community level, local organizations (municipalities, rural conmmunities, parents'
assations, ud private schools) would b. responsible for mobilizing funds andior conuibuting
labor. NOOs would provide assistance in the preparation, execution and supervision of the local
organizations' programs where needed tbrough a contract between the NGO and the Goverument.
o  AGETIP would be responsible for the preparation of bidding documents, the evauation of bid
prosais, aud contractor or supplier selection. It would manage constuction and supervision
contactand subventions to local communities for school construction; coordinate the work of
NGOs acting on behalf of communities; and procure and deliver school furntre. An operational
manual describing tihe responsibilities of AGETIP and the various entities hnvolved Iu school
constuction would be discussed and finalized during açgot



-46-
RISPUIBLIC OP SENEGAL                      ANNBX 
Appendix I
SECOND HUMAN RESOURCES AN1) DEVLQM ENTPOECT
(EDU=ÇJQT y)
CRITERES POUR LES APPUIS DU PROJETI
Critères d'éligibilitj
1.0 Carte Sc&lair
1. 1 * Population comprise entre 1.200 et 2.400 habitants dans un rayon de S Km (pour 3 classes).
1.2 * Population de plus de 2.400 habitants dans un rayon de 5 Km (pour 6 classes).
1.3 * Taux de scolarisation dans la zone de recrutement inférieur à 45%, ou au taux moyen do la
région.
1.4 * Possibilité de normaliser les écoles existantes (pour obtenir un nombre de classes multiples
de 3 ou 6)
1.5 * Planification au niveau de l'école qui justifie un ratio minimum de 55 é4lves par classe et par
mautre.
1.6 * Etre situé dans une région du projet.
2.0 Critère$Physiques
2.1 * Disponibilité d'un terrain jugé approprié.
2.2 *Existence d'un point d'eau ou accord avec le projet pour faire r4aliser un forage ou un puis
à travers une structure existante et appropriée.
2.3 * Disponibilité d'un local de stockage.
2.4 *L'éta des bâtiments permet d'envisager une remise en état, si le coût des travaux est infdreur
à 50% du montant d'une construction neuve.
3.0 Cpacité contributiv
3.1 * Apporter une contribution minimale de 25% (en financement où on nature) du coùt esdmE des
travaux pour l'attribution de matériaux, subventions et/où ONG.
3.2 * Versement sur le compte de l'agence d'exEcutlon 25% du coût estimé des tavaux pour les
cas ou le projet intervient avec une entreprise
3.3 * Existence d'une entité morale et juridique pour assurer la responsabiité de maître d'ouvrage.
4.0 Constittion du dossie
4.1 * Approbation par l'IVEE et l'IA.
4.2 * Signature d'une protocole d'accord avec AGETIP.
4.3 * Sélection d'un artisan acceptable.
4.4 * Selection d'un prototype de classe acceptable.
4.5 *Accord sur le choix de la supervision des travux par un tehnicien ayant une qualificaion
jugée satisfaisante.



A      4
Appent 2
RIPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
Sf00M5_ UIAN RESOURCES DVEWLOPEUT PROJfCf
AREA AND CAPITAL COsr PfR   aAISiRoM  SPACE AMD PME SMMRNT
Base Costa (n CFAF x 1,000 (1>
Area ln sq.u. (ce)         Unat
-......--.....---   coot Per Unit                          Per Ptace           Civit
Capacity                 Net   Net    C.A.  *......................  ................  Uork
......*                  P-r   Per  Per  r2  Civit Equ{pt               Civil EqyIp.        Per N2
UnIt Unit  Tot   «et Gross Place  Unit  (Gross)   work  furnit   Total    bork furn. Total  <net)
.. ........ ...........  ....... ..............,........ ....... ...............  ............. ....... .................. .................. _
U     U    U    N2    W2    HZ    52    CFAF    CFAF    CFAF    CFAF    CFAF  CFAF  CFAf   CFAF
......................... .... .......... ....................... ....... ............... .......  ------------------ ------
A. PRIR  EDU ATION
MMw Contructlon
............................
* Classrom                    1    56   56    59    66   1.1    59        35   2,300      480    2.780      41      9    50   39.0
* Classroom (<GO>             I    56    56    59    66   1.1    59       29   1,900      380   2,280       34      7    41   32.2
Block of 3 classrooms    1   168  168   213   240   1.3   213          33   7,972   1,498 I 9,470        47     9    56   37.4
* Classrooms                  3    56  168   177   197   1.1    59        35   6,901   1,440   8,341 t   41         9    50   39.0
* Office                      t     1    t    10    12  10.0    l0        35      420      38      458 I  420    38   458   42.0
*Storage                      t     t    1    10    12  10.0    10        35      420      201   440       420    20  440   42.0
* Latrines                    2     4    8    16    19    2.0      8      t2      230       0      230      29      0    29   14.4
Urban Schoo< <3 Ctasses)         1   168  16S   213   240   1.3   213        41   9,782   1,498  11,20  |    58       9    67   45.9
* Slock of 3 Ct.              1   168  168   213   240   1.3   213        33   7,972   1,498   9,470 j    47        9    56     37
* feone (440 et)              1                     110 mt                12   1,320           i 1,320
* Addtt. uater connect.       1                                                   490          I   490 J
Rural School C3 Classes)         1   180  180   213   240   1.2   213        35   8,302   1,498 | 9,800 J    46        8    54   39.0
............................ .... .......... ....................... ....... ........                       ............  ...... ----------  ---
* slock of 3 Cl.              1   168  168   213   240   1.3   213        33   7,972   1,498 t 9,4701    47         9    56     37
* Fence (tradit.)             1                     tt0 m                  3      330              330 j
* Sorehole & Handpump (2)   t                                                      PM          10O
Unit cost per new classroom:urban:                                                 3,261     499   3,760 t
<Site developsent inctuded) rural:                                                 2,767     499   3,267
.............................................................................. ............, .......  ..............
8. Reaab1ittation                    t    56   56    59    66   1.1    59         17   1,117      499    1,617      20     9    29      19
C. Repalr                            t    56    56    59    66   1.1    59         8     526          I  526         9     0     9       9
.................................................................. .............................................................
(1): Cost for Contract Maragement, Design and Supervision are estlited separately and correspond to 9X of construetfon costs;
(2)» For 1 School out of 3 (unit cost a CFAF 2,800,000)



Append 3
REPtE4IC OF SENEGAL
SECOND HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELoPHET PROJECT
DETAILED OSTS OF SCHCoI CONSTRUCTION
ANA,LSE CGJTS CONSTRUCTION D'UNE CLASSE
C0UT D'UN BLOC DE TROIS (3) CLASSES                                          ..................................
EN CFAF x 1000                                                         TAXES ET DROITS DE OCUANE
i X                                           LPROJET PROJET PROJEt t QOLL  COLL   COLL    TOT   TOT   TOT .  . .DOUANE  If.SCALITE  TOTAL5
ELENENTS                I FEI    FE    LC   TOT        FE    LC    TOTI    FE    LC   TOT           12       CFAFJ X    CFAF JTAXES  J
MAIN-DoEUVRE (N.O.)                  t                                    I                     I          i      I      I t  t
...... .. --- --Xl...............O .|g 
K.O. Non speciltaise eoX          O     O      O1    0    750       7501      O   750   750 I 1121   X0    0t  202   150           1501    20X
K.O. Specialise.        10O        O      O     0       0   540      s40u      O   540   540   1 X    OX5   0 1201108               t 108,   20X
Encadraleunt                % ;X   O        O   O;    0    270       270       0270   2701_42 . OX2 . 01  20X'  54                 54      202
Smu totat                         0 0X O            0      150 1,50 .lo        0  1,S60  1,S60    22xt     
........... ....... ........ ..... ,. . .-------5 .... ................ ...... ....-  ....... . . . ------
........-..----------..-I                                                                       il         i ;           i     
Ciet                     6OXI  367   245   612    245    163    408     612   408  1,020  lSX    30X   184     20X   204    388      38X
Aciers                   100t   334      0   334       83      0      83 5417         0       417   6I 30X   125    20X    8       209      s
Petit Nateriel           80%1  307    77  384          77     19      96    304    96   480  72   30  1151    20D   96    211               44X
Peinture                 80XI   163    41    204       41     10      51    204    51   255   42  302   61    20X    S1             112     44X
NeMiberfes Netallfqwes  60X   258   172   431    111    74           185    369   246   615  9S   302  111    202  123    234               38X
Agregsts t                 OX      O     O      0       0   356    356         0   356   356   5X   30X5    0    20X    71          711    202
Charpente                80X      O      O      O       O      O       O       O      O      O    OX   30X      O    20      O       O 5    O
Cremaitleres & calfeutr. 100X    376     0   376       94      0      94    470       0   470    72   30X   141    202   94    235           50S
Bes «fer 10/tO + rives100X  1,176        0  1,176    294       0    294   1,470       0  1.470  212   30X  441    20X   294    m   j   50X
;'''' ................................. ................... ... ...... . .... .... ...... ......
Sos Total               1.712,982    535 3,516    945    622   1,566  3,926  1,157 5,0B3  73X                                           J
5 . -..-* ............ ..... ,,.... ................. ..... ........... .... ... ... .. ... ...... ... ... ... ... ....... .... 
TR111RT + mIUG^SI;       8tl    0        0      0     120    30      150    120    30   150   2X    0X    0    30%    45            45      302
....                     1 .....................           ,           .... ...... ...... ..    .        .......
FRAIS GENERALUK          802j     0                           40     200    160    40   200   3X 0I            O                    40
0  5              0     16      40                           _0%   40                                 40      2
TOTAL EN '000 CFAF       602j 2,982    535 3,516    1,225  2,252   3,476  4.206  2,787 6,993 100t   17211,178    20X 1,414 I 2,91         37X
TOTAL EN '000 USS            10.69   1.92  12.601  4.39  8.07   12.46   15.08  9.99 25.06                              I
0=       |_a                            - 1'______ I                              1   1U3103=
PERCENTAIEIFINANCING    -*->                   50X1                   50X1                 1002             I   l        I      1 
POURENTAOEILLEUt    1 $ US a 279 CfAF
TOTAL AREAISIUFACE TOTALE a  198 N2
CFAFp2 a       35,316 IIT            $/n2             S127 lT
CfAFi/CLSSE a       2,331 ,000 HT        S}CLASSE       #8,354 IIT
...................       ......................
CFAF/N  a      48,403 TTC            S/n2 a           $173 TTC
CFAF/CLAUE a        3.195 ,000 TTC       S/CLASSE *.    11,450 TTC
A:MST.NK<A  l 6.) p92



IEPUBUC OF SENEGM&                                                5ME 
pge I of I
SEODM torUL&MIN MMMMN OREMR
SCOL&SKO  DES EU=
POURCENTAoE LES PLUS FAIBLES PAR DEPARTENENT
ENSEIGNMENT£L E<EVTAIRE PUtIC
t.D.E.       |      l             oe            oeC             ez CP  _CE1                                OEPARI|  IT=
N1E1U                    32.91          29.07          29.42         23.12          24.28          18.76             26.32
-   -   - -              36.15          33.60          21.88         32.50          26.25         25.36              29.95
VELinGAR                 33.53          31.15          30.44         30.42          28.46          25.6              30.50
1UEV                     31.41          32.99          31.88         36.22          30.94          24.17             30.89
Imm                      37.67          36.29          33.50         33.41          33.93          25.82             33.79
Ulmo  DU RIP             30.03          33.20          35.12         31.44          32.78          30.72             33.80
|KEER                    40.64          33.91          37.28         34.77          30.58          28.15            34.23
BA, L                    39.34          33.22          35.15         32.93          35.50          28.46             34.55
KAFFRIME                 40.37          39.07          36.27         37.59          32.82          29.13             35.83
TIVMIWJIE                38.92          38.61          36.88         36.37          33.93         32.99             36.41
ROsSmS                   39.03          38.64          40.01         35.34          32.82         34.03              36.31
KAOLACK DEP.             38.32          37.37          37.69         38.53          36.73         31.66              36.64
TrUES DEP.               39.34          39.76          37.94         35.98          34.84         32.19              36.95
Li"BRE                   40.86          39.49          39.66         38.60          36.22         30.90             37.31
m tA_                    44.15          44.35          38.19         36.53          33.51          27.19             37.91
|     WCDN               40.65          39.63          40.49         37.93          37.77         33.54             38.40
siSomA                   42.67          41.98          41.12         38.04          36.21         31.25              38.47
pic|mBEL                 39.19          42.13          36.93         39.90          35.50         37.42              38.54
ISa                     42.16          40.53          38.96         38.34          38.44         34.92             39.11
|       FOUUDlOUG4E       40.94          41.06         36.96          40.14          42.26         36.14             39.34



-50 -
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIr QIF SEX3]AL
SECOND POPULATION AND HUMAN RE3SOURC^i
(EDUCATIONS V
PRIMARY STUDENT AND TEACHER BOOKS
1.      Background
Between 1987 and 1992, the on going Primary Education Development Project (Cr.
1735-SE) financed a piot program to publish and print 1,075,000 student books and 33,000 teachers'
guides for primary schools. Table 1 shows tie book production schedule by titde and grade. The
Phase 1 books were distributed to schools free of charge for students to borrow for tie school year.
1n principle, students were to pay a price for not returning the book to the school at the end of the
year. lhis system was never put in place and 30% of the boolcs were lost after the first year. Of
the Phase 2 and Phase 3 books, about 800,000 are warehoused and sold to students. Phase 2 books
went on sale in April 1992 once a revolving fund account had been established to finance stock
replenishment. By June 1992, about 6,000 books were sold through commercial outlets in urban
centers and about 4 million CFAF was collected and deposited into the account. 'Ie remainder of
Phase 2 and 3 books went on sale in October 1992 through 59 distribution centers across the country
under contrau  witi a private sector distributor (ADP).
teéte 1. Tittes and Copies Produced Uhder Cr. 1735-SE (1987-1992)
Tities                                        Grade  Copies
Phase 1     Sidi et Ram-manuel de lecture d'eleve       Cl           160,000
1989/90     Nathematique-cahier d'exercises d'eleve     Cl           160,000
Nathematique-livre du mettre               Cl/CP          5,000
Langage-livre de francais du maitre        CI/CP          5,000
Formation pratique-livre de mitre          CI/tP          5.000
Phase 2
1990/91     Sidi et Rama-nuel de lecture d'eteve        CP           135.000
Nahemutique-cahier d'exercises d'eleve     CP            135,000
Sidi et Rama-manuel de lecture d'eleve     CE1           135,000
Sidi et Rama-manuet de lecture d'eleve     CE2           120,000
Phase 3
1991/92 Sidi et Ru,u-Math.-manuet d'eleve               1I          120.000
Sidi et Rama-Nath.-manuet d'eleve         C2            110.000
Nathematique-livre du meitre               CVI/CE2        6,000
Manuel de Francais-livre du maitre         CII/CE2        6,000
Formation pratique-livre de maitre         CII/CE2        6,000
Note: The tittes deviate from the planned schedule in the Staff Appraisat Report
because: i) French books for grades CM1 and CH2 were not produced, and il) math
student books were prodhced for grades Cl and CP but were not originatly scheduled.



-51 -
2. Proeet Objectives, Deseription and Scope                                     Page 2 of 3
Table 2 shows the number of new tities to be supplied during the project period, an estimate
of annual replacement needs (assumed at 30% of enrollment), and quantites needed to account for
enrollment increases (5% a year). To start the system, the IDA Credit would finance: (a) the
production, sales and distribution costs (editing, design, illustration, and prindng) of 1.180 million
new textbooks, (b) 0.4 million copies to keep pace with enrollment increases (See Table 2 lino 2.c.),
and (c) 52,000 teachers' guides for 6 subjects in 6 grades (See Appendix 1). The textbooks would
be sold to students and the revenue deposited into the revolving fund account set up under the
ongoing education project (Cr. 1735-SE). The Government would cover the costs of any loss or
subsidies. Teachers books would be distributed free of charge.
Table 2 shows an estimated financing plan if: i) all costs are recovered, ii) only sales and
distribution costs are recovered, and iii) books are sold at cost, assuming in ail cases a 10% loss or
subsidy. The most reasonable scenario is the second where distribution costs are included in the sales
price to families. In this case, book sale prices would average about 800 CFAF. A study is being
undertaken (financed under the PPF) to assess the availability and affordabiity of books being sold
under the pilot scheme and to propose alternatives if existing arrangements are deemed inadequate.
The results are expected by negotiations and will be incorporated into an operational plan for tie
distribution and sales of textbooks financed under the proposed project and satisfactory to the
Association. During the project period, the MEN would be responsible for procuring about 3.1
million replacement copies financed from the sale of existing stocks.
Responsibilities. INEADE in collaboration with 1he appropriate divisions in the MEN would
be responsible for: establishing the school curricula, preparing pedagogical and technical
specifications for bid documents, participating in the evkluation of bid proposais, evaluating book
quality, and organizing seminars for teacher trainers and inspectors on the books' objectives,
organization, and content. Private publishers (ocal or intrnatiuual), selected through ICB, would
handle all publication and production tasks and would deliver the titles to the MEN warehouses.2
Under contract with the MEN, distributors and booksellers would be responsible for the distribution
and sale of the books with an agreed upon profit margin.
To assist INEADE and strengthen its capacity to effectively exercise its (new) functions, the
projeat wouid finance 18 months of technical assistance for setting book specifications, evaluating
bids and evaluating books produced under tie ongoing education projeet (Cr. 1735-SE),' and 24
months of overseas fellowships for setting and evaluating pedagogical and techuical specifications for
science, history/geography, math and reading books (2 staff per subject for 3 months each). 'Me
project would also provide 3.6 million CFAF for three three-day seminars to be held in Dakar for
approximately 100 inspectors and teacher trainers to introduce them to the objectives, content and
organization of the new books.
2.     To easume tat books ar woU adqptd to the Sgalea context, pivaue pubuishera would te*nit local authorx
aud iluarots to the xtaent feasbl. To comnpl«o thie oxitg mm &u fcdae exisdting, copynet would
roain h MEN's propoerty.
3.     The 18 month inude: 2 mont for spotfiton meeting ea aof thi four lets fh,  h, o.mi,
history/gogmphy book, I month in cact of dse four subjects for bid  aluat, 2 mweths for monâtn *i.
sabs and disibuion syam, und 4 montha for h. evalutin of th. boob prt under th. ongoing   an
poie« 2 nuha for froh and 2 monttfr math bocks).



.52-
Page 3 of 3
Tabte 2. Projocted finaunet n       ads uni cost reovemy.
1992-93   t993-94  1994-95   1995-96    1996-97    1997-8    1998-99
PY 1    PY a       PY 3       PY 4       PY 5
DOMK AND FINANCIMO NEEDS
1. New titles (000/                 00         0       S25       426        403          0           0
2. Total reprints (000)              0       391       450       677        884      1,095       1,189
Ca) Book reprints lot gen            0        95       139       186        234        285         339
(b) Book reprints from stock         0       240      252        422        571        720         756
(c) New books - enrotltmnt grouth    0        56        59        70         79         89         94
3. Total 1+2                        800      391       975     1,103       1,287         1.095      1,189
4. Total IDA financed                0         55      585       495        482          0           0
5. Average purchase price (CFAF)  600        600       6         600        600        600         600
6. Average sates pricess
(a) Distribution coet b/           780        780       780       780        7          780         780
(b) Iith subsidytloss ncluded ci 709         667      667        667        667        667        667
c>) Total (a) + (b)                847       u47      847        847        847        847        847
7. Total stock to start (000) di   800        391       975     1,103      1,287      1,095       1,189
8. Nuwer of books sold (000)       440       352       878       993      1,158        985       1,070
Total CFAF needed (000)              0   305,292  760,656   860,196  1,003,816    853,853    927,145
CM RECOVERY
1. Full cost reeovery
Revenue from book sates et 395,200   298,247  743,102   840,345    980,651    834,148    905,749
Costs minus revenus         129,093   (89,908) 462,409   117,093    163,471   (126,798)    92,996
IDA f inancin                     0    43,680  455,364   386,190    375,943         0            0
Shortfetll                           (133,588)   7,045   (269,096>  (212,472)  (126,798>   92,996
2. Cost recovery of distribution
Revenue fram book saines e   347,200   274,763  684,590   774,176    903,434    768,467    834,430
Costs minus revenue                   (41,908) 485,893   175,605    229,640    (49,581)   158.677
IDA f inancing                    0    43,680 455,364  386,190    375,943           0            0
Shortfall                             (85,588)  30,529  (210,584>  (146,303>   (49,581>   158,677
3. Cost recovery of purch. price
Revenus from book sati  et 268,000   211,356 526,608  595.520    694,949    591,129    641,869
Costs minus revnue                    37,29   549,3Q0  333,588   408,296   158,903   336,016   IDA
f inncing                     0     43,680 455,364   386,190    375,943          0            0
Shortftal                              (6,388) 93,936  (52,602>       32,353    158,903    336,016
Assumptions:
Enrotltent growth rate                      5.0X
Books sod <K of stock>                       90X
Lose or subsidy (M of stock)                  10X
a/ The nem stock In PY o ie the existfng stock available for school year 1992-93. Alt quantittis are
estimated et 70X of enrolttent.
bl Distribution cost ls estimsted at 30X of purchase price.
cX Price per book sold passes on the cost of the loss or subsidy to other students.
di Book replacements assume a 5X enroltment grouth rate, full replacement of this stock, aid
replacenents for 1 et generation books. Replacement needs are esticated et 30X of stock.
et  Revenue n PY O includes the 4 milLion CFAf froa the sale of books finmnced under the ongoing education
project (Cr. 1735-SE).



-53 -
66
Appeadix i
Primry Textboo  Tittl., Copies «a  Cnt
_                      f~~~~~~Iotel com
Ctos            Tittes           cost        Copie            (CFAF 000)
S1BOI-
Phse 1 (PY 2)                                  Is0,000          213,50
1I             Sclence          610            87.500           53,375
CE1             Geogrphy         610            ,"50             S3.3
CE2             Science          610            87,500           533,75
CE2              oogrepy         610            8T7.,5           53,375
Phase 2 (PY 3O                                 4a5,00           270,5
Cul             Prench-Reeding    80            92.000           53.3,0
Qlt             Kath             n5o            92.000           50,600
C111            Science          8              80,50            64,40
CI              NistorY          470            80.5» 0          378
C1a             Geography        8              80.5O00          64,400
Phase 3 (PT 4)                                 402,500          266,455
CM2             French-Re«ding   640            80.500           51.520
CM2             Neth             600            80.500           48n 00
iN2            Scee              800           80,500           64,40
C-;             History          470            80.50            37.05
2               Gegra$y          800            so,soo           6.L00
swb-Total                                    1,178,000          750.SO0
TIACIERS aOOItS
Phean1 (PY 2)
CI/CP           french           1200            8.000            9,600
Phaa2 (PT 3>
ci/CP           Science          1200            8.000            9.600
ci/CP            eographr        1200            8,000            9,600
Phase (PS 4)
ICE1CE2         Science          1200            r,o0o            8,400
CNI/cMZ         math             1200           7r,oo             8,400
CUl/CM?         French           1200            r,000            8,400
CilCM?          Science          1200            7000             8,400
Sub-total                                       52.000           62,400
TOTAL                             ;,230,000                     813.000
PUAS! 1                                        358,000          223,100
PMUS! 2                                        441,500          289.800
PUASE 3                                        4aO,s50          300,1Q0
ai  Guatities for student SMo  re 702 of estfimted erol tunt.



-54 -
Appendix 2
Sneelfctlanm  of Prirv T oum_k
Cbsms       Tittes     no of    Fot              P                    Color                 ,  b,,rnIof
_I               |J Iiht                                                i °L et Cwer
oE1          science        96       18x24     80/g      300/9    4 (50X)       4      2 wires    175
6eo            a         a         a          a         u         a          a         M
;ilstory                                                2 a a  u  2  2
|e2          Hîstory                   a                   a                    n a
Scince         a         a         u          W      4 (Su        4          n         a
I~~~~~                                                                                       ~ a.    a  a  I 
CHi          French        160        u          a                   2          2       Sein       150
Kath          144                                       a w  n  u  u a                 a
Science       128                                    4 (50X)      4                   250
History        W         a         a          a         2         2                   200
Geo            a                   M                 4 (50Z)      4                   250
0 CH2        French        176        a                              2          2                  150
math          160        u         a          a         u         a          a        300
Scier         128                  a          W      4 (50)       4          a        250
Hlstory        u         a         a          u         2         2                   200
6eo            a         a                           4 a50X)      4                   250
CI/CP        French         96      18x25                  a         1          2      2 wires      -
Sclnce        a         a         a         a          a         a          u        250
Hlstory        n         a         a          a         a         a          u        200
Geo            a         u         a          u         u         u          u        250
CRnIoea      math          192        S                    a a u                        Semn       140
French        128        u         n         a          a         u          a
Science        a         a         a          a         a         n          a        250



Appendux 3
wtumo  saxumu
1.1     fl±Les
C1 Science, oEt Geography, CEI Hlstory, CE2 History, CE2 Scierce, CE Geography, CI/CP (tg),
1.2     Procurement Schedute
(a) Estabtishment of Pedagogical Specifications:                October, 1993
<b) Preparation and approvat of Bidd1ns Docuents:               NoverlDecember 1993
Cc) Invitat1on for B1da, Submlssion, Evatuation,
Approvat of Evatuation.  Results:                                   danuary/Msy, 1994
Cd) Contrect Award:                                             June, 1994
te) Production/Detivery:                                        July, 1995
cf) Sale:                                                       September, October ..., 1995
(9)  Training in the Use of Books:                              October, 1995
PHASE 2
2.1     Tlites
CMI French, CHi Math, CNI Science, CI Nlistory, CMI Geography. CI/CP Science (tg), CI/CP Uistory (tg), CI/CP
Geography (tg), CE Science (tu)
2.2     ProcureMeMt S§hedule
Ca) Establishment of Pedagogicat Specifications:                October, 1994
(b) Prqporatfon and approvul of Sdd8fWng Documents:             movumber/Decedber, 1994
Cc)  Invitation for Bids, Subilsion, Evaluation,
Approvat of Evatuation. Resutts:                           January/May, 1995
Cd) Contract Award:                                             June, 1995
Ce) ProductifonlDetivery:                                       July, 1996
cf) Sale:                                                       September, October ..., 1996
(9) training In the Use of Books:                               October, 1996
PHAS 3
3.1     Tiltles
CM2 French, dM2 Math, CMZ Science, CM2 History, CN2 Geography, Cl Math (te), CM french (te), CN Science
(tu)
3.2     Procurement Schedute
te) Estabtishmunt of Pedagogicat Specificattons:                October, 1995
(b) Preparation and approval of Biddtng Docunts:                mov.e*br/Deteuber, 1995
Cc> Invitation for Blde, Submission, Evatuation,
Approval of Evaluation. Resulte:                                    Januery/May, 1996
Cd) Contract Award:                                             June 1996
Ce) Production/Detivery:                                        Juty 1997
cf) Sale:                                                       September, October ...., 1997
(9)  Trainini ln the Use of Books:                              October 1997



AU=E 7
Page l of 2
YU-L= OF MMAL
.OEucATIQ VI
CPnnL WOP} S UUMARY
Tetle 1 - ftotes Xotle  uao.ul. - 1bruwtalre dos Leas
surféce ctte         Sufa    Loau          Travu  evsae
......................................................... ............................................................................... 
requie                trut e   xistnt      Surfae oni en2          Cout en en   CF000
C»  ne                      ... ..... ............ ................... ....... .... ..... ............,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,_
:Cite Unite Place  Unit  Total   totl  Surf. typ   ixte   1tRmev   total  Extens    Reoov             Total
,.......... ......... ....... ... ....... ... ......... ... .................. ...... .... . ... .. ............
ACoomodation Unit/Locu          U        la2    a  *    2 la   l        l2 tue)      ma2   le       82        FCFA    FCFA       PCF
............ ..... .. . .. ........... ........... .....* ....... ........... 1   .-..........................---
*oca   Podaoiqm        40    15    2.1    55    U5   1.031   1.031    A           0  1,031  1.031            0  S1.550    51,550
* Aéiinitretion            8    8    2.4    19    152       190     190    A        O    190    190            0   9.500      9.500
* Services                25   10    2.0    50    500       625     bu      A       O    625    65             0  31,250    31,250
LogMnts                  *   4    25.8   95      310      S7      475    A        0  47        47            0  233750  2337O
'Ecote d'#aplIcaton   910   28    1.7    60  11.680   2.100   2.100    A            0  2.100  2.100            0 105w000   105.000
Total 1  1.417                      3.5    4.421   4,431              0  4.421  4.421            O 221,050   221.050
_. ... * ......*.v ...... .*.*.*.......... ..... ... .... ,........ .................. *......  .......... . .... __.....*
2. E.L.R. St. Louis 
* Locar Pod _  que    300   14    3.1    67    938   1.171   1.17!   A              0  1.173  1,173            0  5860    58.650
' Adminitration            8    8    2.5     20 160         200     200    A        0    200    200            0 10.000    10.000
' Services                22   10    1.737    370           463     4       A       0  46       463            0  3,1503 J150
L- ogbt                  44   23.8 9f  O                  475  475  A    047547                              02337503 ZS750
- -oal. d'applfcation   280    8    2.3    80    640        800     600    a      200   600    800        28,800  30,000    5800
Total 2    614                      2,4 8   3,110   2,911           200  2.911  3.111       28080 145.S50   174,3S0
.  *  ......... ............... *...... ............* ............... ............................
3.   ... Losug
* LocMx Podsogiqies   150   Il    4.8    di    715          894     713           181    713    8940    26,051  61,301    87,358
* Adainitration            8    8    2.5    20    160       200     110    a       90    110    200       12,960   9,460    22,420
* Sorvics                  3  10   7.3    22    220         275     123    8        0    123    123            0 10,535    10,55
* Logefets                 1    1   21.0  21         21      26      26    8        0      26     26           0   2,258      2,258
* Ecot d'apptlcation   245    Y    2.3    80    560         700     553    a        0    553    5S3            O  4?.S15    47,S15
total 3    407                      1,676   2,093   1,524           271  1,524  1,795       39.017 131.068   170,085
4. 1.8.1. Thies
* Locaux Pedagogques  1t0   10    4.0    60    600          750     33    A       3N8    363    750       55,800  18125    71,925
 Aidinitration            7    a 3.1    22   176           220     220    A        0    220  220              0  11,000    11,000
Srvices                    3   7    10.7    3222            2n0      35    A        0      35     35           0   1,750      1,750
Log9uQnt                 1    1  28.0    Zt       2        35      35    A        0      35     35           0  1.750       1,750
*Ecole deapltcation   340    6    1.5    60    360          450             A     450       0    450      64,800        0    64,800
Total 4    401                      1,38   1,735      653           030    653  1.490    120,600  32.625   153,225
TOTAL 1.2.34 a 2.839                        90089  11,361   9.509          1,308  9.509 10,81?    180,41? 530u3,         718,710
AtREPl  a 50,000 PCUA; B:MRUA  a W000 FCPA, C:COtfl  - 144,000 RC5
6-nov492
A:ENISOPI2.UK1<UAo



.57-
ANhEX 
Page 2 of 2
Table 2. Irsap t1esu d'AksjS e - Iawuntafre dé Loca
Surface nette      Surtace
, * v ~- *6Cout
reise               Omrute  Constr en CFAF  000
Cqps-  o do ------   ------  -
cite Unité Place Unité Total   Totat par 12  eoef  total
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........... ................. ... ............... ............................ ....... .............. .............
Locau                                15  U  - h2    HZ    N2          N2 CFAF/Z   X    CtAF
Corps de Contrôle
Inspecteur d'Acadâmi.                 1    1   16.0    16    16       22        A   1   2,981
Inspecteur adjoint                    t    1   12.0    12    12       16        A   1   2.236
Conseitter p6dagogique arabe          1    1   12.0   12    12        16        A   1   2.236
Secretariat
Secretariat fichier/Courrier          t    1   9.0      9      9      12        A   1   1.?02
Secretariat Dactylographie            1    1   9.0      9      9      12        A   1   1,702
Administration
A4ainistration Perionnel              1    1   12.0    12    12       16        A   1   2.269
Coeptabilitt                          1    1   12.0    12    12       16        A   1   2.269
Patrimaine et Matériel                t    t   12.0    12    12       16        A   1   2.269
Sections Pédagogiques
Préscolaire & Enseignt Elts.          t    1   12.0   12    12        16        A   1  2,269
inseilnt  oyen Second.    Tech.       t    t   12.0    12    12       16        A   ¶   2,269
Planification (carte scotaire)        t    t   12.0    12    12       16        A   1   2,269
cxamens Concours & Scotarité          I    1   12.0    12    12       16        A   1   2.269
Alphabltfsation et Edus. de base      1    t   12.0   12    12        16        A   t   2.269
«ervice M6dico-Scotaire               1    1   14.0   14    14        19        A   t   2.647
Service
Gardien/chauffeur                     2    t   4.5      9      9      12        A   t   1.702
-oc-au  Cuns
Sibliothèqu  Archi vns/Tirags         1    1   45.0   45    45        62        a   1   8.508
oept de Livres                        -         -       12    12      t6        a   1   2.269
agasin Fournitures Scotaires               1           12    12       16        A   1   2,269
Magasin Matériel                      -                 1 *  t6    16  22       A   1   3.025
Abri Véhicule                              1    -      20    20       27        a   1   1.891
Sanitaires                                 t    -       13    13      18        A   t   2,458
Totat        17                      ;9f0s,
Iote. A: 138 000 CFAf/2; S: 69 .000 CfAf/ c2; Non mcpris ceofficient eloigno.nt.                    A:INSP2
17-Sep-92
Têb(e S. Inspections 4cadfide - Iwmnt ire du Lasmu
Surface nette      8urae Locaux          Trvaux envisa_  sur le projet PORH2
,.............,. ....... ............ .. .............. ........ .. ..........
requise             Srute    Existant   Surlace en H2           Cout en CFAP '000
Capa- no d  ---. -                       -
-cite Unité Place Unit  Total  total   Surf. type  Extens Renov  total  txtens  Renov    total
Accomodation Unit/Loc U    U    HZ   le2    le         HZ      H2<ABC)   112    le         m2  CtAF    CtAP       CFAF
v ..... .................  ...............  ...... ............  .........  ................. ..................... .......................
Oakar              17  1   17.4  295    295       403      S92    A       0    40      403        0  20,150  20,150
* Zinguinchor       18   1   16.4  295    m        403      121    A     282    121    403   40,608   6,050   46,658
*et. Louis          18   1   16.4  29S    m        40         0    A     403      0    403   58.032        0   58,032
* Tabcu             18   1   16.4  295    295      403      828    A       0    403    403         0  20,150   20,150
^    tolack         18   t   16.4  295    2ff    403        695    A       0    40      403        0  20,150   20,150
* Thies             18   1   16.4  295    295      403      330    A      75    330    403   10.512  16,500   27,012
'Loua               18   1   16.4  295    295      40         0    A     40       0    403   58,032         0   58,032
*Kolda              18  1   16.42          295     40       540    A       0  40        403        0 20,150 20,150
*iourbel (a)        18   1   16.4  295    295      40       564            0      0       0        0       0         0
*fatick (a)         18   1   16.4  295   295       40       564            0      0       0        0        0        0
TOTAL            179                   2,950   3,627   3,642         1,161  2,063  3,224  167,184 103,150  270,334
"otes <>: construites rec_snt et selon tes nonm
A :REPAR  a  50.000 CFAf; 8: REMU    a  86.000 CFAf; C sOIISTR a 144 .000 CFAF              17-Sep-92    A:IWVT3M.uK(SA)



-A58 -
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIQUE DU SENEGAL
DEUXIEME PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DES RESSOURCES HUMAINES
OEDUCATION)O
SYSTEME NA1TIONAL D'EVALUA4TION DUI RENDEMENT SCOLAIRE (SNERxS
1.    Objectifs du Projet, Description et Etendue
Un système national pour évaluer l'efficacité de l'enseignement élémentalre en terme
des connaissances acquises par les elèves sera mis en place dans le cadre du PDRH2. Ce Système
National d'Evaluation du Rendement Scolaire (SNERS) aura comme objectif global de fournir au
personnel enseignant, aux administrations scolaires, aux décideurs et au public des donnees fiables
et valides sur les connaissances des élèves par rapport aux objectifs du programme él6mentaire, de
les aider à définir les caractéristiques d'un rendement scolaire satisfaisant, et de proposer des
domaines où des am6liorations seraient souhaitables. Ce système sera aussi capable: 1) de suivre
le progrès du système dans le temps, 2) de fournir du "feedback' continu aux programmes de
formation des maîtres, 3) de faire une comparaison du rendement scolaire des classes à double flux,
des classes multigrades, et des classes pilotes par rapport aux classes traditionnelles, 4) d'identifier
les caract6ristiques des élèves, des écoles, et des maîtres qui contribuent à un meilleur rendement
scolaire, et 5) d'6valuer 1'efficacité des investissements du PDRH Il.
2.    Méthodologie
Pour atteindre ces objectifs, le SNERS développera des épreuves pour mesurer le
savoir et le savoir-faire des élèves dans trois sujets de base - français, mathématiques, et science -
pour les classes de CP, CE2, CM2. Ces épreuves seront adminisées à un échantillon représentatif
d'délves et d'6coles et fourniraient les donn6es sur le pourcentage d'élèves qui ont acquis les
connaissances de base. L'dchantillon devrait inclure les 6élves de c' ies multigrades, double flux
et le programme de classes pilotes.
La réussite de l'élève 6tant li6e à une varieté de facteurs relatifs à ses dispositions,
son environnement domestique, 1'6cole, l'enseignant et le processus d'enseignement, l'tude rassemble
6galement des informations sur ces intrants connus ou espérés pour leur influence sur la réussite de
l'élève.
3.    RMsulats eswomptés
o  Liv  décrivant les objectifs à valuer pour chacune des mftières et par niveau.



A&NNEXJ 8
Page 2 of 3
o  Raprt gb«J sur les résultats pour chaque matière et par niveau, rédigé clairement avec
une présentation simple pour un non technicien. Les résultats seront décrits en terme de
pourcentage des élèves performants aux différents niveaux. Les rapports devront contenir
aussi des données relatant la performance des élèves aux caractéristiques du maStre, de l'élève
et de l'école. Les rapports seront rendus disponibles au niveau de chaque section et division
du MEN, à chaque inspection et aux EFI.
o  Une broc4u résumant les résultats sera envoyée aux directeurs d'écoles et servira pour
animer des rencontres avec les maltres et parents d'élèves intéressés.
o  Un rapprtt,echniq  complet décrivant les procédures techniques et psychométriques suivies
dans IB développement et l'exécution de l'évaluation pour la communaué de techniciens et
ceux intéressés par la conduite de recherches utilisant la base de données.
4. Personnel et Formation
La mise en place du SNERS nécessitera la coordination d'une variété de tches et un corps
de personnel bien formé dans les domaines de la statistique, de la psychométrie et le développement
des épreuves. Comme le Sénégal n'a jamais mené une évaluation de cette nature, le MEN procèdera
à un jumelage avec un groupe d'experts internationaux, pour une assistance technique à long terme
afin de développer et exécuter le programme, d'identifier les besoins en personnel et d'élaborer et
fournir un programme de formation technique.
Pour démarrer le développement du SNERS, le MEN devra identifier un noyau de personnel
sénégalais constitué d'un coordinateur ayant des qualifications reconnues dans le domaine du
management, un statisticien ayant une expérience dans la préparation d'enquêtes, un spécialiste dans
le développement de test et un chercheur en éducation expérimenté. Le groupe tavaillera avec les
expers internationaux selectionnés pour le développement du SNERS, et par la définition des besoins
en équipement, en formation et en personnel additionnel. Avant les négociations de l'Accord du
Crédit IDA, ce noyau de personnel devra être identifié. Les termes de référence pour l'assistnce
technique devront également être préparés avant les négociations.
S. Mise en Oeuvm
Le SNRES sera mis en oeuvre durant la période du projet. Les éléments constiutifs de ce
programme seront les suivants:
Année I
o Formation à la rédaction des objectifs de performance, à la confection des articles de textes,
et au développement des questionnaires d'enquête
o  Formulation des objectifs de réussite en mahématiques, on français et en science pour les
classes de CP, CE2 et CM2
o  Définition des infonrations à rassembler et concernant les élèves, écoles et les maes
o Confection des épreuves et questionnaires supplémentaires relatifs aux élèves, écoles et
maîtres



-60-
Pago 3 of 3
Année 2
o  Formation sur les sujets d'analyse, test de notation, codification, quesdonnaire et analyse de
résultats
o Pre-test et utilisation applicaion des épreuves et questionnaire
o Notation des résultats du test; Codification des questionnaires supplémentaires.
o Développer les plans d'analyse des donnes
Année 3
o Analyse des donnéeslpréparation des rapports
Année 4
o  Diffusion de résultats
o Préparer le recommencement de l'évaluation
Année 5
o Recommencer l'évaluation
6.    Soutien au Projet
Afin de soutenir la mise en place du SNRES au sein du DPRE, le projet foumla
environ 200 millions de CFAF afin de fimancer l'achat des ordinates et des progrmm
informatiques nécessaires à l'analyse des données, l'équivalent de 26 mois de consultant s au n
international, de 24 mois d'études courtes à l'étranger dans le cadre d'un jumelage aec ume
institution collaboratrice, des véhicules et autres équipements (photocopieuses, fax) ayant pouw but
de faciliter la collecte des donnémes, la préparation des rapports et la comnmnication e    le DPRE
et l'institution en question, l'équivalent de 78 mois de consultants au niveu local pour la
programmation des ordinaturs, l'assistance à la recherche et l'assistance technique en matdé  de
statistiques, d'échantillonage et de rédaction des questionnaires, l'équivalent d'un mois de bowses
pour la participation à des ateliers régionaux,' les frais de déplacement pour 24 personnes/sema
pour chaque étape de l'évaluation (soit 3 classes et 3 sujets), 43 personnes/semaines d'ateliers
spécialisés en matibre d'écriture, de collecte de données et de dissémiion, ainsi que les cots des
fournitures pour la mise en place de l'évaluation. Le Gouvernement prendrait eon charge le paiement
des salaires des 4 personnes employées, montant estimé à 10 millions de CFAP par an.
1.    Tels quo e opua0    par EDI ou bin IAA.



GEIPUUIE SU UW
tabte 201. billeretian ct4ulsemts Nyi. S       atfere. 0Cm
Det.IlOd Cit lbbe
totale                                                  us_        ------tta  In
0/%       04/0      05/9      060       07 l 1.             034  94/05  05 ff6  96/or  *97.    tota
1. 0m.g.ust OOIte  ss
_us «mpflnt 6 colleges           0.0  1013.   108113.5  111%46.9         0.0  SMn.7          o.o  417.1  432.5  447.8    0.0 l120.9
hemn. bIM .. 15 iyeee 41>        0.0   71ns.0    s568.8        0.0       0.0  156033.8       0.0      . m.9        0.0 O.S  624.1
llempmst 0CM                     0.0  319040.4       0.0       0.0       0.0  31900.4        0.  2mo.    0.0    0.0    0.0  1276.2
Sé.?otal                          0.0  4%4918.6  1928.3  111946.1         0.0  7M0 .9         0.0 107.7  m.7  urv.8    0.o 3118.2
8. S9ievI.lewCeslrol, <2>
6 eml                            0.0    £54        0239.7    1Z2.8       *.0   21017.3       0.0   38.8   37.0   39.3    0.0  112.1
Sibil otheqpn                    0.0    4177.9    4517.2    4W2.3        0.0   1369.3        0.0   17.5   10.1   19.2    0.0 o    4.8
Ueunmps.t 1m                     0.0   27638.1        0.0      0.0        0.0   27638.1      0.0  110.6    0.0    0.0    0.0  110.6
*   Sada,tol                      0.0    M970.7   13756.9   14U.1         0.0    352.7        0.0  13019  55.0   58.5    0.0  m7.
-       C. habiller <e(oîîjos) v
'o           Habilier 6 eolps                  0.0   11021.9   10377.0   10.6          0.0   314«6.S       0.0   40.1   41.5   44.3    0.0  125.9
*           habIller lbIlothmns               0.0    4W.6    S3.2    5412.3           0.0   158.          0.0   10.6   20.3   21.6    0.0   61.5
sdmt.tsl                         0.0   14921.5   15450.3   161.9         0.0   4 .6          0.0    J.7   61.8   65.0    0.  107 .4
0. Iqipemasl  cullem .3,O-0 1UA                              114.          .0 36.
D. Ealpumo 6 olq S.) ds
. Livres b      eliohlquu             0.0   100.0   1042.4   1 .8             0.0   310.1         0.0   40.2   41.7   44.6    0.0  126.6
15 bibilothqus «4>               0.0   222t7.2   23125.2   2U12t.1       0.0   60400.S       0.0   80.0   02.s   96.1    0.0  2n.6
Livre bibtioteqas un             0.0       0.0  231252.1       0.0   * .0   UUS2.1            0.0    0.0  05.0    0.0    0.0  12.0
........   .......  .   .....   ......  ...........      ........... . .....   .        .. .. ...
5mb-Total                         0.0    mr6.2  z54377.3   24.1           0.0  3001.6         0.0   8.0  lOIJ.S   06.1    0.0 1203.6
Services < qAuIs.es
£tu*$ OP                         0.0   133S4.3   1875.1   116.3           0.0   4ffls.7       0.0   53.4   SS.5   57.7    0.0  16.6
................................. .................0.. .....0
totel IIIvSsIIt tOeu;                    0.0  59ff80.2  S0074.3  104.0           0.0 1U81.6          0.0 2315.  2002.3  M70.6    0.0 5158.8
j * | *                   mmtaeums umaum*«  ".n-                                           * afg   mf  -*mo   u-_     
total                                 0.0  506400.3 .500574.3   026.0         0.0 U12870.6        0.0 21.9 I2.3  770.6    0.0 S1#.8
n> 15 blb lheqs  63 . ehee, 140.00 leC           s o. fCAbtbibU
<3, 03*el val.,eur du term_.
m dè 90 »m  des trv.
.3> 10, _h     le.       w«1b1, <fie telvuuisv



- 62 -
ANNEX IQ
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC 0F SENEGAI
SECOND HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(EDUCATION V
BACKGROUND STUDIES ON GENERAL SECONDARY EDUCATION
Background studies financed under the project will include the following topics:
(a)    Supply and quality of public secondary education, including inter alia, enrollments,
transition rates from primary in both generat and vocational education, inputs
including the status of physical facilities, availabilitiy of textbooks, curriculum and
other educational materials, staff numbers and qualifications, teachers' salaties
relative to other occupations requiring similar years of education, quality assurance
mechanisms, geographic and gender equity, social demand for secondary education
and projected requirements of the system.
(b)    Costs and financing of secondary schooling, including trends ln expenditure by
Government, families and other relevant contributors, unit costs and equity.
(c)    Supply of private secondary education, including areas listed in (a) above and legal
status, regulatory system, unit costs, financing, quality of outputs and equity.
(d)    Quality of instruction including, the scope, sequencing and level of difficulty of the
curriculum, books and other learning materials, levels of student achievement,
success of students in higher education and the labor market.
(e)    nternal and external efficiency, including repetition and pass rates, demand and
wages associated with this level and type of education in the labor market relative to
lower and higher levels of edcuation.
(t)    Governace, control, management and admininstrion of general secondary
education inclu relevant systems in the Ministry of Education and at the regional and
school levels, the Ministry of Education policies governing secondary education,
financial control and staffing levels and professional preparation of staff.



-63-
Page 1 of 12
}EPUBBC OF SENÉAL
SECAN HUMA,N RQIESOUR(ZSDEV PR
ITERMES DE REFERRENC DES La&=I DE COORDINATION DU POE
1.            . Pour aider e Gouvermen   atteindre les objectifs qu'il s'est fixé, le proJet
1ort à travers lUnité de Coordon du Projet (UCP) une assistance au Minstère de l'éducation
nationle pour gérer les fonds, coordonner et suivre le projet - dont les divers élément sont mis en
oeuvre par ses propres services ou des agences d'exécution comme 1AGETIP à qui il aura ddlégué
des taches d'exécution.
2.      Pi     . Chargée de suivre l'exécution du projet et d'évaluer des résultats qualitatifs et
q_itbft, lUCP supervise et coordonne les acvités du projet, y mpris toutes les liaisons avec
les difféents services du Ministère de l'éducation, les autres ministères et services officiels intessés
par le projet, et les bailleurs de fonds. Dans le cadre de ses activités quotidienmns, l'UCP a pour
fonctions spécifques de:
(a)    coordonner tous les aspects de l'exécuton du projet entre les divers services officiels
r-s
(P)    vewler à ce que les coordonnateurs de chaque composante s'acquittent efficacement
de leurs fonctions;
(c).   organiser la dél4gation de maltrise d'ouvrage pour les travaux de génie civil et suivre
pour le compte du Ministère rexécution physique et flnanciêre des contrats de
travaux;
(d)    organiser la passation des marchés de mobilier et de matériel - notamment en
préparant ou en aidant à préparer les dossiers d'appels d'offres, analysa  les offres,
et présentant des recommandaions pour l'attribution des marchés, et s'assurant que
les marchés sontpassés conormémet aux directives de l'IIA ou des autres bailleurs
de fonds;
(e)   s'assurer que les fournkiu    et approvisionnements achetés au titre du projet sont
livrés à leurs destinations et inscrits dans le registre centr des avoirs;
(t)    organiser le recrutement des spéciaistes et administrer les accords d'assistance
technique et les programmes de bourses d'tudes;
(g)   suivre et contrôler les dates d'achêvement et les coOts des acquisitions;
(b)    assurer le flux saant et ponctuel des fonds aux éléments du projet;



-64 -
ANNE-X I 1
Page 2 of 12
(i)   tenir les comptes du projet selon des méthodes comptables généralement a _ccepé;
()    établir les demandes de décaissement des fonds du crédit de lIDA;
(k)    assurer le versement ponctuel, par le Gouvernement, des fonds de contrepartie du
projet;
(I)   tenir les écritures, y compris les écritures financières liées à l'exécution du projet;
(m) préparer régulièrement les rapports d'activité et autres rapports devant être présentés
aux responsables des composantes du Ministère et aux bailleurs de fonds; et
(n)    organiser la préparation des futurs projets.
3. Mye: L'UCP est rattachée au Bureau du Secrétaire général du Ministbre; elle est dirigée
par un Directeur à plein temps, appuyé par un personnel comprenant un adminisurgestionnaire,
un planificateur de l'éducation, un spécialiste de la passation des marchés, un comptable, et utre
personnel de soutien approprié - deux secrétaires, un agent comptabilité matière et un agent
adminisaif.



-65 -
Page 3 of 12
TE}tNEfS DE REERENCE DU-DIRECTEUR
4.    Le directeur de 1'UCP est responsable de la bonne gestion et coordination du projet. A ce
titr il veille à ce que les moyens du projet soient utiisés avec le maximum d'efficacité pour atteindre
les objectifs fixés en terme de résultats, conformément aux accords passés avec les bailleurs de fonds.
Il est chargE plus précisément des tlches suivantes:
(a)    Assurer une diffusion suffisante de la documentation relative au projet (rappots
d'évaluation, rappons d'activltés, accords de crédit, documents de travail, directives
des bailleurs de fonds);
(b)    Prdparer toute la documentation nécessaire pour les examens annuels des plans
d'actions avec les bailleurs de fonds;
(c)    Assister les responsable des composantes dans la préparation de leurs plans de travail
et de leurs budgets annuels;
(d)    Coordonner tous les aspects d'exécution du projet et donner l'impulsion nécessaire
à temps voulu;
(e)    Veiller à ce que les responsables des diverses composantes assument efficacement
leurs fonctions;
(t)    Superviser les composantes et les unités de gestion, de passation des marcbEs et de
comptabilite de l'UCP pour que les moyens prévus sur le projet (fournitures, travaux
et services) soient délivrdes selon les progranmes établis en ce qui concerne les
aspects finciers et qualitatifs, et selon les procédures acceptables;
(g)    S'assurer que les fonds de contre partie nationale ou de co-financements soient mis
en place;
(h)    Approuver les mouvements de fonds;
CI)    Veiller à ce que tous les comptes des projets soient tenus selon des procédures
comptables    acceptables par les bailleurs de fonds;
(j)    Signer tous les documents necessaires pour les demandes de retrait de fonds sur les
comptes de crédit, sur les fonds de roulement et comptes spéciaux;
(k)    Prendre tous les arrangements necessaires pour que les vérifications des comptes
soient effectudes selon les stipulations des accords de crédit;



- 66 -
ANNEX Il
Page 4 of 12
(I)    S'assurer que toute la documentation requise sur le projet soit disponible et transmise
aux bailleurs de fonds selon leurs directives.
5. OUALIFICATIONS REOUIJSES.
(a)    études supérieures (formation en économie ou planification de l'Education);
(b)    expérience d'au moins cinq (5) années à un poste de responsabilité équivalente dans
des fonctions de gestion ou d'administration publique;
(c)    expérience durant les dix (10) dernières années dans le domaine de la
programmation, de la gestion des ressources financières et humaines;
(d)    une bonne connaissance du secteur des ressources humaines;
6.    Conditions d'emploi: Las conditions d'emploi feront l'objet d'un contrat de deux ans
renouvelable, à négocier avec le Gouvernement. Le Directeur pourra ete un fonctionnaire, mais
dans ce cas, son contrat ne pourra pas êre financé sur le crédit de l'IDA.
(a)    Lieu d'affectation:       Dakar
(b)    Durée du contrat:         Deux ans renouvelables (avec une durée maximum
de 5 ans)
(c)    Date de prise de fonction:    D6but 1993



-67-
ANN I I
Page 5 of 12
TERME DE REERENCE DU CQQ INAM  TECHMOù ET PAG9IQ
7.    Potigon: Placé sous l'autorité du Directeur, il lui rend compte de toutes les activités
soumises à sa responsabilité hiérarchique. Il est responsable de tous documents pour information et
signature décisionnelle relatifs à la programmation, au suivi et à l'exécution des actions pédagogiques
prévues sur le projet. Plus précisément, D est chargé des tâches suivantes:
-     Veiller à ce que les activités de chacune des composantes du Projet soient orientées dans le
sens des objectifs assignés tels que formulés dans la description de chaque composante.
-     Veiller au respect des programmes et des calendriers d'exécution.
-     Assurer l'harmonisation des différentes activités et, éventellement, la complémentarité des
moyen mis en oeuvre.
-     Veiller à ce que l'exécution des aspects physiques du projet: construction, équipements,
matériel didactique, ... soit conforme aux nécessités pédagogique exprimées par le
bénéficiaire et aux instructions du Ministère de i'Education Nationale.
Assurer la coordination des activités d'assistance technique due projet et formuler des avis
sur la sélection des spécialistes et consultants.
Assurer le suivi de la formation sur place et à l'étranger et formuler des avis sur la sélection
des candidats boursiers.
Apporter un appui technique et méthodolegique aux diverses composantes dans le domaine
de sa compétence.
Etablir des rapports périodiques sur le déroulement des activités avec les recommandations
éventuelles aux autorités nationales.
Contribuer à la préparation de futurs projets.
8.    Conditions d'emploi: Les conditions d'emploi feront l'objet d'un contrat de deux ans
renouvelable, à négocier avec le Gouvernement. Il s'agit d'un poste de contractuel. Le candidat ne
pourra pas appartenir à la Fonction Publique.
(a)    Lieu d'affectation:       Dakar
(b)    Durée du contrat:         Deux ans renouvelables (avec une durée maximum
de 5 ans)
(c)    Date de prise de fonction:    Début 1993



-68 -
ANNEX Il
Page 6 of 12
lUÇS DE REU&E1gNC  DE L'ADMINI   ATUMR GESTIONNAIRE
9.    Placé sous l'autorité du Directeur de l'UCP, l'Administrateur Gestionnaire lui rend compte
de toues les activis soumises à sa responsabilité hiérarchique. Il est responsable de tous documents
pour information et signature décisionnelle relatifs à la programmation, au suivi et à l'exécution des
commandes, dépenses et acquisitions pour l'ensemble des activités du projet. Plus précisément, il
est chargé des tkhes suivantes:
(a)    Avant le dmaa9 du Urolet mente en place:
Le système de gestion et de circulation de l'information;
Le systeme de gestion comptable et financière;
Les tableaux de visualisation des flux monétaires destinés aux différents responsables
du projet;
Les tableaux de suivi des acquisitions de biens et de services;
(b)    En ce qui concerne la gestion financière:
Blaborer les budgets annuels en liaison avec chaque composante;
Suivre les opérations financières (engagements, retraits, règlements en monnaie de
crédit, rapprohement bancaire);
Etablir les états financiers du projet;
Veiller au respect du calendrier des activités, et au maintien permanent du niveau des
liquidités;
Préparer les lettres de commandes;
Viser les engagements et bons de commande qui seront présentés à la signature du
directeur;
Préparer les demandes de paiement ettou remboursements qui seront présentés à la
signature du directeur;
(c)    En ce qui concerne la "estion comgable:
Superviser le saisie des opérations et veiller à la tenue des différents registres
comptables;



-69 -
ANNIX 11
Page 7 of 12
Donne  visa su lg dosis de r;ement
(d)    En ce agi cocen la giadum  darm  nt demsoca:
Superviser la prog mon et l'utilisation des aqlstions de bls et de svices.
10. QUALUFICATIONS REQUISES.
(a)    Etudes supreurs (n *omie, comptablt publique, gestion);
(b)    Hxpdrhece d'au moins ciq (5 am    k n post de  uponsablit64équivaete das
le soct  prt  ou la gestion de projet flanc par d  organism  de f  l
(c)    ExpEriene dam  le domain de l'dducation, de la omation et des ressources
humaine, souhaibe, mals non d6elsv;
(d)   co          de syste d gestdon comptable et  ci     Indspsable.
Il.   C'd   d           :g , Les conditions (emploi feron l'objet d'un contat de deux an
Xl.   :              >      {      1 'i          Z     f    "&~ -Mi
renuelable, k n0gocier avec le Ciouve---m--- Il sgi  d'un pose de contact. I. candidat ne
Pourra pas apprnir à la Ponci  Publi
(a)    Lieu d'affe   :           Daka
(b)   Durde du conat:            Dex aus renouvelables (avec une dur maximum
de 5 a)
(c)    Date de prise de foncdon:    D     1993



-70-
ANNEX I I
Page 8 of 12
TERMES DE REFERENCE DU RESPONSABLE DES ACHATS
1.    Posidtln: Placé sous l'autorité du Directeur, et en relation permanente de coordination avec
l'Administrateur-Gestionnaire et le Comptable, il lui rend compte de toutes les activités soumises à
sa responsabilité, relatives à la programmation, l'acquisition et au suivi de l'utilisation des biens et
services fournis par le projet.
2.    Resp:sblité: Dans l'exercice de ses fonctions, il doit:
(a)    En ce qui concerne la p   ntion:
-      Ouvrir et tenir à jour un répertoire des fournisseurs et des entreprises, en utilisant les
procédures de présélection prévues pour le projet;
-      Ouvrir et tenir à jour un bordereau des prix unitaires les plus usuels;
-      Elaborer et tenir à jour la liste détaillée et chiffrée des acquisitions de biens et de
services prévues sur le financement du projet pour toutes les composantes, et finaliser
avec les composantes les caractéristiques et spécifications techniques;
-      Elaborer et tenir à jour le calendrier de passation des marchés suivant un modèle jugé
acceptable par l'IDA pour le projet - comporant l'estimation prévisionnelle, la
procédure de passation de marché acceptable selon les termes des accords de crédits,
la préparation et l'approbation des appels d'offres, les consultations, l'évaluation des
offres, l'approbation des propositions d'attribution des marchés, la signatwre et la
notification des marchés, la fabrication et livraison, et la réception des marchés;
(b)    En ce qui concerne la préparation des documents d'appels d'offres:
-      Elaborer les dossiers standards d'appels d'offres pour les divers types de fournitures
et les lettres d'invitation et contrats pour les services; et veiller à ce que ces modèles
reçoivent les approbations nécessaires des bailleurs de fonds et de l'Administration
sénégalaise;
-      Préparer etlou organiser et superviser la préparation des dossiers d'appels d'offres
et lettres d'invitation;
-      S'assurer que les dossiers ont reçus les approbations nécessaires (au niveau national
et auprès des bailleurs de fonds);
(c)    En ce qui concerne la passation des marchés:
-      Préparer et faire publier les avis d'appels d'offres;



-71 -
ANNX 
Page 9 of 12
Représenter le Directeur à toutes les séances d'ouverture et d'évaluation des offres
ainsi qu'à toutes les séances d'attribution des marchés;
Veiller à la confiance des rapports d'évaluation des offres et s'assurer que ceux-ci
reçoivent les approbations nécessaires des bailleurs de fonds et des membres
compétents de l'Administration;
Préparer les marchés et veiller à ce qu'ils soient approuvés, signés, visés et notifiés
selon le manuel des procédures et dans les meilleurs délais;
S'assurer que les soumissionnaires non retenus reçoivent les informations nécessaires
ainsi que leurs cautions de soumission aussitôt après la décision d'attribution des
marchés;
(d)    En ce qui concerne l'exécution des marchés:
Veiller à ce que les engagements sur marchés soient systématiquement communiqués
au gestionnaire et au comptable;
Veiller à ce que les dispositions nécessaires aient été prises pour que l'exécution des
marchés soit supervisée suivant les exigences spécifiques de chaque marché;
Organiser les commissions de réception des fournitures, et s'assurer que les articles
biens et services reçus sont corrects pour ce qui est de la quantité et de la qualité et
qu'ils sont conformes aux spécifications;
Prendre les mesures nécessaires pour que les biens et services soient livrés et
entreposés en sOreté aux endroits et aux dates précisées;
Préparer les rapports semestriels sur la situation des marchés;
(e)    En ce qui concerne le respect des accords avec les balUeurs de fonds:
Veiller à ce que les procédures décrites dans les accords avec les bailleurs soient
respectées à tous les stades des acquisitions de biens et de services;
Veiller à ce que les montants cumulés des fournitures acquises suivant les diverses
procédures ne dépassent pas les plafonds fixés dans les accords de crédit;
(t)    En ce qui concerne l'utilisation des bens acquis:
Elaborer et tenir à jour les rappons sur l'utilisation et le fonionnement des
équipements mis à la disposition des diverses composantes et veiller à ce que leur
ance soit effectuée selon des méthodes efficaces et économiques;



.n-.
Pago 10 of 12
3.    ?Sf   - 
(a)    Diplôme d'ing5_,. droit ou 6oomie;
Ob)    Exp*rince do cinq a   minimum dan la gesdon et l'dminsion de projets de
taille simiaire, da  le seuw  privé ou des projet similairs;
(c)    MatIe parfa de la langue fnase et de l'utIlIsaon d'ordinas; et
(d)    Rfoences au co    des cinq drnières anM  fia  au d'une apde  orgaie
son travail, et d'une  i_  pio.
4.         t             Le conditions d'emplo  faro  l'objet d'un  ntrat àb  goier avec le
Gouvernement qui se rsrm le droit de traiter avec d'autres firmes ou or  les svices
d'expets ou de conul_t. Il si  d'un post de conuactd. Le cadIdat ne poua pas appartenir
à la Foncton Publique.
(a)    Lieu d'affectation:       Dar
(b)    Durée du contrat:         Dux      reouvelables (avec une dur  mxmm
de S ans)
(c)    Date de prise de foncDon:    Ddt 1993



-73 -
ANEX 11
Pag Il of 12
JE3B DE R}NCE= Du1aMTBI
5.    Descrption des tâches
Sous l'autorité de Directeur de l'UCP, et sous la responsabilité de l'Adminisar
Gestionnaire, le comptable de l'UCP est responsable de la tenue journaliére de la comptabilité, ainsi
que de la préparation des s vérifications comptables relatives à l'exécution du projet. Plus
précisément, il est chargé entre autre des taches suivantes:
(a)    veiller à ce que les comptes soient suffisamment approvisionnés en vue du règlement
rapide des dépenses engagées dans le cadre du projet;
(b)   tenir à jour et de manière tégulière des documents ffnanciers (ourux et livres
comptables) et une comptabilité détaillée pour chaque catégorie de coûts,
composantes et sous-composantes;
(c)    établir les demandes de paiement et assurer leur suivi;
(d)    prparer les demandes de retrait de fonds et toute la documentation nécessaire aux
décaissements conformément aux directives de l'IDA;
(e)    dresser mensuellement les éats de rapprochement bancaire du compte spécial du
projet et sortir la situation financièe de chaque composante;
(t)    superviser les activités de l'agent comptable matière du projet;
(g)   tenir une comptabilité informatisée et sortir les rapports présetation régulière des
comptes, états et tableaux de bord du projet;
6.    Oualificatigns
(a)    Formation de niveau supérieur (DUT) dans le domaine de la comptabilité;
(b)    Expérience d'au moins cinq (5) années dans un service comptable traitant un flux
annuel équivalent;
(c)    Connaissance ettou expérience des rbgles et procédures de décaissement des projets
financés par la Banque mondiae ou des projets similaires comprenant plusieurs
compnosantes et sous-composantes est souhaitable mais non indispensable;
(d)    Bonne connaice de l'utilisation de la micro-inormatique en générai et des
logiciels comptables en particulier.



-74 -
ANNEX-I1
Page 12 of 12
7.    Çopditions d'emploi. Les conditions d'emploi feront l'objet d'un contrat de deux ans
renouvelable, à ndgocier avec le Gouvernement. Il s'agit d'un poste de contracuel. Le candidat ne
pourra pas appartenir à la Fonction Publique.
(a)    Lieu d'affectation:      Dakar
(b)   Durée du contrat:         Deux ans renouvelables (avec une durée maximum
de S ans)
(c)    Date de prise de fonction:    Début 1993



-75-
AN= 12
Page 1 of 7
REPI«X OU s_im
NUt DE OE     LPMIR SS O ES           E$  aoIoES  il
E£dmétton V
Project Cost S_ry
FC,A                                us$                            s total
................           .    .......... .............. .......... ...  ------ -*  l 
a    Folign           TotaI        Locel  Fotelon    Total       lacama        Cste
.........      *****Z*** ....................-- ---------       ..      ...........
£  ns.lg mnet  lmnai e
1. Salles de elasse (nouw)          60.4    2919.7    06.1               24.2      11.7      35.J          32.6       54.2
2. Salles de classe <rem)            974.5    13S.0    2M99.5             3.9       5.3       9.2          s7.6       13.9
3. Solaristion des ftitis            123.0       74.1      197.2          0.5       0.3       0.8          37.6         1.2
4. foitien des aitres                36?.6      500.2      947.8           1.5      2.3       3.8          61.2        5.7
5. Usnwlouides muitr                  23.5    1347.3    1370.8             0.1      S.4       5.5          98.3        8.3
6.  ods  de dw"o            met      371.8       37.5      309.3           1.1      0.1       1.2           12.1        1.9
7. Sytte  d'evluation                 49.5      u4.7 -  198.2             0.2       0.6       0.8          75.0        1.2
.......... ......................,, ...... ........ ................ _    ..................................   ....................
S*totet                                7846.4    632.6   1478.9              31.4    28.7       57.1    ff.0             06.3
6 . £s. moy        , r sucoftç.         347.4      776.4    1123.8            1.4       3.1      4.S          69.1        6.8
C . Planification
1. Planication                         9.1       51.9       61.0          0.0       0.2       0.2          85.1        0.4
3. Senforemnt l                      146.5      281.1      47.6            0.6      1.1        1.1         65.7        2.6
Sah-Total                                1SS.6      33.0       48..6           0.6       1.3      2.0            0.3       3.0
S .   stlion du pojet                   237.5      187.1      424.6           1.0       0.7       1.7          44.1        2.6
. PPF                                    75.2       99.7      175.0           0.3       0.4      0.7           57.0        1.1
f . Etudi  Preffrltoires                  7.2       38.7      4*.9            0.0      0.2       0.2           84.3        0.3
................................................. ...........................   ........................................ ..........
Total SAS£11E COSIS                      M6.3    7067.5   1436.8              34.7      31.4     66.1           47.5      100.0
Phmcal Contiongmcies                    88.6     174.3      262.9           0.4      0.7        1.1          66.3        1.6
Prise Continsemies                    421.0      96.7    1308.T             1.6      3.9       5.6           70.5        8.4
_,...... ................... : ..................... ............................................ ................. ....................__
Total  OIE CTS COSTS                    9178.9    9009.4   1818.3             36.7      36.0      7.8           49.5      110.0
a   m __o_m,e
......................~*.... .... ......:..................



*mmmluu« 0W 896
s"~~Ww i  - 
du  dki             pou   t     £icsian
(MXe|)           tremv)    filles     l  t°s    mitre                                     Plant fi nottl            di
.Cemr. ciasme1                                                   0.0         0.0                                                                            0
3faire/contrat.  uou                     0.0        0.0         0.0      131.7        0.0        0.0         0.0      610.2         0.0      moi.          0.0        0          0.0
Séesa  365.2 157.7         0.0      731.7         0.0        0.0        0.0         9.2        0.0       MA51         0.0        00         0.0
I. PmvitweS
1. eqlmWoriu«2.2                                      0.0       26.0       74.6         9.7        0.0       21.7        28.0       39.8       28.0        17.0          .        0.0
3. NsIl  I.                             649.5       500.4        0.0        74.6        0.2        0.0         0.4       41.7        3.9        28.0        .3.5.                  0.0
3. Vuhieute,                              12.2        0.0        0.0         0.0       12.2       III2        12.2        0.0        18.4       71.4       10.4        0.0         0.0
4. Livres biMliotbequas                   0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0      265.2        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
5. mwU   t     rSi*5 mitre                0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        08.0       0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
................................................................... ;:                 ...... ...................................
t 8,h-eoe.i                             664.0       510.4        06.0 419. 2          9701        12.2           4                      0       27.4       38.o         0.0        0.0
C. Ceonstants
1. speil_/te unit.                        2.0         0.0       44.9         0.0       73.4       20.4       106.1       36.7        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        36.7
2. Spedialst  local                      80.4         0.0       15.6         0.0        0.0        0.0        43.5        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        6.7
3. 0esIr/inpwsp,                        341.7       143.4        0.0        66.9       12.4        0.0         0.0       63.0         0.0       25.2        0.0         0.0        0.0
4. Sarv. diat. Mn. scobaire                0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0      270.6         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
, ~~~~~~~~~.................................. ........................................................................ ................... .............................................................
sibtetmi                                422.1       143.4       60.5        66.9      366.4       20.4       149.6       99.7         0.0       25.3        0.0         0.0       43.4
t. formation
1. foumation locale                        1.0        0.0        0.6         0.0        3.7        ILS5        1.?        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
.Fmtion à tletoun ga                      0.0         0.0       «.1          0.0       30.6        2.6        11.9        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Sé*totai                     1.0        0.~ ~~~~~0 8.           .         43        2.          13.           .          ..                        ..0  ...0.
2. Interetios   pilotes                     0.0        0.0       101.5        0.0        0.0       253.7        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
P.  Se.w sa t. s PPI                        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       105.0        0.0
~~~~~...... ......... ...................................... .................................................................................................................
total  msT     h  COts                    0 22        9.5        196.7      947.8    1370.8        306.5      197.2    1123.8         61.0      427.6       38.7       105.0       43.4
Il, hzamI1t culis
1. ter_tle n lueeWUCel   ont.               0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.        194.9        0.0        0.0
2.  eries contractuel toc.                  7.3        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       109.5        0.0        0.0
C. fo ntluunt                               0.0        0.0         0.5        0.0         0.0        2.8        1.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        01.5        0.0       0.4
0. sal_ires uelg         s               3896.6        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
................. .......................................................................................................... .....
bbtC  NECIMST COSIS                     3939           0.0         0.5        0.0        0.0         2.8        1.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       305.9        0.0        2.4
total OASEINOUE  COITS                   950.1    2299.5        197.2      947.8    1370.8       309.3       190.2   .1123.8         61.0      427.6      4.6         115.0       45.9
ohysical Continuen ius                   79.7       31.4         0.0       36.6       47.4         0.1        0.1      *34.          0.0       13.8        19.3        0.0        0.1
PrIce contimnes                           o99.1    244.3        10.2       86.1      192.1         5.9       22.5      131.4         4.3       45.2       41.4         0.0        6.2
D.tbI PWECI                             396.9       25.1        207.4    100.5    1610.3          315.4       220.0     lm.?          65.3      46.6       480.3       15.0        52.1
lotes                                     0.0        0.0        O.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        t.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.00                   0.0



iol~4i~Cil nusut        Duesu
ma DE EYEt"W « S Ramas amines I l"ES1
totale Inclutir9 Cent.00  cla                                              totael Includine Corwtl_1
,................................................................    ................................................................. ...................................
9309* 9sem   ff96               "/97    9/9        9/        Tota                        93/ 1.n 1«                                * l
f.    s    detes   (nlen)            145e.6  J221.4   2266.4   2S0.6   1382.8              0.0   9634.9            5.8       9.1       9.1       9.0        5.5       0.0      38.5
Z. Sell s dé  lesnse ;raev)           610.7    63.Z.    654.5    6?t.6           0.0       0.0   2575.3            2.4       2.S        Z.6       2.7       0.0       0.0       tO.X
3. Scolarisation dis f itles           19.3      63.0       S4.T      39.T      30.7       0.0    20T.4            O.t        0J        0.2       0.2       0.1       0.0        D.8
4. Fôor  tien des mitres               35.0    f1.3         J4.3       0.0       0.0        0                                 30.0  0.0  0.0   t7.S4
S. OWMI*lo/ ideu eitre                 79.4    42I.2    503.6    516.6          J9.4        0.0   1610.3           0.3        1.t       2.0       2.1       0.4       0.0        6.4
6. rends de dve"lcp  en                l.O        hé.O      9t.0      64 4      68.8        0.3    31S 4           0.1        0.J       0.4       0.3       0.3        0.0       1.3
7. Sy teee d'ewltitlel                 3t.t      42.0       S2.1      32t2      2304       0.0    2200.             0.1 2      J        0.2       0.1       O t       0.0        0.9
g   4rc4.1   4t.1     M06.6    3581.2     MA9    0.0    05M.3           0.?       tLO        tXJ3      M.3        S.4       0.0      6.5
O. Ens. roren mmdon,W*pe.                   0.0    S96.5    ShO.6    192.6           0.0       0.0   12e'.7            0.0       2.4       2.0       0.2        0.0       0.0       5.Z
C. PlanitRentietl
1t; Planificantion                     4Z.6      tt.?        P0        2.1       0.0       0.0      65.3           0.2       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0J3
2. it nfcrs   _    l                    13.2    2S4.0    219.4         0.0        0.0       0.0    « é.6            0.1       t.O       0.9       0.0        0.0       0.0       1.9
................................ T... iT...                                  ..:i............... ï...............................................
p4brtotel                                   SSt      Z5r       283          2.t       0.        00      5I9             02         1.        *.9       0.0       *.0       0.0        2.2
O. $«%ton du "Jeet                        tJO.T    1S}.4       SO.T       52.S        r.9       0.o    M5.3            o.7      0*s         0.2       h 2       0.2       °.°        1.9
t. P"t                                    tt5.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0    1T5.0            O.?       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.7
f. f,tudr   npoierstelres                   0.0      1S 9      16.5       lT.t       2LI       0.0      52.1           0.0       0.1       0.1        0.1       on0        o.o      0.2
................................................................    ....................................................... ................................................................ 
totet, PROMEts COS1S                      265S.6    SIMS    4502.T    ]0S.S    164S.d          0.3  t8t58.$           10.6      22.2       tl.O      t.4        6.6       0.0       72.8
.......   ............................................................................. .ws......  .  



- 78 -
,  ,      - -. *     **       **                                          Page40f7
.                       l~~w
* #.  ;m*~ oo_ ouo_*o:             d  .
.              .        r. B
.   «*  ooooooo o af ,|.                                 f 
.*   °°°°°°°°°S                            r1              X 
*                                   m   *,o o o o o o"- "j|5    §
I. o, i
. N.                                        ,_ ~  
i   oc    0 **- N*N 
i     c 00-IOO N p 
*     e ;W N     N-    
*     e   °°°..°°°°°                      #
*     e  0 0 00 0               0 



-79 -
ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 7
WU 1« E DVi SESA
ont OE DEWPOEt OES o                Sn NES UWUIIES 1i
Edutlon V
S4ry Accosts Cost Su_ry
FICF                                  US                                 8 Totd
, , , , , , , , , ,                                                           ,,ae......................  .................X..
loel   forelgn        Total         Local  forelgn    total          Eh e           Cste
........ ................w_. .. ..          ...........................   ............................................. ..... .
1. IINSWt costs
................... ..................... 
A. Sanie civil
*. comstr. clases priwri«            2149.7    33.2          5532.9           8.6       13.5      22.1            61.1       33.5
2. Autre/Contrets  euwram             676.4      1019.6      1696.0            2.7       4.1        6.8           60.1        10.3
..............................    .......... .........    ....................
8m-Total                                 226.1    4402.8         72.9            11.3       17.6      ZS.9             0.9      467.
I. fourniture
1. Eqip4am t/fournitw                   49.4      198.S       247.9            0.2       0.8        1.0           S0.1         1.5
2. Moblfer                             531.3      856.8    1381.1              2.1       3.4        5.6           61.7         8.4
3. vehicutes                             0.0       157.1       157.1           0.0       0.6        0.6          100.0         0.9
4. Livres bibliotheque                   0.0      265.2       265.2            0.0        1.1       1.1          100.0         1.6
5. Nwruemas uidss miître                 0.0      948.4       948.0            0.0       3.8        3.8          100.0         5.7
Sb-Tootal                                 S80.7    2425.6    3006.2               2.3        9.7      12.0            80.7        18.2
C. Consultants
1. specialtite loti.                     0.0      318.2       318.2            0.0       1.3        1.3          100.0         1.9
2. Specitilste locl                    146.3         0.0       146.3           0.6       0.0        0.6            0.0         0.9
3. oeusiInlgC  dSpn                    5t9.5       133.0      662.5            2.1       0.5        2.7           20.1         4.0
4. Serv. dust.  m. sclaire               0.0       270.6       270.6           0.0        1.1       1.1          100.0         1.6
=................................................. ...........................   ......................................... ..........
SubTotal                                  675.8 7Al.9            1397.6           2.7        2.9        S.6           51.6         8.5
D. Formtion
1. For«mtion locale                     24.0         0.0        24.0           0.1       0.0        0.1            0.0         0.1
2. Formation a t'etr ur                  0.0        53.2        53.2           0.0        0.2       0.2          100.0         0.3
................................................. ...........................   ....................................................
$tb-total                                  24.0        53.2        77.2           0.1        0.2        0.3           68.9         0.5
E. intervtifons pilotes                   355.2         0.0       353.2            1.4       0.0        1.4            0.i         2.1
F. a       ;sZs t 99F                      75.2        99.7       175.0           0.3        0.4       0.7            57.0         1.1
tota1 INSiISUMT COS                      4537.0      7703.2   12240.2            18.2       30.8      49.0            62.9        74.0
il. UamRT  "T8
...................
A. servie«s centrectuel Int.              194.9         0.0       194.9           0.8        0.0        0.8            0.0         1.2
a. Servis  contractuel loc.                23.3        93.6       116.9            0.1       0.4        0.5           00.1         0.7
C. Fonctlioeut                              17.6       70.7        88.3           0.1        0.3        0.4           80.1         0.5
0. Slaaires   mose,unt                   3896.6         0.0    3896.6             15.6       0.0       15.6            0.0        23.6
Total MOCUT  COITS                      4132.3       164.3    4296.6            16.5        0.7       17.2            3.S       26.0
totel  AISELIRE COSTS                     669.3      7067.5    16536.8           34.7       31.4      46.1            47.5       100.0
Physicat Contiogncies                   08.6       174.3       262.9           0.4        0.7       1.1           66.3          1.6
Prie  Contingeocie                    421.0      967.7      1388.7            1.6        3.9       5.6           70.5         8.4
T...l.....C...C.T . . . . 7 . . ......   ... ..        ...        72.84.9 ------ ......    ..........0
total PRCJCTS COSYS                      91S9        9009.4   1 1|3              36.7       3.        ns              495       110.0
..................................................... ............................................................................................ __........................._



- 80 -
ANNEX 12
Pape 6 of 7
ZIEPL«tlU  ou SmEII
h!ULPWL00( Ott misUaLimim
NOJT oe OViIL099NIT 083 MSIIUCES IW11« 11
IÉbet1oi V
FCVA
ref~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
8æSumry AicCU byltY
eu  Costa                                   floefon  X11
,.,......................................................................   .................................................. ........._
93/94    94/95     95/96    96/97    srno0   98/99    tot            X   #m
I. lUWSNuT WSTs
A. late  «ivt
1. Comtr. asse   prtnrîes   1073.2   1358.3   1358.3   1350.3    384.8         0.0   5532.9        61.1  33.2
2. nr.cmtrata omnrum            0.0   1303.5    300.8      91.6       0.0      0.0   169.0         60.1  1019.6
*&-total                        1073.2   2661.8   169.1   1449.9    384.8         0.0   ?ZZ0.9        40.9  44.8
. Faiituru
1. Ewqm   ant9wnurn            53.1     98.9      71.7     20.3      3.9       0.0    247.9        80.1   198.5
2.  ab1tiert                  258.6    378.6    375.6    324.S       50.9      0.0   139.1         61.é   856.8
3. Vhfietel                   36.7      85.7     34.7      0.0       0.0      0.0    157.1       100.0   157.1
4. Livr  blbtlothsqs            0.0      20.4    224.4      20.4      0.0      0.0    265.2       100.0   365.2
9. N    lufulda mitre          33J.    260.7    325.6    28.0         0.0      0.0    98.0        100.0   9tO.0
mS-total                         382.0    844.3   1032.0    693.2       54.8      0.0   3006.2        80.7  2425.6
C. Comulttnts
1. Spescilfste tatt.           69.4     97.9      85.7     S3.0      12.2      0.0    318.2       100.0   318.2
2. Spscltllste local           45.2      58.6     21.2      11.2     10.0      0.0    146.3         0.0     0.0
3. Oesstn/lrgvspn             138.9    232.9    173.8    111.2        5.6      0.0    662.5        20.1   133.0
4. Sav. dist. _n. scaaire       0.0      67.7     67.7      67.7     67.7      0.0    2.6         100.0   370.6
8<-totel                         253.5    457.1    348.4    243.1       95.5      0.0   1397.6        51.6   71.9
S. feormtn
.1. go   tion locae              6.0      8.2       8.0      1.5      0.3       0.0     24.0        0.0      0.0
2. roimtion a tletromr          8.5      14.7     15.1      12.1      2.8      0.0      53.2      100.0    53.2
Sditotal                          14.5     22.8      23.1      13.6      3.1      0.0     77.2        68.9    53.2
I. Intervuntens ploetas            0.0     88.8      08.8     88.8      88.8      0.0    355.2         0.0     0.0
F. an Umaurs,t'                  175.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    17.0         57.0    99.7
total IlWslt COI                18c6.3   4474.8   311S.4   2488.4    ar.0           0.0  a2244.2      6.9   13.2
il. UICRUIET cosIS
0. Services cntractuel Int.       97.4     97.4       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    194.9         0.0     0.0
I. Soevices contractu  toc.       20.1     24.4      25.6      25.6     21.3      0.0    116.9        80.1    93.6
1. Fonsttogwunt                   16.7     18.0      17.8      18.0     17.5      0.3      8.3        80.1    70.7
J. Saltires umetnwws             502.4    048.5    848.5    848         4.5       0.0   304.6          0.0     0.0
totat UM IT COSTS                63.6    988.4    891.9    892.2    887.4         0.3   4296.6         3.8   16.3
..................................................  ...............    ............................................................ ,,,_
totat SASULIUI coSyS            2534.9   5063.2   40U.3   33M80.8   1514.4        0.3  16536.8        47.6  70sr.5
Physicet continomnl            29.9    112.4       60.7     50.3      9.6      0.0    262.9        46.3   174.3
Price Contingncfies            90.8    363.0   S38.        414.3    121.8      0.1   138.7         69.7   967.7
tot t  OIUCT 0S0S               2655.6   5538.5   4502.7   35.5   145.8           0.3  18188.3        49.5  9.4
_                                                                           -
Ta«xe                           0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0    .    0.0      0.0
Pwr,ltn Iaufl                123.1   2870.2   2462.7  t970.7    472.5          0.3   909          108.0   00.4
.................................-.................----.....................................................................



s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
miusu  OU SEUIGAL
E68catlon V
Il,usclqi PI., brv Plsbswsemt Categoey
Cvt. 68
10*          Smlt         C.wten e a.                       Total               Loect
......................................................................          Fer.   (eut..   INtAes
_Nsat    x                                    At  Xt    Z XAmXt    Z         Each.  Tm)    t u.
A. Senie civil OIDA-tc)         8.4   75.0     0.0    0.0      2.    25.0     0.0    0.0    11.3   1S.5      6.8     4.4     0.0
a. Benie cvlt <ALu-t1)          0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      1.5   25.0     4.4   15.0      5.8    8.0     3.5     2.3     0.0
t. &mie clvil (IDM-T)           8.8  100.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      8.8   12.2     5.6     3.2     0.0
-                 D. Cende civil (SVT-CIO)         0.0    0.0      5.3   75.0     1.8   Z5.0     0.0    0.0      7.1    9.7     4.3     LB      0.0
E. Equtp.mtptoumnitw.           1.1  100.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      1.1    1.5     0.9     0.2     0.0
F. biller                       5.2  100.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      5.2   7.2      3.3     2.0     0.0
6.   bitier scolire (AULE)      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.9  100.0      0.9    1.3     0.6     0.4     0.0
I. Livres blbliotsequ           1.2  100.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      1.2    1.7     1.2     0.0     0.0
t. Vohiesle                     0.7  100.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      o.?    0.9     0.7     0.0     0.0
J. MlomtGuides de mitre         *.5  100.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    4.5    6.2       4.5     0.0     0.0
a. Cmumttwt lofal               1.2  100.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      1.2    1.6     0.4     0.7     0.0
I. Csutmnt Internattenlt        2.3  100.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      2.3    3.1     1.4     0.9     0.0
M. D0ssenlnMi/Spn               3.7  100.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      3.J    5.0     1.7     1.9     0.0
m. DeaeninooVggm                0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.5  100.0      0.5    0.7     0.1     0.4     0.0
0. PWF                          0.7  100.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      0.7    1.0     0.4     0.3     0.0
P. Fostin locale                0.1  100.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      0.1    0.1    0.0      0.1     0.0
0. frtio an l'eueer             O.Z  100.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      0.2    0.3     0.2     0.0     0.0
Et. Interwntiol pilotes         1.4  100.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      1.4    2.0     0.0     1.4     0.0
S. Foctioemoantfl               0.4  100.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      0.4    0.6     0.3     0.1     0.0
1. Salaires mmelnts             0.0    0.0   15.6  100.0  ' 0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    15.6   21.4      0.0    15.6     0.0
. . . . .     ................................................................... . . . . . . .......................
loctl Dildrasent                40.0   55.0    20.9   28.7    6.0    8.3       5.J    8.0    72.8  100.0    36.0    36.7      0.0
.....                                                                                             .....   ..              ......



- 82 -
UBLIC OF SENGAL                             ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
SECOND HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
fiUCATlQKN V
PROJECT MONITORING AND SUPERVISION PLAN
1. IDA supervision input. Regular supervision needs are described in Table 1 of this annex. In
addition, specific tasks such as review of progress reports, terms of reference, annual plans, and
audits, and procurement and disbursement actions, are estimated to require 8 staff weeks of various
specialist inputs a year which are not included in Table 1.
2. Borrower's Contribution tQ Supervision
(a) P ssreport would be subnitted twice a year, in October and April. fIey would include
a summary of implementation under each project component, financial statements on project
expenditures, updated project implementation and procurement schedules, as well as the status
of contract advertising, bidding, awards and completion dates and compliance with aWegate
limits on specified methods of procurement. 'Me PCU would collect inputs from each
responsible MEN Directorate and prepare the reports.
(b) Joint annual reviews. Once a year, around May/June, the PCU would organize a joint
IDA/Government review of project implementation based on: (i) the progress report in the
above paragraph which, for the purposes of the annual review, would also include (i) an annuial
work program and budget for the next academic year, Cii) a draft budget for the education
sector for the next year, and (iii) the status of policy and project monitoring indicators as listed
in Table 2.
(c) Mid-term review. In addition, the PCU would carry out not later than October 31, 1995, a
mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out the project. The review would cover
all aspects of the project, with a special focus on: (i) progress in implementing policy measures
and their impact on the staffling, cost and efficiency of the system, including double-shifing
in urban classrooms, lowering repetition in primary schools, the recruitment of teachers, and
completing the teacher training restructuring program; Cii) the effectiveness of the different
modalities of implementing the classroom construction component and the ability of
communitfes to finance their expected share, (iii) progress in the studies on secondary
education, and (iv) functioning of the pilot girls' educatdon and school development fund
programs. Based on the review, the MEN would prepare and implement an action plan,
acceptable to IDA, for further implementation of the project. Tie mid-term review would also
be conducted with other donors afflliated witb the project (the KfW and Coopération
Fhnaie), and would review progress in the implementation of their progrms.
(d) T'e PCU would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA supervision missions
and participating in the mission with them.
(e) Project completion report. Within six months of the Credit closing date, a completion report,
prepared in accordance with Wms of reference satisatory to IDA, would be transmitted to
IDA.



- 83 -
13
Page 2 of 2
ab1e 1.
Supervision Plan
IDA PY (PY> &                      Activity                              Sun               Staff
Apox. datos                                                         Requir_               wcokb
pY 93                                                      Civil word & Ptocurmaent      6
Aprl-May 93    Preparmton for and imp _ementation of pojet launoh  Disbusm t
workshop                                      lucation
______             _________________    Proict Managment
FY 94
Oct-Nov 93     Supervision Mission:                           Civil wo*ulmp .              6
Review aU component's progress ma the preparain    Educaton
of bid docume_ s and procedural mnanuals, consultat  Projec msnam
eomitin«t and scection; PCU  operations, the
operation of the texbook sales ant distribution
sytma, FY 94 education budget alocatiom  for
releabi;ltation  and  maintenan,  and  teacuhr
reoruitrncnt for acadenid yar 1993/94.
May-June 94    lat Joint Annual Revitw
Review pogreso is past year and plana for t ext  San  as abov             6
yr, including lb.            c of casroom
onsuction by AGETIP, procureaot of oos  and
sevices, training progams, TORs for consulta
and  studis, countpat progmns, budgeta
alocaons,  oo ty    conbutions,  projeot
acoounting and auditing, and teacher roc uti
PY 95                                                      Samc as above                 4
Nov-Dec 94     Supevision Mission
Same as above plus an        6
May-Junc 95    2nd Joint Annual and Mid-nn review             Educator
Comprehensive review of project inputs, opetons
and outcomes and restruur project if nocary.
PY 96
Nov-Dec 95     Supervision Misson                             Same as above                4
May-June 96    3rd Joint Annual Review                        Same as above                 6
Y 97
Nov-Dec 96     Supevision Mission                             Same as abowe                4
May-June 97    4th Joint Annual Review                        Same as above                6
PY 98
Nov-Dec 97     Supervison Mission                             Same as above                4
May-Juae 98    Projeot Compeion Mission                       To b. dtetmined              6



- 84 -
MINGIQR                                                    ANNL 1I
Page 1 of i
In o0der to asses pugmu i di imeetation of iii GovXon      s euton d8velopmm  pogmb
tho pma ha. bee boanslated i to th following at af moion  idicatom.
________~r                                                                         1997/98
Enseionement Elémentaire
1. Scolarisation de 1.000.000
d6élèves environ pour un taux
brut de scolarisation de 65%
*  Construction 3,500 classes,    450           760           760          760           760
60% milieu rural, 40%
mdlieu urbain
*  Classes finmncés par le                      300           330          340           340
projet
*  Réhabilitation 1,100 classe                  275           Zn           275           275
* Recrutement de maltres
noweaux                         760         760           760           760
- dont <80%) instituteurs-
adjoints                        600         600           600          600
2. Réduction des disparités en
matière de scotarisation entre
zone urbaine et rurale
* Classes nouvelles à
construire en zones rurales    210          470           470          470           470
3. Réduction des disparités
garçons/fi îles
* Part des effectifs fitles
dans les départemonts sous      35 x        36 x          37 X         38 X          39 X
la moyenne nationale (41%)
* Part des effectifs fhItes,
myenne nationale                41 X        41%           42 X         42 %          43 X
4. Am6lioratfon de la qualité
et de l'efficacité fnterne
* Diminution du taux de
redoublements, notamment en    14, 18,35   12. 16, 33   11, 14, 28   10, 12, 23   10, 10, 18
CE2, CMI et C0Z
* Piloter te Fonds de
Develppement, nombre                        20            50           70            70
d'écoles
* Provision do nouveaux titres
6 titres,    5 titres,    5 titres,
525.000      425.500       402.500
copies; 1    copies; 3    copies; 4
5. Rationalisation des                          guide        guides        guides
ressources et mattrise des                      maitre,      mitre,        maître,
coéts                                           8.000        24.000        28.000
*  Ninioum classes à double                     coples       copies        copies
flux dans les zones urbaines
*  Augmantation du ratio           30 x         30 x         30 %          30 %          30 %
d<encadrement dans les EFI a
1:14
4:1         6:1           9:1           12:1         16:1
Enselanement Moyen et
S condalre
1. Amêltoration de le qualité
et de ltefficacité interne
'  Augmentation du ratio
eleveslprofesseurs              EN: 128   EN: l28    EN: lm           EN: 1/30    EN:130
*  Formation en cours d'eoploi    ES : 1/18   ES : 1/18    ES: 1123    ES : 1/27    ES: 1/30
des professeurs                 Enl: 600    EN: 600       EN: 600      EN  600       EN: 600
ES : 250    EN : 250      EN :250      EN: 250       EN :250



Paeplof 3
Taobte 1. laptemntation Schedute - E.tla.ted Amuist Contractuwt md Other Pr#=*#t (Un aitlion .<pavalmnt>
SINGA.                                  1992                    Prelset Tiestt
Numu Resources, Dev. Projoot Il      Ipr.-    ........................
Project   1993    1994    1995    ¶9%6    ¶997le
......  ...... .....  T..... l....... otat  LcS;   Raarte
projct  te»  q%uares112 3 4  1234  1234  1¶234  1234  1234jPsymn  TU
Signtwre/ffectiv«mnua/loaing                  '               
Sîoctffin of architecte                   M                   j
SIgning of Contracte for Design              xx
PoatIon of Desiffl/id Doece             laa 
aiddne ad ovaluation               t        j xxj
elcvAmrd vAbmiltted to IDA              xxaajtIa                                    I 
Inepectorates                       0.6       0.7~~                 .1.3           C
£FIS                                   1.7~~~~~~~~   1.Sa           -       3.3  Loe
* Nabb. Of secoswlary sehoots                         1.         ¶.a;                     1 .9  Lc..
*UCAD                                                 0.1       0.8                       1.1
Schoot construction Proorasu                  t               -----------lIxxx
Praparation of cntruction guide           xxI 
Draft Procedurat Nmata (AGETIP>         ana                                                           I
Properatton of Standard Bld Doe          xx
Approvat of ProceduresM aidBd nom*           xx
siddlng amd controct auard                     Ix
Constructi on Contracte Signature                xx       xx      Mx       M                           tipl
Construction Phase (IDA):                        1.5      2.?     2.?      2.6      .       9.5  LCU    ipLt
Signing of Centraot of Proc.Spec.         M          i 
Standrd ld Dmcready for revlew               xx  xx    xx      xx                               I
Bid4AMwd subsitted te IDA                                                                       i xx xi xx:x
Contracte Signature                                     x
Vahioles                                         0.1      0.6 0I,Ie00  tmg  .S
Office Equipunt & Supplies                       0.:      1.0 t              ;!     . j .1 IicI  0.2 threugh LCS 
Textbeooca aid Library Boots                     0.2      1.2 ., 1.6                              Ic
Furniture                                        09       1.5     1.5      1:                 2
cesuuttancies                                                             
LOI/TORs/Short List fer apprevat          IXXXX    X&=X&U
StdfAward submittod te ID 104                                  xxxx xxx
Contracte reviewed by, IDA                     juxxJrjguuuuwr
Contracta Signature                              xx       0.        .3: 
Signature of agressant uith AOETIP          i        0    0 0.3            0.3      -        .2  011 'Cntr. mgt agecyt
Signsd contracta for spso/train mery        I jui.6       0.8      1.0     0.6      0:5'   3.5  011 11.3 sc.
Erqinerirsu""Iion ontrwo         xx0.3~  0.3          0.3      0.3.1                   T
niscellanmeo  <Operatlng Costa)j                                                 1     1      L
Notet Totate may not add vp *u to rourding.



- 86 -
ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 3
Table 2.  Prior Reviw  Threshold, Cntrwt Profile by Valueiker
. . ........................... .... .... . ................... ..... ......... ... .... .. .....
Estimated                  Counulative                 Percentage
Range of               value (no.) of              value (no.)                of total
contract values            contracts within               above                   value (no.)
<inml. Contingercies)          each range                 threshold                       above
(us$ thouaand)             (US$ million)               (USS million)              threshold
(1)                       (2)                        (3)                         (4)
............. ............................ .. ..               .. .. ... .... ............ .. .......
GOCOS
. .... ... ........... ... ..... ...............................
Value   Uumber             Value   lMuber              Value   *uober
,...... ........... .      ........ . .... ...         ... .... .;  .. .....
10C0and above                  5.1          3             5.1           3              39X          7X
500to999                 2.8          4             7.9           7              61X        17X
250 to 499               0.5         ¶2*            8.4           90*            65X        22K
..................... -......- "Y'
30 to 249              4.5          24            12.9         33 approx.   99X            80X
O to  29              0.1           8           13.0          41 approx.  100K           100X
Duration of procuremant la about three years
,........ ................ .. .. . ........ ............. ........ .................. ........ .........
IIORKS
-3__.. _. ......... . _.....................................
Value   Number             Value   Number             Value   Nw4ber
.................. .......  ................ ..  ........... ........
7000 and above                 3.3          4             3.3           4              17X          7X
50  to 999                                          3.3           4              17X         7X
250 to 499               5.5         14             8.8          180*            46K        30X
...... ................. .    .............. ....         ..... ................     ...... ....... .... .
30 to 249             10.3          42            19.1         60 approx.  100X           100K
O to   29                -          -           19.1          60 approx.  100K           *00K
Duration of procurement ta about four years
...................... . ..  .........    .     ........ ........... ............. ................ . .................
* Threshold selection correspond to a desirabte percentage coverage of contract value
(around 80X for goods amd 40X for works).
** Indicates a resonable workload for the taak  umnager; ar louer threshold woutd                         requi re
sdcitional staff input.
thrshtd.IIC1<BA)



-87-
ANNBX 1I
Page 3of 3
Tabte 3. plan de Pu iassto  du s d e chesa fimaliua avent tes  ~Oig odatu
1*              Lettre Invitshort Liste  ILancomflt  P.  b:       m
xéthodes,     /                   Iutt     Itrt~
de   ossier          o uj Reais. de nrat  contrat   Sien.   Aubsyt.
IType de contrats     rsiaticn pasation 4pelt d'Offres    Appel    des    tranms    Par               du        du.
et coaçsate          d montnt contrat Tranmis a IDA  d'offres  Offres   a ('RDA   ('RDA             conrat  contrat
J               on ~~~~~~USSICO (00  )   date          date      date  gdate <b>  date Cc) date Cd) date <e)
A.                                            I                                   I
1.1. Mi"4 low d  40   CON          MA            MAN   A            oct. 9SIoct. 92   ocet.92  dsc. 92
~de contrutctin                                                              I
1.2.  tu      m*t                      cu         ost 9      f   ov 92   dec 92   janv 93    'ow93    fev 93    sept93~
1 lmp. EFI & Secondj 
1. re.::  LA.. rehab.          61   CONS   I  oct 92          nov 92   dec 92   1v93        Janv 93    fv9        un9
1.3. Ip: se.dossrra      i                           NAMA    Iost. 92Imw. 92    nv  2 ms9
IA.O. mwte                   300nN                                   N                              nv          as3
1.4.lPr4p. dossiers       J      481  CNs   I        N           MA        K A    joct. 92  1nov.92       ov. 92   unrs93
1. tdsgdnie civil          441  cm5         oct. 92      jow  93 11v 3ms93              ar    3 mi9            fl9
1.5.jltues <20 sur 80>                                                 fvj)9
S. IINSTISSUENT                        ..
............I.I....
2.1. lrava   (autre>          4,000    LOC        sept. 93      oct. qO3  Idec. 93  janv. 94 1    MA     fer. 94  mare 95
ITravauxEF                3,000    lUT       tomt.93       oct. 93  Idec. 93  janv. 9%      N A     f.v. 94   i.rsI   I
I~Ccntr. neuves     I 7,000    10             NA          janv 93   mrs 93 1avrl 93        NA      avrilt93   94-98
j~Rdheftia tation    iCouveomt.   MA          NA 
3.  equipements                                                          ,
Petit matériel       I     260'  30            NA             NA       NA        NA         NA        N&A     jui f9
Ncobli fer               6.300     LUC      avrilt93        mai93 ~Jui l93    jultl93       NA       ma u93    dec 93
Uq.uipeu t               2,M9      RUT      avrilt93        mai93   juil( 93   luilt93      NA      aout 93    due 93
Véhicules                  7W0 1   UT       avrilt93        mai93 ~Ju1lt93    ju11t93       NA       mou93    du 93
4.  Livres                                                               I
Nmauets Scolaires        7,500    KiTf      avril93         mai93  IJui t93    luilt 93     NA      aou9tfl ja  93
Livre  Sibtiothèque        480 j  RT        avril 94        mai94   l uilt 94   juilt 94    NIA     eut 94  janv 15
TOTAL                j31,730 I                                          . II
Noite,   NA: Mon applicable
<e>: INrstnternstiona; LOCuLcat;  WMo3 quotations; CONSuCowultatst
<b>: 60 jom urs,pi ta dete limite d'ouverture deu offres
<c>: smeulmen  peur les contrats de consutants
Cd>:- 60 jours minima. aprs te télex de non-objection de t'IDA
Ce>: 3-6 mois pour les équipement et 6 a 18 mois pour les travaux.                                    26-Sep-92 ASENPMC



DLSBURSEMENT PROFILFROEL DE DEBOUREMEÇ
DOibusstB/ Debou«emits                 Regloout
Sector/
lu PIsci  yes                                              Secetar e
aid Ousrters/      y Outer/        Cwulative/    Projecti l'ecitte
Anneoe bmeteires PNr trilstre    Cmlatlf          Projet   eior te
1u e trimtres  (<nl nlllion)   (US$  illion)         (Z)      (X)
t994       1.              0.0           0.0       O.0X    0.0K
2              0.3            0.3       O.8O    1.0K
3              0.6            1.1       2.8K    2.0K
4              0.9            2.0       5.8K    3.0K
1995       1               1.1           3.1       7.K      7.0K
2              1.3            4.4      11.OX   10.0O
3              1.6            6.0      15.0K   15.0X                                                                                         0p
4              2.0            8.0      20.0K   18.0K                                                         1.
1996       12.0                          10.0     25.0    22.01
2              2.2           12.2     30.5-    27_0I
3              2.4           14.6      36.51   ».O% 0---
4          ~~~2.4        17.0      42.5K    34.0K
1997       1               2.4          19.4      48.5S    38.01
2              2.5           21.9     54.8X   42.0K
3              2.5           24.4      61.0    46. O%
4              2.6           27.0      67.5K   50.0]
1998       I               2.7          29.7      74.3K    54.0X
1998 ~2                 2.6          39 3      80.8    $8.S40%   
3              2.0           34.3     85.8X   64.0K
4              1.7           36.0     90.01   70.0K
1999       1               1.3          37.3      93.3K   76.0X                                 1                                 _        0 
2              1.0           38.3     95.8X   82.0X                                   O$
3              0.9           39.2     98.0X   86.0X
4              0.8           40.0    100.0    90.0ox
2000       1                                               93.0%
2                                              96.0%
3                                              98.0%
4                                             100.OXo 
assudisb.ikl                                                                                                                                lu



SE-NEGAI.
M A RITANL~           SECOND HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
P ROJE PRATEU
MoeOML cO»GE
SAINTO mMAi?WUCAnON
t . t a, " ............... , . . A t j                                                       O  I
ATIAXflC



