Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo: 21472
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(24730)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
SENEGAL
FOR A
SECOND HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)
March 5, 2001
Human Development II
Country Department 14
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 1993)
Currency Unit = FCFA
1 FCFA = US$ 0.004
US$ 1 = 250
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                African Development Bank
AGETIP              Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet Public contre le Sous-Emploi
CR                  Conseils Rfgionaux
DAGE                Direction de l'Administration General et de l'Equipement
EFI                 Ecole de Formation des Instituteurs
ENDA                Environnement et Developpement Tiers Monde
FCFA                Franc de la Communaute Financiere de l'Afrique
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
IA                  Inspections d'Academie
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
ICR                 Inplementation Completion Report
IDA                 International Development Association
INEADE              Institut National d'Etudes et d'Action pour le Developpement de l'Education
IREDU               Institut de Recherche pour l'Education
NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization
OPEC                Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PDRH I1             Projet de Deeveloppement des Resources Humaines II
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
SAC                 Structural Adjustment Credit
SCOFI               Scolarisation des Filles
SDF                 School Development Fund
SME                 Small and Medium Enterprises
SNERS               Societe Nationale dEvaluation du Rendement Scolaire
UNICEF              United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Jobn McIntire
Sector Manager/Director:   Alexandre V. Abrantes
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Alassane Diawara



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SENEGAL
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               2
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                14
6. Sustainability                                                                    16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     18
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   18
9. Partner Comments                                                                  21
10. Additional Information                                                           22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002357                                      Project Name: HUMAN RES DEVT II
Team Leader: Alassane Diawara                            TL Unit: AFMSN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: March 6, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: HUMAN RES DEV'T II                            L/C/TF Number: 24730
CountryIDepartment: SENEGAL                                            Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 09/10/1991                              Effective: 07/29/1993         01/31/1994
Appraisal:  06/28/1992                               MTR: 04/01/1995           03/18/1996
Approval:  03/18/1993                             Closing: 06/30/1999          12/31/1999
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                       Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager.     John M. Mcintire                         Katherine Marshall
Sector Manager:      Alexandre Abrantes                       Birger Fredriksen
Team Leader at ICR:   Alassane Diawara                        William Cooper
ICR Primary Author:   Michael J. Wilson; Rebecca
Macina
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objective was to improve access to and the quality of primary education, with the specific
target of raising the primary enrollment ratio from 58% in 1992 to 65% by 1998. Secondary objectives
included improving the quality and efficiency of secondary and higher education and strengthening the
education sector planning and management.



3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
Part I: Expand Access to Primary Education and Improve its Quality and Efficiency
(a) Constructing and fumishing about 1,310 new classrooms (65,000 student places) and the rehabilitation
of 1,080 existing classrooms.
(b) Supporting special measures to boost girls' participation: Implementing broad-based interventions at
the level of the school, home, and community, and pilot well-targeted interventions in departments where
girls comprise less than 41% (the national average of primary school enrollment).
(c) Establishing a sustainable textbook system. The credit would finance the publication, sales and
distribution costs of 1,180 million copies of 14 new textbook titles for grades 3 to 6, about 260,000
textbook reprints to account for enrollment growth, 52,000 teachers' guides for 5 subjects and 5 grades,
and a pedagogical evaluation of the books published under the ongoing education credit.
(d) Strengthening in-service and pre-service teacher training. Finance the cost of rehabilitating, equipping
and furnishing four Ecoles des Formations des Instituteurs.
(e) Supporting School Initiated Quality Improvements. Pilot an experimental School Development Fund
in three regions to encourage school-initiated programs that meet the objectives of improving the quality of
primary education and girls' participation.
(f) Establishing a national system to assess student achievement. Support the Ministry of Education to
establish a sample-based system to assess student achievement in grades 2, 4, and 6 in French,
Mathematics, and Science.
Part II: Improve the Quality and Efficiency of Secondary and Higher Education: In secondary education,
supporting the preparation of a long-term policy and investment program based on analyses of the
efficiency, quality, equity, costs and financing the rehabilitation and equipment of secondary schools
(libraries).
Part III: Strengthen sector planning and managerial capacities. Developing the capacity of regional and
departmental inspectorates and the Ministry's planning directorate to plan and manage resources,
strengthen project management and coordination and finance pre-investment studies.
g. Strengthening the capacity of the Inspectorates and the Planning Directorate.
h. Strengthening project management and coordination by establishing a Project Coordination Unit to
facilitate the operation of the project.
3.4 Revised Components:
Components were not revised. However, significant additional components were integrated into the project
design and supervised by IDA including: the program of "volunteer" teachers, the establishment of
regional in-service training facilities, the training of secondary school principals and the Worldlinks
Computer Program.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
QAG review not available at the time of this project preparation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The main objective of increasing primary enrollments overall from 58 per cent in 1992 to 65 per cent by
1998 was met. Although no specific target for girls' enrollment was set, the ratio increased from 41 per
cent in 1992 to 47% over the same period.
-2 -



In the first two years of the project, enrollment rates declined from 58 to 54 per cent. While data indicates
that enrollments continued to grow in this period, there is debate that inadequate demographic data,
specifically that the over-estimated growth rate of primary school aged children understates the enrollment
rate. Nevertheless, initiatives taken by Government, initially outside the project frame but rapidly and
flexibly integrated into ongoing operations, did set the scene for future growth in enrollment rates including;
(i) the innovative establishment of a new corps of low-wage voluntary teachers in 1994 resulting in
deploying 1,200 teachers to low-enrollment areas; and (ii) a highly visible public relations campaign
promoting girls' schooling with the help of UNICEF accompanied by specific annual plans at the level of
the "departements ", targeting low girls' enrollment areas. As well, make-shift classrooms built by parents
and other donor operating in the eight regions outside of Diourbel, Louga, Tambacounda and Kolda helped
the school system accommodate growth in enrollment rates. The Borrower also notes enrollment growth
might have been higher if more places had been allocated to high demand areas in urban and peri-urban
zones, but construction sites, based on an analysis of the school map gave priority to rural low enrollment
areas, respecting the principle of equity. A significant increase in the number of classrooms constructed
annually (from 70 to 1500), particularly in rural areas was crucial in improving enrollment rates.
With respect to improving the quality of education the project; (i) successfully established a new system to
assess student achievement and carried out assessments in Grades 2, 4 and 6 which are being used to
resolve learning difficulties, revise curriculum and most importantly measure quality indicators under the
new project. The assessment service is now providing technical services to other African countries; (ii)
piloted school development projects, although started late under the program, they have been accepted by
the Government and donors alike to be the main vehicle for improving quality under the new project; (iii)
strengthened the capacity in developing pre-service training, rationalized the system from 6 to 4 institutes
setting the stage for a rapid increase in enrollments under the new project; and (iv) the provision of
textbooks has been strengthened in the areas of editing, publishing and printing. The distribution and
management of books has been fraught with difficulties and these areas are being reformed under the new
project.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Expand Access to Primary Education and Improve its Quality and Efficiency
(1) Civil Works and other physical facilities:
Expanding Classroom Construction, Maintenance, and Rehabilitation
This subcomponent is rated satisfactory. Almost the full complement of classrooms was provided under
IDA financing (1,076 classrooms were built, instead of the targeted 875, and 891 classrooms were
rehabilitated/furnished out of the targeted 1,080) making an important contribution to the multi-donor
initiative to increase school places nation-wide. The other donors (Germany, Japan, the AfDB, OPEC)
constructed an additional 2000 classrooms. However, there are important lessons to be addressed.
There were several operational difficulties which, though finally resolved, nonetheless impeded timely
delivery and the quality of the product in certain cases. Regarding civil works, AGETIP, a
quasi-governmental agency with experience in delivering small- scale public works via the services of
informal sector construction workers was given the responsibility of providing the new primary school
classrooms. Serious delays were encountered because two of the approaches adopted (community
construction and NGO-managed construction) did not work as planned (mainly due to over-estimation of
communities' capacity to participate financially). This led eventually to more reliance on the contracted
construction by SMEs. By March 1996 only 95 out of a projected 447 classrooms had been built due to
- 3 -



AGETIP's lack of experience in both education and rural areas so that field supervision posed a special
problem and the difficulties in mobilizing community support and in negotiating their financial support.
The first of the three approaches (the so-called "kit" approach) found no takers. Presumably, communities
were not ready to take the full responsibility for construction, even if they received advice and materials.
Mobilizing support at the village level and negotiating cost-sharing agreement whereby communities were
to finance or build latrines, storage space and even offices representing 25% of the total construction cost.
When it became clear that even the revised 10 per cent cost-sharing could not be shouldered by the
communities, these "ouvrages annexes" were included in AGETIP's contracts under Phase II but given less
priority than the classrooms, upon the Ministry's instructions. The NGO approach, their taking the
responsibility but mobilizing community labor, worked better and led to some transfer of skills. However,
the delivery time was nine months versus three months by the SMEs. Finally, the NGOs (ENDA, Aid
Action and Africare) built only 330 classrooms, with the rest being constructed by the SMEs.
The quality of the construction work varies from poor to satisfactory. While the design employed in
the predecessor project was improved (low cost; better ventilation), errors by the builders (in all three
approaches) resulted in fissures in walls and eroding and subsidence in classroom floors. Correcting these
problems (in the domain of renovation as opposed to maintenance) is likely to exceed the capacity of the
small local firms (usually five persons or less) and will be costly. Other problems cited by Inspectors and
principals (and observed by the mission) included: the inadequacy of certain locally fabricated components
- doors too heavy for their hinges; locks which j anmmed; the late delivery of furniture.
Learning Kits were provided to 7800 classrooms. The kit typically includes protractors, set squares,
templates for drawing geometric forms and sometimes maps and globes. While some items were found in
most classrooms, there did not appear to be complete sets. Indeed, such kits have rarely met with success
unless their use has been carefully integrated into pre- or in-service teacher training programs. No
assessment is made of the component.
Libraries. 15 secondary school libraries were rehabilitated furnished with 1600 books which certainly
contributed to learning in an environment which is still, unfortunately, largely "book free". Few
communities outside the regional capitals have either book stores or even market stalls selling books. Even
school books are scarce. Given their high cost (as much as FCFA 18,000 for a high school science
textbook), most students at the secondary level possess only the French and math textbooks and must share
copies or take notes from the blackboard. Each library received 800 general titles and 800
science/technology titles. Savings were made on this component which permitted the
construction/renovation of some 40 computer labs in secondary schools which became part of the World
Links program. The follow-on project will build upon the library initiative, benefiting from the training of
library staff in particular. These components are rated satisfactory.
Maintenance. There is already a serious maintenance deficit in the project schools and, of course, in all
school plant. In the case of project schools, some of the problems noted above would not have deteriorated
to the level of costly renovation, if maintenance interventions had taken place earlier. There appears to be
two major related obstacles - failure by government and communities alike to understand the importance of
maintenance (to avoid the high costs associated with renovation and minimize the disruption of instruction)
and the lack of a recurrent budget. The executing agency recognized these difficulties and commissioned
one of the NGOs (ENDA) to produce a short film aimed at local communities. Whether this was
disseminated and had any effect, the mission was unable to determine. Clearly, there are no easy solutions
although one approach suggested by the inspectors does seem feasible - and had proved so under earlier
projects- that of a small school-level fund to purchase maintenance supplies, with the parent
- 4 -



association/school committee contributing skilled labor. The new project has developed protocols with local
communities to ensure maintenance activities and responsibilities.
(2) Special Measures to Boost Girls' Participation
This sub-component is rated satisfactory. In 1992, the gross primary enrollment ratio was 58% with
national average for girls at 41%. The average enrollment ratio for girls in areas with less than 41% gross
enrollment increased from 35% in 1992 to 39.2% in 1998 while the national average increased to 47% over
the same period. No specific target was set at project inception for either total girls' enrollment ratios or
for those departements with enrollment rates less than 41%. In the early stages of the project, the main
mechanism to improve girls' enrollments was to include latrines and water points for girls in the
construction plans. There were no specific programs targeted to low-enrollment areas. In the supervision
mission shortly before the 1995 Mid-Term Review, recommendations were made on additional strategies
which might accelerate female enrollment, such as increasing recruitment of female teachers and the
number of female principals at the primary level. The use of new strategies has been limited. However, in
1995, the responsibility for the project component was transferred from the Direction de la Planification et
de la Reforme de l'Education to that of the Ministre Dleigue for primary education with the creation of a
new directorate for girls' education (SCOFI - Scolarisation des Filles). In low-enrollment areas, such as
Mbacke and Diouribel, department level plans were developed to increase girls' enrollments, women
teachers were enlisted to help in the subsequent campaigns and competitions were launched to identify the
top girl students in math, with lap top computers as prizes. The factors which seemed to have the most
effect on increasing girls enrollments was the launching of a public relations campaign. The follow-on
project has not benefited from field-tested strategies, as had been planned; however, each region and
dlpartement will have targets for girls' enrollments and specific strategies to increase enrollments as well
as to reduce girls' repetition and drop-out rates.
(3) Establishing a Sustainable Textbook System
This component is rated unsatisfactory. The project was to finance the publication, sales and
distribution costs of 1,180 million copies of 14 new textbook titles for grades 3 to 6 in line with the
Ministry's objectives to make school books accessible to all pupils and ensure that books were relevant to
the national curriculum and the soci-cultural realities of Senegal. The project was to finance the
publication, sales, and distribution costs of 1,180 million copies of 14 new textbook titles for grades 3 to 6,
260,000 textbook reprints to account for enrollment growth, and 52,000 teachers' guides for 5 subjects and
5 grades. Over the period 1990 to 1997 (financed by IDA from 1994), thirty one titles including 18
textbooks and 13 teacher guides were produced under the project, amounting to an initial printing of
2,754,000 copies.
At the start of the school book program in 1987 (with AfDB financing), INEADE assumed all the
responsibilities: setting specifications; recruiting local authors; supervising the writing and field-testing of
the books; and acquiring the books via NCB. Books were initially free, with the first distribution of
335,000 books in 1990, based on quantities per school indicated by the Planning Directorate. The results
were unsatisfactory in terms of the price and quality of the books but also in terms of their maintenance. By
1991, 30% of the book stock had been dilapidated through wear, tear and loss. Beginning 1992 - and
supported by the IDA project - books were to be acquired by ICB. INEADE developed the specifications
and the books were acquired by the PIU through international competitive bidding. The selected companies
(mainly overseas) benefited from the existence of the "pool" of local Senegalese writers "grown" by the
first phase of entirely local production. The general directorate responsible for administration (DAGE) was
responsible for management of the school book fund (inventory and sales). Books were to be sold by
- 5-



retailers who received up to a maximum 35% discount on the wholesale price based on the retailer
operating in eight regions and serving at least 55 points of sale. Parents were to pay about a third of the
new low prices obtained as a result of ICB or FCFA 500 to FCFA 1500, depending on the grade, with the
idea that they would make sure the books were better looked after.
INEADE's 1998 retrospective review of the school book program suggests that this pricing was reasonable
despite the effects of the 1994 devaluation., Unfortunately, the study found that less than 20 per cent of
primary students possessed or had access to the new books financed by the project and that about 30% of
the books were lost due to poor management and inadequate storage. INEADE attributes the low
availability of books to speculation by the retailers, weakness in the distribution and parental inability to
pay. The strategy for making books available (which was to have been inspired by the "lessons" of the
predecessor project) was based on assumptions about retailers making books available in even remote
corners of the country and the capacity of parents to pay. Neither assumption proved out. Buying school
books even at subsidized prices, was beyond parents' means. Moreover, there was no incentive for retailers
to serve remote areas as the incentive was based on the number of regions and retail points (up to a
maximum 35% discount on the wholesale price) but included no measure such as a distance coefficient. as
an incentive to serve remote areas. In short, some retailers collected their discount without delivering books
to distant locations and were no doubt tempted to sell the balance of books on the open market in the bigger
communities in a carefully controlled fashion (possibly keeping some books back) in order to drive up
prices. Specific locations where books were not delivered by the retailers include: Bakel, Kedou, Sedhiou
Bignona, Nioro du Rip, Kaffrine, Podor and Matam - all remote, poor rural regions. The primary school
inspectorates were then asked to retail the books. A May 1999 survey showed that despite the subsidy
many parents bought only the French "reader" (51 %) with the arithmetic book a distant second at 22%,
while only 4% bought the general social studies text. The ICR mission (albeit visiting a small sample of
schools) found few schools where students had a full set of books. The exceptions were schools which had
carefully conserved books issued under earlier projects, handing them out only at lesson time. In Diourbel,
inspectors said that on average the ratio of books to students was I 2 for the French reader, while the
Inspecteur d'academie in Thies felt that the ratio for his region was 1: 6. Costs to parents were
undoubtedly a factor affecting book availability since they were additional to the FCFA 16,000 - 20,000
per child required to purchase school supplies, uniforms and pay PTA subscriptions.
The decision to move to ICB for procurement of books made good sense in terms of better quality books at
a lower price. This approach continued to benefit from the pool of trained authors and illustrators
developed under the previous project, thus ensuring a good "fit" between the school books' content and the
Senegalese culture. Failure to achieve better coverage appears to be due to related factors - insufficient
analysis of why the first, 1990, free book distribution failed; the design of the retailer incentive scheme;
poor management of the School Book Fund (below) and the costs to parents. On a positive note, the
primary school inspectors met by the mission were unanimous in their appreciation of the teacher guides
developed by INEADE to accompany the textbooks, also popular with the private sector. While teachers
were initially asked to buy the guides, this requirement was dropped in 1997.
Textbook Fund. There is no doubt that mismanagement of the textbook fund, responsible for sales to
retailers, contributed to the poor coverage. The auditors declined to approve the fund's accounts for three
successive years (1996, 1997,1998). The 1998 audit gives an indication of the seriousness of the
problems.
* payments of FCFA 32,996,000 received by the Fund could not be traced to source (presumably
retailers) - consequently the amount has to be treated as a potential debt - the same is true for FCFA
51,622,782 in payments received by the inspectorates
* indications that books had been withdrawn from stocks without subsequent billing (no estimation of the
- 6 -



unbilled amounts, however)
*   inability of the auditors to match the estimated value of the inventory with actual stocks in the central
warehouse in Dakar (FCFA 1,127,044,435) and held at the level of the primary school inspectorates
(FCFA 51,622,782)
*  ineligible expenses amounting to FCFA 2,110,000 and FCFA 6,299,523 in unaccounted expenditures
by the inspectorates
*  payments made by the inspectorates to retailers in the amount of FCFA 32,996,000 (but with no
supporting documents)
IDA first wrote the PIU on July 24, 1995 on the fund's accounting problems and on the retailer incentive
scheme and every year thereafter on receipt of the audit reports. There is no evidence that the PIU moved
to correct the problem. It may have been unable to do so because of the complex arrangements in place
which would probably have required a ministerial decision to change or even intervention by the Inspector
General's Office. The PIU kept the accounting for the fund's expenditures while the Ministry kept the
accounts for receipts and made deposits to the bank. However, the PIU, not the Ministry, received the
monthly bank statements. Such arrangements, together with the absence of adequate internal controls over
inventory and sales, could only lead to confusion, if not downright obfuscation.
Recommendation. This audit should be completed by a technical, operational review of the central
warehouse's operations and the role of the primary inspectorates should be reviewed; accounts and
imventory should be audited for the period ending 12/31/99. While the next project will provide free texts
for all primary school students, a textbook loan system is planned for secondary schools. Before this
scheme is implemented, there should be a full review of the present fund, to ensure that appropriate
safeguards and transparent procedures can be put in place.
Follow-on project. Books are to be basically free at the primary level, with a token fee of about FCFA
100 per child, to partially cover replacement costs. At the secondary level, a pay-as-you go loan system is
planned.
4) Strengthening Pre-service and In-Service Teacher Training
These programs are rated satisfactory on the basis of assessments of inspectors and regional directors.
Undoubtedly, formal evaluation under the follow-on project should lead to further improvements.
Pre-service training. The four "Ecoles de Formation d'Instituteurs" (EFI) trained an average of 700
student-teachers p.a. Training was based on the new curriculum developed under the previous IDA project.
No evaluation of this training was carried out (though planned) because it was scheduled late in the project
when attention had turned to preparation of the follow-on project (Borrower's final report). Evaluation
will, however, be implemented under the follow-on project. An interesting comparison could be made
between the effectiveness of formally trained teachers, pre-service, and that of contractual teachers,
recruited often at a higher academic level but trained on the job. Recruitrnent to the civil service (restricted
by agreements with the IMF) was 500 p.a. The EFIs benefited from civil works - construction of libraries
and computer labs.
In-service training. Some 4500 primary teachers participated between 1993-97. Training was provided
by the Poles Regionaux de Formation. Additionally, contractual teachers recruited at the district level
received on-the-job training in the primary inspectorates. At the lower secondary level, some 8,167
teachers were trained in subject-specific courses, primarily in French, math and the sciences.
- 7-



(5) Supporting School Initiated Quality Improvements
This component is satisfactory although participating schools received grant funds late in the project -
mid-1998 - and the evaluations (on a sample of 12 schools) conducted by INEADE are inconclusive.
Eventually, 196 schools out of a projected 200 in three regions received funding. The component sought to
encourage schools (parents, students and teachers) to work together to identify small projects which could
make a positive difference to the quality of instruction. Initially, the component got off to an enthusiastic
start with training focused on factors influencing the quality of education at the school level and on project
management procedures. The new 10-year IDA project (FY 2000) builds on this experience including a
grants program to encourage schools and communities to initiate quality improvements. It incorporates the
lessons learned. The first phase is supported by a large number of donors and will be carefully evaluated.
Activities stalled because of the following four factors:
* First, project design assumptions about parents' ability to share in the costs of components such as
school construction and books undermined the component objective of quality improvement. Initial
requests submitted to the School Development Fund (SDF) focused not on pedagogical innovation, as
the guidelines suggested, but rather on financial assistance in school construction, the provision of
books and materials and in the launching of productive projects (school gardens and the like) which
would raise funds for the schools.
*   Second, insufficient provision (in their work program; in the form of travel funds) was made for
primary school inspectors to assist schools and communities in formulating and implementing their
proposals.
*   'hird, the Project Implementation Unit, responsible for submitting to IDA project requests sent in by
the regional selection committees and subsequently for disbursing the funds, had concerns about the
communities' ability to formulate proposals and to use the funds appropriately. This mistrust found a
degree of acceptance with the new IDA supervision team which helped revise the procedural manual.
W'hile this was underway, new grant proposals could not be processed.
*   Fourth, when the new procedures were in place, proposals became more difficult because of the formal,
bureaucratic procedures involved, requiring, inter alia, that communities establish a formal
organization, with president, secretary general and treasurer, hold annual assemblies, as well as filling
out lots of forns - tasks that would have been daunting for educated, urban schools where parents in
the majority speak French, let alone in poor, rural areas speaking their local languages. These new
procedures did not work out. The auditors declined to approve the accounting of the funds disbursed in
1998, noting several problems: the proceeds of school book rental systems were not properly
accounted for; the post of treasurer could generally not be filled and the secretaires generaux were
insufficiently experienced to take over their role; finally, savings accounts books and bank statements
were not up to date. IDA requested the PIU to propose specific measures to redress the situation by
February, 1999 before considering any extension of the program.
(6) Establishing a National System to Assess Student Achievement
This component is rated highly satisfactory. The end result of the project is a strong team of evaluation
specialists, under seasoned leadership, who have been trained on the job and a new system of learning
assessment - Systeme National d'Evaluation du Rendement Scolaire" (SNERS) - which can be
progressively extended to all levels of primary and secondary schooling.
From 1994 to 1997, the emphasis turned to the assessment of student achievement supported by the
Credit. INEADE contracted the services of highly qualified Belgian learning psychologists and evaluation
- 8 -



specialists to launch a ground-breaking assessment of learning in primary school with the goal of
developing a viable system for monitoring learning, including the development of a specialized team of
evaluators, to provide systematic feedback on levels of learning and learning difficulties, with the goal of
improving the curriculum and teaching methods. The first step was to develop the battery of tests and
classroom observation protocols, using a well-known model used internationally, focusing on written
French and math in CE1 and CE2 and in CM2, written and spoken French, math and elementary general
science. The model takes into account the influence on individual learning of the general cultural context,
school and teacher characteristics, as well as student and family variables. IDA specialists in evaluation
provided advice on the design of the study. The overall approach adopted in this development phase was a
combination of local training, leading to hands-on involvement of national staff in designs and field work,
completed by advanced formal training overseas for selected members of the team. Thus, the role of the
contracted specialist team from Belgium focused on providing training, mentoring and technical advice as
inputs to a national task team's work. The result has been full ownership by INEADE and a strong
determination to maintain the system.
Unfortunately, it has not been possible to modify the curriculum to reflect these findings - a new edition of
primary school books, revised primarily on the basis of subjective, qualitative assessments, was already "in
the works". However, there is an effort underway to influence policy in terms of the issues identified and to
change pre- and in-service teacher training. The INEADE team recognizes that apart from maintaining the
system and analyzing the results, they face a permanent challenge as regards convincing administrators and
staff that evaluation is a reliable and useful tool - many are upset by the results which they see as criticisms
of their own performance - and in terms of overcoming the natural inertia and conservatism of the school
system when it comes to accepting and acting upon new and important information. To succeed in making
SNERS a permanent part of the "tableau de bord", INEADE will have to devote time to both IEC and
operating the system.
(7) Strengthen the Capacity of the Planning Directorate, the Inspectorates and Innovations in School
Administration.
These sub-components are rated satisfactory.
Planning Department. Two years into the project, the planning department was in disarray. Most of its
experienced staff left to other ministries as a result of internal conflicts. This undoubtedly had a negative
effect on the planning of the first phase of school construction. The inspectors whom the ICR mission met
singled out specific problems such as siting new classrooms in areas of low demand, not programming a
sufficient number of new classrooms to replace existing makeshift facilities (which continue to exist
side-by-side with new or rehabilitated classrooms) and failure to program additional latrines/water points -
suggesting an incomplete or out-of-date school map ("carte scolaire"). Under new direction, the capacity of
the planning department has been renewed, with 60 persons trained with assistance from the Institut de
Recherche pour l'Education (IREDU). This makes it possible to locate planning staff in the ten regions, in
the "inspections d'academie" (IA). This is an important move - the regional inspectors are now likely to
become demanding "customers" in terms of educational statistics, given their need to argue their case for
the budget with locally elected officials. The quality of the school map is likely to improve since
information from inspectors, school principals and communities can be more easily integrated by planning
staff at the grassroots.
Inspectorates. Shortly after project start-up in 1995, lAs were established in each region in keeping with
government policy to decentralize administrative responsibility ("d'avantage de pouvoir a la peripherie").
Essentially, the former regional directorates of primary education were given responsibility for all
-9-



educational services below the university level, including teacher training. This reflected a major change at
the secondary school level. previously, the director of secondary education in Dakar exercised direct,
almost daily control of all junior and senior high schools. Additionally, new "p6les regionaux de
formation" were created. These grouped pedagogical advisors for primary and junior secondary in a single
resource center with the capacity for organizing in-service training, as well as providing direct,
trouble-shooting advice to teachers. Primary advisors handle all aspects of the primary curriculum while
secondary advisors are subject-specific (physics, math, French, etc.). There is substantial merit to these
innovations. In the context of increasing devolution of government, the chief education officer at the
regional level has to be able to work directly with local authorities (rather than "clear" everything with a
department director in the Ministry) - for example, the mayor's office which allocates part of the education
budget, the local health authorities, the civil authorities.
Initiatives which became an integral part of the project.
(8) The Volunteer Teachers Program
This subcomponent is rated highly satisfactory. Although not included in the original design of the
project, this additional subcomponent enabled the project to achieve its goal of increasing access to primary
school. By 1998, volunteers filled 20 percent of the primary school teaching places while accounting for
only 9 per cent of the salary bill, demonstrating that the approach was cost-effective. Moreover, the cost
savings made the creation of new school places possible. The use of volunteers and the decision to recruit
only contractual teachers will have a significant impact in terms of cost saving, an estimated FCFA 2.3
billion through 2010.
One of the project's specific objectives was to raise the primary enrollment rate from 58% to 65% in six
years by providing more school places and recruiting new teachers. This last objective was constrained by
IMF and Bank conditionality limiting the overall public wage bill. Responding to this, Government
changed its policy on recruitment. New teachers were to be recruited at the instituteur adjoint level (grade
9 education with two years of formal training; starting salary FCFA 67,000 per month) with only 20 per
cent at the instituteur level (grade 12 recruitment with three years of training; starting salary FCFA 80,000
per month). It also moved to implement other measures designed to enhance the efficient use of teachers:
moving teachers out of administrative assignments into teaching, redeploying the teaching force more
equitably and introducing double shifts in densely populated urban areas while implementing multi-grade
teaching in less populated rural areas. Despite this, class size continued to grow alarmingly. The 1994
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) did include a provision for 600 additional contractual teachers to
mitigate the situation but these un-earmarked funds were ultimately not allocated for this purpose by the
Ministry of Finance.
In response, the new deputy minister for primary education came up with a new approach, inspired by the
Peace Corps and other volunteer services, that of recruiting educated but unemployed youth into a new
service in which those selected would serve for four years, receiving only a modest, fixed stipend of FCFA
50,000 per month. The goals were to meet the teacher deficit while instilling a spirit of national
commitment. The idea met with significant opposition. The trade unions have a long history in Senegal and
have been partners of its socialist govemment since independence. Among the strongest of these groups are
the teacher unions. Their reaction was that a volunteer service, additional to the already much opposed
introduction of contractual, both with lower pay and fewer benefits, would weaken their bargaining power.
Nonetheless, after a nation-wide concertation between Government and stakeholders, under the leadership
of the deputy minister which identified the lack of teachers as the most important barrier to raising
enrollments, the idea won reluctant acceptance by the unions. There is no doubt that the apparent dip in
- 10 -



enrollments was not only perceived as a danger sign but as politically embarrassing for a country which
was considered as a key African supporter of the Jomtien goals. With strong support from the highest
levels of government, the initiative moved forward, recruiting 1200 out of 32,000 applicants in its first year
(1995/96). This helped meet the annual deficit of 1700 teachers, complemented by a modest, continuing
flow from the forrnal teacher training colleges of 500 per year (all that could be recruited under the wage
bill constraint). To ensure equitable distribution of the new recruits and in the spirit of the new policies
decentralizing government, local school inspectorates were empowered to recruit the volunteers directly on
the basis of an authorized number of posts - based on their enrollment ratios - and a competitive selection
process. This encouraged would-be recruits from urban areas to seek posts in the poorer, rural areas where
he (few of the recruits were women) would serve for four years, after a short, 15 day practical pre-service
training course organized by the local primary school inspectors.
To the extent that these urban applicants often had higher qualifications - frequently a university decree
(although the formal requirement was only for nine years' of schooling) - the local recruiting process led to
an injection of new skills into the primary schools, with possibly far reaching effects on school climate.
Unfortunately, there does not seem to be any formal research on these potentially beneficial effects, nor on
the possible negative consequences stemming from well-educated, young urbanites serving side by side with
older, more conservative rural teachers. However, there was an impact on enrollments - in two of the
poorer regions (Diourbel, Louga), enrollments increased by seven and eleven percentage points
respectively, within a two year period. The volunteers are well accepted. In the Region of Fatick where
volunteers represent the majority of teachers parents are happy.
The continuing reticence of the unions (periodic strike actions began in 1997 and have continued under the
recently elected (2000) government) and the inevitable question of what to do with the volunteers after their
four years of service prompted Government to request IDA's financing of a study of future alternatives.
Conducted in 1996, the results were examined in a February 1997 seminar which brought together all the
stakeholders. The recommendation, subsequently adopted in a 1998 stakeholder seminar, was that
volunteers with satisfactory performance could become contractual teachers (without civil service tenure),
with remuneration beginning at FCFA 83,000 and reaching FCFA 172,000 after 22 years' of service, i.e.
about half the pay of a civil service teacher, with the same family allowances and health and accident
insurance (although not the housing allowance). However, no doubt as a quid pro quo to the unions (who
feared their membership would decline along with their bargaining power), provision was made for
qualified contractuals (having passed the formal teacher training examination) to join the civil service
teachers after serving a minimum of two years based on the availability of these civil service posts
otherwise, the potential that these cost-savings (through the lower salaries of volunteers and contractuals)
could be eroded by the rate of conversion, the higher cost of the teaching force as it ages (through annual
increments and promotions) and by any eventual concessions to the unions.
There seems little doubt that the volunteers have had an impact on enrollment capacity. In Diourbel, 500
of the 1500 primary teachers are volunteers.
(9) Training of Secondary School Principals (This component is rated Satisfactory)
Assisted by the Coop&ration Fran,aise the goal is to develop a "corps" of trained principals selected on the
basis of their experience and leadership qualities and trained in the formal administrative and pedagogical
management of schools. The initiative has the strong support of the director of secondary education and
has achieved the following preliminary results:
* selection criteria have been reviewed
* a competitive selection examination is being designed
- 11 -



* a formal training program is being implemented and will eventually find a home in the Ecole Normale
Superieure
* training costs are now incorporated in the budget
These achievements required negotiation with the unions who traditionally considered the "top job" in a
school as the perquisite of the most senior union member. The approach is now paying off in other ways,
school principals are creating professional associations (there is an active junior high school principals'
association in Dakar) which show promise in terms of mutual support, the dissemination of "best practice"
and a greater voice for principals in policy formulation.
(10) Internet Centers in Secondary Schools (This component is rated satisfactory)
In 1997, the World Bank Institute began piloting the World Links for Development program, aimed at
providing schools, teachers, and students with the Internet access, linking up to partner schools in
industrialized countries. Senegal was one among 15 developing countries to receive a donation of
computers and training for a total of 12 secondary and lower secondary schools. Some 250 teachers have
been trained an average of 40 hours of training, some 60 administrative staff have been trained and about
4800 students have participated. The Second Human Resources Development Project is the first among the
15 World Links projects to reach completion.
World Links donates the computers and pays for their transport but recipient schools are responsible for
converting a classroom into a computer lab (in this case financed by the Islamic Development (IDB) Bank
and IDA) providing a suitable environment with dust-protection and air conditioning. Schools also bear
the responsibility for the operating costs including phone charges, maintenance, and supplies. The school
charges a fee to meet these costs. The parent-teacher's association in coordination with the Regional
Inspectorate sets the fee that the computer lab will charge for each student, either on a monthly basis (for
example $1 per student per month) or on a yearly basis at time of annual registration. The goal is that
these revenues should permit the centers to be self-sustaining.
Challenges. The new ten-year IDA-supported program will extend the project to 28 more high schools.
The mission sees several challenges with regard to the successful integration of these centers into the
academic life of these and other Senegalese institutions. If they are not resolved, the program, however
creditable, risks never being more than a token effort. The challenges are:
* increasing access to the Net on an equitable basis (there is an obvious danger that "math/science"
students monopolize small centers) - this means investment in more work stations per school in a
second phase of the pilot project
* working with the Ministry in charge of telecommunications, education, finance and private wireless and
line providers to develop a new subsidy policy regarding connection time (the current subsidy of
FCFA 25,000 per month is too small and schools severely "ration" access to the Net, making it
difficult to ask for student subscriptions to pay for the non-connection operating costs - see note below)
* exploring the economies implicit in wireless technology (e.g. Uganda's case where a 64 kb per second
connection, 24 hours a day costs US$150 per month versus Senegal's 28.8 kb per second connection,
two hours only per day for US$240 per month.)
* harnessing the true power of the Net for instruction (e.g. the use of model lesson plans with embedded
- 12 -



Web site addresses which lead students through different resource bases, to answer specific questions
or to pursue individual research projects) - some promising initiatives can be noted - a project on
teenage problems at the Martin Luther King junior high school tying in to overseas school web sites
(see also the example in Annex 1 1 developed for high schools in the U.S.)
*   instituting a monitoring and evaluation system focusing on participation and cost data, on educational
impact (via non-curricular-based, general knowledge and skills-linked S.A.T - type tests), on the
logistics (facility scheduling) as well as on other aspects such as a project history documenting
operational problems
*   meeting the recurrent budget: financing equipment maintenance and the cost of utilities - this is a
question of setting a reasonable price for student access and in ensuring maximum access to meet the
annual recurrent cost burden *
* investment renewal: finding the funds for upgrading equipment and software **
*   extending access opportunities to the local community
It may be that the local private sector will be able to respond more efficiently to the demand created by the
project, than will a school-based solution. Diourbel has many small private "phone centers" where people
go to buy cell-phone "time". It is not hard to imagine small, private "cyber cafes appearing as a logical
development of these phone parlors.
The follow-on project envisages a tentative scaling-up (to a further 27 secondary schools) which will
certainly provide additional useful infornation, providing that there continues to be adequate data
collection and cost analysis. What seem to be missing is a sense of direction. Just how far is it feasible (in
different phases) to move toward a more complete "wiring" of education? It should be possible to develop
several scenarios based on assumptions about investment and new developments in both
telecommunications and new technology, about public subsidies, as to just how far one can proceed - in
termns of students reached, access time, integration into the curriculum and teacher training, not to mention
school administration. McKinsey has just completed a similar, forward-looking study for the United
States. Perhaps it would be worthwhile conducting a similar study for the WorldLinks countries.
Notes.
(1) The ability to cover costs is extremely sensitive to both price and the number of students accessing the system. Two
hypotheses assuming the same price per student, FCFA 600 per month - a rough weighted average of actual subscriptions in
Senegal (which range form FCFA 500 to FCFA 1000) and reasonable access on-line: (1) If three after class hours are
available, five days a week, there are 15 x 10 work station hours or 600 student hours per month, 1200 if students "double-up".
If student expectations are to get a minimum, say, of 2 hours per week - 8 hours per month, then 150 "customers" could be
accommodated, with a fee revenue of FCFA 600 x 150 or FCFA 90,000 per year (US$ 150). If we assume, maintenance and
other operating costs (net of line connection costs) are about 30 % of the second hand value of the donated computers ($300
each) or $900, then revenue covers only 17 % of the basic operating costs. Note that this annual cost may be low - the avemge
repair technician visit costs US$80. (2) If the assumed expectation of 2 student contact hours per week is retained with
doubling-up, with the further assumption that classroom periods are programmed, then the potential number of "customers"
per month is: (6 periods x 5 days) x 10 stations x 4}1/2 = 600 x2 = 1200 and the revenue 1200 x FCFA 600 or FCFA 720,000
equivalent to 130 % of the annual basic operating costs. Several observations are in order: (a) it will probably be difficult to
meet basic operating costs through subscriptions - a "price setting" and equity problem; (b) in neither case does a significant
number of students get access (the enrollment of the IDB school is over 1000); (c) maximizing access demands some
"scheduling" skills on the part of the school principal (which few in fact have since formal training for school principals is a
recent innovation); (d) in the case of assigned school periods, the challenge is for teachers to integrate the hourly sessions into
the subject being taught - hopefully in a way which can enrich the students' experience.
- 13 -



(2) It may not be unreasonable to assume upgrading of equipment every three years. Future equipment will not be
second-hand unless another source can be found (the assumption is that schools get one chance at IDA's used equipment) so
renewing the same number of work stations and equipment might be modestly estimated at 1 0 x $600 (over the next two to
three years) or $6000, net of inflation and net of related equipment such as printers, replacement cables, etc. In contrast, few
secondary students have a full set of school books, estimated costs per pupil $200-250. Even in the eventual implementation
of a school book rental or loan scheme to reduce costs to parents, renewing computer hardware - not to mention meeting
operating costs - will compete for parental funding with books and other education-related expenditures. The conclusion is
that these costs will likely depend on the capital budget and donor financing.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
INEADE's capacity was strengthened in assessing student achievement with the establishment of a national
system to assess student achievement, influence curriculum development and participate in setting policy on
improving quality. As a result, INEADE is taking the lead in the assessment of student leaming. The
Department's planning capacity was successfully restored and strengthened in numerous areas and planning
activities moved to the regional level. Within the Government's decentralization framework, education
offices (IAs) will work more closely with regional authorities in developing and implementing operational
plans and budgets.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency.
The devaluation of the FCFA undoubtedly amplified the effect of an over-estimation of parents' and
communities' ability to meet the direct costs of education while co-sharing the costs of project components
such as school construction, school books and the school development fund. The February 1994 SAC,
prepared late 1993, made specific provision for assistance to the social sectors, over and above the general
price "freeze" on basic commodities (rice, cooking oil, kerosene, propane ) on which the poor depended
heavily. The provisions included FCFA 2 billion for primary education, to build an additional 300
classrooms (over the planned 700 for 1994) and recruit an additional 600 contractual teachers. In addition,
the Credit was revised to reduce the financial participation of communities in school construction from
20% to 10% and to permit the financing of 250.000 books (free for parents) together with 50,000
"packages of school supplies (notebooks, pencils, erasers, etc.), the latter on the understanding that the
government finance (US$0.7 million) a further 150,000 books and 150,000 packages. Books and packages
were to be distributed to schools with double-shifts -deemed a proxy for poverty - mainly in urban areas.
Despite these measures, it became clear during implementation that parents/communities could not cope
financially. In terms of school construction, parents could contribute little more than labor. There were
strong indications of low financing capacity at appraisal, however. The 1992 household survey found that
33% of the population were too poor to ensure adequate caloric intake and IDA's 1995 nutrition report
noted that poverty was intensifying in urban areas, with Dakar's share of the poor 12%, other cities 2% and
the rural areas 86%. Nevertheless, the project was of its time, coming at the end of a period during which
all the sectors assisted by IDA saw the introduction of cost-sharing, often without sufficient attention to
the aggregate costs across sectors and their impact on different socioeconomic strata. After much criticism
by UNICEF (Jolly et al.) and the international NGOs , the outcome was a general inter-agency agreement
to base cost-sharing on a careful analysis of ability to pay and increasing attention to poverty monitoring.
In the Senegal of today, direct costs to parents are still a barrier to school participation, with a
- 14 -



disproportionate impact on girls. The ICR mission found general agreement that the costs per year to
parents, per primary school child, could be as high as FCFA 16,000, with two children costing the
equivalent of the minimum wage (SMIG) for modem sector workers - which few heads of households in
the project regions of Diourbel and Thies currently eam.
Another major factor affecting implementation and outcome is the changes in staffing of Bank team and
changes in the Ministry of Education.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Monitoring costs to beneficiaries. Government was aware of the overall cost burden on beneficiaries
stemming from externally financed projects. While it did move to relax those contributions, this was done
on an ad hoc basis rather than as the result of careful monitoring. Local school inspectors and other
government agents at the grassroots could have been organized to observe the impact of direct and indirect
costs on parents/communities. While qualitative, such information could have guided policy.
Project Implementation Unit. By not accepting its responsibility for monitoring construction, and
inefficient tendering for goods (books, computers and other materials) and for technical assistance at that
times unresponsive to technical specifications, its contribution to project objectives is not clear. The PIU
was seen by the other line directorates as a privileged entity in terms of its access to IDA and other donors'
financing and because of the prominence and continuity of its staff. In retrospect, it seems that a better
strategy would have been to develop the institutional capacity of the Ministry's existing services, legally
charged with executing most of the functions of the PIU. That lesson has been learned. Under IDA FY
2000 sector development program, the PIU is being dissolved and its staff integrated into line directorates.
School Book Fund. The new approach of retailing books through the private sector was in large part a
response to operational difficulties encountered in the previous project. Given that it was a new approach,
Government should have supervised it more carefully, carrying out regular checks on book availability at
the local level. When MNEADE found that there were regions where the new approach was not working,
the fall-back approach (asking inspectors to manage the process) was not thought through and in any case
inadequately supervised. Government did not take corrective measures to streamline management structure
and appropriate follow-up on audits.
Girls' education component. The person appointed to the key post did not have the requisite
qualifications in education/social services but rather a track record as a political advocate of women's'
rights, useful but insufficient for the tasks at hand.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.
Primary Classroom Construction. While the overall country program target with regard to primary
classrooms was met (IDA and all other donors combined), it is clear that there were many needs unsatisfied
(e.g. remnaining "abris provisoires " on the sites of IDA-assisted schools, 234 new classrooms and 189
rehabilitated classrooms.). The undisbursed balance of US$3 million would have gone some way to
fulfilling those needs, if AGETIP's contract had been modified in time (August/September 1999, given
AGETIP's construction time of six months per classroom).
Private sector incentives. The proposal of school textbook distribution by private retailers was flawed.
The highest incentive payments were paid to retailers with the greatest numbers of retail points in a given
region. However, the retailer was under no obligation to make regular deliveries to remote areas where
sales would likely be small. Rather, the incentive was to concentrate sales in large towns where parents
were more likely to have cash. To provide an incentive for reaching remote locations, some equivalent of
- 15 -



the typical construction distance coefficient should have been employed. Similarly, contracts with private
sector site construction specialists, hired by the implementing agency to supervise classroom construction
and rehabilitation, was based on an ad valorem fee per sub-project (say, a classroom), without any
incentive to visit remote sites. Obliged to furnish their own transport, their visits to remote sites was
infrequent, leading to poor quality control. Furthermore, their working relations with the staff of the
directorate for school construction (also responsible for general supervision of school construction) were
not clearly defined, leading to often contradictory instructions to workers on site.
Funds for FDS schools. The PIU was over-zealous in its processing of projects already selected by
grassroots committees (inspectors, headmasters) but also the onerous procedures set forth in the
implementation manual did not help. Disbursements to schools were at least three years late.
Tender procedures for textbooks. Rather than taking the acceptable route of increasing quantities under
existing, approved contracts, the PIU initiated new tender procedures, often for relatively small quantities
of books. This slowed delivery. (As noted by the first bi-annual review.)
5.4 Costs and financing:
The fact that assumptions about parental ability to pay were over-optimistic, have been discussed above.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.:
Government Commitment. High
Govemment has demonstrated its firm commitment to universal primary education and the balanced
development of the education system by preparing a ten-year investment program which enjoys the support
of all the donors active in the sector. The preparation process was highly participative, involving all the
stakeholders. The program builds on the strategies and pilot initiatives developed under PDRH II. With
regard to teachers, the future force will be a combination of contractual and volunteer teachers, with the
phasing out through attrition of civil service teachers. Since primary teachers can be recruited with a
relatively high level of education (as the volunteer program has proved) their training program can be
reduced to six months, with further cost savings. Together the two measures represent FCFA 2.3 billion
of saving over ten years which can be dedicated to improved instructional inputs (such as in-service
training and school books - which will be free at the primary level). Govemment has also committed
additional funds for school construction, representing 1000 additional classrooms. The decentralized
administration of the school system will be further reinforced as will the assessment of student learning.
Finally, the School Development Fund (SDF) has been redesigned and will be scaled up to cover all
regions. The new program will also address the issues of equity and quality in secondary education, inter
alia encouraging girls' enrollment and addressing the lack of school books through a loan system.
Policy Environment. High
The new government elected in April 2000 is fully supportive of the above strategies and investment
program. The general public has a high level of concern about educational issues, actively participating in
national debates on such issues as girls' education, and the decentralization of authority and budgets to
elected local councils as well as the creation of school management committees provides people at the
grassroots with a chance to participate for the first time in the management of the education system.
- 16-



Institutional/Management Effectiveness. Likely
The planning department has sound leadership and some sixty planners have been trained. Planners will be
deployed to the lAs and this is expected to have a positive impact on the quality of educational statistics
and on the implementation of infrastructure planning. The staff of the PIU will be redeployed to other
directorates and the general directorate for administration strengthened to handle all procurement.
INEADE will continue to take the lead in the assessment of student leaming, with the challenge of
integrating feedback on learning difficulties into the proposed new curricula and into teaching practices.
Finally, the potential synergy of the lAs, the 'p6les regionaux defornation, together with a new
generation of competitively selected and specially trained school principals, can be tapped, if budget
allocations are appropriate.
Technical Viability. Likely
Improved quality control of school construction through enhanced site supervision remains a challenge for
the executing agency which has been retained to assist in the implementation of the ten-year program.
Maintenance of schools is recognized as a serious issue and can be put on a sound footing if adequate funds
are allocated and the participation of communities can be secured. The executing agency also plans to
examine the trade-offs between higher construction standards (reducing maintenance requirements) and the
costs of maintenance and renovation costs for lower cost designs. It is too early to assess the viability of
any significant expansion of Internet access. This is linked not only to the development of sound
instructional strategies but to future private investment in the telecommunications sector and to the
formulation of equitable subsidies for education access costs. Challenges for the ten-year program will be:
accurate targeting of poor and marginalized populations, developing sound strategies for the improvement
of school performance with parental involvement; and improving the collaboration between locally elected
officials and the lAs in terms of the management of education at the regional level.
Financial Viability. Likely
Government's implementation of difficult policies regarding teacher recruitment and pay shows that
progress can be made in better management of costs. Government has also developed three-year recurrent
and investment budgets (the first phase of the ten-year program) by level of education which can be
financed, with donor support, under current macroeconomic perspectives (annually, GDP net annual
growth of 2% and a 3% net population growth). Education's overall share in the national budget will be
held at 33% of recurrent expenditures and enjoy 8% of investment. Government will finance 80%, the
donors 15% and households and local governments, 4% and 1% respectively. Household participation will
finance mainly secondary school instructional inputs (books) through user fees. The wages share of the
recurrent budget will decline to 70% of recurrent costs, from a high 95%, permitting a higher level of
funding for instructional expenses. Administrative costs are also expected to fall from 6% to 4.2 % by
2003 (probably a minimum, requiring careful protection of the regional inspectorates' budgets against
pressures form central services. Allocations reflect priorities: the share of primary education will increase
from 36% in 1996 to 44% by 2003 (and to 50 % by the end of the program (2010), permitting the hiring
of 2000 new teachers annual and increased financing of instructional inputs, while the share of higher
education will decline from 25% (1998) to 20% by 2003, due to lower enrollments, a ceiling on
scholarships and lower administrative and social costs. Beyond 2003, much will depend on the further
development of Senegal's agricultural and industrial sectors and its tourism industry.
Social Impact. High
- 17 -



Local Participation. Enthusiasm at the grassroots was initially high but did not lead to full participation
because of the assumptions about communities and parents' ability to pay. The follow-on project has more
modest expectations about cost-sharing, given the continuing slow economy and lessons learned, so there is
a reasonable good chance of expectations and results jibing.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N.A.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank's performance is rated as satisfactory. Quantitative objectives were clear, although not so with
regard to increasing girls' enrollment. Some problems with design of project relate to the inaccurate
assessment of communities' ability to share in costs (primary school construction, schoolbooks, school
development fund) in the light of the high direct costs of schooling to parents.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. There have been four task managers during the life of the project, not unusual. On balance,
vesting supervision responsibilities in the resident mission has been most effective. IDA staff deserve credit
for being flexible in terms of integrating new initiatives into the ongoing project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation perfornance:
Satisfactory. Performance improved with the appointment of a deputy minister for basic education who
moved to strengthen planning and innovation.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project unit was too isolated from the line directorates of the Ministry and could not always command
the support it needed to implement the project. Its supervision of the executing agency, AGETIP, was
administrative rather than field-based, accounting in part for the latter's own weak site supervision. The
supervision of the school book fund was limited to expenditure accounting, not much use when revenues
were received and stocks held by another department of the Ministry, with little, one suspects, collaboration
between the two.
7.7 Overall Borrower perfornance:
Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Cost-sharing. Cost-sharing proposals must be based on careful analysis of poverty data. They
must also take into account the contributions being asked of the people at the grassroots by other projects.
Relatively small, project-specific contributions (for education, health and road maintenance, not to mention
any local taxes) can translate into a major burden for family budgets.
-18-



Project Implementation Unit. The PIU was seen by the other line directorates as a privileged
entity in terms of its access to IDA and other donors' financing and because of the prominence and
continuity of its staff. Some interlocutors even referred to it as the "World Bank". These are generic
problems common to most PlUs, noted by OED reviews. Created on ad hoc basis to streamline
procedures and accelerate implementation in ministries regarded as too bureaucratic to change, such
entities have themselves become entrenched over time, with powers dwarfing those of other functional
directorates. In retrospect, it seems that a better strategy would have been to develop the institutional
capacity of the Ministry's existing services, legally charged with executing most of the functions of the PIU.
That lesson has been leamed. Under the IDA FY 2000 sector development program, the PIU is being
dissolved and its staff integrated into line directorates.
The volunteer teacher program appears to have inspired similar initiatives in other countries
faced by the same problems of limits on civil service growth, unresponsive civil service personnel
management procedures together with growing social demand for primary schooling. For example, Benin
has embarked on a "contractual teacher" initiative which seeks to recruit qualified personnel from the ranks
of the educated unemployed, train them on the job while introducing the performance-based management
systems needed to establish a contractual teaching corps over the medium term. This is a good example of
a "home grown" reform acquiring wider acceptance through the "network" of African educators in the
sub-region.
School construction. a) This was the first time that the executing agency - AGETIP - had built
schools so some difficulties were naturally encountered. Discussion with the executing agency and the
arrangements for the follow-on project suggest that these lessons have been learned. The decision to
entrust school construction to a professional agency rather than maintain the function of school
construction in a ministerial department was a positive step. Before, annual delivery of classrooms rarely
exceeded 70. However, recognizing that AGETIP is quasi-governmental in character, measures to
introduce or emulate competition should be considered. Certain countries have competing AGETIP-like
agencies (cf. Benin).
b) An undoubted positive effect of the project was to "leverage" the participation of other donors in the
provision of school places.
c) Unit costs per m varied considerably between the donors projects with some trade-offs between unit
construction cost and MT maintenance costs and LT renovation, notably in the case of the Japanese
schools, and between the construction skills of community self-help, small and medium sized enterprises.
With the passage of time, it should be possible to see how the different designs "perform", with consequent
positive feedback to the design/construction process.
Beyond the recommended remedial measures, consideration should be given to making school
construction more competitive, opening the door to SMEs possessing a higher level of technical
competence than informal sector groups. It is possible that the rapid extension since 1994 of the
quasi-governmental agency's activities into all sectors of the economy has both over-stretched its capacity
and limited competition. However, if the dual objective of school construction and encouragement of
infornal micro-enterprises is to be maintained, the considerable human and financial resources required for
adequate field supervision must be carefully estimated and budgetary provision made.
Design of private sector incentives. Almost by definition, government ministries are not
- 19 -



competent in this area nor, in general, are educational consultants. As a result, the obvious problem of
ensuring equitable service to remote areas was not handled appropriately. A business management
consultant with in-country experience would probably have been more effective at design. The mission has
serious doubts about the cost-effectiveness of such school book distribution schemes. In this case, the
scheme was costly: to parents when they could pay, in terms of books unaccounted for and in terms of
administrative overhead (notably using inspectors' for book-keeping rather than for pedagogy). Most
importantly, significant learning opportunities were lost by children who did not have ready access to
books. The ICR mission recommends that school books be free at the primary level where social
returns are the highest. School books are free of charge at that level.
School development fund. It is possible to exercise fiduciary responsibility with regard to the
disbursement of funds to grassroots projects while keeping procedures flexible and user-friendly for the
often poorly educated beneficiary groups. Empowering them to identify and run their own projects means:
exposing them to lessons - what works; limiting their choices as little as possible and providing for timely
assistance in project identification, preparation and implementation, either by local government services or
where these are over-stretched, by NGOs.
Establishing a National System to Assess Student Achievement. As the final report (September
1998) underlines, while the first results of SNERS' application indicated serious learning problems (a
"wake up call" for those who may have been complacent about the quality of primary schooling) it also
went a long way to linking family and school characteristics to learning difficulties and to suggesting
specific recommendations or sensible lines of inquiry for resolving these difficulties. The follow-on project
aims at implementing specific measures identified as important, inter alia, the need to: target especially
vulnerable groups in terms of educational inputs and instructional approaches; ensure that teachers' gender
perceptions do not affect expectations of student performance; increase the proportion of women teachers
in primary school; encourage the development of school-level teaching teams (where in the same grade level
work collaboratively to address learning difficulties); experiment with the use of national languages to
facilitate reading and writing in the early grades; and pay more attention to spoken French.
Technical/operational audits. The project clearly demonstrates the need for conducting
technical/operational audits (sometimes called "performance audits") to verify expenditures at the object of
expenditure level (books, educational materials) and to validate systems and procedures (for supervision of
construction; for managing school book and other funds). Several components in the project - construction,
school books and the school development fund - would have had more impact if in, say, the second year of
the project, there had been spot checks in the field with back-tracking through prior steps in the operation,
to determine where things went off track. As countries move toward sector-wide operations, the span of
control with regard to donor supervision will be sorely stretched and it may be desirable to finance
("projectize") the conduct of operational audits by independent consultants. (One hesitates to suggest
creating yet another state entity when the goal is to develop discipline and accountability, not more
bureaucracy). Two other developments make the case for operational audits - decentralization (for teacher
recruitment, for the management of funds at the school level) and the move toward budget support rather
than projects (i.e. PERCs). In the first case, sound governance requires that people at the grassroots have a
right to know why funds or supplies arrive late or if the school construction program is "en retard". It
similarly demands that the State have a "droit de regard" with respect to the exercise of devolved powers.
In the second case, donors' funds become an integral element of the government budget, leaving the donors
only the possibility to monitor budget execution and sector indicators. In this case, ensuring continuing
donor support will depend very much on convincing them that expenditures actually reach their targets and
meet appropriate norms of cost and efficiency.
- 20 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
IDA has received a detailed report from the Borrower which can be found under the following
icon
ICRPDRH2.do
The conclusion of that report is given below.
During the implementation of the Second Human Resources Development Project (Education VProject)
(PDRHII) a number of major changes occurred including the devaluation of the CFA franc and the
decentralization policy requiring readjustment measures. With the devaluation, savings were made on
the exchange rates since the Credit had been negotiated in foreign currency. As a result, it was possible
to prepare and implement an emergency plan as well as finance a large number of complementary
activities. With the consent of donors, community participation in construction was reduced in order to
alleviate constraints and speed up classroom construction, among other things. Prior to
decentralization, the Ministry of National Education took the initiative to establish IAs, with IDA 's
consent, leading to a substantial transfer of skills to its deconcentrated structures, thereby setting up a
focal point at the local government level. Nevertheless, there is an apparent need to strengthen the
institutional capacity of the decentralized structures and to create the necessary link between the two so
as to ensure a coherent management of the school environment.
ODn the whole, the outcomes of PDRHII are satisfactory. The impact of the project on the system is felt in
the increase in enrollments (Annex 15) and the gross enrollment growth rates (Annex 16). The objectives
were reached, except with respect to the classroom rehabilitation programs and quantitative support for
school initiatives. The achievements of the initial program far exceeded expectations following the
financing of complementary activities from the savings due to exchange rate changes. Now that the
project is completed, the PCU management and technical staff whose skills were strengthened through
training, an enriching job experience, working with components and continuous interaction with local
and IDA experts, constitute a valuable asset to the education system. This pool of knowledge was further
enhanced by the component coordinators who benefited from training abroad and who can now make full
use of their acquired knowledge.
The use of a program rather than a projectframeworkfor the new project will definitely promote the
mobilization and tapping of all available resources to firmly establish a more efficient educational
system and to attain the more complex objectives relating quality.
This might mean a reduction in costs since local, rather than foreign experts, can be used. To
complement the system, donor coordination, throughout the implementation of the PDEF, should be
strengthened as during the preparatory phase.
(b) Cofinanciers:
UNICEF commented favorably on the school construction and on the volunteer teacher components as
contributing to an increase in enrollments. As noted above, UNICEF's work complemented the project
through its assistance to Government in the conduct of a high visibility publicity campaign in support of
girls' education.
- 21 -



The Cooperation FranVaise commented favorably on the project, noting:
*   overall good coordination of the donors supporting the education sector
*  good collaboration with IDA, particularly with regard to the preparation of the new, ten-year program
*  the effective integration of French-financed components (in school administration and in-service
training) into the project under review
*  the achievements of INEADE in the area of student achievement assessment
They expressed their continuing support under the ten-year program for volunteer teachers, the further
strengthening of school administration ("carefully selected and trained principals were key to school
performance") and in-service training at the regional level, as well as the scaling-up of the school
development fund. Finally, they welcomed IDA's support for the development of secondary education.
With regard to cost-sharing, their view was that it should be minimal at the primary level, with a
progressive cost-sharing in lower and upper secondary, backed by subsidies targeting the poor which the
school management committees should manage.
However, they were critical of the performance of the PIU which they felt often acted too independently to
effectively serve the needs of the line directorates of the Ministry. They welcomed the new approach of
strengthening the directorates' capacity to perform their responsibilities and recommended special attention
to strengthening the procurement function of the DAGE.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The comments of AGETIP, the executing agency for civil works, are reported throughout. Staff
accompanied the ICR mission on its field visits and responded frankdy to its questions. The Executive
Secretary of Environnement et Developpement du Tiers Monde (ENDA - www.endasn/), the principal
NGO involved in project execution at the community level, has been contacted and asked to comment. No
reply has been received to date.
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
-22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndlCalkWARStrix                    Procted ,I last PSR                                Emn*
1. Increase primary enrollment ratio from                                    1. Primary enrollment rato increased to
58% to 65% by 1998                                                           65%.
2. Recruit teacher training candidates at a                                  2. This policy was instituted under the
ratio of instituteurs-adjoints to instituteurs of                            previous project and has been maintained in
80 to 20.                                                                    an effort to contain costs. The policy of
hiring volunteer teachers was instituted in
1995 resulting in significant cost savings and
enabling the overall enrollment rate to
increase to the targeted 65% by 1998.
3. Provide about 200,000 additional student                                  3. The targets for classroom construcion
places (IDA financing to provide 65,000                                      were met and exceeded with the construction
places) to accommodate an increase in the                                    3176 classes, of which 1076 by IDA with
national enrollment ratio from 58% to 65% by                                 double shifting and new classes, the target
1998.                                                                        was met for new places
4. Increase community participation in                                       4. 196 out of a projected 200 schools in
education and encourage school-initiated                                     three regions received funding; however,
programs that meet the objectives of                                         many schools used funds to make physical,
improving the quality of primary education                                   not quality improvements. Funding was
and girls' participation by piloting an                                      received too late in project to evaluate the
experimental School Development Fund                                         impact of SDF schools on quality of
education.
Output Indicators:
ktdkato    P.....         Lrojd4i f kw PSR:
1. Construct 875 new classrooms and                                          1. 1,076 new classrooms were built; 891
rehabilitate 1,080 existing dassrooms.                                       dassrooms were rehabilitated.
2. Support an evaluation of school policies                                  2. Study on the distribution of textbooks
and textbooks to eliminate disincentives for                                 carried out and findings used to develop
girls.                                                                       action plans for the sale and distribution of
textbooks.
3. Support a national information campaign                                   3. Campaign was launched by the Ministre
to advertise the benefits of educating girls                                 Delegue with the assistance of UNICEF.
and to encourage girls' attendance.
4. Support the Ministry of Education to                                      4. New system of leaming assessment was
establish a sample-based system to assess                                    established. Assessment of student
student achievement in grades 2, 4, and 6 in                                 achievement at the primary level has already
French, Mathematics, and Science,                                            taken place and findings are being used to
resolve leaming difficulties identified in the
assessment.
5. Study on gender stereotypes in textbooks.                                 5. Reports finalized but dissemination of
Study on teacher behavior towards boys vs.                                   findings and general usefulness uncertain.
girls.
6. Finance the publication, sales, and                                       6. 31 titles induding 18 textbooks and 13
distribution costs of 1,180 million copies of                                teacher guides were produced amounting to
14 new textbook titles for grades 3 to 6,                                    the printing of 2,754,000 copies of
260,000 textbook reprints to account for                                     schoolbooks.
enrollment growth, and 52,000 teachers'
guides for 5 subjects and 5 grades.
7. Reduce the number of teacher training                                     7. These indicators were not met because
colleges from six to four, increase the                                      the program of hiring of volunteer teachers
student teacher ratio in pre-service training                                and its system of recruitment and training
institutes to 13:1; restructure the training                                 superseded the need for attending teacher
programs offered by the four remaining                                       training institutes.
colleges to three one-year programs.
- 23 -



8. Rehabiiitation, furnishing, and equipping                                     8. 9 lower secondary classrooms were
of temporary classrooms in 6 lower                                               rehabilitated; 15 secondary school libraries
secondary and rehabilitation and furnishing                                      were furnished with 1600 books.
of libraries in 15 secondary schools.
End of project
- 24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    ActualLatest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Cnponent               US$ milon    US$ milliQ USS___ll__n
1. Improve Access, Quality and Efficiency of Primary  57.10
Education
2. Improve Quality and Efficiency of Secondary and    4.50
Higher Education
3. Strengthen Sector Planning and Management Capacities  3.80
4. Refinancing PPF                                    0.70
Total Baseline Cost                                  66.10            0.00
Physical Contingencies                               1.10
Price Contingencies                                  5.60
Total Project Costs             72.80            0.00
Total Financing Required              72.80           0.00
Pro-ectCosts b Procurement Arrangements (A raisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Cafteg        I    .O                                 N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                      3.30         16.80         0.00         12.90        33.00
(3.30)       (14.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (17.30)
2. Goods                      7.80         4.80          0.15         0.90         13.65
(7.80)       (4.80)       (0.15)        (0.00)      (12.75)
3. Services                   1.30         0.00          5.90         0.50         7.70
(1.30)       (0.00)       (5.90)        (0.00)       (7.20)
4. Training                   0.00         0.00          0.30         0.00         0.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.30)        (0.00)       (0.30)
5. Fund for Pilot             0.00         0.00          1.40         0.00         1.40
Interventions and            (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.40)       (0.00)       (1.40)
Pre-lnvestment Studies
6. Incremental Operating     0.00          0.00          1.10         15.60        16.70
Costs; PPF Refinancing       (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.10)       (0.00)        (. I 10)
Total                      12.40        21.60         8.85         29.90        72.75
(12.40)      (18.80)       (8.85)       (0.00)       (40.05)
- 25 -



Proect Costs b Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
~dIt~ (~s^'Sgi                                                                      Total Cost
1. Works                        1.57           12.64          0.00          7.52          21.73
(1.57)        (12.64)        (0.00)         (7.52)       (21.73)
2. Goods                        3.65           6.01           0.31           3.49         13.46
(3.65)         (6.01)        (0.31)         (3.49)       (13.46)
3. Services                     0.00           2.18           0.89          0.00           3.07
(0.00)         (2.18)        (0.89)         (0.00)        (3.07)
4. Training                     0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Fund for Pilot               0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
Interventions and              (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Pre-Investment Studies
6. Incremental Operating        0.00           0.00           0.91           0.00          0.91
Costs; PPF Refinancing         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.91)         (0.00)        (0.91)
Total                        5.22           20.83          2.11          11.01         39.17
(5.22)        (20.83)        (2.11)        (11.01)       (39.17).
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2tIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financin  b Com  onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
('lEL,~~~~~~~~~~~~     C                                             Gqvt C P.
1. Improve Access,      29.80      15.60     5.80                                    0.0    0.0    0.0
Quality and Efficiency of
Primary Education
2. Improve Quality and   7.10      5.30      0.00                                    0.0    0.0    0.0
Efficiency if Secondary and
Higher Education
3. Sterngthen Sector     3.80      0.00      0.00                                    0.0    0.0    0.0
Planning and Management
Capacities
4. Refinancing PPF       1.20      0.00       0.00                                   0.0    0.0    0.0
No information was available for either actual costs by component or financing by both component and
source.
-26 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic costs and benefits analysis was carried out at the time of project appraisal, therefore, no
economics costs and benefits analysis has been carried out at the time of ICR.
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              N. f Persons a  Specialty                 Performance Rating
-  0(eg. 2 Econists, I FMS, etc.)         Implementation     Development
Month/Year    count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
2/92                          3    1 Architect, I Education
Planner, I Textbook Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
6/92                          4    1 Architect, 1 Education
Planner, 1 Textbook
Specialist, I Education
Specialist
Supervision
7/93                          3  2 Education Specialists I             S                 S
Implementation Specialist
7/94                          4  1 Implementation Specialist, 1        S                 S
Textbook Specialist, 2 Education
Specialists
3/95                          5  1 Economist, 2 Education              U                 U
Specialists, I Operations
Analyst, 1 Financial Analyst
11/95                                                                  U                 U
3/96                          4  1 Implementation Spec., 2             U                 U
Education Spec., I Operations
Analyst
11/96                         2  1 Education Specialist, 1             S                 S
Operations Analyst
4/97                           1  Education Specialist                 S                 S
7/97                           1  Education Specialist                 S                 S
11/97                         1  Education Specialist                  S                 S
7/98                           1  Education Specialist                 S                 S
5/99                           1  Education Specialist                 S                 S
12/99                         1  Sr. Operations Analyst                S                 S
S                 S
ICR
02/00                         2   Education Specialists                S                 S
- 28 -



(b) Staff
I    Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                87.9                        201.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                     49.8                        138.4
Supervision                              182.4                        482.4
ICR                                        8.7                         14.9
Total                                    328.8                        837.1
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
I Macro policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
FS Sector Policies                       OH  OSUOM  ON  o NA
N Physical                                OH *SUOM ON ONA
Z Financial                              O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Z Institutional Development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
ZEnvironmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
* Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
* Other (Please specify)           O H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
FJOther (Please specify)                 OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
? Lending                                             OHS OS  Ou OHU
3 Supervision                                         OHS OS   OU   OHU
* Overall                                             OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
Z Preparation                                         O HS O S   O  u  O HU
Z  Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 s   0  u  0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                   O HS      S   0u   O HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS OU O HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
* Ministere de l'Education Nationale, Unite de Coordination des Projets Education, Rapport de Fin
d'Execution du Programme de Developpement des Ressources Humaines (PDRH2 - Education V),
Rapport Final, mars 2000.
* AGETIP, Note Relative a la Mission d'Evaluation de la Banque Mondiale concemant le PDRH II -
Education.
* Minist&re de l'Education Nationale, Commentaires de l'Unite de Coordination des Projets d'Education
Relatifs au Rapport d'Ach&vement du PDRH II, juillet 2000.
*   Project Files: SAR, Aide-Memoires, PSRs, BTORs, Mid-Term Review.
*   Ministere de l'Education, Unite de Coordination des Projets Education (UCP). World Links For
Development, Rapport de Synthese de l'Introduction des Technologies d'Information et de
Communication (NTIC) dans les Etablissements, Mars 1997 - Avnrl 2000.
*  PAD, and Aide-memoires, BTORs, Mid-Term Review, supervision reports and PSRs covering the
duration of the project.
*  Ministere de l'Education Nationale, Unit& de Coordination des Projets Education (UCP), Synthese de
l'Execution du Programme de Developpement des Ressources Humaines (PDRH II), Novembre 1999.
- 32 -



