CREDIT NUMBER 2473 SE
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Busan Resources Development Project - Education V)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated               L            1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2473 SE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  -  s-)    , 1993, between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
November, 1992, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to strengthen the management and
operation of the Borrower's education sector (hereinafter called the
Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution
of the Program;
(B)   the Borrower, having satisfied    itself az to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Federal
Republic of Germany acting through Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau
(KfW) a grant (the KfW Grant), in an amount of approximately
DM 10,000,000 to assist in financing the Project, on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the KfW Grant Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and KfW;
(D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Republic of
France a grant (the RF Grant), in an amount of approximately
F 100,000,000 to assist in financing the Project, on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the RF Grant Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Republic of France; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to zxtend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General   Conditions  Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of  the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "CFA Franc" and "CFAF" means the currency of the
Borrower;
(b)   "DPRE" means MEN's Direction de la Planification et de
la Rforme de I'Education;
(C)   "IAs" means MEN's regional school inspection offices
(the Inspections d'Acad6mie);
(d)   "INEADE" means MEN's Institut National d'Etudes et
d'Action Pour le D6veloppement de 1'Education;
(e)   "MEN" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education (the
Ministere de l'Education Nationale);
(f)   "PCU" means the project coordination unit established
within MEN and conforming to the provisions of Section 6.01 (c) of
this Agreement;
(g)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to letter agreements dated May 20, 1992 and February 26,
1993 between the Borrower and the Association;
(h)   "School Construction Management Agency" means the agency
or firm, approved by the Association, employed by the Borrcwer to
carry out the construction and rehabilitation of schools under Parts
A.1 (a) and (b) of the Project;
(i)   "School Development Fund" has the meaning provided
therefor in Part A.5 of the Project; and
(j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-nine million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 29,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFA Francs a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.0,i The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Association sha'l establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.


﻿- 4 -
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1,
commencing August 1, 2003 and ending February 1, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the


﻿-5-
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MEN
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, administrative and educational practices, and with due
regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)   maintain its program of double-shift teaching in at
least 30% of urban classrooms; and
(b)   implement, beginning with the 1994-1995 academic year,
a program to reduce repetition of students in primary education,
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall prepare, not later than
October 31 of each year, and thereafter adopt and implement, an
annual work program and budget, satisfactory to the Association, for
implementation of the Project during the succeeding fiscal year.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall implement the teachers'
colleges restructuring program, agreed upon with the Association,
relating, inter alia, to:
(a)   the recruitment of teacher-trainees at a ratio of
instituteurs-adjoints to instituteurs of 80 to 20;
(b)   the  implementation  of one   year  instituteurs  and
instituteurs-adjoints degree programs;
(c)   increase in the student/teacher ratios at the teachers'
colleges to 14 to 1; and
(d)   the reduction of the number of administrative staff and
reassignment of redundant staff.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall implement, beginning with the
1993-1994 academic year, a program, satisfactory to the Association,
for training and deploying on an annual basis a sufficient number of
school teachers (at an instituteurs-adjoints to instituteurs ratio
of 80 to 20) to attain a gross primary enrollment rate of 65% by the
1997-1998 academic year.
Section 3.07 (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with
the Association, not earlier than April 1, 1995 and not later than
October 31, 1995, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying
out the Project and the Program. This review shall cover, among
other things: (i) the impact of the Project and Program and other
related policy measures on the efficiency of the education sector,
(ii) the efficiency of classroom construction under the Project as
compared to other possible implementation modalities, and the


﻿-7-
financing provided therefor by communities, (iii) progress in the
execution of studies under Part B.1 of the Project, and (iv) the
operation of the girls' enrollment pilot programs under Part A.2(c)
of the Project and of the School Development Fund.
(b)   MEN shall transmit to the Association, at least 90 days
prior to the mid-term review described in paragraph (a) above, a
report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association,
describing the status of the items listed in such paragraph and of
Project and Program implementation generally.
(c)   Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly
prepare an action plan, acceptable to the Association, for the
further implementation of the Project and the Program, and shall
thereafter implement such action plan.
(d)   The  Borrower  shall  carry out,   jointly  with  the
Association, during the fourth quarter of each year (other than
1995), a review of the progress made in carrying out the Project and
the Program.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish  to  the   Association,  as   soon  as
available, but in any case not later than three
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by


﻿- 8 -
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as  the   Association  shall  have   reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish  to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonab'y request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or  cause   to  be   maintained,  in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special   Account   was   made,   all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that  such records and accounts     are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out;
(b)   the KfW Grant Agreement or the RF Grant Agreement shall
have failed to become effective by March 31, 1994, or such later
date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement; and
(c)   (i)    subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms thereof, or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof; and
(ii)   subpara,graph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension,   cancellation,   termination   or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any cf its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
any event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii)
of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Teraination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower shall have entered into a management
agreement with a School Construction Management Agency under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)   the Borrower shall have adopted an operational plan,
satisfactory to the Association, to carry out the textbook supply
and distribution system and the revolving textbook fund under Part
A.3 of the Project;
(c)   the Borrower shall have established the PCU under terms
of reference (including staffing) acceptable to the Association, and
the PCU's director, senior education advisor, project administrator,
accountant and procurement officer, each with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association, shall have been employed
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association and shall be
in place;
(d)   the Borrower shall have employed an independent auditor,
satisfactory to the Association, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association;
(e)   the  Borrower  shall  have   prepared  bid  packages,
acceptable to the Association, for the procurement of goods and
works agreed upon with the Association; and
(f)   the Association shall have received the audit reports
required under (i) the Development Credit Agreement (First Energy
Sector Rehabilitation Project), dated October 27, 1986, (ii) the
Development Credit Agreement (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit),
dated December 18, 1989, and (iii) the Development Credit Agreement


﻿- 11 -
(Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit), dated February 9, 1990, each
between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLZ VII
Representatives of the borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Lorrower:
Minist&re de l'Economie et
des Finances
Rue Charles Lain6
B.P. 4017
Dakar
Senegal
Cable address:                Telex:
MINIFINANCES             3203G
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 8 Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 12 -
Cable address:                  Telex:
INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written-
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By           !5   ZC" 1d2    Y/4~2        /
Regional Vice Pre ident
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent       to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works:
(a) under Part A.1(a) 6,000,000          75%
of the Project
(b) under Parts A.4,    6,100,000        100%
B and C of the
Project
(2)   Textbooks under        3,200,000         100%
Part A.3 of
the Project
(3)   Furniture under        3,300,000         100%
the Project
(other than
Part A.5)
(4)   Equipment, Vehicles,   2,000,000         100%
Supplies and Library
Books under the Project
(other than Part A.5)


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5)   Consultants'             4,500,000       100%
Services and
Training under the
Project
(6)   School Develop-           750,000        100%
ment Fund
(7)   Pilot Programs            300,000        100%
under Part A.2(c)
of the Project
(8)   Incremental               400,000        100%
Operating Costs
(9)   Refunding of              600,000        Amount due
Project                                   pursuant to
Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                   of this Agreement
(10) Unallocated               1,950,000
TOTAL              29,100,000


﻿- 15 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "School Development Fund" means expenditures
for school furniture, books and other costs incurred by schools
under the School Development Fund;
(b)   the term "pilot programs" means expenditures for school
furniture, equipment, consultants' services and other costs incurred
by MEN in carrying out any pilot program under Part A.2(c) of the
Project;
(c)   the term "training" means expenditures for fellowships,
stuiy tours, conferences, workshops, courses and other forms of
training, each as are approved by the Association; and
(d)   the term "incremental operating costs" means the costs
for  office   supplies,  vehicle  and  machinery   operation  and
mainten.?Ace, and field allowances, incurred by MEN under Parts
A.2(a) and A.5 of the Project, and by DPRE and the PCU under the
Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   under Category (6) until the Borrower shall have (i)
adopted terms of reference, satisfactory to the Association, for the
operation of the School Development Fund, and (ii) employed an
auditor, with qualifications and experience and under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, to conduct semiannual
technical audits of the operation of such fund.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Proj&ct
The objectives of the Project are to (i) ivpyove the quality
and efficiency of, and increase access to, prima.y education, (ii)
improve the quality and efficiency of seconda,-y and tertiary
education, and (iii) increase the capacity of the Borrower to manage
the education sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Primary Education Access. Quality and Efficiency
1.    (a)   Increasing the number of student places in primary
education, primarily in rural areas, through the construction of
about 1,310 classrooms.
(b)   Improving the condition of primary education classrooms
through the rehabilitation of about 1,080 existing classrooms.
(c)   Implementation  of  a  primary   education  classroom
maintenance program.
2.    Promoting increased girls' enrollment in primary education
through, inter alia:
(a)   development and implementation of a national information
campaign to advertise the benefits of educating girls;
(b)   development and implementation of a program to identify
and eliminate disincentives to girls' enrollment from school
policies and textbooks; and
(c)   development and implementation of MEN pilot programs in
selected districts to increase girls' enrollment.
3.    Establishment and operation of (a) a textbook supply and
distribution system, including the acquisition and distribution of
about 1,180,000 new textbooks for grades 3 to 6 and about 52,000
teachers' guides, and (b) a revolving textbook acquisition fund.


﻿- 17 -
4.    Increasing the expertise of teachers through strengthened pre-
service and in-service training, including the rehabilitation of
teachers' colleges.
5.    Establishment and operation by MEN of a pilot fund (the School
Development Fund) to support school-initiated programs to improve
the quality of, and increase girls' enrollment in, primary
education.
6.    Establishment and operation of a national student achievement
evaluation system, focused on mathematics, French and sciences in
grades 2, 4 and 6.
Part B:     Secondary and Tertiary Education Quality and Efficiency
1.    Design and execution of studies to develop medium- and long-
term programs to improve the qality and efficiency of secondary
education.
2.    Improving the quality of secondary education through: (a) the
rehabilitation of classrooms, and (b) the rehabilitation and
stocking of libraries.
3.    Improving the quality of education at the University Cheikh
Anta Diop through the stocking of libraries and rehabilitation of
facilities.
Part C:     Management of Education Sector
1.    Improving the efficiency of MEN's planning and management
functions, including the decentralization of planning activities,
through:
(a)   the transfer to IAs of responsibility for the collection
and analysis of regional education data and the preparation of
regional education plans;
(b)   strengthening the institutional capacity of IAs to
conduct school supervision, planning and in-service teacher
training, and the related equipping of inspectorates, training of
staff and rehabilitation of facilities; and


﻿- 18 -
(c)   strengthening the institutional capacity of DPRE (i) to
collect and analyze national education statistics, (ii) to train
education planners at the IAs and InsIections D6partementales, and
(iii) to prepare national education plans.
2.    Conducting studies to prepare and design education sector
development initiatives.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those s-- forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurerat under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price
contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of
the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed
beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Senegal may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for (a) works under Parts B and C of
the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,500,000,
(b) works under Part A.1 (a) of the Project, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $8,500,000, (c) school furniture, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $4,500,000, (d) other furniture, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, and (e) equipment and
office supplies, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive


﻿- 20 -
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items for office supplies and spare parts
and vehicles, estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $150,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded Qn the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for (i) goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, and (ii) works
under Part A.l(a) of the Project for which there are less than five
bidders, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 21 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines).
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review or approval requirements shall not apply to the
terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of
individuals, to single-source hiring of firms, to assignments of a
critical nature as reasonably determined by the Association, and to
amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall operate the PCU under terms of reference
(including staffing) acceptable to the Association, and shall not
replace any staff referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement
without the prior consent of the Association.
Part A of the Project
2.    The classrooms to be constructed under Part A.1(a) of the
Project shall be distributed as follows: (i) about 260 in the
Diourbel Region, (ii) about 160 in the Louga Region, (iii) about 240
in the Tambacounda Region, (iv) about 360 in the Kaolack Region, (v)
about 215 in the Fatick Region, and (vi) about 75 in the Kolda
Region, with about 80% of such classrooms to be located in rural
areas.
3.    In carrying out Parts A.1 (a) and (b) of the Project, the
Borrower shall comply with, and shall cause the School Construction
Management Agency to comply with, the terms of the management
agreement entered into in accordance with Section 6.01(a) of this
Agreement, and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such
management agreement or any provision thereof without the consent of
the Association.
4.    (a)   In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, MEN shall
complete, not later than June 30, 1994, studies, conducted under
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, regarding
barriers to girls' enrollment and school attendance.
(b)   In carrying out Part A.2(a) of the Project, MEN shall
implement, not later than December 31, 1994, a national information
campaign to increase girls' enrollment, satisfactory to the
Association, designed to take into account the results of the
studies described in the preceding paragraph.
(c)   In carrying out Part A.2(b) of the Project, MEN shall
complete, not later than June 30, 1995, studies, conducted under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, identifying and
analyzing potential disincentives to girls' enrollment contained in
school policies and textbooks.


﻿- 23 -
(d)   In carrying out Part A.2(c) of the Project, MEN shall:
(i) target districts where girls' enrollment is less than 41%, and
(ii) not later than August 31, 1995, implement pilot programs,
satisfactory to the Association, for increasing girls' enrollment.
5.    In carrying out Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall
operate the textbook supply and distribution system and the
revolving textbook fund in accordance with the operational plan
provided for under Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, as such plan
may be modified from time to time with the consent of the
Association.
6.    In carrying out Part A.3 of the Project, INEADE shall be
responsible for (i) establishing the specifications for, and
evaluating, the textbooks, under guidelines satisfactory to the
Association, and (ii) related training.
7.    In carrying out Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower: (a)
shall rehabilitate the teacYers' colleges as agreed upon with the
Association, and (b) shall establish and operate regional training
programs for teachers, teacher trainers, school principals, and
inspectors.
8.    The Borrower shall operate (a) the School Development Fund,
and (b) the national student achievement evaluation system under
Part A.6 of the Project, under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association.
Part B of the Proiect
9.    In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall
undertake studies, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, regarding the supply, quality, cost, financing and
management of secondary education.
10.   In carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall
implement the work program, agreed upon with the Association,
regarding rehabilitation of classrooms in 6 junior high schools, and
rehabilitation and stocking of libraries in 15 high schools.
11.   In carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall
stock libraries and rehabilitate sanitary, electrical and other
facilities at the University Cheikh Anta Diop pursuant to work
programs satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 24 -
Part C of the Project
12.   In carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)   provide computers, furniture, other equipment and
vehicles to DPRE and the IAs, and rehabilitate facilities at about
eight IAs, as agreed upon with the Association;
(b)   prepare, on an annual basis, and thereafter implement,
a training program for DPRE and IA staff, satisfactory to the
Association; and
(c)   carry out a study, under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association, to evaluate alterwative programs for training
education planners.
13.   In carrying out Part C.2 of the Project, MEN shall undertake
studies to develop the education se'-tor under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 25 -
SCMEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(C)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to CFAF 75,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall f;rnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 26 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn     amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 27 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide sich additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the oriLinal in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


