Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4356 
Operation Name 
Programmatic Environmental and Social Sustainability 
Development Policy Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General finance sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P095205 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL 
Federative Republic of Brazil 
Ministerio da Fazenda - PGFN 
Esplanada dos Ministerios Bloco P 
DF Brazil 70048-900  Fax: (55-11) 3412-1740 
Ministry of Environment 
505 Norte Brasilia DF Brazil  - Tel: 61-3105-2030 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Esplanada dos Ministerios 
Bloco P Brasilia DF Brazil  - Tel: (5561) 412-2000   
Implementing Agency 
BNDES 
Av. Republica do Chile 100 - Rio de Janeiro Brazil 200031-917 
Date PID Prepared 
November 26, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
December 11, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
February 12, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
A. Macro-economic Outlook and Debt Sustainability
Despite its increased resilience, Brazil has been hit hard by the global financial crisis
.
Over 
September - November 2008, the
 
stock market fell 45 percent, sovereign spreads increased by 75 
percent, and the BRL depreciated by 35 percent. Such movements reflect the relevance of 
commodity stocks in the Sao Paulo Stock Exchange Index (Ibovespa), increasing risk aversion 
and the fact that the BRL is a commodity currency (correlated with global economic activity).  
 
The effects of the worldwide financial crises have not yet been fully felt in the real 
economy,
 and the growth forecast for 2008 is being maintained at 5.3 percent. However, a 
significant slowdown is expected in 2009, causing a deceleration that will interrupt 22 quarters 
of economic expansion. Current growth rate forecasts vary between 2 and 3 percent. More 
optimistic expectations are based on the fact that domestic demand has been the driving force of 
the growth increase of the last few years and on the possibility that the adverse external shock 
would be attenuated by domestic demand growth, especially from an expected government 
expansionary stance. Pessimistic views cite the expectation of a strong credit contraction and of 
substantial losses of terms of trade due to the fall in commodity prices that would reduce sharply 
domestic demand and economic activity. 
 
Page  2
2
Differently from other external adverse shocks episodes, the present crisis has hit the 
private sector harder
.
Though the financial sector is solid and Brazil has experienced a strong 
private credit expansion in the last few years, a relevant source of vulnerability for the private 
sector is the corporat
e
sector’s high exposure to exchange rate risk. Due to its increasing 
importance in the last few years, a reduction of credit would have stronger effects in economic 
activity than in the past. Also, the recent episodes of extreme volatility in stock and foreign 
exchange markets were triggered by the liquidation of corporations’ speculative foreign 
exchange positions, which lowered their borrowing costs by “betting” on a stable or appreciating 
BRL. They are, however, unlikely to create major problems in the banking system which, as a 
whole, is long in dollars, well capitalized, and with low leverage.  
 
In summary, Brazil faces an unfavorable external scenario, but the consolidation of the 
current international macroeconomic fundamentals in recent years makes the country able 
to mitigate the effects of financial crisis.
 While decoupling from the worldwide financial crisis 
is unlikely, these fundamentals and the economic policy framework based on fiscal discipline, 
the inflation targeting regime, and the flexible exchange rate will allow the country to reduce the 
costs of the crisis. In addition, the Government has been taking appropriate measures to stabilize 
markets. Moreover, on October 29th, the United States Federal Reserve included Brazil in the 
limited group of four countries (Mexico, Singapore, and South Korea being the others) for which 
the central banks will each be provided access of up to US$ 30 billion.  The confidence shown in 
Brazil through this measure by the Federal Reserve would also reinforce the short and medium 
term soundness of the country macroeconomic position. 
 
B. Background on Main Environmental Issues
Key environmental issues in Brazil relate to unsustainable use of natural resources in the 
Amazon rain forest that leads to deforestation, lack of protection of the remaining Atlantic 
Forest, water quality and availability, and the growing demand for energy, which is putting 
pressure on Brazil’s clean energy matrix.  The environmental management system is based on a 
good policy framework but implementation varies by region and on the sectoral type of impact 
especially regarding non-point source impacts. 
 
Deforestation in the Amazon has averaged 19,000 km
2
over the past 30 years
.
These rates 
result from a combination of economic forces, poor agricultural practices, weak property rights, 
and poor enforcement of regulations. Such deforestation is impacting the climate, soil erosion, 
and biodiversity. As a result, 70 percent of Brazil’s CO
2
emissions currently come from 
deforestation and change of land use. Deforestation also causes social impacts as small farmers 
and forest dwellers are being displaced by land grabbers and the working conditions in informal 
logging and charcoal operations are below standard accepted practices. 
 
Less than seven p
ercent of the Atlantic Forest, a world biodiversity “hotspot,” is left.
 Soil 
degradation, as a consequence of agriculture and livestock grazing, is becoming an increasingly 
serious problem. This changed landscape, with few riparian forests and little vegetation around 
water springs, is also affecting the availability of water to the 70 percent of the Brazilian 
population that lives in the region originally covered by Atlantic Forest.  
 
Page  3
3
Balancing Water Access and Quality.  There is more freshwater available per capita in 
Brazil than in other upper-middle income countries, but its distribution is extremely 
uneven
.
About 70 percent
 of Brazil’s freshwater is concentrated in the Amazon Basin, whereas 
the semi-arid Northeast region, with 28 percent of the population, has only 5 percent of the 
country’s water resources. There are major water stresses in many environmentally sensitive 
federal river basins due to scarcity, and pollution and weak application of management 
instruments, including water rights. Estimated environmental costs associated with water 
pollution in seven of the largest urban areas amounted to US$ 300 million per year. One of the 
key issues is the lack of reliable information and proper assessments of water quality in the 
country, which is essential to guide investment planning as well as policy reforms in this area.  
 
Addressing Environmental Sanitation.  Brazil shares with similar countries the problems 
of water pollution, lack of sanitation and improper solid waste collection and disposal that 
result from a large concentration of people in metropolitan areas
.
Problems with sewerage 
and solid waste collection services also beset many smaller towns with scant financial and 
managerial capacity to address them. Some 57 percent of urban households are connected to a 
sewerage system and 24 percent have septic systems, but the unevenness of coverage is even 
more dramatic for sanitation than for water supply. In addition, little of the collected wastewater 
is treated.  A large part of the unserved population lives in peri-urban areas, slums (
favelas
), and 
smaller towns, with mainly lower-income populations.  The situation of solid waste management 
is even more dramatic, with the majority of the waste collected ending up in improperly managed 
open dumps rather than in sanitary landfills designed to isolate leachate and capture methane 
emissions. 
 
Maintaining the Share of Clean Energy.  The bulk (80 percent) of electric energy generated 
in Brazil is based on hydropower.
 Less than one third of overall energy use relies on traditional 
fuels, and commercial energy use per capita is relatively low.  Although favored with a clean 
energy matrix, Brazil is faced with a large expansion of demand for generation capacity.  Official 
projections for the next decade point towards an annual growth rate in electricity demand of 4.4 
percent, which is slightly higher than the economy’s growth rate (4.2 percent). Electricity 
consumption in 2015 is expected to reach an average of 600 million MWh and meeting such 
demand would require an additional 3000 MW per year in firm generation capacity. While 
current CO
2
emissions from electricity generation (about one ton per capita) are low in 
comparison to other countries at the same income level, over the past few years most of the 
incremental demand has been met through oil-based thermo-electric plants. 
 
In the transport sector, about one-third of fuel comes from renewable sources (primarily 
ethanol)
.
Brazil is a leader in ethanol production with an annual production of 16 billion liters 
produced on just 6.5 million ha, with a projected demand increase of 300 percent by 2030. Brazil 
is also increasing biodiesel production to supply five percent of the domestic market. The 
challenge in both cases is to ensure that the increased production comes from improvement in 
agricultural practices and not from encroachment on natural habitats. 
 
Page  4
4
C
.
Government’s Overall Program and Participatory Processes
The GOB approved its 2008-2011 National Plan (PPA) in 2007.   
This PPA is the result of an 
ample consultation process conducted by the President's office with the direct participation of all 
ministers. The process included many regional and thematic meetings involving over 2,200 
institutions from the private sector, CSOs, grassroots organizations, and state and municipal 
agencies. The overall goals of the PPA are to promote development with social inclusion, quality 
education, and care for the environment, which are pursued under eight priority themes, through 
actions to: (i) promote growth and income distribution; (ii) improve education; (iii) increase 
production and competitiveness; (iv) expand consumption; (v) sustainable use of natural 
resources; (vi) improve infrastructure (including urban); (vii) reduce inequality among regions, 
and (viii) strengthen democracy and participation. 
 
The environmentally related agenda on which the PPA focuses on includes
:
(i) improving 
the licensing system; (ii) decreasing deforestation and desertification and improving biodiversity 
conservation in all biomes; (iii) improving water resources management to increase water quality 
and availability for the population, control pollution, and revitalize water basins; (iv) increasing 
the contribution of the sustainable use of natural resources and protected areas to national 
development; and, (v) promoting environmental management, sustainable production, and 
consumption in rural and urban areas, as well as in areas of traditional communities and 
indigenous peoples. 
 
In order to advance the environmental policy agenda, the GOB has adopted an extensive 
bottom-up participatory process
.
A
2003
Presidential decree established the National 
Environmental Conference as a biennial regional and national consultation process for the 
continuous advancement of environmental policies. The GOB defines a guiding theme for each 
conference. The first conference focused on strengthening the environmental management 
system in all tiers of government, the second on integrated environmental policies for the 
sustainable use of natural resources, and the third on climate change. The theme is then discussed 
in many municipal meetings, and subsequently in state meetings. The state meetings elect 
delegates to participate in the National Conference, which present the conclusions and 
recommendations of the meetings and vote on any resolution proposed during the Conference. A 
large part of the GOB environmental reform agenda to be supported by the SEM DPL was a 
result of these conferences.  
The GOB also uses participatory processes to design sectoral or 
thematic programs and plans such as the Sustainable Amazon Plan (PAS) and the National 
Water Resources Plan (PNRH) to be supported by the SEM DPL series.
 This process 
resulted in a Plan which has a strong buy-in from all sectors of Brazilian society. 
 
D. The Role of BNDES in Environmental Management.  
BNDES is an emerging actor in Brazil's environmental management system, and its size 
and visibility confer BNDES significant influence in environmental management in three 
main ways.  
First, it promotes upstrea
m
adherence to Brazil’s environmental laws and 
regulations through its internal review procedures, thereby efficiently supplementing the 
downstream enforcement role played by federal, state, and local environmental agencies.  
Secondly, it helps to reduce the negative impact of the lack of clarity regarding the licensing of 
Page  5
5
complex non-point source impacts by developing more detailed criteria for the evaluation of 
environmental and social impacts of projects of this type.  Third, it seeks to promote improved 
environmental and social outcomes through programs for green investments, adoption of the 
principles of the Green Protocol, and promotion of both of these initiatives with its financial 
intermediaries. 
 
BNDES is firmly committed to promoting a series of reforms of its environmental and social 
policy framework and procedures and programs for green investments. BNDES has programs to 
support rehabilitation of degraded areas, ecological tourism in Conservation Units, sustainable 
forest management, and CDM projects, among others.  
BNDES’ commitment is further 
evidenced by the recent creation of the Social and Environmental Directorate, elevating the 
status of this agenda within BNDES.  Considering BNDES’ significant role in financing projects 
and enterprises which engage in activities with potential adverse environmental impacts, the 
proposed operation is expected to have a leveraged impact:  the full spectrum of BNDES over 70 
financial agents is expected to observe the same improved environmental and social policies to 
be adopted by BNDES with support from this operation.   
 
2. 
 
Operation Objectives 
 
This Programmatic Sustainable Environmental Management Development Policy Loan (SEM 
DPL) is the first operation in a series of two loans which span the period 2008-2010 and aim to 
support the GOB’s efforts to (i) improve the effectiveness and efficiency of policies and 
guidelines of the Brazilian environmental management system, and (ii) further integrate 
principles of environmentally sustainable development in the development agenda of key sectors. 
The SEM DPL I will also treat climate change concerns at both the inter-sectoral level and 
within the targeted sectors (natural resources, water, sanitation, and energy).    
 
By focusing on these sectors, the SEM DPL series wi
ll support the GOB’s commitment to 
implement a model of accelerated competitiveness and growth while assuring improved 
environmental and poverty outcomes
,
which are pillars of the 2008-2011 Country Partnership 
Strategy (CPS). In this way, the SEM DPL serie
s
supports the GOB’s concerted efforts to 
promote the sustainable management of agricultural lands, forests, and water resources; 
reduction of deforestation in the Amazon; reduction of the environmental degradation of land, 
water, and other resources which are key determinants of the well-being of the poor; and, 
promotion of renewable energy. 
 
The SEM DPL builds on selected reform areas previously supported by the First 
Programmatic Reform Loan for Environmental Sustainability (ENV PRL I, FY05) and the 
ongoing programs supported by Bank operations, policy dialogue, and analytical work of 
the past four years
.
The proposed program supports the GOB’s sustainable investment goal by 
emphasizing incentives and economic instruments as integral parts of the GOB’s environmental 
management strategy.  When combined with a focus on improved policies and public sector 
enforcement, incentives through development finance
1
and instruments to internalize 
environmental externalities can widen and deepen impact in the pursuit of environmental 
1
In December 2007, the Federal government issued a decree which requires enterprises to demonstrate compliance 
with environmental law as an eligibility criterion for loans from both public and private sector banks. 
Page  6
6
sustainability.  Having banks require adherence to environmental law and the integration of 
environmental and social considerations into investment plans ex ante provides a positive 
reinforcement to compliance.  In addition, supporting programs which seek to accelerate 
sustainable economic activities and improved environmental outcomes in important areas, such 
as in the Amazon region, further contributes to complementing policy reforms with 
demonstrations of better natural resources use and environmental improvement.  This is 
especially important for the poor in the Amazon, who are often driven to use natural resources in 
unsustainable ways in times of reduced growth (as is expected to result in Brazil from the current 
international financial crisis and reduced demand from many developed countries experiencing 
economic recession). 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The proposed SEM DPL will be a key instrument in addressing the sustainability pillar of 
the Brazil Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY2008-2011.
 
It will also contribute to 
the equity pillar of the CPS through its support for the expansion of access to basic services by 
lower and middle income groups, and to the competitiveness pillar through the improvement of 
the environmental management framework for infrastructure and natural resource-based 
productive chains.  The aspects of the environmental sustainability pillar to which the SEM DPL 
contributes
2
include the improvement of the environmental and social quality of infrastructure 
lending, support for forest concessions, sustainable agribusiness and forestry, private sector 
engagement in major environmental challenges, and improving protected areas management. The 
CPS emphasis on engagement in the Brazilian Amazon through the Wo
rld Bank Group’s 
Amazon Partnership Framework is also pursued by the SEM DPL through its focus on the 
improved Amazon regional planning and rainforest conservation under the PAS and the Amazon 
Fund. 
 
In the formation of the current policy reform program, eight of the 24 specific CPS 
targeted outcomes in Annex 1 of the CPS have been selected for targeting by the SEM 
DPL
.
The majority of these are under the Sustainable Brazil agenda, but the SEM DPL also 
includes the water sector indicator under the Equitable Brazil agenda as well. Annex 1 of the 
CPS also makes explicit reference to the WBG’s BNDES engagement on environmental 
sustainability. Since the engagement under the SEM DPL explicitly strengthens the focus of 
BNDES and other financial institutions on the environmental sustainability and underlying 
efficiency of public investments, the operation makes an input to the competiveness pillar’s goal 
of increasing the quality and efficiency of public expenditure. 
 
The programmatic SEM DPL complements existing WBG approaches involving both investment 
and capacity building in key priority areas, including: public sector environmental management 
at the national and sub-national levels (ENV TAL and the 2
nd
 National Environment Project); 
natural resources management (soil conservation and micro-watershed management) in southern 
and southeastern Brazil; natural resource management (forest and aquatic resources) and 
conservation in the Amazon (Pará Integrated Rural Development, Alto Solimões Regional 
Development, ProAcre, ARPA, and PPG7), and urban sanitation improvements supported by the 
Bank and the GOB’s other partners (IDB, KfW, USAID, IFC, WWF).  This combination of 
2
Presented on page 12 of the Brazil CPS FY 2008-2011, April 3, 2008. 
Page  7
7
lending for policy, investment, and institutional strengthening represents a complete and 
comprehensive "package" of Bank support to environmental improvement and sustainable 
development. 
 
4. Financing 
 
The proposed loan, in a total amount of US$ 1.3 billion, is the first operation in a series of two 
loans which span the period 2008-2010. The first loan would be disbursed in two tranches: the 
first upon effectiveness in a total amount of US$ 800 million, and the second, totaling US$ 500 
million, upon fulfillment of the relevant second tranche release conditions, expected to take place 
in mid 2009. Under the second operation in the programmatic series, the loan size would also be 
in the range of US$ 700 million to be disbursed in one tranche. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Environment and its agencies (IBAMA, ANA, ICM Bio, SFB), and BNDES will 
be responsible for implementing the proposed components of the operation. A set of outcome 
indicators for measuring the achievement of the development objectives of the SEM DPL series 
were agreed with the government. 
 
The SEM DPL series progress towards achieving its objectives and outcomes would be 
monitored according to the agreed Policy Matrix which details the second tranche release 
conditions of this operation, the proposed triggers for the second loan and expected outcomes of 
the SEM DPL series.  In order to monitor this operation and the entire SEM DPL series, the 
Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environment will use the monitoring system developed 
through the Technical Assistance Loan for Environmental Sustainability project (ENV TAL) to 
monitor the previous PRL and the ongoing ENV TAL. 
 
The monitoring system will be updated to include intermediate steps necessary to achieve the 
tranche release conditions of SEM DPL I, the triggers for the SEM DPL II, and the expected 
outcome of the SEM DPL series. This system is web-based and open to the public, ensuring 
transparency and enabling social participation. This monitoring system is under the responsibility 
of the project management unit of the ENV TAL under the direct supervision of 
MMA’s 
Executive Secretariat. 
 
Regarding the flow of funds, the Bank will disburse the two tranches of the loan proceeds into an 
account of the Central Bank which will immediately credit the disbursed amounts to the Treasury 
Single Account, thus becoming available to finance budgeted expenditures. From a fiduciary 
point of view, the control environment, procedures and regulations governing the Central Bank’s 
operations are considered adequate.  
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits: 
This operation supports both the improvement of the effectiveness and efficiency of 
policies and procedures of the Brazilian environmental management system and the further 
integration of principles of sustainable development of environmental concern in the 
Page  8
8
development agenda of key sectors. The major benefits targeted include improvements in 
sustainable management of agricultural lands, forests, and water resources; reduction of illegal 
and unsustainable deforestation in the Amazon; reduction of the environmental degradation of 
land, water, and other resources which are key determinants of the well being of the poor; and 
promotion of clean and secure energy. The attainment of these benefits is supported by sectoral 
policy changes at the federal level and improvements of policies within financial institutions 
(BNDES and its financial intermediaries) targeting the same specific objectives in the strategic 
sectors of natural resources and water resources management, environmental sanitation and 
renewable energy.
 
Risks
:
The first type of risk present is that the reform agenda is not carried out within the agreed 
scope or expected timeframe by MMA and BNDES (
Moderate
). This risk is considered low for 
reform steps by MMA and substantial for BNDES, primarily because the full implementation of 
the reform agenda within BNDES involves a difficult change in corporate culture regarding 
environmental and social sustainability. This risk is addressed through a technical assistance and 
capacity building program for BNDES and by building continual progress into the reform agenda 
with important milestones for each phase.   
 
Other specific reform execution risks include
:
(a) There is insufficient inter-agency coordination 
and institutional capacity to carry out the environmental reform agenda by government agencies 
(
Moderate
). This risk is partially mitigated by provision of technical assistance through 
complementary operations (e.g. ENV TAL); and, (b) There are delays in reform implementation 
resulting from changes in leadership in government agencies (Moderate). This risk is being 
mitigated through: (i) elaboration of the reforms’ framework in national policy programs which 
reflect strong inter-ministerial commitments and upstream consultation with civil society; and, 
(ii) a programmatic framework that is flexible.  
 
The risks of not achieving impacts are primarily that: (a) There is a delay in achieving Climate 
Change outcomes as the interactive effect between the NCCAP and BNDES clean development 
and carbon fund programs occurs more slowly than expected (
Moderate to substantial
); (b) The 
fall in deforestation does not reach the target reduction of 20 percent (Moderate).  This risk is 
mitigated by the fact that the rate of deforestation for 2007 (published in November 2008) shows 
a
reduction that is on track to achieve the 20 percent reduction and by the operation’s support for 
the Sustainable Amazon Plan and the Amazon Fund.  
 
The program’s overall mitigated risk is moderate to substantial and depends heavily on the speed 
by which BNDES fully implements the reform agenda. If it is successful, the potential returns 
would be substantial. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
A. Poverty and Social Impacts
The policies and reforms supported by this operation are expected to have a positive social 
impact as the improvements in environmental sustainability are expected to benefit the 
poor
.
The policy measures supported by this operation increase the consideration of social 
Page  9
9
impacts and their incorporation into government programs, enhance environmental conditions, 
and improve management of potential impacts on the poor. These benefits will be achieved by 
systemic improvements to the application of improved environmental policy measures supported 
by the operation, as well as at the sectoral level through reforms related to natural resource and 
land use management, water resource management and service provision, and increased focus on 
renewable energy. Secondly, t
he general improvement of the environmental management 
policy framework, its institutions, and their procedures will also involve the increase in 
access to information by and participation of different stakeholders.
 This directly improves 
transparency and enables more effective public participation in decision making.  
 
At the sectoral level
,
the continuous dialogue that the Bank has undertaken with Brazil over the 
past 15 years has generated a wide ranging set of assessed policy interventions in different 
sectors. The poverty impact of the policy measures selected from this set for inclusion under this 
operation are expected to have a number of well known beneficial impacts, the range of which is 
presented below by the specific types of actions in each sector. 
 
Sustainable management of natural resources
,
the Public Forest Management law to be supported 
by this operation accords local communities preferential treatment in the area of forest 
concessions.  In addition, the 
reforms to be supported by this operation to control 
deforestation (i.e. PAS, CMN resolution, enforcement operations) should decrease the 
frequency of unsustainable agricultural and logging practices and land grabbing.  By 
reducing these practices, the GOB’s actions would lessen the associated negative impacts
 
which typically involve displacement of persons, loss of livelihoods and poor working conditions 
(including exposure to physical risks).  
The creation of protected areas as part of the PAS 
may result in adverse impacts
 on the livelihood of the people by restricting access to the 
natural resources of the new area. To mitigate this potential impact, the GOB adopts a local 
consultation process prior of the creation of the protected area and, if requested, the category of 
the proposed protected area is changed from strict protection to sustainable use (i.e., national 
forests, extractive reserves) which allows the presence of the forest dwellers and full access to 
the natural resources. 
 
Water resource management
:
the SEM DPL’s support for the 
implementation of the National 
Water Quality Evaluation Program (PNQA) is expected to have significant benefits for the 
poor
 since they are disproportionately affected by water pollution.  Improvements to water 
quality bring immediate benefits to local populations in terms of enhanced livelihood security, 
reduced health risks and reduced vulnerability.  Ensuring continuity in water flows and a 
minimum of water quality is essential for maintaining the integrity of ecosystems, which in turn 
supports activities such as fisheries, small scale irrigation and livestock raising, all of which local 
rural communities depend on for their livelihoods. B
y
enforcing the monitoring and reporting 
on water quality, local jurisdictions and communities will be able to better understand the 
degree and nature of the major source of pollution affecting them
.
The urban poor are also at 
higher risk from industrial water pollution (more prevalent in cities) and flooding associated with 
living in the more crowded and environmental risky areas of the metropolitan regions.  
 
One area where the GOB’s water management policy reforms could possibly have a 
negative impact (on the poor and small farmers) is through the increased use of bulk water 
Page  10
10
charges
,
as these bulk charges get translated into the tariffs levied for water use.   This impact, 
however, is expected to be very low given that the expected bulk water cost would represent only 
a
very minor portion of the final price charged to the consumer. In addition, 100 percent of the 
bulk water charges go back to the river basin to be invested according to priorities established by 
the basin committee. 
 
Environmental Sanitation
:
the new Law on National Guidelines for Environmental Sanitation is 
expected to improve the planning, regulation and provision of water and sanitation services.  
The 
increased access to water and sanitation services will generate significant positive social 
impacts since 
the current deficit of service coverage deficit is concentrated amongst the poorest 
families in the less developed and depressed economic regions, smaller and poorer 
municipalities, the periphery of large metropolitan areas and rural areas. The health 
consequences of exposure to untreated environmental waste are well documented and 
significantly affect the poor to a much larger degree. Finally, from an environmental perspective, 
untreated wastewater and inadequate sanitation and drainage are the main pollution sources of 
rivers, which have an effect through the water quality impacts noted above. 
 
The local sanitation plans promoted by the new Law on National Guidelines for 
Environmental Sanitation are designed to protect the poor
 through the application of social 
tariffs and restrictions for disconnecting families who benefit from the social tariff. In addition, 
the 
improved social and environmental guidelines of BNDES for water and environmental 
sanitation operations are expected to promote positive
 economic and social impacts by 
ensuring service expansion to the poor in a sustainable manner.  The specific enhancement of the 
PRODES program is expected to provide incentives for local jurisdictions and utilities to invest 
in wastewater collection and treatment. In addition, the extension of the PRODES
3
model to the 
solid waste sector will promote the same sort of benefits, while specific provisions to protect and 
promote the social inclusion of waste pickers, the very poorest members of society, are already 
within the scope of the proposed national policy and expected to be incorporated into BNDES’s 
social and environmental guidelines.  
 
Renewable energy generation and energy efficiency
:
The project recognizes that there is a 
potential trade-off between renewable energy from large hydroelectric plants and the 
direct social impact
 that such plants can cause.  The use of less and cleaner energy is expected 
to reduce air pollution and associated costs related to treatments of respiratory diseases, and 
though most of the energy savings interventions are likely to take place in industrial and urban 
environments, the social impacts of these are expected to be positive for the poor who will 
benefit from long-term lower marginal cost tariffs. The negative impacts identified pertain to loss 
of habitat by forest dwelling traditional and indigenous communities in hydroelectric sector 
development in the Amazon and potentially similar impacts through deforestation associated 
with expansion of the ethanol sector. These are mitigated by supporting improvements to basin-
wide integrated planning of the hydro sector which specifically takes direct and cumulative 
environmental and social impacts into account.  In this regard, considerable work is being 
undertaken by BNDES to develop specific social guidelines to provide for the populations that 
3
PRODES is an innovative program started in 2001, in which the federal government provides a reimbursement of 
up to 50 percent of the cost of construction of wastewater treatment plants to encourage investment in this area. 
Page  11
11
are directly and indirectly affected by hydroelectric plants. Specific attention is given to ensuring 
the livelihoods of individuals affected by resettlement.   
B. Environmental Aspects
The provisions of OP 8.60 on Development Policy apply to the Sustainable Environmental 
Management DPL.  The policies and reforms supported by this operation are likely to have a 
significant positive impa
ct on the country’s environment and natural resources. This operation 
plays an important role in supporting the strengthening of environmental management and in 
improving environmental sustainability in key sectors (e.g., natural resources management and 
conservation, water resources management, environmental sanitation and renewable energy).  
 
Due to their nature, it is not expected that such policy reforms will result in adverse 
environmental impacts, but rather, they should bring positive impacts as the operation’s design is 
proactive with respect to internalizing environmental concerns. The potential environmental 
impacts associated with the GOB’s reform agenda supported by this operation typically generate 
related social and poverty positive impacts. However, there are some actions supported by this 
operation which could cause environmental negative impacts such as biofuel production, 
expansion of hydropower and deforestation caused by forest management. 
 
The main negative impact associated with developing the biofuels sector is potential increased 
deforestation through the expansion of feedstock production for these fuels. This is partially 
mitigated by the availability of large areas of underutilized and abandoned pasture and by the 
support to the implementation of CMN Resolution 3545, which prevents an increase in biofuel 
production from increasing deforestation in the Amazon. Regarding the expansion of 
hydropower, the potential negative impact is habitat degradation and impacts on forest dwelling 
traditional and indigenous communities. The SEM DPL series addresses this potential impact 
through the strengthening of IBAMA’s capacity to improve effectiveness in the licensing process 
through improved staffing and support from the ENV TAL for strengthened technical capacity. 
Finally, regarding deforestation associated with sustainable management of natural resources, the 
potential negative impact arises from unclear guidelines for logging. To address this, the SEM 
DPL series supports the Public Forest Law and its associated decrees which provide a solid 
framework to ensure sustainable forest management without using clear cut.  
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Mark R. Lundell 
Title: Sector Leader for Sustainable Development 
Tel: 5761+1041 / 55-61-3329-1041 
Email: Mlundell@worldbank.org 
Location: Brasilia, Brazil (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop -  The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW  - Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 /  Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: 
pic@worldbank.org
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
Page  12
12
 
