Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  46889 
Operation Name 
Sustainable Environmental Management DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General finance sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P095205 
Borrower(s) 
Federative Republic of Brazil 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Environment, and BNDES 
Date PID Prepared 
November 20, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
December 17, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 12, 2009 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
A. Macro-economic Outlook and Debt Sustainability
Despite its increased resilience, Brazil has been hit hard by the global financial crisis.  Over 
September-October 2008, the
 
stock market fell 25% and sovereign spreads increased by 75%.  As 
of mid-November 2008, the BRL had depreciated by 35% from its peak in July 2008. The recent 
episodes of extreme volatility in stock and foreign exchange markets were triggered by the 
liquidation of corporations’ speculative foreign exchange positions, which lowered their borrowing 
cost by “betting” on a stable or appreciating BRL. The losses associated with such exposures may 
induce corporate distress. They are, however, unlikely to create major problems in the banking 
system which, as a whole, is long in dollars, well capitalized, and with low leverage.  
 
The Government recently announced a reduction of the primary surplus from 4.3% to 3.8% in 
2009 and forecasts GDP growth at 4%.
 
The fact that Brazil could find additional fiscal space in the 
middle of a global crisis is a novelty.  This reflects the recent forward-looking debt management 
policies that have allowed the public sector to become a net foreign exchange creditor (as 
international reserves are at a historically high of US$207 billion). It also means that, unlike in the 
past, a depreciation of the BRL is now going to reduce net public sector debt.  
 
Faced with higher inflation expectations (due to the devaluation of the BRL) and a freeze in 
domestic credit markets, the Central Bank
 
has put its tightening cycle on hold, keeping the 
headline interest rate at 13.75% in the last COPOM meeting. The Central Bank has also been very 
proactive in the last months and intervened promptly to prevent bank runs and financial panic. It 
has used a number of different instruments, including lower reserve requirements, easier access to 
the discount window, and incentives for larger banks to accept smaller banks’ loans as collateral in 
the interbank market. In addition, as the situation deteriorated, the Government issued a decree 
allowing federal financial institutions (
Banco do Brasil
 and 
Caixa Econômica Federal
)
to take 
stakes in private banks in exchange of liquidity support. Measures have also been undertaken to 
insure exporters’ access to trade credit lines.
 
Opinions diverge on whether Brazil will be able to finance the (expected) current account deficit of 
around two percent of GDP in the current tight international financial markets
.
This, to a great 
extent, depends on how FDI performs. If FDI falls by just half (from the current level of 50 billion 
reais to about 25 billion reais) the need for adjustment will be minor. If FDI decreases further 
Page  2
2
and/or if the corporate sector were to find it difficult to roll-over its foreign currency debt, some 
additional policy adjustments may instead be needed.  
 
B. Background on Main Environmental Issues
Key environmental issues in Brazil relate to unsustainable use of natural resources in the Amazon 
rain forest that leads to deforestation, lack of protection of the remaining Atlantic Forest, water 
availability and quality, and the growing demand for energy, which is pres
suring Brazil’s clean 
energy matrix. 
 
Deforestation in the Amazon has averaged 19,000 km
2
over the past 30 years
.
These rates 
result from a combination of economic forces, poor agricultural practices, weak property rights, 
and poor enforcement of regulations. Such deforestation is impacting the climate, soil erosion, and 
biodiversity. As a result, over 60% of Brazil’s CO
2
emissions currently come from deforestation 
and change of land use. Deforestation also causes social impacts as small farmers and forest 
dwellers are being displaced by land grabbers and the working conditions in informal logging and 
charcoal operations are below standard accepted practices. 
 
Less than seven percent of the Atlantic Forest, a world biodiversity “hotspot,” is left.
 Soil 
degradation, as a consequence of agriculture and livestock grazing, is becoming an increasingly 
serious problem. This changed landscape, with few riparian forests and little vegetation around 
water springs, is also affecting the availability of water to the 70% of the Brazilian population that 
live in the region originally covered by Atlantic Forest.  
 
Balancing Water Access and Quality.  There is more freshwater available per capita in 
Brazil than in other upper-middle income countries, but it is extremely unevenly distributed
.
About 70% of Brazil’s freshwater is concentrated in the Amazon Basin, whereas the semi-arid 
Northeast region, with 28% of the population, has only 5% of the country’s water resources. There 
are major water stresses in many environmentally sensitive federal river basins due to scarcity and 
pollution and weak application of management instruments, including water rights (for example 
Paraiba do Sul, Piracicaba, Capivari, Jundiaí – PCJ, and São Francisco Rivers).  Estimated 
environmental costs associated with water pollution in seven of the largest urban areas amounted 
to US$ 300 million per year.  The solution involves not only significant investments in wastewater 
collection and treatment but also a major effort to promote cooperation among agencies and 
government tiers.  One of the key issues is the lack of reliable information and proper assessments 
of water quality in the country, which is essential to guide investment planning as well as policy 
reforms in this area.  
 
Addressing Environmental Sanitation.  Brazil shares with similar countries the problems of 
water pollution, lack of sanitation and improper solid waste collection and disposal that 
result from a large concentration of people in metropolitan areas
.
Problems with sewerage 
and solid waste collection services also beset many smaller towns with scant financial and 
managerial capacity to address them. Some 56% of urban households are connected to a sewerage 
system and 16% have septic systems, but the unevenness of coverage is even more dramatic for 
sanitation than for water supply. In addition, little of the collected wastewater is treated.  Coverage 
with sanitation is highest in the relatively affluent South and Southeast and lowest in the poorer 
states of the North and Northeast. A large part of the unserved population lives in peri-urban areas, 
slums (
favelas
), and smaller towns, with mainly lower-income populations.  The situation of solid 
waste management is even more dramatic, with the majority of the waste collected ending up in 
improperly managed open dumps rather than in sanitary landfills designed to isolate leachate and 
capture methane emissions. 
Page  3
3
Maintaining the Share of Clean Energy.  The bulk (81%) of electric energy generated in 
Brazil is based on hydropower.
 Less than one third of overall energy use relies on traditional 
fuels, and commercial energy use per capita is relatively low.  Although favored with a clean 
energy matrix, Brazil is faced with a large expansion of demand for generation capacity.  Official 
projections for the next decade point towards an annual growth rate in electricity demand of 4.4%, 
which is slightly higher than the economy’s growth rate (4.2%). Electricity consumption in 2015 is 
expected to reach an average of 600 TWh and meeting such demand would require an additional 
3000 MW per year in firm generation capacity. While current CO
2
emissions from electricity 
generation (about one ton per capita) are low in comparison to other countries at the same income 
level, over the past few years most of the incremental demand has been met through oil-based 
thermo-electric plants. 
 
In the transport sector, about one-third of fuel comes from renewable sources (primarily 
ethanol)
.
Brazil is a leader in ethanol production with an annual production of 16 billion liters 
produced on just 6.5 million ha with a projected demand increase of 300% by 2030. Brazil is also 
increasing the biodiesel production to supply five percent of the domestic market. The challenge in 
both cases is to ensure that the increase production comes from improvement of agricultural 
practices and not from encroachment on natural habitats. 
 
C. The Role of BNDES in Environmental Management.  
The proposed SEM DPL I incorporates the role of development finance through the National Bank 
for Economic and Social Development (BNDES) -- Brazil’s largest development bank (with a 
wide network of partner banks) -- for the leadership the institution can provide to systemic 
improvement in how sector investments address environment and social issues and support 
expansion of specific sustainability programs (such as the Amazon Fund, renewable energy, and 
others). BNDES is the key source of long-term financing for Brazil’s economic development. 
Wholly owned by the federal government, BNDES’ main source of funding comes from 
government taxes. In 2007, BNDES had total assets of BRL 202 billion (about US$ 125 billion), 
and net income of BRL 7.3 billion. Roughly two thirds of its credit operations are through 
financial intermediaries.   
 
Since 2005, BNDES has been expanding its capacity to address socio-environmental issues and 
BNDES management has clearly indicated its full commitment to social and environmental 
sustainability.  Its size and visibility confer BNDES significant influence in the financial sector's 
adoption of improved social and environmental policies.  BNDES enacted in 2005 an 
Environmental Operational Policy establishing broad objectives to adhere to Brazilian 
environmental legislation and to conduct due diligence through a dedicated Environmental 
Department within the Planning Directorate. With an increasing role in infrastructure and 
agribusiness and the shortcomings of the zoning and licensing regulations (noted in paragraph 27 
and 30 above), BNDES has begun to supplement its verification of borrowers compliance with 
established regulations with using its own sectoral guidelines (i.e. mining, infrastructure, 
commerce and service, processing industries, and agribusiness).  Notably, BNDES is enhancing its 
operational policy by incorporating good practices for the promotion of improved social outcomes 
in these sectors with the aim of having a new combined Social and Environmental Policy. 
 
In addition, BNDES is developing even more detailed sub-sectoral guidelines, which clarify 
specific approaches to environmental challenges in over 60 sub-sectors (e.g., hydroelectric plants, 
co-generation using sugar cane bagasse, roads, livestock production, etc.  
In this way, the 
expanding body of sub-sectoral guidelines for environmental and social sustainability can 
Page  4
4
serve as an excellent opportunity to enhance the clarity of procedures to enterprises that seek 
to comply with public environmental policies and to see the licensing process add greater 
value to environmental and social outcomes
.
In some cases, BNDES has already gone beyond 
the legal requirements and adopted criteria to further strengthen the social and environmental 
sustainability of a given sub-sector. This is the case of the forest certification requirement for all 
forest management operations. 
 
In view of its relative size
1
and large number of financial agents, BNDES can also serve as a 
benchmark for other financial institutions
 to adopt upgraded environmental policies and 
procedures.  By phasing in the application of its environmental and social policies (currently 
applied only to its direct operations) to those which it funds through over 70 financial 
intermediaries, the degree of attention to environmental and social sustainability would be 
substantially raised.  Moreover, since BNDES is a current signatory to the Green Protocol (GP), 
the internalization of the GP into BNDES’ environmental and social guidelines could have a large 
effect on investments, within both BNDES’ direct and indirectly financed portfolios. 
 
D. 
Government’s Overall Program and Participatory Processes
The GOB approved its 2008-2011 National Plan (PPA) in 2007.   
This PPA is the result of an 
ample consultation process conducted by the President's office with the direct participation of all 
ministers. The process included many regional and thematic meetings involving over 2,200 
institutions from the private sector, CSOs, grassroots organizations, and state and municipal 
agencies. The overall goals of the PPA are to promote development with social inclusion, quality 
education, and care for the environment, which are pursued under eight priority themes, through 
actions to: (i) promote growth and income distribution; (ii) improve education; (iii) increase 
production and competitiveness; (iv) expand consumption; (v) make sustainable use of natural 
resources; (vi) improve infrastructure (including urban); (vii) reduce inequality among regions, and 
(viii) strengthen democracy and participation.
 
The environmentally related agenda on which the PPA focuses on includes
:
(i) improving the 
licensing system; (ii) decreasing deforestation and desertification and improving biodiversity 
conservation in all biomes; (iii) improving water resources management to increase water quality 
and availability for the population, control pollution, and revitalize water basins; (iv) increasing the 
contribution of the sustainable use of natural resources and protected areas to national 
development; and, (v) promoting environmental management, sustainable production, and 
consumption in rural and urban areas, as well as in areas of traditional communities and 
indigenous people. 
 
In order to advance the environmental policy agenda, the GOB adopts an extensive bottom-up 
participatory process. A 2003 Presidential decree established the National Environmental 
Conference as a biennial regional and national consultation process for the continuous 
advancement of environmental policies. The GOB defines a guiding theme for each conference. 
The first conference focused on strengthening the environmental management system in all tiers of 
government, the second on integrated environmental policies for the sustainable use of the natural 
resources, and the third on climate change. The theme is then discussed in many municipal 
meetings, and subsequently in state meetings. The state meetings elect delegates to participate in 
the National Conference, which present the conclusions and recommendations of the meetings and 
vote on any resolution proposed during the Conference. A large part of the GOB
’s environmental 
reform agenda to be supported by the SEM DPL was a result of these conferences. 
1
BNDES is a key source (over a third) of long-
term financing for Brazil’s economic development. 
Page  5
5
The GOB also uses participatory processes to design sectoral or thematic programs and plans such 
as the Sustainable Amazon Plan (PAS) and the National Water Resources Plan (PNRH) to be 
supported by the SEM DPL series. The process includes the drafting of the document by an 
intersectoral committee, followed up by a series of consultation meetings with the specific 
stakeholders. In addition, the draft document is disclosed on the internet for comments from the 
general public. For example, the PAS was drafted by an intergovernmental committee, established 
by a Presidential decree, comprised of ten ministers and all nine state governors of the Amazon 
region. This draft was posted on the internet while consultation meetings were held in all nine 
states, in addition to two national meetings.  While this process took sometime, it resulted in a Plan 
which has a strong buy-in from all sectors of the Brazilian society. 
 
E. Environmental Challenges and Government Strategy
Brazil has one of the most advanced environmental management policy frameworks among 
developing countries, but its effective implementation varies significantly depending on the 
sector and region
.
The National Environmental Policy was enacted in 1981, but was implemented 
through several uncoordinated agencies in different ministries until 1989. In 1989, these agencies 
were merged, and the National Environmental Institute (IBAMA) was created with the mandate to 
enforce the entire breadth of environmental policy, reporting directly to the President of Brazil. In 
1992, the Ministry of Environment (MMA) was created, and IBAMA was repositioned as an 
affiliate agency of MMA. More recently, it became clear to the GOB that in order to improve 
effectiveness in implementing the environmental policies and to best respond to current challenges 
(particularly climate change), MMA needed to be restructured and IBAMA divided into separate 
and more agile agencies, focused on separate aspects of the environmental agenda: conservation, 
forest management, and environmental licensing. 
 
In response to the emerging threat of climate change, Brazil has positioned itself as one of the 
international leaders, 
playing an important role in the negotiation of the Climate Change 
Framework Convention and the related Kyoto Protocol. Brazil leads Latin American on Clean 
Development Mechanism (CDM) projects with 146 of the 379 UNFCCC registered projects for the 
region, representing an annual reduction of 19.5 million metric tones of CO
2
equivalent. The 
sectoral areas covered include wind mills, small hydroelectric plants, solid waste management, co-
generation from biomass and agribusiness. 
 
In 2000, the GOB created the National Forum for Climate Change with the objective of raising 
awareness of Brazilian society about the issue and assisting the GOB in defining ways to tackle the 
climate change agenda in different sectors. The National Forum for Climate Change is comprised 
of ministers and representatives from the private sector, academia and civil society. Meanwhile, 
the GOB is implementing several sectoral plans that contribute to climate change mitigation (e.g. 
the promotion of the long-standing ethanol program, a new program to promote biodiesel, the 
program for reducing deforestation in the Amazon, and others), but these programs are not yet 
adequately coordinated.  
 
Similarly, several institutions are developing strong expertise in climate change related fields
 
but not yet as part of a fully coordinated effort. The Brazilian Space Agency (INPE) is developing 
climate change scenarios for the country and recently also collaborating on World Bank analytic 
work focused on estimating the probability of Amazon dieback resulting from global warming and 
the resulting impacts of such Amazon dieback on the national and regional rainfall cycle.  Given 
the cross-sectoral nature of the climate change agenda, the challenge of the GOB is to develop a 
coherent climate change plan that brings together existing programs, studies and institutions, and 
Page  6
6
identifies gaps for future action. This plan must be coordinated by an adequately staffed unit 
capable of coordinating and monitoring the plan’s implementation, maintaining the Forum as a 
consultative body.  
 
The GOB recognizes that enforcement of environmental policies through command-and-
control needs to be balanced with initiatives that promote good environmental practices
.
Recognizing the positive role that the financial system could play in promoting good practices, in 
1995 the GOB designed the Green Protocol (GP), which was signed by all federal banks. 
However, this version of the GP defined only general recommendations for the signatory banks, 
did not have reporting and coordinating mechanisms, and suffered from lack of implementation. 
The banks tended to improve their internal process and became “greener”, but did not follow the 
recommendations to improve the environmental sustainability of their financing practices.   
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
This Programmatic Sustainable Environmental Management Development Policy Loan (SEM DPL 
I) is the first operation in a series of two loans which span the period 2008-2010 and aim to support 
the GOB’s efforts to (i) improve the effectiveness and efficiency of policies and guidelines of the 
Brazilian environmental management system, and (ii) further integrate principles of 
environmentally sustainable development in the development agenda of key sectors. The SEM 
DPL I will also treat climate change concerns at both the inter-sectoral level and within each of the 
targeted sectors (natural resources, water, sanitation, and energy).   
 
By focusing on these sectors, the SEM DPL series will support the GOB’s commitment to 
implement a model of accelerated competitiveness and growth while assuring improved 
environmental and poverty outcomes, which are pillars of the 2008-2011 Country Partnership 
Strategy (CPS) with the World bank Group. In this way, the SEM DPL series supports the GOB’s 
concerted support for public and private investments that target continued improvement in: 
productivity and efficiency for the sustainable management of agricultural lands, forests, and water 
resources; reduction of illegal and unsustainable deforestation in the Amazon; reduction of the 
environmental degradation of land, water, and other resources which are key determinants of the 
well-being of the poor; and promotion of clean and secure energy. 
 
The SEM DPL builds on selected reform areas previously supported by the Environmental 
Programmatic Reform Loan (ENV PRL, FY05) and the ongoing programs supported by Bank 
operations, policy dialogue, and analytical work of the past four years.  The proposed program 
supports the GOB’s sustainable investment goal by emphasizing incentives and economic 
instruments as integral parts of the GOB’s environmental management strategy.  The rationale is 
that, when combined with a focus on improved policies and public sector enforcement, incentives 
through development finance
2
and instruments to price in environmental externalities can widen 
and deepen impact in the pursuit of environmental sustainability.  Having banks require adherence 
to environmental law and the integration of environmental and social considerations into 
investment plans ex ante provides a positive reinforcement to compliance.  In addition, scaling-up 
environmentally-oriented investments in important areas, such as in the Amazon region, further 
contributes to complementing policy reforms with demonstrations of better natural resources use 
and environmental improvement. 
 
2
In December 2007, the Federal government issued a decree which requires enterprises to demonstrate compliance with 
environmental law as an eligibility criterion for loans from both public and private sector banks. 
Page  7
7
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
Environmental sustainability is one of the key pillars of Bank engagement in the 2008-2011 
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Brazil, reflecting the long and fruitful relationship between 
the GOB and the Bank in the area of improving environmental sustainability.  By focusing on 
environmental management and pursuing the aim of maximizing the synergies between public 
polices and procedures with the promotion of sustainability of public and private sector 
investments, the SEM DPL aims squarely at addressing t
he
challenge of “not only what, but how”.  
This approach is therefore designed to achieve improved environmental sustainability in the 
current scope of public and private investments. 
The programmatic SEM DPL complements existing WBG approaches involving both investment 
and capacity building in key priority areas, including: public sector environmental management at 
the national and sub-national levels (ENV TAL and the 2
nd
 National Environment Project); natural 
resources management (soil conservation and micro-watershed management) in southern and 
southeastern Brazil; natural resource management (forest and aquatic resources) and conservation 
in the Amazon (Pará Integrated Rural Development, Alto Solimoes Regional Development, 
ProAcre, ARPA, and PPG7), and urban sanitation improvements supported by the Bank and the 
GOB’s other partners (IDB, KfW, USAID, IFC, WWF).  This combination of lending for policy, 
investment, and institutional strengthening represents a complete and comprehensive "package" of 
Bank support to environmental improvement and sustainable development. 
 
The proposed SEM DPL I loan will be made to the Federative Republic of Brazil and disbursed in 
two tranches: the first upon effectiveness, and the second upon fulfillment of the relevant second 
tranche release conditions.  The purpose of the loan is to support policy reforms to improve, 
streamline and standardize the environmental management system and to contribute to 
mainstreaming climate change concerns across and within each of the targeted sectors (natural 
resources, water, sanitation, and energy). 
 
The areas of focus of the SEM DPL have been selected as those which satisfy the following 
criteria: i) involve policy reform that can serve as a catalyst for environmentally sustainable 
investments in the public and private sector; ii) demonstrate an ability for economic instruments to 
be applied to promote strong environmental benefits; iii) remove or help clarify and address 
critical institutional bottlenecks; iv) demonstrate strong linkages to climate change mitigation and 
adaptation; and, v) keep complexity manageable.   
 
Improvement the Overall Brazilian Management System:
 The proposed reforms will assist the 
GOB in the strengthening of the environmental policy framework enforcement through the 
restructuring of MMA and its affiliated agencies, and in mainstreaming climate change in public 
and private sector investments due to the adoption of National Climate Change Action Plan – 
NCCAP. The NCCAP presents a balanced set of command-and-control and economic instruments 
covering both mitigation and adaptation actions. The SEM DPL I supports the NCCAP in its 
proposed deployment of national economic instruments regarding land use changes related to 
decreased deforestation, reforestation, afforestation and agribusinesses.  
 
In addition, the loan will improve the effectiveness of environmental and social management 
systems in BNDES through the improvement of BNDES’ Environmental and Social Operational 
Policy. In view of its relative size and large number of financial agents, BNDES can also serve as a 
benchmark for other financial institutions to adopt upgraded environmental policies and 
procedures.  By phasing in the application of its environmental and social policies, currently 
applied only to its direct operations, to those which it funds through over 70 financial 
Page  8
8
intermediaries, the degree of attention to environmental and social sustainability will be 
substantially raised.   
 
The sectoral coverage and proposed reform program is as follows: 
 
Natural Resource Management and Conservation: 
 The proposed reforms would support the 
GOB’s integrated strategy to address the issues of deforestation, biodiversity loss and 
unsustainable agriculture and livestock production. This integrated strategy combines actions to 
improve regional land use planning, strengthen policies and institutions that focus on natural 
resource management and biodiversity conservation, and curb illegal practices. 
 
Water Resource Management:
 Reforms in this sector would contribute to improved management 
and quality of water resources.  Prior experience suggests that improving water resource planning 
and allocation rights, increasing water use efficiency and reducing water pollution contribute to 
enhanced water resource management and improved health conditions of the population 
(particularly of the poor). The National Plan for Water Resources management calls for 
decentralized and participatory approaches to water basin management as a means to ensure the 
rational and integrated use of water resources for current and future generations, and highlights the 
need for strong incentives and mechanisms for water quality monitoring and evaluation. 
 
Environmental Sanitation
:
The reforms supported would improve potable water, wastewater and 
solid waste service delivery in Brazil, supporting the development of related environmental and 
social regulations, the implementation of integrated solid waste management plans by local and 
state authorities, and the improvement and scaling up of innovative, results-based financing 
mechanisms. These reforms would facilitate access to basic sanitation services, reduce the 
pollution from untreated wastewater in rivers and water sources, and improve the quality of life 
and health of the population, particularly in poor and marginal areas. 
 
Renewable Energy
:
The proposed reforms would promote the use of renewable energy in Brazil 
by diversifying energy sources and developing innovative technologies for alternative energy 
sources.  At the same time, these reforms would contribute to providing access to safe and clean 
energy and related services, thereby reducing air pollution and mitigating its impacts on human 
health and associated costs related to treatments of respiratory diseases and to the loss of income 
generation opportunities. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The provisions of OP 8.60 on Development Policy apply to the Sustainable Environmental 
Management DPL.  The policies and reforms supported by this operation are expected to have a 
positive impact on the country’s environment and natural resources, as the operation’s design is 
proactive with respect to internalizing environmental concerns. This operation plays an important 
role in supporting the strengthening of environmental management and in improving 
environmental sustainability in key sectors (e.g., natural resources management and conservation, 
water resources management, environmental sanitation and renewable energy).  
 
The operation continues to assist Brazil in its long path of transforming the country’s National 
Environmental Policy Law, enacted in 1981 and bolstered by the 1988 Federal Constitution, into 
reality. The GOB’s commitment to strengthen environmental management and to improve 
environmental sustainability in key sectors is evidenced by its recognition in the 2008-2011 
National Plan (PPA) that economic growth is conditioned on the sustainable use of natural 
resources. The GOB’s commitment is further evidenced by the detailed bottom-up consultation 
Page  9
9
process (National Environmental Conference) used to prepare new programs and plans and by the 
new MMA structure, including a secretariat to coordinate this consultation process and another one 
to coordinate the design and implementation of a National Climate Change Action Plan. 
 
At the sectoral level, the continuous policy dialogue that the Bank has undertaken with Brazil over 
the past 15 years has resulted in agreements embodied in this operation that cover a wide range of 
policy interventions.
 
These are expected to improve the environmental effectiveness of strategic 
sectors linked to natural resources management (including forests), water resources management, 
renewable energy and climate change, resulting in decreased deforestation, improved access and 
quality of water resources, and decreased emission of greenhouse gases. 
 
In addition, BNDES is firmly committed to promote a series of reforms of its environmental and 
social policy framework and procedures,
 and programs for “green” investments.  This commitment 
is evidenced by the recent creation of the Social Environmental directorate, elevating the status of 
the agenda within BNDES.  Considering BNDES’ significant role in financing projects and 
enterprises which engage in activities with potential adverse environmental impacts, the proposed 
operation is expected to have a leveraged impact:  the full spectrum of BNDES over 70 financial 
agents is expected to observe the same improved environmental and social policies to be adopted 
by BNDES with support from this operation. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1300 
 Total 
1300 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Mark R. Lundell 
Title: Sector Leader 
Tel: 5761 +1041 / +55 61 3329-1041 
Fax: 5761 + 1010 / +55 61 3329-1010 
Email: Mlundell@worldbank.org
 
