                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001982



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-76600)



                                         ON A

         FIRST PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN FOR

              SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 1.3 BILLION

                                     TO THE

                      FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL



                                 August 12, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective as of July 15, 2011)

                          Currency Unit = Real
                           US$ 1.00 = R$ 1.55


            BRAZIL – GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 – December 1


               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ANA      Water National Agency
ARPA     Amazon Protected Areas Project
BNDES    National Bank for Economic and Social Development
CDM      Clean Development Mechanism
CI       Conservation International
CONAMA   National Environmental Council
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
DFID     Department for International Development
DPL      Development Policy Loan
DRM      Disaster Risk Management
ESP      Environmental Social Policy
FSC      Forest Stewardship Council
FY       Fiscal Year
GEF      Global Environmental Facility
GOB      Government of Brazil
IBAMA    Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural
         Resources
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICMBio   National Institute for Biodiversity Conservation
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
IEA      Integrated Environmental Assessment
IMAZON   Amazon Institute of People and the Environment
INPE     Brazilian Space Agency
IPAM     Amazonian Environment Research Institute
ISA      Social and Environmental Institute
ISR      Implementation Status Report
KfW      Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MMA       Ministry of Environment
NCCAP    National Climate Change Action Plan
NGOs     Non-Governmental Organizations
NTS          National Treasury Secretariat
PA           Protected Areas
PAS          Sustainable Amazon Plan
PD           Project Document
PDO          Project Development Objectives
PNQA         National Water Quality Evaluation Program
PNRH         National Water Resources Plan
PPG7         Pilot Program to Protect the Brazilian Rain Forests
PRODES       Program for Depolluting River Basins
REFLORESTA   BNDES Forest Management Program
SFB          Brazilian Forest Services
SINGERH      National Water Resources Management System
SNUC         Conservation Unit National System Law
TJLP         Long-Term Interest Rate
TNC          The Nature Conservancy
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WWF          Worldwide Fund for Nature



                                   UNITS


BOD            Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CO2            Carbon Dioxide
Ha             Hectares
Km2            Square Kilometers
MW             Mega Watts
MWh            Mega Watts per hour
TJ             Terajoules
US$            American Dollar




                      Vice President:   Pamela Cox
                    Country Director:   Makhtar Diop
                     Sector Manager:    Karin Erika Kemper
                   Task Team Leader:    Mark Lundell
                   ICR Team Leader:     Garo Batmanian
 
                                                                  BRAZIL

          First Programmatic Development Policy Loan for Sustainable
                        Environmental Management



                                                                 Contents 


A. Basic Information ........................................................................................................................ i 
B. Key Dates..................................................................................................................................... i 
C. Ratings Summary......................................................................................................................... i 
D. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................................ ii 
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................................... ii 
F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................................... iii 
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs................................................................................... v 
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................................. v 
1.      Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................ 1 
2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................................... 4 
3.      Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................................ 9 
4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................................... 15 
5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................. 16 
6.      Lessons Learned ................................................................................................................... 17 
7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 17 
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............................. 18 
Annex 2. SEM DPL Development Policy Matrix ........................................................................ 20 
Annex 3. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................................ 22 
Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................................... 22 
N/A ................................................................................................................................................ 22 
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ...................................... 23 
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................................ 24 
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................................... 25 
MAP .............................................................................................................................................. 28 
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          First Programmatic
                                                                          Development Policy
Country:                Brazil                  Program Name:             Loan for Sustainable
                                                                          Environmental
                                                                          Management
Program ID:             P095205                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-76600
ICR Date:               07/15/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          BRAZIL
Original Total
                        USD 1,300.0M            Disbursed Amount:         USD 1,300.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 1,300.0M
Implementing Agencies:
 MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT
 BNDES
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/11/2008     Effectiveness:             05/12/2009        06/21/2010
Appraisal:            12/18/2008     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/05/2009     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2010        12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                            Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:


                                                                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        Yes                                             None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        Yes                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Forestry                                                              23                  23
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                      34                  34
General finance sector                                                13                  13
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 17                  17
Renewable energy                                                      13                  13


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                                          10                  10
Climate change                                                        20                  20
Environmental policies and institutions                               35                  35
Land administration and management                                    10                  10
Water resource management                                             25                  25



E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Makhtar Diop                         Makhtar Diop
Sector Manager:            Karin Erika Kemper                   Laura E. Tlaiye
Program Team Leader:       Mark R. Lundell                      Mark R. Lundell
ICR Team Leader:           Garo Batmanian                       Garo Batmanian
ICR Primary Author:        Garo Batmanian                       Garo Batmanian




                                                                                               ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The SEM DPL series supports the GOB’s concerted efforts to strengthen environmental
management, with particular attention to improvements in the overall environmental
management system, sustainable management of agricultural lands, forests, and water
resources; reduction of deforestation in the Amazon; reduction of the environmental
degradation of land and water resources that are key determinants of the well being of the
poor; and, promotion of renewable energy.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority) PDO was not revised

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                                               Actual Value
                                         Original Target Values (from
                                                                                Achieved at
    Indicator      Baseline Value            approval documents)
                                                                               Completion or
                                                                               Target Years
                Improve effectiveness of government agencies in implementing mandated
Indicator 1
                Brazilian environmental and social management procedures.
                2002-2007: 30         Decrease to 24 percent the number of
                                                                             Estimated 30
                percent of licenses   judicially challenged licenses by
                                                                             percent judicially
Value           judicially            Public Prosecutor’s Office compared
                                                                             challenged licenses
(               challenged by         with the number of environmental
                                                                             by Public
                Public Prosecutor’s   licenses issued at the Federal level
                                                                             Prosecutor’s Office
                Office                during 2002-2007
Date achieved   12/31/2007            12/31/2010                               12/31/2010
                During the implementation of the project it was observed that several judicial
                challenges had little to do with the quality of the licensing. A new proxy for the
                same indicator was adopted
                Improve effectiveness of government agencies in implementing mandated
Indicator 2 :   Brazilian environmental and social management procedures. Number of
                environmental licenses issued per year at the Federal level
Value           375                    NA                                    475
Date achieved   12/31/2007                                                   12/31/2010
Comments
                As IBAMA has been staff and strengthened, its ability to process licenses
(incl. %
                increased.
achievement)
                Increase planned signed reduction of emissions from CDM projects, from other
Indicator 3 :   BNDES projects, and from other actions monitored under National Climate
                Change Action Plan.
                                    20 million tons of CO2
                                                                        19,762,768 tons of
Value           Zero                equivalent/year
                                                                        CO2 equivalent/year
Date achieved   12/31/2007            12/31/2010                             12/31/2010


                                                                                               iii
Comments        The original target was to be achieved by the end of 2011, after the end of the
(incl. %        2nd DPL of the series. The target was fully achieved one year earlier than
achievement)    expected.
                Share of the projects submitted directly to BNDES screened, approved and
Indicator 4 :
                monitored according to the new Environmental and Social Institutional Policy.
Value           35                   100                                     100
Date achieved   12/31/2007           12/31/2010                              12/31/2010
Comments        The original target was to be achieved by the end of 2011, after the end of the
(incl. %        2nd DPL of the series. The target was fully achieved one year earlier than
achievement)    expected.
                Sustainable Natural Forest Management of private and public areas expanded
Indicator 5 :
                from 27,000 km2 to 50,000 km2.
                27,000 km2 in                                                33,415 km2 in
                                     50,000 km2 in private and public land.
Value           private and public                                           private and public
                land.                                                        land.
Date achieved   12/31/2007           12/31/2010                              12/31/2010
                The original target was to be achieved by 09/11. The outcome by 12/10 is very
Comments
                close to the expected intermediate outcome of 35,000km2 by 06/10. This is
(incl. %
                consistent with the length of time needed to certify forest or issue public forest
achievement)
                concession.
                Reduction in average annual rate of deforestation in the Amazon for the period
Indicator 6 :   2008-2010 to 20 percent below 2005-2007 average annual rate of deforestation
                (14,800 km2).
                                                                             Annual average rate
                                     11,840 km2                              in 2008-2010 is
                2005-2007 average
                                     (20 percent of the Annual average rate 8,942 km2, a
                annual
Value                                in 2008-2010 compare with the           decrease of the
                deforestation rate:
                                     baseline)                               annual average rate
                14,800 km2
                                                                             of deforestation of
                                                                             40.3%
Date achieved   12/31/2007           12/31/2010                              12/31/2010
Comments
                Outcome result achieved by the end of 2010 far exceeds the original target to
(incl. %
                be achieved by the 09/11, after the end of the 2nd DPL of the series.
achievement)
                An area of 5,000 km2receiving support from the Amazon and Atlantic Forest
                Funds for activities that promote sustainable use of natural resources and
Indicator 7 :
                biodiversity conservation, rehabilitate degraded areas or, prevent/combat
                deforestation.
Value           Zero                5,000 km2                                20,250 km2
Date achieved   12/31/2007          12/31/2010                               12/31/2010
Comments        The Amazon Fund will co-finance 15% of the Amazon Region Protect Areas
(incl. %        Project (ARPA phase 2) which aims at protecting an additional area of 135,000
achievement)    km2. The outcome indicator represents 15% of the overall ARPA target.
                Water quality monitoring and evaluation for 90,000 km of main rivers being
Indicator 8 :   executed and publicly released on a regular basis, with results used for
                prioritization of investments for improved water quality.
Value           Water quality monitoring
                                               90,000 km                     116,141 km
                and evaluation for 60,000


                                                                                                iv
                 km of main rivers being
                 executed and publicly
                 released on a regular basis.
Date achieved    12/31/2007                    12/31/2010                     12/31/2010
Comments          Outcome result achieved by the end of 2010 exceeds by 30% the original
(incl. %         target to be achieved by the end of 2011 after the end of the 2nd DPL of the
achievement)     series.
                 Projected reduction of 110,000 tons of pollution loads (tons of bio-chemical
Indicator 9 :
                 oxygen demand/ BOD per year) discharged into rivers
                                               110,000 tons of pollution      141,280 tons of
Value            Zero
                                               loads                          pollution loads
Date achieved    12/31/2007                    12/31/2010                     12/31/2010
Comments
                 Outcome result achieved by the end of 2010 far exceeds the original target to
(incl. %
                 be achieved by the 09/11, after the end of the 2nd DPL of the series.
achievement)
                 60,000 terajoules per year (TJ/year) to be produced by renewable energy
Indicator 10 :   sources or saved by energy efficiency projects supported by BNDES, once
                 they are fully operational
Value            Zero                          60,000 TJ/ year              50,102 TJ/year
Date achieved    12/31/2007                    12/31/2010                   12/31/2010
Comments         The original target was to be achieved by the end of 2011. The outcome by
(incl. %         12/10 far exceeds the expected intermediate outcome of 10,000 TJ/year by
achievement)     06/10.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                 ANA Signed cooperation agreements with states for the purpose of implementing the
Indicator 1 :    National Water Quality Evaluation Program (PNQA) at the state level
Value            Zero                           5                              14
Date achieved    12/31/2007                     12/31/2010                    12/31/2010
Comments
                 The target surpassed by 280% the second tranche released conditions for this
(incl. %
                 first SEM DPL.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
        Date ISR
No.                              DO                          IP                 Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     04/13/2009        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                         0.00
  2     12/15/2009        Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                  0.00
                           Moderately
  3     05/17/2010                                     Unsatisfactory                       0.00
                         Unsatisfactory
  4     10/26/2010    Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory                796.75
  5     02/27/2011        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      1296.75
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


                                                                                                     v
 
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design
Preface
1.      This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) describes the achievements and lessons
learned from the First Programmatic Sustainable Environmental Management Policy Loan (SEM
DPL) approved by the Board on March 5, 2009 and closed on December 30, 2010.
2.      This project was to be the first operation of a programmatic series of two operations.
Owing to the significant delay experienced in the Effectiveness of the first phase of the original
DPL program, the preparation of the planned second phase was not started in time to meet the
required follow-up preparation timeframe of two years from World Bank’s Board approval.
3.     For a first operation of a DPL series, substantial results were accomplished. Policy
reforms implemented under this operation enabled the full achievement of 75% of the expected
outcomes for the DPL series, such as a 41% reduction of the deforestation rate (DPL target was
20%), and over 140,000 tons reduction of pollution loads in rivers (DPL target was 110,000 tons).
    1.1. Context at Appraisal
Country and Macroeconomic Background
4.      At the time of appraisal of the SEM DPL, the combination of sound macroeconomic
management and the favorable external environment of the previous years had allowed Brazil to
sustain robust growth rates and maintain inflation under control. Taking advantage of high
commodity prices and exchange rate flexibility, the country has been able to reduce external debt,
accumulate international reserves and reduce external vulnerability. In turn, tight fiscal policies
and prudent debt management resulted in declining indebtedness and a safer debt composition,
thereby strengthening fiscal sustainability. Undoubtedly, these strong macroeconomic
fundamentals helped the country to weather, partially, the recent global financial crisis.
5.      Despite its increased resilience, Brazil was affected by the global financial crisis. Over
September - December 2008, the stock market fell 32 percent, sovereign spreads increased by 72
percent, and the BRL depreciated by 40 percent. Such movements reflected the relevance of
commodity stocks in the Sao Paulo Stock Exchange Index (IBOVESPA), increasing risk aversion
and the fact that the BRL is a commodity currency (correlated with global economic activity).
6.       A significant slowdown was expected in 2009, causing a deceleration that would
interrupt 22 quarters of economic expansion. More optimistic expectations were based on the fact
that domestic demand has been the driving force of the growth increase of the last few years and
on the possibility that the adverse external shock would be attenuated by the growth in domestic
demand, especially from an expected government expansionary stance. Pessimistic views cited
the expectation of a strong credit contraction and of substantial losses of terms of trade due to the
fall in commodity prices that would reduce sharply domestic demand and economic activity.
Sector Background
7.      Environmental management in Brazil is largely based on command-and-control
instruments. The three main types of instruments for command and control are: (i) environmental
quality and emission standards; (ii) land use regulations; and, (iii) environmental licensing.
Meanwhile, economic (market-based) instruments to influence behavior are rare and have only
recently been used. The same is true for instruments to create new markets aimed at reducing
emissions through improved allocation efficiency, such as tradable permits for land development
rights.


                                                 1
8.      Key environmental issues in Brazil are related to unsustainable use of natural resources in
the Amazon rainforest, leading to deforestation, lack of protection of the remaining Atlantic
Forest, water quality and availability, and the growing demand for energy, which is putting
pressure on Brazil’s clean energy matrix. The environmental management system is based on a
good policy framework, but implementation varies by region and on the sectoral type of impact,
especially regarding non-point source impacts.
9.      Environmental Management System: Brazil has a developed environmental policy
framework, to which steady and significant improvements have been made over the last three
decades. The Constitution of 1988 enshrined the requirement of environmental impact
assessments and the “polluter-pays? principle, and strengthened conservation by declaring
selected biomes as national heritage, namely the Amazon, the Atlantic Forest, the Pantanal, the
Serra do Mar and the coastal zone. Other relevant legal bases include the National Environmental
Policy Law (1981), the Environmental Crimes Law (1998), the Forest Code (created in 1965,
amended in 1996), the Conservation Units National System Law – SNUC (2000), and the
National Water Resources Management System (SINGERH), among others.
10.      Natural Resource Management: Deforestation in the Amazon averaged 19,000 km2
between 1978 and 2008. These rates resulted from a combination of economic forces, poor
agricultural practices, weak property rights, and poor enforcement of regulations. Such
deforestation affected the climate, soil erosion, and biodiversity. As a result, at the time of
appraisal, 70 percent of Brazil’s CO2 emissions came from deforestation and land use changes.
Deforestation also caused negative social impacts as small farmers and forest dwellers were being
displaced by land grabbers, while the working conditions in informal logging and charcoal
operations were below standard accepted practices. Less than seven percent of the Atlantic
Forest, a world biodiversity “hotspot,? was left. Soil degradation, a consequence of agriculture
and livestock grazing, was becoming an increasingly serious problem. This changed landscape,
with few riparian forests and little vegetation around water springs, was also affecting the
availability of water to the 70 percent of the Brazilian population that lives in the region
originally covered by Atlantic Forest.
11.     Water Resource Management: There is more freshwater available per capita in Brazil
than in other upper-middle income countries, but its distribution is extremely uneven. About 70
percent of Brazil’s freshwater is concentrated in the Amazon Basin, whereas the semi-arid
Northeast region, with 28 percent of the population, has only 5 percent of the country’s water
resources. There are major water stresses in many environmentally sensitive federal river basins
due to scarcity, pollution, and weak application of management instruments, including water
rights. Estimated environmental costs associated with water pollution in seven of the largest
urban areas amounted to US$ 300 million per year. One of the key issues is the lack of reliable
information and proper assessments of water quality in the country, which is essential to guide
investment planning as well as policy reforms in this area.
12.     Environmental Sanitation: Brazil has problems of water pollution, lack of sanitation
and improper solid waste collection and disposal that result from a large concentration of people
in metropolitan areas. Problems with sewerage and solid waste collection services also beset
many smaller towns with scant financial and managerial capacity to address them. Some 57
percent of urban households are connected to a sewerage system and 24 percent have septic
systems, but the unevenness of coverage is even more dramatic for sanitation than for water
supply. In addition, little of the collected wastewater is treated. A large part of the unserved
population lives in peri-urban areas, slums (favelas), and smaller towns, with mainly lower-
income populations. The situation of solid waste management is even more dramatic, with the
majority of the waste collected ending up in improperly managed open dumps rather than in
sanitary landfills designed to isolate leachate and capture methane emissions.

                                                2
13.      Clean Energy: The bulk (80 percent) of electric energy generation in Brazil is based on
hydropower. Less than one third of overall energy use relies on traditional fuels, and commercial
energy use per capita is relatively low. Brazil faces a large increase in the demand for electricity
generation that may affect its clean energy matrix. Official projections for the next decade point
towards an annual growth rate in electricity demand of 4.4 percent, which is slightly higher than
the economy’s growth rate (4.2 percent). Electricity consumption in 2015 is expected to reach an
average of 600 million MWh; meeting such demand would require an additional 3000 MW per
year in firm generation capacity. While current CO2 emissions from electricity generation (about
one ton per capita) are low in comparison to other countries at the same income level, over the
past few years most of the incremental demand has been met through oil-based thermo-electric
plants.
Rationale for Bank Assistance
14.     The SEM DPL was a key instrument in addressing the sustainability pillar of the Brazil
World Bank Group’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 2008-2011 (Report No. 42677-BR)
discussed by the Executive Directors on May 1, 2008. It also contributed to the equity pillar of
the CPS through its support for the expansion of access to basic services by lower and middle
income groups, and to the competitiveness pillar through the improvement of the environmental
management framework for infrastructure and natural resource-based productive chains. The
SEM DPL also contributed to the environmental sustainability pillar of the CPS through the
improvement of the environmental and social quality of infrastructure lending, support for forest
concessions, sustainable agribusiness and forestry, private sector engagement in major
environmental challenges, and improving protected areas management. The CPS emphasis on
engagement in the Brazilian Amazon through the World Bank Group’s Amazon Partnership
Framework was also pursued by the SEM DPL through its focus on the improved Amazon
regional planning and rainforest conservation under the PAS and the Amazon Fund.
    1.2. Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
         approved)
15.     The SEM DPL series supports the GOB’s concerted efforts to strengthen environmental
management, with particular attention to improvements in the overall environmental management
system, sustainable management of agricultural lands, forests, and water resources; reduction of
deforestation in the Amazon; reduction of the environmental degradation of land and water
resources that are key determinants of the well being of the poor; and, promotion of renewable
energy.
    1.3. Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
         and Reasons/Justification
PDO was not revised
    1.4. Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)
16.     The Programmatic Sustainable Environmental Management Development Policy Loan
(SEM DPL) supported the GOB’s efforts to: (a) improve the effectiveness and efficiency of
policies and guidelines of the Brazilian environmental management system, and (b) further
integrate principles of environmentally sustainable development in natural resource management
and conservation, water resource management, environmental sanitation, and renewable energy.
Annex 2 presents each policy area with its corresponding long-term goal.
17.     In order to achieve its objectives, the SEM DPL supported policy reforms aimed to
balance the use of both command-control and economic market-based instruments to tackle the
environmental challenges faced by Brazil. This implied working directly with financial agencies

                                                 3
(i.e., the National Bank for Economic and Social Development-BNDES), in addition to the more
traditional environmental management organizations (e.g., Ministry of Environment).
18.      Environmental Management System: The SEM DPL supported the GOB’s reform to
improve effectiveness of government agencies in the implementation of mandated Brazilian
environmental and social management procedures. The GOB was to target improved
implementation through appropriate strengthening in terms of staff complement of key
institutions.
19.      Natural Resource Management and Conservation: The SEM DPL supported GOB’s
reforms to implement an integrated strategy to address issues of deforestation, biodiversity loss
and unsustainable agriculture, and livestock production. This integrated strategy combined
actions to improve regional land use planning, strengthened policies and institutions that focused
on natural resource management and biodiversity conservation, and curb illegal practices.
20.      Water Resource Management: The SEM DPL supported GOB’s reforms to improve
management and quality of water resources. Improving water resource planning and allocation
rights, increasing water use efficiency and reducing water pollution aimed to contribute to
enhanced water resource management and improved health conditions of the population
(particularly of the poor).
21.     Environmental Sanitation: The SEM DPL supported GOB’s reforms to improve
potable water, wastewater and solid waste service delivery in Brazil. Such reforms included the
development of related environmental and social regulations, the implementation of integrated
solid waste management plans by local and state authorities, and the improvement and scale up of
innovative results-based financing mechanisms.
22.     Renewable Energy: The SEM DPL supported GOB’s reforms to promote the use of
renewable energy in Brazil by diversifying energy sources and developing innovative
technologies for alternative energy sources. At the same time, these reforms were designed to
contribute to providing access to safe and renewable energy and related services, thereby
reducing air pollution and mitigating its impacts on human health and associated costs related to
treatments of respiratory diseases and the loss of income generation opportunities.
    1.5. Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)
Not applicable
    1.6. Other significant changes
No significant changes were made to the DPL.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
   2.1. Program Performance
23.     The second tranche of the SEM DPL I was made conditional upon the attainment of three
conditions as per the Tranche Release Conditions under Section II C 2 (i), (ii) and (iii) of
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement: (i) progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the
Program is satisfactory; (ii) the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower being
consistent with the objectives of the Program; and, (iii) specific policy actions having been taken.
24.      Based on information provided by the government and analyzed by the Bank: (i)
condition 1 was met as the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program is
satisfactory; (ii) condition 2 was met as the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework is
consistent with the objectives of the Program, and, (iii) condition 3 was met as all of the six
policy actions designated in the Loan Agreement as part of the second tranche release
conditions were fully carried out.

                                                 4
                      Table 1 - DPL Expected and Actual Disbursement Schedule
        Tranche #                 Amount                  Expected           Actual Release             Release
                             (in USD millions)          Release Date             Date
         Tranche 1                  800                  03/31/2009           06/24/2010                Regular
         Tranche 2                  500                  06/30/2009           12/08/2010                Regular
           Total                   1,300


                Summary of Tranche 2 release policy conditions met by the Borrower
Component 1: Improving the Overall Environmental Management System

25.      This policy objective is to support the continued evolution of Brazil’s environmental
management policy framework. Improvements in the effectiveness of government agencies in
implementing mandated Brazilian environmental and social management procedures through
institutional restructuring and improved staffing, adoption of a revised Protocolo Verde (Green
Protocol – GP), and the balancing of command-and-control and economic instruments under the
draft Plano Nacional sobre Mudança do Clima (National Climate Change Action Plan –
NCCAP) were key achievements under these areas which constituted conditions for the first-
tranche release.
            Policy Action 1:         Mainstreaming Climate Change in Public and Private Sector
            Investments.
26.     The draft NCCAP was approved by the Climate Change Inter-Ministerial Committee in
October 2008 and subsequently submitted for public consultation. Over the course of 2009,
through these consultations, consideration of the results of the Brazil Low Carbon Country
Study1, and the GOB preparations for the COP-15 in Copenhagen, the draft NCCAP was revised
to specifically establish an overall voluntary target of a 36.1 to 38.9 percent reduction of
projected emissions by 2020. The revised NCCAP was approved by Law 12187/2009 to institute
a National Policy for Climate Change.
27.      On the mitigation side, the finalized NCCAP focuses on supporting the Clean
Development Mechanism and verifying emission reductions, capacity building, monitoring, and
transfer of clean technologies. The finalized NCCAP aimed to achieve, at the national level and
by 2015, the double of objective of no illegal deforestation and no net deforestation (under which
deforestation is fully offset by planting of new forest areas). In a subsequent policy
announcement leading up to the UNFCCC COP-15 in Copenhagen (December 2009), the GOB
committed to reducing the rate of deforestation of the Amazon Forest by 80 percent by 2020. In
2009, the rate of deforestation was reduced to 740,000 hectares, equivalent to a fall of 53 percent
from the 1.48 million hectare average annual level of the base period of 2005-2007. Given the
large share of emissions accounted for by deforestation (over 40 percent in 2008), this reduction
in deforestation was an early and important step towards meeting the NCCAP’s overall targeted
national emissions reduction noted above.
            Policy Action 2: Improving Environmental and Social Management Effectiveness in
            BNDES and Other Financial Institutions.
28.     The BNDES Corporative Plan for 2009-2014 specified that a revision of its operational
policies and practices is necessary to better incorporate a three dimensional approach to


1
    The final working draft of this World Bank study was made available to the GOB in September 2009.



                                                          5
sustainability emphasizing social, regional, and environmental considerations. As a result, a
Code of Ethics was approved in April 2009, and a Declaration of BNDES Values was approved
in December 2009. Both highlight the aims of environmental and social sustainability. In line
with these new policies, one of the twelve Corporate Initiatives set out for definition and approval
in 2010 was the Resolution 2023/10 “Social and Environmental Responsibility and Governance?
(the SERG) for the entire BNDES system. This SERG was developed following ISO 26000 and
Green Protocol (GP) principles. The SERG (approved on November 12, 2010) strengthens the
links among BNDES social, environmental, and corporate responsibility policies, aligning them
with the BNDES Corporative Plan for 2009-2014. The SERG also guides the development or
revision of other policies, aiming at further strengthening environmental and social responsibility
in BNDES’ full portfolio.
29.      Within the framework of the SERG, a new Environmental and Social Policy (ESP)
governing BNDES operations was designed and approved (Resolution 2025/10). The ESP has
twelve principles fully aligned with the SERG and the GP. Those principles include: (i)
considering the social and environmental dimensions as strategic issues when analyzing any new
operation and the risk for project beneficiaries; (ii) constantly developing and improving
analytical methodologies and tools for monitoring and evaluation of social and environmental
aspects of operations; and (iii) sharing information and experiences with beneficiaries, financial
institutions and other organizations, and promoting the integration of the different efforts that
treat the social and environmental dimensions as strategic issues. The ESP also presents an
updated screening process regarding the social and environmental dimensions and guidance on
operational supervision. The ESP establishes that operational supervision must include verifying
compliance with environmental and social mitigation measures defined in the environmental
license and the contract and tracking social and environmental indicators linked to the operations.
30.      A supplementing resolution on the Structure and Use of Environmental and Social
Guidelines (Resolution 2022/10) gives binding force to all sectoral guidelines including those that
BNDES designed for three sectors under the scope of the SEM DPL I. These three sectoral
guidelines are covered under the discussion of Component 2 below. According to the Resolution,
the Guidelines should include chapters on existing legislation, good practices being used in the
sector, and BNDES norms and resolutions governing the sector. Each individual Guideline is
designed jointly by the relevant Operational Area, Planning Area, and Environmental Area.
Component 2: Integrating Principles of Sustainable Development in Key Sectors

31.     This policy objective is to support the Government’s efforts to integrate principles of
sustainable development in key sectors. The sectoral focus of the SEM DPL has been chosen to
include key sectors in environmental management. This approach to defining the sectoral scope
of the policy reform program aimed to improve focus on policy implementation and involve
BNDES in a virtuous circle of interaction with national policy makers. This was designed to be
achieved by targeting reforms that address policy bottlenecks encountered by BNDES in the
pursuit of its lending in the targeted sectors. It also functions through direct input back to
national policy makers from the development of BNDES sectoral guidelines, which supplement
national sectoral regulations to achieve sustainable development.
    Policy Action 3: Improving Sustainability of Natural Resources Management.
32.      BNDES has expanded and improved its programs to promote sustainable forest
management, which should contribute to the effective implementation of the government’s forest
concession policy aimed at supplying sustainably-sourced timber. The Resolution 1894/10
(Operational Policies) created the BNDES Florestal program which replaced the Refloresta
program. The improvements focus on three issues: eligibility criteria, lending terms, and
financeable items. BNDES Florestal can support projects anywhere in Brazil, while Refloresta

                                                 6
was restricted to the Carajás area and its buffer zone in the Amazon. BNDES Florestal offers 11
to 15-year loans and can now finance 100 percent of an operation, including the forest
certification process, compared to 12-year loans and 80 percent of an operation under Refloresta.
Finally, BNDES can now finance natural forest management or forest plantations for
charcoal/fuel wood.
33.      BNDES has also developed two other programs for medium and small landholders.
PROPFLORA (Resolution 1960/10) can lend up to R$300,000 to medium-size farmers or
cooperatives in support of forest plantations or forest restorations. The operations can receive up
to 12-year loans with payments taking place only six months after the first harvest. PRONAF
ECO (Resolution 1970/10) provides concessional funds to small farmers in support of several
activities including forest plantation for timber and non-timber products. Interest rates vary from
1 percent p.a. (for loans up to R$10,000) to 4 percent p.a. (for loans between R$20,000 and
R$50,000) with loan periods varying from 5 to 12 years.
34.     BNDES has also expanded programs and adopted policies to promote sustainable
agriculture and to restore deforested areas in private lands. Resolution 1998/10 submits all
sugarcane and alcohol operations to the recently launched agro-ecological zoning regulations that
ban any new plantations in the Amazon and Pantanal regions. BNDES requests its clients to
maintain a database of its sugarcane suppliers including the respective environmental licenses. In
addition, Resolution 1854/09 defines the measures to be adopted by all meat producers and
processors supported by BNDES. Those measures focus on ensuring environmental compliance
in the entire productive chain from the breeding farms to the processing plants. In addition,
BNDES has launched the Forest Compensation Program (Resolution 1801/09) which provides
concessional loans to farmers and companies interested in regularizing the status of their Legal
Reserve by renting or buying forested areas to compensate for the deficit of Legal Reserves
within their own properties. BNDES has also designed three Environmental and Social
Guidelines for soy, livestock, and sugar-alcohol sectors.
    Policy Action 4: Improving Management and Quality of Water Resources.
35.      The ANA signed agreements with the states of Pará (003/09), Pernambuco (005/09), Rio
de Janeiro (007/09), Mato Grosso (008/09) and Sergipe (010/09). These agreements have as their
objective the implementation of the National Water Quality Evaluation Program in each state.
These agreements are important to develop a decentralized national water quality monitoring
system, with standard assessment criteria and procedures, and to increase availability of water
quality information to the public.
    Policy Action 5: Reducing Environmental Impacts through Improved Water, Wastewater
    Treatment, and Solid Waste Services.
36.      BNDES ensures that programs for environmental sanitation are coherent with the new
legal framework and with BNDES’ new ESP by applying the National Guidelines Law for Basic
Sanitation 11445/2007. The Law states that concession contracts signed after the approval of the
Law should ensure: (i) adherence to a local plan for basic sanitation; (ii) economic viability as
documented through preparatory studies for the services; (iii) issuance of a local delegating law
authorizing the services’ contracting; and, (iv) a public consultation process. BNDES has
established screening procedures to track the observance of all of these four principles.
37.      In addition, BNDES is fully implementing the National Monetary Council (CMN)
resolution regulating credit operations for the environmental sanitation sector (CMN Resolution
2827/2001). In particular, BNDES is requiring that all Borrowers, concessionaires, or service
providers sign Performance Improvement Agreements with the Ministry of Cities, setting
efficiency targets linked to any credit operation regulated by this CMN Resolution.



                                                7
38.      These requirements and additional elements under the BNDES ESP subject
environmental sanitation to the general guidelines and procedures set by the Resolution 1894/10
(Operational Policies). With regard to financing conditions, costs are similar among operations
for water supply, sanitation and solid waste, but longer maturities have been allowed for the last
two, as defined by BNDES operational procedures. There are also special financing conditions
for the sector for the less developed North and Northeast regions of the country.
    Policy Action 6: Promoting Renewable Energy Potential.
39.      In the area of renewable energy, BNDES Resolution 1894/2010 targets the sustainable
development of the sector by applying the concepts of the ESP and giving preference to
renewable energy projects over fossil fuel based projects. Following this resolution, BNDES
established a credit line for greenfield renewable energy projects, under which 80 percent of the
value of these projects can be financed, with a term of 14 years at the long-term interest rate
(TJLP) plus a risk fee of 0.9 percent p.a. Small hydro (<30 MW of installed capacity), wind
power, biomass cogeneration and solar are eligible for an even longer amortization period of 16
years. These terms are substantially better than those offered for fossil fuel based generation
(where the margin above TJLP ranges 1.8-2.5 percent, and the financeable shares of the project
are lower).

    2.2. Major Factors Affecting Implementation
40.     This project was to be the first phase of a programmatic series of two operations.
However the preparation of the planned second phase could not be started in time to meet the
Bank’s required follow-up preparation timeframe (two years from Board approval), owing to the
14-month delay experienced in the Effectiveness of the first phase of the original DPL program.
The delay was caused by the Borrower not having formally requested the reflection of the receipt
of the Loan funds in its 2009 federal budget (as discussed in 2008 with the Bank project
preparation team). Though this formal request was made in early 2009, the Senate’s approval
process of this budget amendment was extraordinarily lengthy as this specific amendment was
held up until the end of 2009 by the general budget amendment discussion influenced by the
global economic crisis. This, in turn, delayed the Senate’s consideration of the SEM DPL and
authorization to the GOB to contract the Loan.

    2.3. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
41.    MMA and its agencies (IBAMA, ANA, ICMBio, SFB), and BNDES were responsible for
implementing the proposed components of the operation. A set of outcome indicators for
measuring progress and achievements of the development objectives of the SEM DPL series was
agreed with the Government and presented the Project Document.
42.     In order to monitor this operation and the entire SEM DPL series, the Ministry of Finance
and MMA were to use the monitoring system developed through the Environmental
Sustainability Agenda Technical Assistance Project (ENV TAL - P090041). This monitoring
system was to be updated to reflect the indicators and targets of the SEM DPL series program.
However, due to unforeseen bureaucratic delays in contracting the Information Technology firm,
the system was not updated during the course of the project. Hence, the Bank supervision team
reviewed progress on actions and outcomes during the frequent meetings and supervision
missions with the implementing agencies, and by directly tracking and reviewing publicly
available monitoring systems (e.g., annual deforestation rate measured by Brazil Space Agency-
INPE)




                                                8
    2.4. Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any)
43.     The preparation of the planned second phase was not started in time to meet required
follow-up preparation timeframe of two years from World Bank’s board approval (March 2011).
At this stage a follow up operation would fall into the next CPS implementation period, within
which it would no longer be a priority activity to either the Bank or Client because of: (i) the
expected lower IBRD investment ceiling; and, (ii) the client's heightened interest on Bank support
for Disaster Risk Management (DRM) moving forward.
44.     Nevertheless, the government continues to implement the policies outlined in the Letter
of Development Policy presented for the SEM DPL. For instance, BNDES continues to develop
and implement the sectoral environmental guidelines that are the basis of its environmental
management system. On the resource management side, ANA continues to sign additional
Technical Cooperation Agreements with the states to implement the National Water Quality
Evaluation Program (PNQA).
45.      The Bank is also supporting the implementation of reforms approved under this project,
through its existing portfolio such the Federal Integrated Water Sector Project (P112073), the
Second National Environmental Project - Phase II (P099469), and the two Sustainable Cerrado
Initiative projects (P091827).

3. Assessment of Outcomes
    3.1. Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
46.     The objectives of the SEM DPL were and continue to be very relevant to the country and
global priorities (e.g. climate change, deforestation, green growth). Brazil faces the continuing
challenge of stimulating development with social inclusion and under a climate change scenario.
Thus it needs to: (ii) meet the increasing demand for energy through the use of renewable energy,
(ii) meet the increasing demand for agricultural production through the promotion of low carbon
practices while curbing deforestation, and (iii) increase access to environmental sanitation
services, specially by the poor.
47.     An important aspect in the design of the SEM DPL that proved to be critical for the
success of the operation was the use of both command-control and economic market-based
instruments to tackle environmental sustainability challenges faced by Brazil. Support to the
MMA agenda enabled more efficient implementation of Brazil’s existing resource management
programs mostly based on command and control instruments. Support to BNDES reform agenda
enabled the development of economic market-based instruments for the management of natural
resources in Brazil, given the BNDES key role in long-term funding of investment in the
Brazilian economy.
    3.2. Achievement of Program Development Objectives
48.     This first operation did achieve its stated objective. The GOB’s strengthened its
environmental management system, with particular attention to: improvements in the overall
environmental management system, sustainable management of agricultural lands, forests, and
water resources; reduction of deforestation in the Amazon; reduction of the environmental
degradation of land and water resources that are key determinants of the well being of the poor;
and, promotion of renewable energy.
49.     The SEM DPL built upon the long-standing policy dialogue between the Bank and the
GOB regarding the environmental sustainability agenda. The selected key policy interventions
supported by the SEM DPL are part of broad long-term comprehensive policy reforms. Thus, the
outcomes reported below are a result of the implementation of such programs including the

                                                9
actions supported by the SEM DPL. To illustrate this point, Box 1 outlines The GOB policy
programs to curb Amazon deforestation in Brazil, and the Bank’s contribution to those programs
and the specific actions supported by the SEM DPL.

 Box 1 GOB Policy Program to curb deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon over the past 10 years
  2002. The Amazon Region Protected Area Program (ARPA) was launched. Its first phase succeeded in
   creating 24 million hectares of new protected areas, and contributed to the consolidation of 8.5 million
   hectares (The World Bank co-financed this first phase with GEF resources, and intends to co-finance the
   second phase.)
  2004. The Plan to Prevent and Combat Deforestation in the Amazon (PPCDAM) was launched. The
   PPCDAM involves 14 different ministries which developed and are implementing an integrated strategy to
   address the issues of deforestation, biodiversity loss and unsustainable agriculture and livestock
   productions. This integrated strategy combines actions to improve the policy framework and regional land
   use planning, strengthen institutions that focus on natural resource management and biodiversity
   conservation, and curb illegal practices. ( It adopts several lessons learned from projects supported by the
   Pilot Program to the Conserve the Brazilian Rainforest- PPG7- managed by the World Bank)
  2006. The Sustainable Development Plan for the BR-163 highway area was launched. This is an
   innovative approach tackling the historical trend of increased land grabbing, deforestation and social
   conflict in the area around a major infrastructure project financed by the GoB in the Amazon. The Plan is
   part of the government’s efforts to balance infrastructure development and conservation allowing for the
   implementation of zoning prior to the paving of these roads. As a result, almost 4 million hectares of
   protected areas were created in the BR-163 region, and several operations were carried out resulting in
   hundreds of arrests and thousands of logs seized. (The Bank supported the planning process with PPG7
   resources, including a specific report.)
  2006/2007.The Public Forest Management Law was enacted in 2006 and the regulatory decree was
   issued in 2007. This legislation enables the establishment of sustainable forest management concessions
   through a competitive process in National Forests and other public lands. It also, determines that local
   communities should be given preferential treatment when requesting concessions, and creates the Brazilian
   Forest Service -SFB. (The Law and the establishment of the SFB are prior actions recognized in this DPL.
   Technical input was provided through the EnvTAL, and the SFB has been receiving assistance with PPG7
   resources)
  2008. The Sustainable Amazon Plan (PAS) was launched. The PAS, subscribed to by the GoB and the
   governors of the Amazon region was designed through a participatory process by a committee comprised of
   13 ministries and is focused on: (i) competitive sustainable production; (ii) land administration and
   environmental management; (iii) social inclusion; and, (iv) infrastructure for development. (This is a prior
   action recognized in this DPL. Technical input was provided through the EnvTAL and the consultation
   process was supported by the PPG7)
  2008. Resolution 3545 was enacted by the National Monetary Council. It mandates the cessation of
   lending to agricultural producers who do not present the necessary permits required by environmental law.
   This far reaching resolution covers lending to primary processers of agricultural products (meat packing,
   soybean crushers, ethanol producers, etc.) that outsource the upstream part of their supply chain. (This is a
   prior action recognized in this DPL).
  2009. Amazon Land regularization Law 11952/09 was enacted and Terra Legal Program Launched.
   The objective is to curb land grabbing and speed up the process of land regularization in the Amazon. The
   focus is on the 400 municipalities which are near the deforestation frontier in the Amazon.
  2009. Mais Ambiente Program was established by Decree 7029/09. The objective is to promote the
   adoption of Rural Environmental Cadastre, which is a key requirement of the Resolution 3545. It provides
   the parameters to be adopted by the states, and incentives for the rehabilitation o the degraded area, for
   farmers who enter the Cadaster. ( The World Bank is supporting the implementation of the Cadaster in
   several municipalities through a PPG7 grant and the Pará Rural project)
  2010. Ecological and Economic Macro Zoning of the Amazon was enacted by Federal Decree. The
   macro ZEE was prepared at the 1:1,000,000 scale and based on the PAS. It provides broad land use
   guidelines and is being used by the Amazonian states to speed up the preparation process of their state level
   ZEEs at 1:250,000 scale. (This action was a trigger to be recognized in the second SEM DPL. The World
   Bank provided technical support with PPG7 resources.)




                                                       10
          Component 1: Improving the Overall Brazilian Environmental Management System
50.   There has been significant improvement in the overall Brazilian environmental
management system. All three outcome targets for the overall SEM DPL series were fully met.
51.     The number of environmental licenses issued by MMA increased from 375 in 2009 to
475 in 2010 (Table 2). This is a revised proxy indicator for the quality of environmental
licensing. The original proxy indicator, a decrease on the number of judicially challenged
environmental licenses, was modified because during the implementation of the project it was
observed that several judicial challenges had little to do with the quality of the licensing.
52.     The total planned signed reductions of tons of CO2 equivalent/year from CDM projects
and selected BNDES programs reached 19.7 million tons of CO2, or 99% of the target of 20
million tons of CO2. Meanwhile, the BNDES screening of its proposals for compliance with its
Environmental and Social Institutional Policy reached 100%, from 35% in 2007.
          Table 2 - Improving the Overall Brazilian Environmental Management System:
          Outcome Indicators matrix
Indicator                              Baseline            Intermediate          Expected                 Actual
                                                            June 2010         September 2011            June 2011
Number of environmental         2007: 375                       n.a.                n.a                 475 (2010)
licenses issued at the
Federal level2
Increase planned signed            2007: BNDES -           7 million tons      20 million tons       19,762,768 tons
reduction of emissions                  ZERO.                 of CO2               of CO2                of CO2
from CDM projects, from                                    equivalent/ye       equivalent/year       equivalent/year
                                  NCCAP - baseline
other BNDES projects,                                            ar
                                  is zero as the plan
and from other actions
                                     has not been
monitored under National
                                     approved yet.
Climate Change Action
Plan.
Share of the projects            2007: 35 percent of           60 percent         100 percent           100 percent
submitted directly to           the projects submitted
BNDES screened,                   directly to BNDES
approved and monitored             projects screened
according to the new               according to the
Environmental and Social         current Institutional
Institutional Policy.                   Policy.


          Component 2: Principles of Sustainable Development in Key Sectors
53.     There has been significant improvement in integrating Principles of Sustainable
Development in key sectors (Table 3). Four of the six outcomes exceeded the targets for the
overall SEM DPL series, and two outcomes reached or exceeded the intermediate outcome
expected by June 2010.




2
   This indicator was modified; the original indicator was the number of judicially challenged environmental licenses.
The supervision team realized that this modified indicator was more suitable to measure the quality and speed of the
environmental licensing process due to the tendency of requesters to use the judicial system independent of the
licensing process.


                                                          11
54.     The reduction of deforestation3 rate was striking. The reduction of 40% of the annual
average rate of deforestation during the period of 2008-2010 (8,942 km2) when compared to the
annual average rate for 2005-2007 period (14,900 km2) far exceeds the original target of a 20%
reduction.
55.      The Amazon Fund was to become operational only as trigger for the second operation,
but it started to operate in early 2010. It approved 16 grants for a total of about US$130 million.
Most of the grants are in support of large-scale planning, capacity building and training projects.
However, one single area-based project to co-finance (13% of total project cost) the second phase
of the Amazon Protected Areas Project has the objective of creating protected areas covering over
135,00km2, which demonstrates the environmental conservation potential of this mechanism.
56.      The National Water Agency ANA made great process in the shared management with
states of water quality in major rivers. There are over 116,000 km of rivers now being monitored,
surpassing the 90,000 km target for the SEM DPL series. This remarkable achievement is, in
great part, due to ANA’s continued effort to establish bilateral agreements with states. While, the
entire DPL series asked for 10 of such agreements, ANA has already signed 14 new ones by mid-
2011.
57.     The achievement in the reduction of pollution loads has been remarkable. Approved
BNDES environmental sanitation projects and the reformed PRODES program have led to an
accumulated reduction in pollution loads discharged into rivers equivalent to 141,280 tons BOD,
far surpassing the target of 110, 000 tons BOD for the SEM DPL series.
          Table 3 - Integrating Principles of Sustainable Development in Key Sectors:
          Results Indicators Matrix
Indicator                            Baseline            Intermediate          Expected                  Actual
                                                          June 2010         September 2011             June 2011
Sustainable Natural Forest     2007: 27,000 km2in         35,000 km2          50,000 km2               33,415 km2
Management of private and
                               private land (FSC-
public areas expanded
from 27,000 km2 to 50,000        certified natural
km2.                           forests) and ZERO
                                  in public land.
Reduction in average            2005-2007 average          15 percent         20 percent to          Annual average
annual rate of deforestation
                               annual deforestation       reduction to         11,840km2            rate in 2008-2010
in the Amazon for the                                     12,580 km2                                  is 8,942 km2, a
period 2008-2010 to 20           rate: 14,800 km2.
                                                                                                     40.3% decrease
percent below 2005-2007
average annual rate of
                                                                                                       percent of the
deforestation (14,800 km2).                                                                        annual average rate
                                                                                                     of deforestation
                                                                                                     compared to the
                                                                                                          baseline




3
  Since 1989, the National Institute for Space Research (INPE) interprets annual satellite imagery covering the entire
Brazilian Amazon, to determine the Amazon rainforest annual deforestation rate (PRODES program). The resulting
digital maps are publicly accessible. INPE is now developing an additional tool to further detail the quality of the
forested and deforested areas. This tool will indicate if the land is being occupied by primary forest, logged forest,
secondary forest re-growth (“capoeira?), agricultural crops, pastures, reforestation, and whether agricultural and
pasture areas have been degraded and/or abandoned. This is key information for planning future REDD+ type
activities in Brazil.


                                                          12
Indicator                           Baseline            Intermediate         Expected                  Actual
                                                         June 2010        September 2011             June 2011
An area of 5,000 km2              2008: ZERO               ZERO              5,000 km2              20,250 km2 4
receiving support from the
Amazon and Atlantic            Since the Amazon
Forest Funds for activities    and Atlantic Forest
that promote sustainable         Funds were not
use of natural resources         operational yet.
and biodiversity
conservation, rehabilitate
degraded areas or, prevent/
combat deforestation.
Water quality monitoring       2007: Water quality       70,000 km            90,000 km              116,144 km
and evaluation for 90,000        monitoring and
km of main rivers being          evaluation for
executed and publicly          60,000 km of main
released on a regular basis,
with results used for
                                   rivers being
prioritization of                 executed and
investments for improved       publicly released on
water quality.                   a regular basis.

Projected reduction of            2007: ZERO             25,000 tons       110,000 tons of         141,280 tons of
110,000 tons of pollution                                of pollution      pollution loads         pollution loads
loads (tons of bio-chemical      Since the new
                                                            loads
oxygen demand – BOD per        BNDES social and
year) discharged into            environmental
rivers: i) from approved       guidelines and the
BNDES environmental            updated PRODES
sanitation projects             program are not
reviewed under new
                                 available yet.
BNDES social and
environmental guidelines;
and, ii) from the updated
PRODES program.

60,000 tera joules per year    2007: ZERO since            10,000          60,000 TJ/ year         50,102 TJ/year
(TJ/year) to be produced        the new BNDES              TJ/year
by renewable energy                 social and
sources or saved by energy       environmental
efficiency projects             guidelines are not
supported by BNDES,               available yet.
once they are fully
operational.



58.    Sustainable Natural Forest Management of private and public areas reached 33,415 km2.
While below the target for the SEM DPL series, this figure is very close to the 35,000 km2
expected by June 2010. Most of this increase comes from the expansion of private native forests




4
    The Amazon Fund will co-finance the Amazon Region Protect Areas Project (ARPA phase 2) which aims at
protecting an additional area of 135,000 km2. All this achievement should not be attributed to the SEM DPL. We
follow a conservative approach to estimating the contribution of the project using the following approach: this Amazon
Fund project contributes with about 15% of total support to ARPA (US$ 12.9 million of the total US$85.9 million), i.e.
15% of 135,000 km2=20,250 km2.


                                                         13
certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)5 to nearly 32,000 km2 from 27,000 km2 in
2007. Nevertheless the most remarkable impact is on concession areas of public forests under
sustainable forest management which went from zero in 2007 to 1,452 km2 in 2010.
59.     The expansion of production of energy from renewable sources under the new BNDES
policy had a dramatic increase from zero to over 50,000TJ/year distributed across the following
sources: wind power (18,858 TJ/year, 38%), Biomass (27,107 TJ/year, 54%) and small
hydroelectricity generation of up to 30MW (4137, 8%). While this figure is below the
60,000TJ/year outcome target for the SEM DPL series, it far exceeds the intermediate indicators
of 10,000TJ/year expected by June 2010.
    3.3. Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
60.       This rating of satisfactory is justified by two main considerations. On the reform agenda
side, all the second tranche release conditions were met on time. On the development impact side,
the federal government has met or exceeded the targets for nearly 66% of the outcome indicators
(6 out of the 9 indicators) for the entire DPL series. This result is significant since the outcome
targets were expected to be fully achieved only at the end of the second operation of the series
(September 2011). The government’s commitment and ownership of the policy reform agenda
have been key for these achievements. The results obtained on the environmental management
front are particularly relevant for Brazil. BNDES now systematically screens, approves and
monitors all projects according to the BNDES new Environmental and Social Institutional Policy.
Furthermore, the reforms supported by this operation have resulted in a reduction in emissions
equivalent to 19 million tons of CO2 /year and a decrease in pollution loads into rivers of over
140,000 tons/year. The environmental, health and socio-economic impact of these actions are
very likely to be sustained and their effects felt long after this operation has closed.
    3.4. Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
    (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
61.     The actions supported by this operation have considerable impact on the poor.
Reductions in water pollution, expansion of environmental sanitation benefit specially the poor.
The protection of natural capital (forests, rivers etc.) supported by the SEM DPL will likely soon
materialize in improved income generation opportunities (e.g. fishery, tourism) and health status
especially for the rural and urban poor.
     (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
62.      The project has had an important impact on institutional and capacity development. The
SEM DPL supported the restructuring of MMA and trained its staff to improve the effectiveness
its environmental licensing process. Furthermore, the operation also supported the restructuring
of BNDES including a Division specifically dedicated to developing and implementing its
environmental management system and developing green lines of business.
    (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
63.  BNDES environmental sustainability agenda went far beyond what was defined in the
SEM DPL series. BNDES developed a new corporative planning strategy 2009-2014,


5
 FSC certification provides a credible link between responsible production and consumption of forest products,
enabling consumers and businesses to make purchasing decisions that benefit people and the environment as well as
providing ongoing business value.


                                                        14
incorporating instruments which are shifting the institutional long-term vision of BNDES to a
more sustainable and green agenda. As part of the instruments, BNDES established Guidelines
for Transversal Themes, emphasizing the promotion of local and regional development and
corporative policies for social and environmental responsibilities. BNDES is also acting in a more
comprehensive and integrated way in the financing of regions that are receiving large investment
operations. Resolution 1871/09 aims at promoting the positive impact of its regional operations
through spatial and temporal concentration of investments, and the creation of complementary
productive activities and employment.
64.     Furthermore, BNDES has established several multidisciplinary groups as part of internal
consultation and decision-making processes, has started a program to train all staff on the basics
regarding environmental sustainability, and is designing a program to decrease its carbon
footprint at the corporate level. Moreover, in 2009, BNDES approved a revised Code of Ethics
and the Declaration of BNDES’ Values to engage clients and staff with the new social and
environmental institutional values.
65.     In view of its relative size6 and large number of financial agents, BNDES can also serve
as a benchmark for other financial institutions. As BNDES is also starting to play a more
prominent role in green lines of business, a positive impact on the financial sector is expected
from the practices BNDES has adopted. A good example is the role that BNDES will play in the
new GOB program to finance Low Carbon Agriculture. The GOB decided to channel 73% of the
BRL 3 billion through BNDES, which, in turn, will apply its Environmental and Social Policy
and sectoral guidelines when selecting operations to be funded under the Program.
      3.5. Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
66.       This rating of moderate is based on a balance between the successful implementation of
the first operation, and possible changes in policies which can indirectly affect the expected long-
term outcomes support by the SEM DPL.
67.     The actions supported by the SEM DPL show strong signs of sustainability. The
government is continuing to advance their policy reform agenda as described in the letter of
development policy and outlined as triggers of the second operation. For instance, BNDES
continues to develop and implement its social and environmental guidelines, while ANA signed 9
new agreements for the implementation of the PNQA at the state level during the period of 2009-
2011 (trigger for the second operation was 5).
68.      On the other hand, the fiscal situation of the federal government and the on-going
discussion of the Forest Code have been accompanied by a small increase in deforestation. This
trend seems to be associated with the expectation of non-retroactivity of penalties for those that
had illegally deforested until the date on which the Forest Code is approved. The tightening of
government spending may limit the scope for retaining staff and hiring of new personnel critical
for the implementation of the policies supported by this operation.




6
    BNDES is a key source (over a third) of long-term financing for Brazil’s economic development.



                                                          15
5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
     5.1. Bank Performance
     (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
69.     This program was based on a solid foundation, stemming from a body of analytical work
carried out over the past two decades by the Bank, the GOB, bilateral institutions (KfW, USAID,
DFID, etc.), the IDB, Brazilian and international researchers, and NGOs (e.g., IMAZON, IPAM,
ISA, SOS Mata Atlântica, WWF, CI, TNC, etc.). These studies were financed under the Pilot
Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rainforests (PPG7), the GEF National Biodiversity Program,
and recent World Bank-funded AAA products covering water, land tenure and energy sectors,
and the Amazon. Moreover, the ENV TAL (effective in early 2006) continued to support the
environmental policy reform agenda.
70.     The World Bank maintained an intense technical dialogue with the executing agencies
throughout the project preparation stage. The World Bank fielded several multidisciplinary
missions with the executing agencies to prepare the background analysis for the operation, and
prepared key specific studies on the forest sector, agricultural productive chains, and
environmental guides.
71.      This guaranteed that the proposed policies were relevant to the federal government and
that the program was adequate and composed of reforms that would address not only short-term
problems, but also would deal with the structural constraints behind the country’s environment-
related needs and debates.
     (b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
72.      The World Bank’s project team conducted 5 supervision missions to BNDES, MMA, and
the National Treasury Secretariat (NTS) to discuss the stages of implementation, follow up on
executing agencies’ requests, and provide technical assistance. The quality of the supervision
team was bolstered by the large, experienced and multidisciplinary Bank team who participated in
the design and implementation of this operation. In addition, the World Bank prepared four
studies to serve as technical input for BNDES’ sectoral guides (see annex 7, items 45 to 47).
     (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
73.    The World Bank addressed the client’s main problems and the supervision not only
monitored the implementation, but also helped the GOB achieve most of the expected results.
     5.2. Borrower Performance
     (a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
74.     The Borrower was the Government of Brazil. The Government demonstrated ownership
of the policy reform agenda and carried out of the first operation as planned. However, the 14
months delay of Effectiveness affected the possibility of carrying out the second operation of the
SEM DPL series as designed.
     (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
75.    NTS was responsible for overall coordination of the operation, while BNDES and MMA
were the executing agencies. The top level management in the NTS, BNDES and MMA were

                                               16
highly involved and committed to the operation and the proposed reform. They were very
effective in designing and delivering the policies and outputs, and coordinating the actions of all
agencies involved in the operation.
    (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
76.     The moderately satisfactory rating is justified on balance by the performance of the
executing agencies and the problems faced by the Government which prevented the second SEM
DPL from taking place.
6. Lessons Learned
77.     Design. This two-tranche design was fundamental for the success of the operation.. This
approach allowed the World Bank to widen the scope of the program, keep the discussion and
engagement with the client and ensure a quick execution of all policies in order to the second
tranche as early as possible.
78.     Knowledge generation. The Bank had the opportunity through this DPL to participate
and influence a national debate on environmental reforms and good practices. This experience
and the knowledge generated in this operation will certainly be relevant and useful to other parts
of the world.
79.     Sectoral synergies. The success of this operation is in great part related to the capacity of
the World Bank to bring together two key institutions to design and mainstream environment and
resource management policies and guidelines (BNDES and MMA). While MMA has the
responsibilities to design policies at a national level, BNDES mainstreamed sectoral
environmental best practices in its operations. This led to a program including both command-
control and economic market-based instruments, a combination that is necessary and which
proved to be successful in this operation.
80.     Approval process. While Federal-level DPLs have a simplified approval process it is
important for the World Bank to engage the Borrower early on regarding this issue and to monitor
the progress of country approval processes. This will reduce the risk of unforeseen delays.
81.     M&E. The lessons learned in this operation points to the need to use existing indicators
regularly monitored by implementing agencies whenever possible instead of creating program-
specific ones. This is the case, for instance, of the indicator for annual deforestation rate
monitored by INPE.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
   (a) Borrower/Implementing agencies
82.      The Borrower’s letter of August 12, 2011 (Annex 5) expressed agreement with the
Bank’s assessment detailed in this ICR. The Borrower noted that despite its efforts, it was not
able to have the Federal Budget allocation for this project approved on time. The Borrower also
reiterated that the GOB continues to implement the environmental sustainability policy agenda
supported by this project.
    (b) Cofinanciers
        Not applicable
    (c) Other partners and stakeholders
        Not applicable




                                                 17
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

    (a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
            Names                                  Title           Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Marcos T. Abicalil                Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.     LCSUW
Alexandre Moreira Baltar          Water Resources Mgmt. Spec.     LCSEN
Garo J. Batmanian                 Sr Environmental Spec.          LCSEN
Regis Thomas Cunningham           Sr Financial Management Spec.   LCSFM
Estanislao Gacitua-Mario          Lead Social Development Spec.   LCSSO
Augusto Juca                      Sr. Energy Specialist           LCSSD
Mark R. Lundell                   Sector Leader                   LCSSD
Isabella Micali Drossos           Senior Counsel                  LEGLA
Alberto Ninio                     Chief Counsel                   LEGEN
Miguel-Santiago da Silva
                                  Senior Finance Officer          CTRFC
Oliveira
Paula Silva Pedreira de Freitas   Operations Analyst              LCSEN
Luis R. Prada Villalobos          Senior Procurement Specialist   MNAPR
Paul Procee                       Senior Infrastructure Spec.     EASCS
Cristina Oliveira Roriz           Operations Analyst              LCSRF
Jennifer J. Sara                  Sector Manager                  EASVS
Fabiola Vasconcelos Pinhe
                                  Senior Executive Assistant      LCC5C
Souza
Eduardo Martin Urdapilleta        Sr Financial Economist          LCSPF
Supervision
Marcos T. Abicalil                Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.     LCSUW
Alexandre Moreira Baltar          Water Resources Mgmt. Spec.     LCSEN
Garo J. Batmanian                 Sr Environmental Spec.          LCSEN
Fernando Andres Blanco Cossio     Senior Economist                AFTP4
Estanislao Gacitua-Mario          Lead Social Development Spec.   LCSSO
Daniella Ziller Arruda
                                  Program Assistant               LCC5C
Karagiannis
Alberto Ninio                     Chief Counsel                   LEGEN
Paula Silva Pedreira de Freitas   Operations Analyst              LCSEN
Paul Procee                       Senior Infrastructure Spec.     EASCS
Cristina Oliveira Roriz           Operations Analyst              LCSRF
Jennifer J. Sara                  Sector Manager                  EASVS
Eric Shayer                       Sr Environmental Spec.          CESI1
Barbara Farinelli                 Economist                       LCSSD
Abdoulaye Sy                      Economist                       LCSSD




                                                      18
(b) Staff Time and Cost


                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
             Stage                                 USD Thousands
                          No. of staff weeks    (including travel and
                                                   consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                               1                       0.47
  FY06                               1                      10.13
  FY07                               1                       2.37
  FY08                              15                     109.45
  FY09                              38                     344.74
  Total:                            55                     467.16
  Supervision/ICR
  FY09                               3                      42.10
  FY10                              15                     132.27
  FY11                              12                     196.60
  Total:                            30                     370.97




                            19
Annex 2. SEM DPL Development Policy Matrix

Policy Area              Policy Actions – First Tranche           Policy Actions – Second Tranche
                         Prior Actions (Completed)                Release Conditions
Sub-objective A: Improving the Overall Brazilian Environmental Management System
Improve effectiveness  MMA and its affiliates restructured
of government                to support the implementation of
agencies in                  environmental policies, processing
implementing                 of environmental licenses and
mandated Brazilian           enforcement of environmental
environmental and            regulations through: i) the
social management            establishment of a new institutional
procedures                   structure for MMA; ii) the creation
                             of the National Biodiversity
                             Management Institute (Institute
                             Chico Mendes – ICMBio) and the
                             Brazilian Forest Service (SFB); iii)
                             the restructuring of IBAMA to
                             focus on environmental licensing
                             and enforcement; and, iv) increase
                             staffing of MMA and IBAMA
Mainstream Climate        National Climate Change Action          National Climate Change Action
Change in public and         Plan drafted by the Inter-                Plan, approved by the Inter-
private sector               ministerial Committee for Climate         ministerial Committee, after public
investments                  Change and submitted for public           consultation
                             consultation
Improve the               Revised Green Protocol approved         New Environmental and Social
effectiveness of             and signed by GOB and all federal         Institutional Policy, which includes
environmental and            public Brazilian Banks, including         the provisions of the Green
social management            BNDES                                     Protocol, is approved by BNDES
systems in BNDES                                                       Board of Executive Officers and
and other financial                                                    applied to BNDES’ directly
institutions                                                           financed operations
Sub-objective B: Integrating Principles of Sustainable Development in Key Sectors
B.1. Natural Resources Management and Conservation
Improve                   Forest legal framework                  BNDES programs on forest
sustainability of            strengthened through the                  management, forest plantations,
natural resources            enactment of three key legal acts:        agriculture and associated
management                   Public Forest Management Law              processing industries restructured
                             which promotes forest                     to provide incentives for long-term
                             management in public land;                forest management and sustainable
                             Atlantic Forest Law which                 land use, and three sub-sectoral
                             promotes conservation of this             guidelines and the REFLORESTA
                             highly endangered biome; and,             Program are designed to ensure
                             Resolution 3545 of the National           coherence with the new forest legal
                             Monetary Council that regulates           framework and BNDES’ new
                             bank lending to agribusiness              Environmental and Social
                                                                       Institutional Policy
Improve Amazon            National Sustainable Amazon
regional planning for        Program (PAS) approved by GOB
sustainable                  and the governors of the Amazon
development and              region
reduced deforestation


                                                    20
Policy Area           Policy Actions – First Tranche              Policy Actions – Second Tranche
                      Prior Actions (Completed)                   Release Conditions
Improve Rainforest     Presidential decree regulating the
Conservation              Amazon Fund issued, to support
                          grant activities that promote
                          sustainable use of natural
                          resources, rehabilitated degraded
                          areas or, prevent/combat
                          deforestation
B.2. Water Resource Management
Improve management  The Water Resources National                    ANA Signs cooperation
and quality of water      Plan (PNRH) and the National                agreements with five states for the
resources                 Water Quality Evaluation Program            purpose of implementing the
                          (PNQA) approved by GOB                      National Water Quality Evaluation
                                                                      Program (PNQA) at the state level
B.3. Environmental Sanitation
Reduce                  Law 11,445/07 on National                   BNDES ensures that programs for
environmental               Guidelines for Water Supply and           water and environmental sanitation
impacts through             Environmental Sanitation enacted          are coherent with the new legal
improved water,                                                       framework and with BNDES’ new
wastewater treatment,                                                 Environmental and Social
and solid waste                                                       Institutional Policy
services
B.4. Renewable Energy
Promote renewable       Integrated Environmental                    BNDES ensures that programs for
energy potential            Assessment (IEA) methodology              energy efficiency and renewable
                            for improving the environmental           energy are coherent with BNDES’
                            and social sustainability of the          new Environmental and Social
                            hydroelectric sector included I the       Institutional Policy
                            handbook of the Electricity
                            Sector’s inventory and applied in
                            ten river basins




                                                   21
Annex 3. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A


Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                      22
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR




                                    23
      Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                     24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Program Document (PD), Report No. 47215-BR, February 3, 2009
2. Loan Agreement, Loan Number 7660-BR, June 10, 2010
3. Country Partnership Strategy Brazil 2008-2011, Report No. 42677-BR, May 6, 2008
4. Project Appraisal Document (PAD). First programmatic Reform Loan for Environmental
   Sustainability (P080829), Report No. 28650BR, July 26, 2004
5. Project Appraisal Document (PAD). Environmental Sustainability Agenda Technical
   Assistance Project (P090041), Report No. 30884-BR, July 12, 2005
6. Project Appraisal Document (PAD). Second National Environmental Project - Phase II
   (P099469), Report No. 42062-BR, August 21, 2009
7. Project Appraisal Document (PAD). BR Federal Integrated Water - Interaguas (P112073),
   Report No. 59014-BR, June 3, 2011
8. Project Appraisal Document (PAD). Sustainable Cerrado Initiative (P091827), Report No.
   54062-BR, April 5, 2010
9. Studies carried out under the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rainforests (PPG7):
       a. AMA – Projeto de Apoio ao Monitoramento e Análise
       b. Corredores Ecológicos – Projeto Corredores Ecológicos
       c. ProManejo – Projeto de Apoio ao Manejo Florestal Sustentável na Amazônia
       d. ProVárzea – Projeto Manejo dos Recursos Naturais da Várzea
       e. RMA – Rede de ONGs da Mata Atlântica – Projeto de Apoio Institucional à RMA
       f. SPCT – Subprograma de Ciência e Tecnologia
       g. SPRN – Subprograma de Política de Recursos Naturais
10. Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). SEM DPL Banco
    Mundial – Relatório Final. Nota AMA/DEMAN No. 14/2011 and AP/DEART No. 04/2011,
    June 15, 2011
11. Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). Directive
    Decision 1389/2009-BNDES. Technical Cooperation Agreement between the Brazilian
    National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES) e the BM&Bovespa S.A. –
    Stock Exchange
12. Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). Resolution
    1,754/2009. Code of Ethics, April 7, 2009
13. Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). Resolution
    1,874/2009. Declaration of BNDES Values, December 29, 2009
14. Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). Resolution
    1,894/2010. Operational Policies, January, 2010
15. Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). Resolution
    1,871/2009-BNDES. Políticas para Atuação do BNDES no Entorno de Projetos. December
    29, 2009
16. Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). Resolution
    1,998/2010. Environmental Guidelines for Actions Supported by BNDES to the Ethanol and
    Sugar Sectors, November 8, 2010




                                              25
17. Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). Resolution
    1,854/2009. Social and Environmental Guidelines for Actions Supported by BNDES to the
    Livestock Sector
18. Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). Directive
    Decision 133/2009-BNDESPAR. Regulamento do Brasil Sustentabilidade Fundo de
    Investimento em Participações. December 15, 2009
19. Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). Corporative
    Planning BNDES 2009-2014, March 2009
20. Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). Green Protocol
    (Protocol of Intentions for Socio-environmental Responsibility), August 2008
21. Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). Resolution
    2,023/10. Social and Environmental Responsibility and Governance, November 12, 2010
22. Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). Resolution
    2025/10. Environmental and Social Policy,
23. Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). Resolution
    2,022/10. Structure and Use of Environmental and Social Guidelines,
24. Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). Resolution
    1,960/10. PROPFLORA,
25. Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). Resolution
    1970/10. Pronaf Eco,
26. Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). Resolution
    1801/09. Forest Compensation Program,
27. Federal Government of Brazil. Decree No. 6,527. Creation of Amazon Fund, August 1, 2008
28. Brazilian Ministry of Environmental (MMA). Relatório do Empréstimo Programático para
    Politícas de Desenvolvimento da Gestão Ambiental Sustentável (SEM DPL). Ofício No.
    11/2011/DGE/SECEX/MMA
29. National Water Agency (ANA). Technical Cooperation Agreement – Piauí, No. 001/2009,
    April 16, 2009
30. National Water Agency (ANA). Technical Cooperation Agreement – Rio Grande do Norte,
    No. 002/2009, April 16, 2009
31. National Water Agency (ANA). Technical Cooperation Agreement – Pará, No. 003/2009,
    April 16, 2009
32. National Water Agency (ANA). Technical Cooperation Agreement – Pernambuco, No.
    005/2009, May 7, 2009
33. National Water Agency (ANA). Technical Cooperation Agreement – São Paulo, No.
    006/2009, May 28, 2010
34. National Water Agency (ANA). Technical Cooperation Agreement – Rio de Janeiro, No.
    007/2009, Mayl 15, 2009
35. National Water Agency (ANA). Technical Cooperation Agreement – Mato Grosso, No.
    008/2009, May 15, 2009
36. National Water Agency (ANA). Technical Cooperation Agreement – Sergipe, No. 010/2009,
    June 16, 2009
37. National Water Agency (ANA). Technical Cooperation Agreement – Minas Gerais, No.
    011/2009, Julho 17, 2009


                                            26
38. National Water Agency (ANA). Technical Cooperation Agreement – Paraná, No. 012/2009,
    May 15, 2009
39. National Water Agency (ANA). Technical Cooperation Agreement – Roraima, No. 013/2009,
    August 19, 2009
40. National Water Agency (ANA). Technical Cooperation Agreement – Bahia, No. 014/2009,
    August 19, 2009
41. National Water Agency (ANA). Technical Cooperation Agreement – Alagoas, No. 017/2009,
    September 23, 2009
42. National Water Agency (ANA). Conjutura dos Recursos Hídricos no Brasil – Informe 2010.
    Brasília, DF, 2010
43. Brazilian Institute for Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA).
    Licenciamento Ambiental Federal Proposta de Estruturação/2011, April 12, 2011
44. Preliminary Version. Plano Setorial de Mitigação e de Adaptação às Mudanças Climáticas
    para a Consolidação de uma Economia de baixa Emissão de Carbono na Agricultura. Brasília,
    DF, May 2011
45. Estudo sobre Aspectos Socioambientais do Setor de Pequenas Centrais Hidrelétricas – Guia
    de Procedimentos. Prepared by PSR, Maio 2011

46. Estudo sobre Aspectos Sócio-ambientais do Setor ?gua e Esgoto, com Objetivo de Subsidiar
    a Elaboração dos Guias de Procedimentos Socioambientais do BNDES. Prepared by NCA
    Engenharia, Arquitetura e Meio Ambiente SS Ltda, Maio 2011

47. Estudo sobre Aspectos Sócio-Ambientais de Setores Produtivos e de Infraestrutura para
    Compor o Guia de Procedimentos Ambientais do BNDES. Prepared by Elabora Assessoria
    Estratégica em Meio Ambiente, Fevereiro de 2009

48. Implementation Status Reports (ISR)
49. Borrower Completion Report
50. Supervision Aide Memoires
51. Tranche Release Document
52. Letter of Development Policy
53. Other preparation and supervision documents




                                             27
                                                             To Ciudad Guayana
                                   70°W                                                             60°W                                                                     50°W                                                       40°W
                                                       R.B. DE                                      GUYANA
                                                     VENEZUELA
                                                                                                                        SURINAME
                                                                                                                                                        French
                                                                                                                                                        Guiana                                                                                                                               BRAZIL
                                                     r i n oc                                                                                            (Fr.)                                                 AT LA NT IC




                                                     O
                                                             o
                         COLOMBIA                                                       Boa Vista
                                                                                                                                                                                                                O CEA N
                                                                                                                                                              AMAP?                                                                                                                       STATE CAPITALS
                                                                                           RORAIMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                              Macapá
                 0°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0°                    RIVERS
                                                                                    Ne                                                                    zon
                                                                                      gro                                                              Ama                                                                                                                                MAIN ROADS
                                                            A                m              a       z      o           n                                                              Belém
                                                                                                                                                                                                                São Luís
                                                                                           Manaus                                                                                                                                                                                         RAILROADS
                                                                        Am
                                                                             az o




                                                                                                                                         jó s
                                                                                    n                                                                                                                                                          Fortaleza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STATE BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                       pa
                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                        Ta




                                                                                                             eir
                                                                                                          ad
                                                                        B a s i n                                                                                                                                            Teresina                     RIO GRANDE




                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                                                                              PA R ?                                 MARANHÃO                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CEAR?             DO NORTE
                                      AMAZONAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Natal
                                                                    u
                                                                   s




                                                                 Pur




                                                                                                                                                                u
                                                                                                                                                            Xing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PARA?BA         João




                                                                                                                       Tele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PIAU?                                            Pessoa




                                                                                                                            s
                                                                               Porto Velho                                                                                                                                                PERNA




                                                                                                                                                                                         Tocantins
                                                                                                                           Pir
                                                                                                                                  es                                                                                                             MBUC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O           Recife
                               ACRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Maceió




                                                                                                                                                                            ia
                                      Rio Branco                                                                                                                                                                           o
                                                                                                                                                                                         Palma                           sc




                                                                                                                                                                      Aragua
                 10°S                                              RONDÔNIA                                  Juruena                                                                                                                                       ALAGOAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Aracaju




                                                                                                                                                                                                                São Fr
                                                                                                                                                                                 TOCANTINS                           BAHIA
                                                                                                                                   MATO                                                                                                               SERGIPE
                           PERU                                                                                                   GROSSO
                                                                                                          Mato Grosso                                                             B r a z i l i a n                                            Salvador
                                                                                                            Plateau
                                                                                                                                             Cuiabá                                     F.D.
                                                                                                                                                                          BRAS?LIA
                                                                  BOLIVIA
                                                                                                                                                                    GOI?S           Goiânia          MINAS GERAIS

                      PA C IF IC                                                                To                                                                               H i g h l a n d s
                                                                                            Santa Cruz
                                                                                                                           MATO GROSSO                                                                          Belo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ESP?RITO
                      OC E AN         CHILE                                                                                   DO SUL
                                                                                                                                                                           Grande                             Horizonte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SANTO
                                                                                                                       Paragu y




                 20°S                                                                                                                        Campo                                                                                                                20°S
                                                                                                                                             Grande                                                                          Vitória
                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                             a




                                                                                                    Santa Cruz
                                                                                                                                                                      SÃO PAULO
                                                                                                                                                          á
                                                                                                                                                        an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RIO DE
                                                                                                                                                        r
                                                                                                                                                      Pa




                                                                                                          PARAGUAY                                                                São Paulo                   Rio de         JANEIRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Janeiro
                                                                                                                                                            PARAN?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AT L AN T I C
                                                                                                                                                                                   Curitiba
                                          BRAZIL
                                                                                                                                                                                     STA CATARINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OCE AN
                                                                                                                                                                                     Florianópolis

                                                                                                                                             RIO GRANDE
                                                                                                                                                DO SUL
                                                                                                                                                                      Porto Alegre
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0        200           400      600 Kilometers           30°S
                 30°S                                              ARGENTINA
SEPTEMBER 2009




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 33377R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                            To Buenos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                 Aires
                                                                                                                           URUGUAY                                                                       0                   200          400 Miles                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                              70°W                                                       60°W                                                         50°W                                                   40°W
                                                                                                                                       To Montevideo
