                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No.: 89848




            PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                   BRAZIL

     FIRST PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN FOR
          SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT

                                (IBRD-76600)


                               February 19, 2015




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                        i


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = real (BR$)

March 5, 2009                US$1.00            BR$2.40
June 30, 2010                US$1.00            BR$1.87
December 15, 2010            US$1.00            BR$1.69


Abbreviations and Acronyms

 ABC             Low-Carbon Agriculture
 ANA             Water National Agency
 ARPA            Amazon Protected Areas Project
 ASIBAMA         Association of IBAMA staff
 BNDES           National Bank for Economic and Social Development (of Brazil)
 BOD             Biochemical Oxygen Demand
 CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
 CDM             Clean Development Mechanism
 CER             Certified Emission Reduction
 CO2             Carbon dioxide
 COFA            Amazon Fund Managing Committee
 CONAMA          National Environmental Council
 CPE             Country Program Evaluation
 CPS             Country Partnership Strategy
 CSO             Civil Society Organization
 DFID            Department for International Development
 DPL             Development Policy Loan
 DRM             Disaster Risk Management
 EIA             Environmental Impact Assessments
 Env PRL         First Programmatic Reform Loan for Environmental Sustainability
 Env TAL         Environmental Technical Assistance Loan
 EPs             Equator Principles
 EPFI            Equator Principles Financial Institutions
 ES              Environmental and Social
 ESIA            Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
 ESMP            Environmental and Social Management Plan
 ESMS            Environmental and Social Management System
 ESP             Environmental and Social Policy
 ETS             Emissions Trading Scheme
 EU              European Union
 FIL             Financial Intermediary Loan
 FSC             Forest Stewardship Council
 FY              Fiscal Year
 GEF             Global Environmental Facility
 GHG             Greenhouse Gas
 GOB             Government of Brazil
                                  ii


GP       Green Protocol (Protocolo Verde)
Ha       Hectares
IBAMA    Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural
         Resources
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICMBio   National Institute for Biodiversity Conservation
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
ICTSD    International Centre for Trade and Sustainable Development
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
IEA      Integrated Environmental Assessment
IEG      Independent Evaluation Group
IEGPS    IEG Public Sector Evaluations
IFC      International Finance Corporation
ILO      International Labor Organization
IMAZON   Amazon Institute of People and the Environment
INPE     Brazilian Space Agency
IPAM     Amazonian Environment Research Institute
ISA      Social and Environmental Institute
ISR      Implementation Status Report
Km2      Square Kilometers
LDC      Least Developed Countries
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MMA      Ministry of Environment
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MW       Megawatts
NCCAP    National Climate Change Action Plan
NEP      National Environment Project
NICFI    Norway’s International Climate and Forest Initiative
NGOs     Non-Governmental Organizations
NORAD    Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
NPCC     National Policy for Climate Change
NTS      National Treasury Secretariat
OPCS     Operations Policy and Country Services
PA       Protected Area
PAC      Program for Accelerated Growth (Portuguese acronym)
PAS      Sustainable Amazon Plan
PD       Project Document
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PNMC     National Policy for Climate Change
PNQA     National Water Quality Evaluation Program
PNRH     National Water Resources Plan
PPA      Multi-Year Plan
PPAR     Project Performance Assessment Report
PPCDAm   Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Deforestation in the
         Legal Amazon
PPG7     Pilot Program to Protect the Brazilian Rain Forests
PPO      Public Prosecutor Offices
PRODES   Program for Depolluting River Basins
                                            iii


 REFLORESTA          BNDES Forest Management Program
 RIMA                Environmental Impact Assessment
 SEA                 Strategic Environmental Assessment
 SEM DPL             Sustainable Environmental Management Development Policy Loan
 SFB                 Brazilian Forest Services
 SNUC                National System of Conservation Units
 TJ                  Terajoules
 UNCBD               Convention on Biological Diversity
 UNFCCC              United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
 WWF                 World Wide Fund for Nature



Fiscal Year

Government:              January 1 – December 31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation           :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation             :   Mr. Emmanuel Jimenez
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation              :   Ms. Marie Gaarder
Task Manager                                       :   Mr. William R. Sutton
                                                                    v



Contents
Principal Ratings ............................................................................................................... vii
Key Staff Responsible....................................................................................................... vii
Preface................................................................................................................................ ix
Overview ............................................................................................................................. x
Management Response .................................................................................................... xix
Chairperson’s Summary: Committee on Development Effectiveness.... Error! Bookmark
not defined.
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
   Environmental Context ................................................................................................... 1
   Development Context ..................................................................................................... 2
   Operational Context ........................................................................................................ 3
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 7
   Relevance of Objectives ................................................................................................. 7
   Design ............................................................................................................................. 8
   Relevance of Design ..................................................................................................... 12
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................. 16
4. Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 18
   Objective A: Improve the overall Brazilian environmental management system. ....... 18
   Objective B: Manage natural resources sustainably, reducing the degradation of
   agricultural lands, forests (in particular the Amazon), and water resources, and
   promoting renewable energy......................................................................................... 39
5. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 44
   Outcome ........................................................................................................................ 44
   Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................... 45
   Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 46
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 54
   Monitoring and Evaluation ........................................................................................... 57
6. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 58
References ......................................................................................................................... 61
Annex A: Basic Data Sheet............................................................................................... 71
Annex B: SEM DPL Development Policy Matrix ............................................................ 73
Annex C: Summary of outcome indicators and achievements as reported in the World
Bank’s ICR*...................................................................................................................... 79
                                                                  vi


Annex D: Poverty and Social Impacts, and Environmental, Forests, and other Natural
Resources Aspects of DPLs .............................................................................................. 83
Annex E: Comparison of the Equator Principles with Brazil’s Green Protocol and
BNDES’s environmental and social policy ...................................................................... 85
Annex F: Organization of Brazil’s Federal Ministry of Environment and related ........... 93
Agencies ............................................................................................................................ 93
Annex G: Project Information Available from BNDES’s Website .................................. 94
Annex H: History and Timeline of the Operation ............................................................ 95
Annex I: List of Persons Interviewed ............................................................................. 104
Annex J: Borrower Comments........................................................................................ 108



Boxes
Box 1: Brazil’s National Policy on Climate Change ........................................................ 23
Box 2: BNDES financing for the Belo Monte Hydroelectric Dam .................................. 34

Figures
Figure 1: Planned annual emission reductions in the Brazil CDM portfolio.................... 25
Figure 2: Area of Amazon deforestation over time .......................................................... 40
                                                                vii


Principal Ratings
                                        ICR*                          ICR Review*                           PPAR
 Outcome                             Satisfactory                     Unsatisfactory                     Unsatisfactory
 Risk to                               Moderate                           Moderate                           Moderate
 Development
 Outcome
 Bank Performance                    Satisfactory                     Unsatisfactory                     Unsatisfactory
 Borrower                    Moderately Satisfactory                   Moderately                         Moderately
 Performance                                                          Unsatisfactory                     Unsatisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR Review is an
intermediate Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR. In this case, the
ICR Review is being completed by IEG in parallel with the Project Performance Assessment Report.



Key Staff Responsible
 Project                     Task Manager/Leader                           Sector Manager                Country Director
 Appraisal                Mark Lundell/Garo Batmanian                       Laura Tlaiye                  Makhtar Diop
                              (Co-Task Manager)
 Completion               Mark Lundell/Garo Batmanian                       Karin Kemper                   Makhtar Diop
                              (Co-Task Manager)
                                                         viii


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
     The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
      IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to the
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: ieg.worldbankgroup.org).
      Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy/achievement of objectives, and
efficiency. Relevance includes relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the
extent to which the project’s objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with
current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction
Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, and Operational Policies). Relevance of
design is the extent to which the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to
which the project’s objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative
importance. Efficiency is the extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than
the opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension
generally is not applied to adjustment operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                            ix


Preface
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is a product of the Independent
Evaluation Group (IEG). Following standard IEG procedures, an earlier draft of this
evaluation was sent to World Bank Management, who provided extensive comments; and
the revised report was then sent to the Government of Brazil, who submitted extensive
comments. The PPAR was discussed at a meeting of the World Bank Board’s Committee
on Development Effectiveness (CODE) on January 21, 2015.

The Management Comments (found on page xix), Chairperson’s Summary of the CODE
discussion (found on page xxxii), and Borrower Comments (found in Annex J on page
108) are an important part of this evaluation report. The Management and Borrower
Comments flag there were significant differences in views with respect to the
background, performance, and results of this operation, and the lessons learned from this
PPAR. The Chairperson’s Summary requested that these divergences in views be
flagged.

The report was prepared by William Sutton (Task Team Leader), under the guidance of
Emmanuel Jimenez (Director, Public Sector Evaluation) and Marie Gaarder (Manager,
Public Sector Evaluation), and overall direction of Caroline Heider (Director General,
Evaluation). Napoleão Dequech Neto and Estela Costa Neves provided inputs. The report
was peer reviewed by Kenneth Chomitz and Jaime Jaramillo-Vallejo and panel reviewed
by John Heath. Richard Scobey, James Adams, Jiro Tominaga, and Marcelo Selowsky
also provided helpful comments. Marie Charles provided administrative support.

This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) presents findings based on a
review of the Program Document, the Implementation Completion and Results Report,
and documents from the World Bank project files, as well as from other World Bank
sources and a literature relevant to the subject. In addition, IEG carried out a mission to
Brazil in February-March 2013 that included interviews with government officials at the
federal, state and municipal levels, World Bank staff, development partners, researchers,
representatives of international NGOs and local civil society organizations, and
community members. IEG extends its thanks to the Brazilian government officials, other
external stakeholders, and current and former World Bank staff for their cooperation with
the evaluation. IEG also thanks the World Bank office in Brasilia for logistical support
and help in organizing the mission itinerary.
                                            x


Overview
This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the First Programmatic
Development Policy Loan for Sustainable Environmental Management (SEM DPL 1)
(IBRD-76600; P095205). The assessment aims, first, to serve an accountability purpose
by verifying whether the operation achieved its intended outcomes. Second, the report
draws lessons that are intended to inform future environmental Development Policy
Operations, either in Brazil or elsewhere. Third, the assessment will contribute to a
forthcoming IEG learning product on environmental policy lending across World Bank
client countries.

The SEM DPL was designed as a programmatic series of two loans to the Federal
Government of Brazil for a total of approximately US$2 billion. The first loan—the
subject of this evaluation—was for a total of US$1.3 billion divided into two tranches of
US$800 million and US$500 million on International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) terms. The loan was approved by the World Bank Board on March
5, 2009. The SEM DPL 1 was signed and became effective on June 21, 2010. The first
tranche of US$800 million was released on June 30, 2010, and the second tranche of
US$500 million was disbursed on December 15, 2010. Thus the total loan amount for
SEM DPL 1 of US$1.3 billion was disbursed. The operation was closed on December 31,
2010. The planned second loan in the series, SEM DPL 2, never materialized and was
eventually canceled.

To properly evaluate the SEM DPL, it is important to understand the history and
evolution of the operation and the context in which it was prepared. The operation was
initially proposed as a “BNDES PAC-Env DPL”—a development policy loan to the
Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES) to support the
government’s scaling-up of infrastructure investments while also improving BNDES’s
environmental and social policies, which was considered a significant challenge.

The Brazilian government and the World Bank next concluded that BNDES was not
eligible for a DPL. Instead preparation began on a US$1 billion Financial Intermediary
Loan—a type of investment loan—to BNDES called the “BNDES Environmental and
Social Sustainability Project,” with 99 percent of the funds going to finance BNDES
investment operations and 1 percent for technical assistance to strengthen BNDES’s
environmental and social safeguards. Internal World Bank reviewers expressed serious
concerns about BNDES’s ability to comply with requirements on environmental and
social safeguards, interest subsidies, financial management, and procurement.

At the time of the global financial crisis in 2008, an agreement was reached to change the
design of the operation again by transforming it into an environmental DPL to the federal
government. The reformulation incorporated some of the reform agenda contained in an
earlier World Bank-financed environmental DPL—the 2004 First Programmatic Reform
Loan for Environmental Sustainability (Env PRL). The Ministry of Environment was
added as an implementing agency, the objective was framed at a national scale, and the
size of the program doubled to US$2 billion to create the SEM DPL. BNDES remained
an implementing agency and a major focus of the policy actions. BNDES was also on-
lent the entire amount of the DPL funds from the federal government.
                                             xi


The evolution of this operation—including significant changes to the financing
instrument, the objectives, and the implementing agencies—created issues with the
project logic, the delay in effectiveness, and the Bank’s reputation that are important for
this evaluation.

The objectives for the SEM DPL series were stated as follows: “The SEM DPL series
supports the GOB’s [Government of Brazil’s] concerted efforts to strengthen
environmental management, with particular attention to: improvements in the overall
environmental management system, sustainable management of agricultural lands,
forests, and water resources; reduction of deforestation in the Amazon; reduction of the
environmental degradation of land and water resources that are key determinants of the
well-being of the poor; and, promotion of renewable energy” (Program Document para.
172). There was no specific objective for the first operation in the series, the SEM DPL 1.

The objectives of the SEM DPL could have been clearer—and they could have included a
specific objective for the first loan—but they were undoubtedly relevant, given Brazil’s
tremendous environmental wealth of global importance, its rapidly developing economy
that is highly dependent on commodities, and the challenges it has faced in balancing the
tradeoffs between the two. Although the environment was a priority for the World Bank’s
engagement in the country for many years, the 2008-2011 Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) for Brazil notes that “there has been mixed success in dealing with deforestation
and other major environmental challenges.” The CPS recognizes that for 2008-2011 the
top priority of the Brazilian government was to accelerate economic growth in light of
Brazil’s low growth rates when the CPS was prepared. The CPS also emphasizes that the
government continues to be committed to environmental sustainability and maintains
sustainability as one of four pillars in the Bank’s program. IEG hence rates relevance of
development objective as Substantial.

The design of the operation, as reflected in the Development Policy Matrix, suffered from
disjointed project logic. This is likely a consequence of the rapid change in direction from
preparing a loan to BNDES to preparing the broader SEM DPL and the limited
opportunities for engagement on the broader reform agenda given the speed with which
the operation had to be prepared. The Policy Matrix consists of nine policy areas and
related sub-objectives that are generally in line with the program’s broad, national-level
objectives. However, the series of three policy actions and the associated outcome
indicator for each policy area inconsistently combine national-level policies and actions
and outcomes specific to BNDES. For example, for the sub-objective “Improve
sustainability of natural resources management,” the First Tranche Prior Action was to
strengthen the federal legal framework by enacting specific forest management laws (for
example, the Atlantic Forest); the Second Tranche Release Condition was focused
exclusively on BNDES forest programs and guidelines; and finally the series outcome
indicator was a general measure of the surface area of public and private forests
sustainably managed, with no direct link to BNDES or the Atlantic Forest.

As part of the relevance of design to the development objectives, IEG also considers the
choice of the lending instrument. The World Bank had already used the programmatic
DPL instrument to support very similar objectives in Brazil five years earlier under the
Env PRL. That series was canceled after the first US$500 million loan. The design of the
                                                xii


SEM DPL might have been more relevant if it had been informed by a formal self-
assessment of the canceled series: what worked, what did not, what the outcomes of the
policy actions were, why the Env PRL series was canceled, and whether a programmatic
DPL series was the best instrument for supporting environmental reforms. But the full
ICR that is required was not produced and lessons do not appear to have been learned
because, once again, a World Bank environmental DPL series was canceled after the first
loan. Relevance of design is therefore rated as Negligible.

The SEM DPL had major shortcomings in the achievement of its objectives. For a loan—
including a DPL—to be effective in achieving its objectives, it should successfully
achieve not only the outputs represented by the various policy actions, but also the
associated outcomes for the series to which those outputs are designed to contribute. 1
Moreover, these outputs and outcomes should be attributable to the World Bank’s related
engagement under the loan with the client on the reforms.

While Brazil has made substantial progress in strengthening environmental management
in some areas, there is little evidence that the SEM DPL contributed to any of this. The
ICR contains no presentation of specific information or analysis on whether or how the
reforms that the SEM DPL was supposed to support contributed to the achievement of the
overall series objectives. It also does not assess the scale of the DPL’s contribution, as
one intervention among many by the GOB and development partners, to an
environmental reform process that has been active for the last three decades. Many of the
SEM DPL’s “prior actions” 2 were implemented before preparation of the loan even
began—in a number of cases, years before. Some are the same as policy actions
supported by the Env PRL DPL approved in 2004.

Achievement of Objectives for the first objective of improving the overall Brazilian
environmental management system is rated as Negligible. With regard to improving the
effectiveness of government agencies in implementing mandated Brazilian environmental
and social management procedures, the first policy area, the original indicator on the
number of judicial challenges to environmental licenses was not being met. The indicator
was changed to “number of environmental licenses issued at the Federal level.” This is
not a good measure of the intended outcomes because a greater number of licenses could
be issued if, for example, standards were lowered, which would not necessarily lead to
improved environmental or social outcomes. No other relevant information on
“effectiveness” or outcomes is provided in the SEM DPL ICR. Interviews with staff of
both Federal and State Public Prosecutor Offices (PPOs) revealed that the number of
lawsuits they file on environmental and social grounds has been increasing, due both to
the poor quality of environmental impact assessments (EIAs) for investments, as well as a
lack of implementation and monitoring of mitigation measures. The indicators also have
no direct relationship with the majority of prior actions under the sub-objective, in

1
 Note that in the case of DPL programmatic series such as the SEM DPL, even if the series is
canceled before it is completed, whichever operations in the series that have completed are still
evaluated against the original objectives for the entire series.
2
 In a DPL series, the “prior actions” are the first actions to be implemented under each policy
area, before the Program Document for the operation is submitted to the World Bank’s Board.
                                           xiii


particular those related to the Ministry of Environment or the National Biodiversity
Management Institute.

The actions under this sub-objective related to restructuring and strengthening the
Ministry of Environment (MMA) and its affiliates and IBAMA (Brazilian Institute for the
Environment and Renewable Natural Resources) are very similar to actions under the
2004 Env PRL—including hiring hundreds of new staff and restructuring the two
organizations—and were reported by the World Bank as achievements of that loan. It is
possible that the actions were repeated in relation to the SEM DPL, but hiring new staff
and restructuring an organization would not necessarily lead—on its own—to the desired
outcome of “improved effectiveness of government agencies” with respect to
environmental licensing. Indeed, in 2013 IBAMA, the Brazilian environmental licensing
agency, issued Terms of Reference for consultancies paid for by another World Bank-
financed project—The National Environment Program 2—to improve the environmental
licensing system and capacity of its staff, citing serious problems that “can compromise
the licensing quality” and that were resulting in “the amplification of the environmental
conflicts.”

With regard to the policy area on mainstreaming climate change in public and private
sector investments under this objective, IEG found that progress has lagged behind
expectations. The first actions for the two tranche releases of SEM DPL 1 required the
drafting and approval of a National Climate Change Action Plan (or “NCCAP”). What
was accepted as evidence of fulfillment of the action was, however, the approval by Law
12.187/2009 of a National Policy for Climate Change (NPCC). The NPCC stated that
action plans would be prepared, one for each sector. The sectoral plans were supposed to
be ready and the National Climate Change Plan revised before the end of 2011, but those
deadlines were not met. At the time of this evaluation, the revised National Plan had still
not been completed (though the Brazilian government reports that it expects it to be
approved in 2014). The government also reports that a series of sector plans and
Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions (NAMAs) have been produced, though
evidence of their existence, status, added value, and relation to the SEM DPL is limited.
There is no National Adaptation Plan. The outcome indicator set for this policy area was
an “increase in planned signed reductions of 20 million tons of CO2 equivalent,” and was
to result from BNDES developing clean development and carbon funds programs in
accordance with the NCCAP and its own new environmental and social policy. Projects
proposed for financing under the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) were being
prepared in Brazil since 2003, six years before the SEM DPL, and also well before any of
the Brazilian national climate change plans were approved. While the ICR reports that
“99% of the target of 20 million tons of CO2” was achieved, the actual target was for an
additional (not total) 20 million tons of CO2 signed reductions. Moreover, “planned
signed reductions” do not necessarily lead to actual reductions.

With regard to improving the effectiveness of environmental and social management
systems in BNDES and other financial institutions, the only action under this policy area
related to ”other financial institutions” was the approval of the revised Green Protocol
meant to improve environmental and social standards in Brazilian banks. But the revised
Green Protocol ceased to be implemented and lost its relevance. As for the
implementation of the new Environmental and Social Institutional Policy by BNDES,
                                            xiv


there has been little if any discernible improvement in the performance of BNDES’s
environmental and social system compared to the one described—and critiqued—by the
World Bank team during preparation. One of the pillars of BNDES’s new environmental
and social management system supported by the SEM DPL was supposed to be the
development and application to investments of a set of at least 13 sectoral guidelines. But
only three of the guidelines were ever developed, and they leave out critical sectors like
hydropower, forests, soya, and water and sanitation. The SEM DPL Program Document
also promised that BNDES would apply its new policies to all of its investments—
including “indirect” investments financed through financial intermediaries—but the
monitoring indicator for this policy area only covered direct investments, and BNDES’s
Environmental and Social Institutional Policy only applies to about half of its
disbursements. They also do not apply to BNDES’s increasing portfolio of investments in
other countries, many of them with lower environmental standards than Brazil. High
profile investments financed by BNDES after its environmental and social system was
supposedly improved under the SEM DPL—such as Belo Monte and other hydroelectric
dams in the Amazon—continue to experience an array of environmental and social
problems, and a lack of transparency on environmental and social safeguards by
international standards.

Achievement of Objectives for the second objective of integrating principles of
sustainable development in key sectors is rated as Modest. A high-profile area where the
SEM DPL was supposed to support improvements was in reducing deforestation, both
through strengthening of the general forest legal framework and specifically through
improved regional planning to reduce deforestation in the Amazon. While Brazil has
made major strides in reducing its deforestation rate over the past decade, it has been
achieved through policies other than those supported by the SEM DPL. A number of the
actions included in the SEM DPL Policy Matrix were already supported by the earlier
Env PRL, including the Public Forest Management Law and the Atlantic Forest Law
(both enacted in 2006); the preparation and establishment of the Sustainable Amazon
Program (PAS); preparation and launch of the Water Resources National Plan; and
strengthening of the PRODES sanitation program. With regard to the intended outcome
of reducing Amazon deforestation, data show that it peaked in 2004, when the Brazilian
government strengthened policies and enforcement on its own, well before the SEM
DPL, and continuously decreased over the following years.

With regard to improving management and quality of water resources, the ICR reports
that 116,144 km of rivers were being monitored as of June 2011, surpassing the program
target of 90,000 km. Based on interviews conducted by IEG and a visit to the federal
water agency, ANA, Brazil does appear to have made good progress in terms of
increasing the coverage of water monitoring sites around the country. ANA has been
signing cooperation agreements with an increasing number of states. It is not clear to
what extent this can be attributed to the SEM DPL. The first action under the SEM DPL,
approval of the Water Resources National Plan (PNRH), was accomplished in 2006,
several years before the SEM DPL, while the documentation for the plan was prepared in
2004 and was an action under the earlier Env PRL operation. The quality of the outcome
indicator is questionable, as it does not specify which parameters are to be monitored.
The most important aspect of the SEM DPL outcome indicator was that the results of
water monitoring were to be used “for prioritization of investments for improved water
                                           xv


quality.” On this count ANA could not cite any examples. Nor did the Bank’s ICR
provide any information on the use of the water quality information.

With regard to reducing environmental impacts through improved water, wastewater
treatment, and solid waste services, the prior action on enacting the National Guidelines
for Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation (Law 11,455) was approved on January
5, 2007, approximately two years before the SEM DPL. The ICR reports that 141,280
tons of pollution loads were being reduced by June 2011, surpassing the target of 110,000
tons. These pollution reductions were supposed to be achieved by a combination of
BNDES-financed investments “reviewed under new BNDES social and environmental
guidelines,” and investments financed under the “updated PRODES program.” Although
BNDES financed wastewater treatment investments before the SEM DPL, they did not
monitor the pollution reduction results, so the baseline indicator was inaccurately set at
zero in the Program Document. BNDES credits the SEM DPL with introducing the
practice of measuring pollution reductions, which is a positive sign. Support for the
innovative PRODES program is important, but is credited to actions under the 2004 Env
PRL, and the program is still growing much slower than expected.

With regard to promoting renewable energy potential, the ICR reports that 50,102
terajoules per year were being generated from renewable energy sources supported by
BNDES, just short of the 60,000 terajoule target, including wind power, mini hydropower
and biomass cogeneration projects. Although BNDES had demonstrated commitment to
these investments, the incremental change compared to pre-SEM DPL levels is relatively
minor. By far, the biggest share of BNDES’s renewable energy investments continue to
go to large hydropower dams. Meanwhile, the target for this policy area is specific to
BNDES, and has little relation to the prior action on introducing the Integrated
Environmental Assessment (IEA) methodology in the Brazilian National Handbook of
the Electricity Sector’s Inventory.

Overall, much more should have been expected in terms of outcomes from the largest
ever single World Bank loan to Brazil for US$1.3 billion. A Substantial rating for
Relevance of Objectives, one Modest and one Negligible rating for Achievement of the
Objectives, and a rating of Negligible for Relevance of Design, leads to the SEM DPL
Outcome being rated Unsatisfactory.

Risk to Development Outcome is rated Moderate. The relevant outcomes that could be
attributed to the SEM DPL operation were limited, so there are fewer achievements to
sustain. In some environmental policy areas where actions began before the SEM DPL—
such as reducing deforestation—there appears to be good government ownership and
momentum. For others—such as climate change and the Green Protocol—progress has
been slower than expected. As for the key actions aimed at improving BNDES’s
environmental and social management system, while BNDES reports that it has
maintained or continued to develop policies and institutions related to its environmental
and social management system, there remains little evidence of progress on putting these
changes into practice to improve the outcomes of its investments.

World Bank performance is rated Unsatisfactory. A major shortcoming in the design of
the SEM DPL was the lack of learning from the lessons of the 2004 Env PRL. By
                                            xvi


proceeding with preparation of the SEM DPL without having properly evaluated the
earlier environmental DPL through the required ICR, the World Bank repeated the same
mistake, designing the SEM DPL as a programmatic series that was again canceled after
the first loan. The World Bank team also included in the SEM DPL Policy Matrix prior
actions that had been completed years before the Bank’s engagement on the SEM DPL
began—a number of which were policy actions already supported under the Env PRL.
This materially reduced the added value of the SEM DPL from the outset, and even more
so once the remainder of the series was canceled. The World Bank carried out no
analytical work on the critical area of BNDES’s environmental and social management
system. In the interest of transparency, the World Bank team also could have mentioned
in SEM DPL program documents that other instruments had been considered, and that the
funds would be on-lent to BNDES.

The incoherence of the DPL’s results framework is likely due to the rapid change in the
financing instrument from a Financial Intermediary Loan (FIL) to a DPL, and a
preparation process that afforded little time for the Bank SEM DPL team to engage
outside of BNDES with the many government agencies implicated in the national-level
reforms. There was also little collaboration or coordination with partners—particularly
the International Finance Corporation (IFC)—which had been working with BNDES to
improve its approach to environmental and social management by adopting the Equator
Principles before the SEM DPL was prepared.

The World Bank’s supervision also suffered from important shortcomings. The Bank
should have been more candid in reporting on the performance of the SEM DPL,
including in the Second Tranche Release Document and the ICR. This led to controversy
and serious questions raised by civil society. Despite the lengthy effectiveness delay, the
Bank held off on downgrading the operation’s implementation status for more than a
year. Supervision also failed to ensure the implementation of the promised monitoring
and evaluation system, or to provide the promised technical assistance to BNDES. The
Bank’s ICR provided no information on feedback from stakeholders, and no beneficiary
assessment.

Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The 13-month delay in
effectiveness of the operation undermined part of the rationale for a DPL as fast-
disbursing budget support, and was not dealt with in a timely manner. According to the
World Bank ICR, the delay was mainly due to the government having forgotten to
include the loan in its budget, and an “extraordinarily lengthy” senate approval process.
The cancelation after the first loan of an environmental DPL series that the Government
had committed to—for the second time in a matter of years—combined with the lack of
progress on a number of environmental policy areas discussed in Section 4, indicates
uncertainty and a degree of lack of commitment by the Government to the SEM DPL
reform agenda.

BNDES demonstrated little if any results in improving its environmental and social
management system under the SEM DPL, and the limited progress has continued in the
intervening years. There is no evidence that the Ministry of Finance used its influence to
spur the promised BNDES reforms. The federal government lacked follow-up on
implementation of the Green Protocol.
                                            xvii


The Ministry of Environment has made notable progress in some areas like reducing
Amazon deforestation (which began well before the SEM DPL). In other areas such as
mainstreaming climate change action and improving the environmental licensing system,
progress remains limited four years after the SEM DPL.

Finally, the Ministry of Finance and, ultimately, the Ministry of Environment were
responsible for implementing the monitoring and evaluation system for the SEM DPL.
The system was never implemented. There is also no evidence that the implementing
agencies engaged with Brazilian stakeholders as required by OP 8.60.

The assessment includes a number of lessons, which are summarized below:

   •   Certain aspects of the World Bank’s policies and guidance on Development
       Policy Lending should be clarified, including:
          o Both the policies supported and financing provided by DPLs can generate
            significant environmental and social impacts. There should be more
            specificity on how to approach an operation like the SEM DPL, where all
            of the funds are being on-lent to a bank and used to finance investments.
            While DPL funds are legally viewed as general budget support, the public
            may view such situations as using Bank funds for investments, thus
            introducing reputational risk to the Bank.
          o While environmental and social impacts and mitigation mechanisms are
            supposed to be identified in the Program Document, the requirements on
            how to monitor and evaluate them are not clear.
   •   Particularly for DPLs focused on reforms in a sector—rather than on macro-
       economic stability—the impacts of the actions supported can often not be
       adequately perceived within the short timeframe of the loan, and the tight
       deadline for submitting an ICR after closure often does not allow for additional
       outcome evidence to be available and collected. It would be preferable to require
       that DPL operations wait for a reasonable period either before closing or before
       producing an ICR—at least one year—in order to allow for adequate monitoring
       and evaluation.
   •   Back-loading of reforms in a DPL programmatic series can increase the risk of
       later loans in the series being canceled without full realization of the objectives of
       the series.
   •   In the future, when attempting to support reforms in state-owned banks like
       BNDES that finance both public and private-sector investments, it will be
       important to take a “One World Bank Group” approach. The program would have
       benefitted from closer collaboration between IFC and World Bank. IFC had been
       working with BNDES to improve their environmental and social standards before
       the SEM DPL, but their efforts were later sidelined.
   •   The level of government targeted by DPL reforms should be consistent with the
       outcomes intended and the client country’s institutional structure. In Brazil,
       although many national-level laws and policies are approved by the central
       government, implementation often depends in large part on states and
                                  xviii


municipalities. But the SEM DPL limited itself to the federal-level implementing
agencies.


                                                                Caroline Heider
                                                                Director-General
                                                                  Evaluation
                      xix


Management Response
xx
xxi
xxii
xxiii
xxiv
xxv
xxvi
xxvii
xxviii
xxix
xxx
xxxi
                                              xxxii


Chairperson’s Summary: Committee on Development
Effectiveness
              PPAR: Brazil – First Programmatic Development Policy Loan for
      Sustainable Environmental Management (SEM DPL) and Management Comments
                    PPAR: Brazil – First Programmatic Reform Loan for
             Environmental Sustainability (Env DPL) and Management Comments

                       Report to the Board of Executive Directors from the
                           C ommittee on Development Effectiveness

                                   Meeting of January 21, 2015

        The Committee on Development Effectiveness (CODE) met to discuss IEG’s Project
Performance Assessment Report (PPAR): Brazil – First Programmatic Development Policy
Loan for Sustainable Environmental Management (2009 SEM DPL) (CODE2014-0042),
Management Comments on the SEM DPL (CODE2014-0043), IEG’s Project Performance
Assessment Report (PPAR): Brazil – First Programmatic Reform Loan for Environmental
Sustainability (2004 Env PRL) (CODE2014-0046), and Management Comments on the Env PRL
(CODE2015-0001).

         The Committee welcomed the opportunity to discuss the two country project evaluations.
Members noted the different views by Management and the Government of Brazil (GoB) on the
IEG approach and findings of the PPAR on the SEM DPL. Several speakers commented that the
differing views presented a challenge in assessing the findings and broader lessons. They reiterated
the importance of collaboration and clarity in approach and scope among all parties before
evaluations are undertaken, and hoped IEG and Management continue their constructive working
relationship.

        The Committee focused on the two PPARs and the DPLs’ achievements and
performance, and some members urged Management to consider relevant lessons to help inform
future DPF operations; others urged caution given the factual disagreements. Members noted
the progress Brazil has achieved in strengthening and mainstreaming environmental
sustainability; they supported the Bank’s sustained efforts in this sector and the consolidated
partnership between the Bank and the Government of Brazil.

         Members acknowledged that sector related DPOs raise particular issues related to
environmental and social (E&S) risks, and several noted the difficulty in attributing impact and
results in DPF operations in general. The Committee looked forward to consideration of the
development policy financing retrospective planned for FY16 and, in particular, discussion of
E&S risks, implementation, levels of due diligence and monitoring and evaluation requirements
in DPLs. Members also looked forward to discussing IEG's broader review of DPFs, expected in
the coming months.

        The Committee agreed that the PPARs will be disclosed with the Management
Comments, Borrower Comments and Green Sheet Summary, and that the disclosure should
reference these documents and flag that there were different views.
∗
    This report is not an approved record
                                                  1




1. Background and Context
Environmental Context3
1.1      The Federative Republic of Brazil is the largest country in South America and the fifth
largest in the world, comparable in size with the US, and covering 8.5 million km2.
Thanks in large part to its size and geographic diversity, Brazilian natural resources are
diversified and abundant. Such diversity is expressed through a great variety of climates, from
the tropical-wet to the semi-arid and temperate, as well as through varied soils, geomorphology
and vegetation. Brazil also contains a wealth of mineral and energy resources, including
aluminum ore, gold, iron ore, nickel, phosphates, platinum, tin, uranium, petroleum, and
hydroelectric power. With more than 5 million km² covered by forests, Brazil also benefits
from major wood and other forest product resources, and is home to the largest carbon sink on
the planet. Water resources are abundant, but unevenly distributed. Owing to its large size and
diverse geography, one of Brazil’s greatest natural resource endowments is its biodiversity.

1.2     In 1989, President Sarney announced Nossa Natureza, Brazil’s first attempt at
formulating a national environmental policy, which announced a number of emergency
measures. 4 This move was seen by many as a response to mounting domestic and
international criticism over the country’s apparent lack of environmentally sound
development policies. The main practical and immediate result of Nossa Natureza was the
setting up of Brazil’s environmental control agency IBAMA. The Ministry of the
Environment itself (MMA) was set up in 1993 (see Annex F for a diagram of Brazil’s federal
environmental agencies).

1.3     Brazil’s environmental profile was heightened when it took on a leadership role in
international environmental matters by hosting the UN Conference on the Environment and
Development (UNCED) or “Earth Summit” in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, and also hosted the
global Rio+20 summit in 2012. The country was the first to sign the Convention on
Biological Diversity (UNCBD) and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change (UNFCCC), during the conference.

1.4     Yet even as it was taking on a leadership role internationally, the idea of
incorporating an environmental dimension into development policies and strategies was still
highly controversial in Brazil. There had for example been strong resistance by Amazon
state governors to the setting up of local environmental control agencies (OEMAs), because
they saw this as a potential constraint on development. Environmental management was
dominated by a centralized command-and-control approach. IBAMA was provided with
statutory powers by the Environmental Crimes Law, which was finally approved in 1998 in
the face of strong political opposition. It imposed large fines and prison sentences for a


3
  This section draws heavily on IEG’s Brazil case study for the global evaluation of environmental
management, in some cases verbatim.
4
  These measures included attempts to curtail Amazon deforestation, limits on log exports, the
creation of several national parks and setting up of a National Environment Fund (FNMA).
                                               2


range of offenses including illegal logging, pollution, and illegal hunting. However, the law
was poorly enforced and few fines were ever collected. IBAMA regularly comes under
strong political pressure to relax restrictions where commercial interests are at stake; for
example, by the steel industry in Pará which relies heavily on native forests for charcoal
supplies in pig-iron smelting.

1.5     Brazil has placed a strong emphasis on conservation of the natural resource base. The
National System of Conservation Units (SNUC) was established in 2000. According to a
recent definitive study of Amazon deforestation, “From 2004 through 2012, protected areas
and indigenous territories grew 68% to encompass 47% of the entire Brazilian Amazon
region” (Nepstad and others 2014). However, problems of monitoring and enforcement of
environmental laws remain.

1.6    While the federal government retains significant control over the ‘green’
environmental agenda through the MMA and IBAMA, responsibility for the ‘blue’ and
‘brown’ agendas has increasingly been devolved to state authorities. Rapid urban expansion
made it difficult for the government to keep up with the demand for water, sanitation and
solid waste disposal. Brazil’s 1988 Constitution decentralized responsibility for addressing
water and sanitation-related pollution issues to the states and municipalities.

1.7    Environment has been one of the pillars of the World Bank’s program in Brazil
for decades. The portfolio review for the recent IEG Brazil Country Program Evaluation
(CPE) found more than one hundred World Bank operations in Brazil with an environment
theme over the past decade.

1.8       The World Bank provided an earlier environmental policy loan to Brazil. Called the
First Programmatic Reform Loan for Environmental Sustainability (Env PRL), it was
designed as a programmatic series of three loans. The first, for US$ 500 million, was
approved in 2004. Like the SEM DPL though, the subsequent loans never materialized and
the rest of the series was canceled. A full Implementation Completion and Results Report
(ICR) was never completed, and as a result IEG was not able to assign the loan an outcome
rating. 5

Development Context6
1.9     Brazil made substantial achievements in fiscal adjustment and price stabilization in
the late 1990s and early 2000s. But the resilience and continuity of that stabilization effort
was tested in the 2000s by the global economic slowdown, a domestic energy crisis,
spillovers from the Argentine crisis, and uncertainties related to the 2002 presidential
election. The subsequent macroeconomic stability and a favorable external environment
allowed Brazil to resume moderate growth from 2004.



5
 The Env PRL is the subject of a separate IEG PPAR under preparation.
6
 This section draws heavily on IEG’s 2013 Country Program Evaluation (CPE) of Brazil, in some
cases verbatim (IEG 2013).
                                                 3


1.10 Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by nearly 5 percent per year between 2004 and
2008 with some fluctuations. Brazil was one of the last nations to fall into recession in 2008
and among the first to recover; the country’s sound fundamentals and prompt response
helped mitigate the decline. Brazil has also made considerable progress in its long-term
foreign currency sovereign credit ratings. Standard & Poor’s rating for Brazil improved by 4
notches from noninvestment grade BB- in 2003 to above investment grade of BBB in 2011.

1.11 Brazil’s population has been urbanizing rapidly. Rural out-migration has been
encouraged by agricultural modernization and land concentration in the Southeast and
Northeast with the expansion of major commercial and export crops such as sugar, cattle,
wheat, and soybean. Development of transport, roads, and communications infrastructure
has stimulated frontier settlement westwards, with implications for the environment. The
growth of Brazilian manufacturing industry through import substitution and exports as well
as expansion of the tertiary service sector has further catalyzed urban growth.

1.12 Brazil has made substantial progress in reducing poverty and income inequality.
Poverty declined from 35.8 percent of the population in 2003 to 21.4 percent in 2009; and
extreme poverty fell from 15.2 percent in 2004 to 7.3 percent in 2009. Non-income indicators
of standards of living have also improved; for example, there have been reductions in child
malnutrition and increases in primary school enrollment. Gender differences in enrollment
have been eliminated.

1.13 Nevertheless, substantial development challenges remain. Although the growth rate
during the past decade was higher than in the preceding two decades, it was lower than major
emerging countries in most of the years, and has recently slowed significantly from 7.5
percent in 2010, to 2.7 percent in 2011 and 0.9 percent in 2012. 7 Much of the body of
literature on this topic maintains that accelerating Brazil’s economic growth requires sharp
increases in investment rates, particularly in infrastructure, which was low relative to other
emerging market economies over the past decade. Key issues seem to be weak incentives for
private investment and low savings rates. Regulatory reform is needed to encourage private
investment in infrastructure and to reduce the cost of doing business in order to make Brazil
more competitive (The Economist 2013b). The environment is also relevant to the economic
situation, including the difficulty of combining agricultural growth and poverty reduction
with protection of the environment in general, and forests in particular.

Operational Context
1.14 To properly evaluate the SEM DPL, it is important to understand the history and
evolution of the operation, and the context in which it was prepared. Over the course of the
preparation process, there were significant changes to the design—including to the financing
instrument, the objectives, and the implementing agencies. The changes in turn affected
issues that arose later, including with the project logic, the delay in effectiveness, the
inclusion of actions previously supported by the Env PRL, and the Bank’s reputation. Those



7
    http://www.worldbank.org/en/country/brazil/overview
                                               4


issues are important for this evaluation. A more complete history of the operation and a
Timeline with the many steps involved are provided in Annex H.

1.15 Preparation of the operation began with a World Bank mission to the headquarters of
the National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES) in Rio de Janeiro in
November 2007. BNDES is a wholly owned Brazilian federal government development bank
that finances both private and public investments and is the main source of long-term
financing in Brazil, including large infrastructure projects, and whose annual lending has
grown to several times that of the World Bank globally (BNDES 2013a). 8 BNDES has also
been increasing its presence internationally, particularly in other countries in Latin American,
where it has become one of the most important financial institutions, and in Africa, where it
recently opened its first representative office (BNDES; Financial Times 2010, 2012, 2013b,
2013c; BIZ 2011). 9

1.16 The operation was referred to as the “BNDES PAC-Env DPL” and “a potential PAC
and environmental and social policy operation.” The “PAC” is the Portuguese acronym for
the Brazilian government’s flagship Program for Accelerated Growth to support a major
scaling-up of infrastructure investment, with “BNDES as the primary channel for federal
financing of this ambitious program.” At the same time, BNDES had received criticism
nationally and internationally for the adverse environmental and social impacts of some of its
investments, including in large slaughterhouse operations in the Amazon (see for example,
Greenpeace 2009), and both the BNDES and World Bank teams recognized that there were
significant weaknesses in BNDES’s approach to environmental and social safeguards (see
Program Document).

1.17 According to the World Bank’s 2008-2011 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for
Brazil and the Country Director at the time, the World Bank consciously made a major
change in direction at the time in deciding to engage in financing development in the
Amazon—in sectors like energy, agriculture, mining, and infrastructure—and to do it in an
environmentally sustainable way (World Bank 2008). The planned World Bank loan to
BNDES was seen as a manifestation of the new focus.

1.18 In March 2008, the Government of Brazil External Financing Commission (COFIEX)
authorized the preparation of a “DPL/BNDES-World Bank” program. It specified that the
loan would be in the amount of US$1 billion, with BNDES as the only beneficiary, and the
Federal Government of Brazil as the guarantor. The DPL is the World Bank’s main
instrument for providing a client country with budget support through “rapidly disbursing
policy-based financing”, and its use is governed by Operational Policy (OP) 8.60. 10 Although
up until that point the idea was to prepare a DPL to BNDES, the first two Concept Notes

8
    http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_en/Institucional/The_BNDES_in_Numbers/
9
 http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_en/Institucional/Press/Noticias/2013/20131206_a
frica.html
10
  See World Bank Operational Manual, available at:
http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/PROJECTS/EXTPOLICIES/EXTOPMANUAL/0,,
menuPK:64142516~pagePK:64141681~piPK:64141745~theSitePK:502184,00.html
                                             5


issued for the operation in June and September 2008 were for a Financial Intermediary Loan
(FIL) from the World Bank to BNDES titled the “BNDES Environmental and Social
Sustainability Project” (though still with the same project code, P095205). The proposed
US$1 billion in financing was to be divided into two Components: (A) Strengthening of
Environmental and Social Screening and Monitoring would provide US$10 million for
technical assistance and training to BNDES; and (B) a US$990 million Line of Credit to
finance BNDES investments in infrastructure and green lines of business.

1.19 The Concept Notes explain that the originally proposed DPL instrument was rejected
because a DPL directly to BNDES would require an exception to OP 8.60, and for the
government to borrow from the World Bank and on-lend it to BNDES “is not consistent with
the financial requirements of the country” due to concerns about the impact on external debt
statistics. But internal World Bank reviewers of the Concept Notes expressed serious
concerns about BNDES’s ability to comply with the requirements of a FIL—a type of
investment loan—on environmental and social safeguards, interest subsidies, financial
management, and procurement.

1.20 Meanwhile, Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy in September of 2008, sparking
the global financial crisis. At the time there were concerns that “despite its increased
resilience, Brazil has been hit hard by the global financial crisis” (World Bank 2009). In
response, the Brazilian Government “announced the adoption of countercyclical fiscal
policies,” including accelerated financing of infrastructure investments through BNDES. At
the World Bank Annual Meetings in October 2008, a meeting was organized between the
BNDES President, World Bank management, and Brazilian government officials to discuss
this loan. BNDES needed the money to help increase its lending, but they objected to
applying World Bank FIL requirements—particularly restrictions on interest rate subsidies,
environmental and social safeguards, and procurement rules. So agreement was reached to
abandon the idea of a FIL, and change instruments again. This time, the Brazilian Federal
Government would borrow the money from the World Bank in the form of a broad, national-
level environmental DPL, and on-lend the money to BNDES.

1.21 From that point, the operation was prepared very quickly. In November 2008, another
Concept Review Meeting was held, this time for the “Brazil: First Programmatic
Development Policy Loan for Sustainable Environmental Management”, or SEM DPL. A
programmatic DPL was now proposed with nine policy areas and two objectives that were
virtually the same as the objectives for the earlier Env PRL: improve the Brazilian
environmental management system, and mainstream environment into targeted sectors. The
lending amount for the series was doubled from US$1 billion to US$2 billion, and the
Ministry of Environment was added as an implementing agency. Though the title and
objectives no longer mentioned BNDES, BNDES remained an implementing agency and a
major focus of the reforms the SEM DPL aimed to support. On the part of the Borrower, the
plan to on-lend all of the SEM DPL funds to BNDES was made official soon after through
Interim Measure 450 of the Brazilian Presidency in December 2008 (Presidency of the
                                               6


Republic 2008; Senate of Brazil 2008), subsequently codified in Brazilian Law Number
11.943, Article 15 (Presidency of the Republic 2009). 11

1.22 The use of the DPL instrument allowed the World Bank to prepare the loan and
commit the money much faster than would have been possible under a FIL—without having
to address FIL requirements related to interest rate subsidies, environmental and social
safeguards, and fiduciary oversight. Less than three months later, on February 3, 2009, the
Program Document was finalized for the SEM DPL, and the SEM DPL 1 loan was approved
by the World Bank Board on March 5, 2009. That contributed to the Bank reversing a steep
decline in lending to Brazil, which had fallen from $3.2 billion over 2005-6 to less than $300
million in 2007.

1.23 The speed with which the operation was prepared once the decision was taken to
change to a DPL to the federal government afforded little time for the Bank SEM DPL team
to engage outside of BNDES with the many government agencies implicated in the national-
level reforms. Moreover, despite the argument made in the Program Document that “the aim
of ensuring adequate credit resources to the financial system is a key motivating factor of the
GOB’s request for the SEM DPL” in response to the financial crisis, the loan then lingered
for more than a year before the Loan Agreement was signed and the operation made
effective. Based on interviews and documentation, IEG understands that the delay was due to
the need for the loan to be approved by the Brazilian Senate, which took some time. Legal
Opinions prepared prior to the Senate vote explain that all of the funds provided by the
World Bank through the SEM DPL would be directed to BNDES, although they also
emphasize that because the money is being lent under the World Bank’s DPL instrument, the
proceeds from the loans “are not allocated for investments.”

1.24 The SEM DPL was signed and became effective on June 21, 2010. The first tranche
of US$800 million was released on June 30, 2010, fifteen months later than what was
planned when the loan was approved by the World Bank Board. The second tranche of
US$500 million was disbursed on December 15, 2010, seventeen months late. Thus the total
amount of US$1.3 billion for SEM DPL 1 was disbursed. Each of these disbursements was
accompanied by a detailed Financing Contract signed between the Federal Government of
Brazil and BNDES that in many respects passed on to BNDES the terms of the SEM DPL
Legal Agreement signed between the federal government and the World Bank. In addition,
each of the Brazilian Financing Contracts specified that “this contract aims at granting credit
to BNDES…to provide it with the resources for application in its investment operations.”

1.25 The SEM DPL was closed two weeks after the second tranche was disbursed, on
December 31, 2010. BNDES subsequently confirmed that the SEM DPL resources were
provided as a concessionary loan by the Federal Treasury “to complement the BNDES
disbursement budget.” Indeed, BNDES ramped up its lending in a major way at the time of


11
   Available at: http://www.planalto.gov.br/ccivil_03/_ato2007-2010/2008/Mpv/450.htm : and
http://www.planalto.gov.br/ccivil_03/_ato2007-2010/2009/Lei/L11943.htm . The Presidency website
notes that Interim Measure 450 was revoked once Law No. 11.943 was approved (thus the
strikethroughs).
                                                   7


the SEM DPL, reporting that its disbursements increased by 23% in 2010 (BNDES 2013a). 12
The planned second loan in the series, SEM DPL 2, never materialized.

1.26 To provide perspective on the scale of the SEM DPL 1, it was equivalent to the total
average annual financing commitment for the environment for the entire World Bank from
2008-2012, including financing from the Global Environment Facility (GEF), and it was ten
times larger than the World Bank’s total global GEF-financed commitments in 2011 or
2012. 13 Looking only at the non-DPL environment portfolio (since the SEM DPL itself is
included in the overall calculation), SEM DPL 1 was more than 2.5 times bigger than the
World Bank’s global average annual financing commitment for the environment from 2008-
2012.


2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
2.1    The objectives for the SEM DPL series are stated in the Program Document as
follows:

The SEM DPL series supports the GOB’s concerted efforts to strengthen environmental
management, with particular attention to: improvements in the overall environmental
management system, sustainable management of agricultural lands, forests, and water
resources; reduction of deforestation in the Amazon; reduction of the environmental
degradation of land and water resources that are key determinants of the well being of the
poor; and, promotion of renewable energy. (Program Document, para. 172)

2.2     Although the SEM DPL was designed as a programmatic series of two loans, the
series was canceled after the first loan. There do not appear to have been separate objectives
for the individual loans in the series, including SEM DPL 1. For the purposes of this
evaluation, IEG construes the objectives of the SEM DPL as follows:

      a) Improve the overall Brazilian environmental management system; and
      b) Manage natural resources sustainably, reducing the degradation of agricultural lands,
         forests (in particular the Amazon), and water resources, and promoting renewable
         energy.

Relevance of Objectives
2.3     Improving Brazil’s overall environmental management system, and managing its
natural resources sustainably, is relevant to Brazil’s national priorities and the Bank’s support
program in the country. Brazil contains a wealth of natural resources, including some that are

12
  In its 2013 Brazil Economic Survey, the OECD was critical of the significant increase in transfers
from the national budget to BNDES, noting that “a large share of BNDES loans is extended to large
companies… [which] would be the ones that would probably enjoy the easiest access to credit in
private credit markets.” It recommends that “private entry will require levelling the playing field by
phasing out all direct and indirect financial support to BNDES.” (OECD 2013)
13
     Source: World Bank Business Warehouse.
                                              8


of global importance, and as a rapidly developing middle-income country whose economy
depends to a large extent on its natural resources, there are important environmental
challenges that must be carefully managed in order to sustain Brazil’s progress over time.
The Program Document highlights the inclusion in Brazil’s 2008-2011 Multiyear Plan (PPA)
of “sustainable use of natural resources” as the fifth of eight themes, and charts various
government programs and plans that relate to the different SEM DPL sub-objectives dealing
with natural resource management.

2.4     Although the environment is clearly important for Brazil and was also a priority for
the World Bank’s engagement in the country for many years, the 2008-2011 Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Brazil recognized that the top priority of the Brazilian
government was to accelerate economic growth in light of Brazil’s low growth rates when
the CPS was prepared. This effort included the PAC program to support infrastructure
investment discussed in the Background section. At the same time, the CPS asserts that the
government continues to be committed to environmental sustainability, and maintains
sustainability as one of four pillars in the Bank’s program.

2.5    On the other hand, the statement of the SEM DPL series objectives is vague, and
appears overly broad and ambitious. It is also formulated differently from what is presented
as Sub-objective B in the Development Policy Matrix of the Program Document (see Annex
B), which is “Integrating Principles of Sustainable Development in Key Sectors.” The
Program Document also lacks a specific objective for the SEM DPL 1 loan, as distinct from
the programmatic series objective, as recommended by OPCS.

Overall, the relevance of objectives is rated Substantial.

Design
2.6     The SEM DPL was designed as a programmatic series of two loans for a total of
approximately US$2 billion. The first loan (SEM DPL 1) was for a total of US$1.3 billion
divided into two tranches of US$ 800 million and US$ 500 million. The full US$ 1.3 billion
of the SEM DPL 1 was financed by the World Bank on IBRD terms.

2.7     The key to understanding the design and intended program logic for any DPL is the
policy matrix. For the SEM DPL, the “Development Policy Matrix” from the World Bank’s
Program Document is reproduced in Annex B, including the outcome indicators that were to
be achieved by the program by 2011. For a programmatic series such as this, outcome
indicators are established for the entire series.

2.8     The policy actions under the two tranches of the SEM DPL were organized around
nine “Key Issues and Objectives”, or policy areas, which covered a broad array of
environmental issues: green, brown, and blue. The policy areas are here regrouped into two
sub-objectives: A. improving the overall Brazilian environmental management system, and
B. integrating principles of sustainable development in key sectors. Sub-objective B was
further divided into four policy areas: natural resource management and conservation, water
resource management, environmental sanitation, and renewable energy. The policy areas, as
                                               9


originally designed in Annex 3 of the Program Document, are described in detail in the
discussion that follows and summarized in Annex B.

A. Improving the overall Brazilian environmental management system

2.9    The program sought to support policy reforms to improve and standardize the
environmental management system by:

(i) improving the effectiveness of government environmental agencies, including the MMA
and IBAMA, in implementing mandated Brazilian environmental and social management
procedures, through restructuring and staffing increases;

(ii) mainstreaming climate change in public and private sector investments by drafting and
approving a National Climate Change Action Plan, and by BNDES implementing clean
development and carbon funds programs; and

(iii) improving the effectiveness of environmental and social management systems in
BNDES and other financial institutions, through approving a revised Green Protocol to be
approved by all federal public Brazilian banks, the approval and application of a new
Environmental and Social Institutional Policy by BNDES to all its directly financed
operations, and finally the expansion of the application of this new policy to BNDES’s full
portfolio.

2.10   By supporting these measures, the SEM DPL aimed to:

(i) improve the environmental licensing process using as a proxy a 20 percent decrease in the
number of judicially challenged licenses by the Public Prosecutor’s Office (this indicator was
later changed; see below);

(ii) increase planned signed reductions of 20 million tons of CO2 from CDM projects,
BNDES projects, and other actions under the National Climate Change Action Plan; and

(iii) achieve 100 percent of projects submitted directly to BNDES screened, approved and
monitored according to the new Environmental and Social Institutional Policy.

B. Integrating principles of sustainable development in key sectors

B.1. Natural Resource Management and Conservation

2.11 The program sought to support policy reforms to implement an integrated strategy to
address issues of deforestation, biodiversity loss and unsustainable agriculture, and livestock
production by:

 (i) improving the sustainability of natural resource management, through strengthening of
the forest legal framework, restructuring BNDES programs on forests and agriculture, and
designing three sub-sectoral guidelines and the REFLORESTA Program based on the new
legal framework and BNDES’s new Environmental and Social Institutional Policy;
                                              10


 (ii) improving Amazon regional planning for sustainable development and reduced
deforestation, through approval of the National Sustainable Amazon Program (PAS), and
completion of the Ecological Economic Zoning of the Amazon Region; and

 (iii) improving rainforest conservation, through issuance of a Presidential decree regulating
the Amazon Fund, making the Amazon Fund operational, and issuance of a Presidential
decree to regulate and create operational mechanisms for the Atlantic Forest Fund.

2.12 By supporting these measures, the SEM DPL aimed to: (i) expand sustainable natural
forest management of private and public areas from 27,000 km2 to 50,000 km2; (ii) reduce
Amazon deforestation by 20 percent; and (iii) promote sustainable use of natural resources
by supporting 500,000 ha with the Amazon and Atlantic Forest Funds.

B.2. Water Resource Management

2.13 The program sought to contribute to improved management and quality of water
resources through the approval of the Water Resources National Plan and the National Water
Quality Evaluation Program, and implementation of the National Water Quality Evaluation
Program in ten states.

2.14 By supporting these measures, the SEM DPL aimed to achieve regular water quality
monitoring for 90,000 km of main rivers, with the results publicly released and used to
prioritize investments for improved water quality.

B.3. Environmental Sanitation

2.15 The program sought to support reforms that would improve potable water, wastewater
and solid waste service delivery by “supporting the development of related environmental
and social regulations, the implementation of integrated solid waste management plans by
local and state authorities, and the improvement and scale up of innovative results-based
financing mechanisms.” The Program Document (p. 47) further promises that “these reforms
would…improve the quality of life and health of the population, particularly in poor and
marginal areas.” The specific reforms related to this policy area were: to enact Law
11,445/07 on National Guidelines for Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation, to ensure
that BNDES programs are coherent with the new legal framework and BNDES’s new
Environmental and Social Institutional Policy, for ANA (the Brazilian National Water
Agency) to update and approve new PRODES (Program for Depolluting River Basins) rules
and regulations governing payments for wastewater treatment (in accordance with the new
legal framework), and to design two new BNDES sub-sectoral guidelines to ensure
coherence with the new legal framework and with BNDES’s new Environmental and Social
Institutional Policy.

2.16 By supporting these measures, the SEM DPL aimed to reduce pollutions loads by
110,000 tons of biological oxygen demand (BOD) per year from BNDES projects and the
PRODES program.

B.4. Renewable Energy
                                              11



2.17 The program sought to promote the use of renewable energy in Brazil by diversifying
energy sources and developing innovative technologies for alternative energy sources. The
Program Document further stated that these reforms “would contribute to providing access to
safe and renewable energy and related services, thereby reducing air pollution and mitigating
its impacts on human health and associated costs related to treatment of respiratory diseases
and the loss of income generation opportunities.” The specific reforms related to this policy
area were: to include an Integrated Environmental Assessment (IEA) methodology for
improving the environmental and social sustainability of the hydroelectric sector in the
handbook of the Electricity Sector’s inventory and apply it in ten river basins, to ensure that
BNDES programs for energy efficiency and renewable energy are coherent with BNDES’s
new Environmental and Social Institutional Policy, and to ensure the coherence of six
BNDES sub-sectoral guidelines for renewable energy with BNDES’s new Environmental
and Social Institutional Policy.

2.18 By supporting these measures, the SEM DPL aimed to result in 60,000 terajoules per
year produced by renewable energy sources or saved energy efficiency under projects
supported by BNDES.

Monitoring and Evaluation System Design

2.19 With regard to design of the M&E system, the Program Document includes a Results
Framework Analysis (Table 5) with a Baseline, Intermediate Outcome Indicators, and
Program Outcome Indicators for each of the Key Issues and Objectives in the Development
Policy Matrix (Table 4). There are however problems with the indicators used, which are
described in the next section. With regard to implementing a monitoring system in practice,
the Program Document states: “In order to monitor this operation and the entire SEM DPL
series, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environment will use the monitoring
system developed through the Technical Assistance Loan for Environmental Sustainability
project (ENV TAL) to monitor the previous PRL and the ongoing ENV TAL.” It further
states that: “This system is web-based and open to the public, ensuring transparency and
enabling social participation.” In terms of institutional responsibility for the monitoring
system, the Program Document indicates that “this monitoring system is under the
responsibility of the project management unit of the ENV TAL under the direct supervision
of MMA’s Executive Secretariat.” There is no separate mention of how actions to be
implemented by BNDES, which is not under MMA, would be monitored or evaluated.
Normally MMA, through IBAMA, would be responsible for legally mandated environmental
licenses in relation to BNDES-financed investments, but otherwise would not have an
apparent role in the monitoring of the more ambitious changes to its environmental and social
policies that BNDES aspired to under the SEM DPL. It would be up to BNDES to monitor
the application of these new polices themselves, or make arrangements for someone else to
do it. There is however no mention in the Program Document of such arrangements.

Implementation Arrangements

2.20 The SEM DPL Program Document officially lists the Ministry of Finance (MOF) as
well as the Ministry of Environment (MMA) and BNDES as implementing agencies.
                                               12


However, the MOF was primarily responsible for the flow of funds on behalf of GOB, and
there were no policy actions related to it. The ICR lists only MMA and BNDES as
implementing agencies.

2.21 There were a number of policy actions that were meant to be carried out by agencies
not listed as implementing agencies of the operation, such as IBAMA, ANA, ICMBio, and
the Forestry Service (SFB). The description of monitoring arrangements in the text of the
Program Document (p. 59) states that “the Ministry of Environment and its agencies
(IBAMA, ANA, ICMBio, and the Forestry Service (SFB)), and BNDES will be responsible
for implementing the proposed components of the operation.” As shown in Figure 1, most of
these agencies are autonomous agencies linked to the MMA, except for the Forestry Service,
which is directly subordinated to MMA. BNDES has no direct reporting relationship with
MMA. It is a federal government-owned bank that reports to the Ministry of Development,
Industry, and Foreign Trade, which is not a SEM DPL implementing agency (Colby 2012).
IBAMA, linked to MMA, is responsible for the environmental licensing process for Federal-
level (that is, spanning more than one state or related to multi-state water bodies) investments
financed by BNDES or anyone else. Otherwise, MMA normally has no direct role in the
governance of BNDES or in monitoring its internal practices or portfolio.

2.22 Although there is normally no reporting relationship between MMA and BNDES, the
SEM DPL Program Document described MMA as being responsible for implementation
M&E. In reality, BNDES provided reports such as their input to the ICR to the World Bank
team separately from MMA. The Program Document does not explain who will be
responsible for implementation and monitoring of the outcomes and mitigation measures
related to the “poverty and social impacts” or “environmental aspects” of the operation
described in the Program Document.

2.23 The Fiduciary Arrangements and Disbursement section of the Program Document (p.
64) states that “the proceeds of the loan would be deposited…into an account of the National
Treasury of the Federative Republic of Brazil, established at the Banco do Brasil for the
Borrower’s use.” There is no mention of BNDES, MMA, or any other agencies in this
section.

Relevance of Design
2.24 As noted in section 2.a, the statement of objectives in the Program Document was not
very clear. The sub-objectives in the statement of objectives in the “Operation Description”
section also differ somewhat from the sub-objectives listed in the Development Policy Matrix
of the Program Document (see Annex B). For example, there is no mention in the
Development Policy Matrix sub-objectives of the “sustainable management of agricultural
lands, forests, and water resources” that is stated in the series objective. There was no clear
statement of the specific objective of the first operation, or the planned second operation. Part
(a) of the series objective in particular—“improve the overall Brazilian environmental
management system”—is very broad and ambitious, and not clearly defined. It is not clear
whether it is referring to the federal government alone, or whether it also includes the
decentralized environmental systems of the states and municipalities as well, and whether the
private sector is also included.
                                                 13


2.25 Inconsistencies in the design were created when the World Bank team switched from
preparing a loan to BNDES to preparing the broader SEM DPL. Most of the policy areas are
similar to those of the earlier, national-level Env PRL DPL, as are the objectives. But the Env
PRL did not include BNDES. The relatively narrow focus of many of the policy actions
included under the SEM DPL Policy Matrix is inconsistent with the broad scope and
ambitious scale of the objectives. While the objectives promise improvements in the
management of the entire country’s environment and main natural resources, six of the nine
policy areas have actions that relate to a single enterprise – BNDES. 14

2.26 BNDES is the largest source of long-term finance for infrastructure investment in
Brazil. BNDES’s lending volume is also larger than the World Bank’s global lending
volume, and it is increasingly active not just in Brazil but in many other countries,
particularly in Latin America and Africa. So improving the sustainability of BNDES’s
investments, in particular through the sub-objective of improving their environmental and
social management systems, has the potential to leverage increased sustainability throughout
their substantial portfolio.

2.27 But BNDES is still only one of many public and private banks operating in Brazil,
and according to the Program Document was only the fifth-largest bank in Brazil. BNDES
represents less than seven percent of the Brazilian credit market, and even among state-
owned banks (including other large state-owned banks like Banco do Brasil, Caixa
Economica Federal) its share is only 14 percent (G1 2013a, Infolatam 2013). 15 It could be
argued that BNDES’s role was relatively more important in the case of infrastructure
investments. An analysis of sources of investments in industry and infrastructure in Brazil
from 2001-2011 found that for the first half of the decade BNDES’s share of the total was
around 20 percent (Colby 2012). 16 This increased substantially in the second half of the
decade with the PAC and global financial crisis, to a peak of 52.5 percent in 2009, but has
since fallen back again. However, for other sectors, BNDES’s presence is much smaller. For
example for the agriculture sector, which is associated with some of the biggest
environmental problems in Brazil, Banco do Brasil is by far the most important lender
(MAPA 2013) 17, while Caixa Economica is the most important lender for housing
construction, which clearly can also have important economic and social ramifications.

2.28 While improvement of BNDES’s environmental and social systems was no doubt
important, to achieve the objective of “improving the overall Brazilian environmental
management system” would have required a broader approach involving more banks and
other institutions. One of the policy areas, A.iii, does state that it will improve environmental
and social management systems in “other financial institutions” in addition to BNDES, and

14
     Including actions related to the Amazon and Atlantic Forest Funds, which are managed by BNDES.
15
    http://g1.globo.com/economia/seu-dinheiro/noticia/2013/01/bancos-publicos-emprestam-quase-4-
vezes-mais-do-que-privados-em-2012.html; and http://www.infolatam.com.br/2013/01/23/bndes-
libera-valor-recorde-de-credito-em-2012/
16
  Colby, S. 2012, “Explaining the BNDES: what it is, what it does and how it works”, Centro
Brasileiro de Relacoes Internacionais, Volume 3. http://www.cebri.org/midia/documentos/bndes.pdf
17
     http://www.agricultura.gov.br/arq_editor/Pasta%20de%20Junho%20-%202013.pdf
                                                 14


this is meant to be achieved through the signing of the Green Protocol 18 by “all federal public
Brazilian Banks”. But no other banks are mentioned by name either here or anywhere else in
the policy matrix, the reforms are not carried through in subsequent stages of the series (for
example, to implementation) the way they are for BNDES, and the Outcome Indicator for
Policy Area A.iii only mentions BNDES, and not the other federal Brazilian banks.

2.29 Since the SEM DPL was a loan to the federal government, it is not immediately clear
why—if its intention was to improve the sustainability of investments—it did not support
policy actions that would have had a broader impact across all major lenders, or at least
across all government-owned financial institutions. The focus on one bank appears
particularly incongruous in relation to the very broad, economy-wide nature of the objectives.
The Bank team justifies the heavy focus on BNDES by stating that “in view of its size and
large number of financial agents, BNDES can also serve as a benchmark for other financial
institutions.” (Program Document p. 15) However, BNDES’ financial agents, responsible for
two-thirds of BNDES’ lending were ultimately not included in the environmental and social
improvements targeted by the SEM DPL (the outcome indicator for improvement of
BNDES’s environmental and social systems applied only to “projects submitted directly to
BNDES”), and as several sources have pointed out more recently, BNDES trails many other
Brazilian banks—including private sector banks—in its environmental and social standards
(Reporter Brasil 2011; Widmer 2012). This was confirmed in IEG interviews with experts
who assess investments in Brazil financed by both private and public sector Banks. So while
improving BNDES’s environmental and social management system is important, given the
broad objectives of the loan, the actions should have been broadened to include BNDES’s
indirectly financed investments as well as other major public and private banks in Brazil.

2.30 Results framework and project logic: The causal chain from the policy actions and
triggers to the intended outcomes, sub-objectives, and objectives was disjointed. The
Development Policy Matrix from the Program Document is reproduced here in Annex B for
convenience. Attempting to follow the logic across the rows—from sub-objective, to actions
across each of the SEM DPL stages, to the outcome indicators—reveals that actions across
different stages are often not closely related to one another, to the sub-objective, or to the
associated outcome indicator. For many of the policy areas and sub-objectives, the actions
under the first and sometimes second tranches of the first operation involve the development
and approval of national-level policies or laws, but in later stages abruptly switch to actions
and outcomes for BNDES with indicators that focus either only on BNDES or only on the
other agency, but not both. This design feature meant that in those cases, the policies related
to the non-BNDES agencies were not followed through to implementation, and insufficient
information was collected to evaluate the outcomes.

2.31 An example of the disjointed project logic is for the Sub-objective B.1.i, “Improve
sustainability of natural resources management”, the First Tranche Prior Action was to
strengthen the Federal legal framework by enacting three laws that deal with specific aspects
of forest management (e.g., the Atlantic Forest); the Second Tranche Release Condition was
focused exclusively on BNDES forest programs and guidelines; there was no Trigger
specified for the second operation in the series; and finally the series outcome indicator was a
18
     See discussion below and Annex C for more information.
                                                 15


general measure of the surface area of public and private forests sustainably managed
(apparently at the national level), with no direct link to BNDES, the Atlantic Forest, etc.

2.32 A second example is the “Promote renewable energy potential” sub-objective, which
begins with an action to improve the environmental and social sustainability of the entire
hydroelectric sector by including a methodology for Integrated Environmental Assessment in
the electricity sector’s Inventory Handbook, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of
Mines and Energy. The next two actions under the policy area relate only to BNDES
improving its approach to renewable energy, and finally the indicator is only on the amount
of renewable energy generated by BNDES projects.

2.33 A third example of the lack of coherence in the Policy Matrix is for the Sub-objective
A.ii, to “mainstream climate change in public and private sector investments.” The first and
second tranche actions under DPL 1 involve the drafting and approving of a National Climate
Change Action Plan (NCCAP); the DPL 2 Trigger is based on BNDES alone establishing
“clean development and carbon funds programs”; and finally the outcome indicator introduces
the notion of increasing “planned signed” emission reductions under the Clean Development
Mechanism (CDM) 19, which is a fairly narrow and marginal program in a large country like
Brazil, and for which investments have been prepared in Brazil since 2003, six years before the
SEM DPL, and six years before the NCCAP was approved, according to the ICR.

2.34 Appropriateness of level of government targeted: The SEM DPL implementing
agencies were at the level of the federal government. Many overarching environmental laws
and policies are approved at the national level, and the federal government is largely
responsible for enforcement of laws related to the Amazon and for management of water
basins that span more than one state. However, especially with the increasing emphasis on
decentralization of government functions in Brazil, implementation of many environmental
laws and policies is the responsibility of state and municipal governments. Examples relevant
for the SEM DPL include environmental licensing for investments that do not cross state
boundaries, and investments in potable water supply, wastewater treatment, and solid waste
services. These local government agencies do not figure at all in the SEM DPL design.

2.35 Choice of instrument: As part of the relevance of design to the development
objectives, IEG also considers the choice of lending instrument. In the case of this operation,
the World Bank team explored several different options in terms of the instrument and
implementing agencies as part of the design process. Serious questions can be asked about
the final decision to use a programmatic series of national-level DPLs.

2.36 The World Bank had already used this instrument to support very similar objectives
in Brazil five years earlier under the Env PRL. Under the Env PRL, the World Bank team
made the argument that a programmatic series—accompanied by a technical assistance loan
(the Env TAL)—was necessary to achieve the objectives of improving Brazil’s

19
  The Clean Development Mechanism is provided for by Article 12 of the Kyoto Protocol, and is
designed to assist developing countries in achieving sustainable development by allowing entities
from Annex 1 Parties to participate in low-carbon projects and obtain Certified Emission Reductions
(CERs) in return. (Carbon Finance, the World Bank, 2013)
                                               16


environmental management system and mainstreaming environment into key sectors.
However, the series was canceled after the first loan, and the Brazilian government continued
to pursue many of the environmental reforms without the remaining two loans.

2.37 The Bank chose to repeat the use of the programmatic environmental DPL series
without properly assessing the prior experience. The Bank did not produce the required full
ICR of the Env PRL as required by World Bank policy 20 after the series was canceled. Thus
there was no opportunity to come to an understanding of what worked and what did not, what
the outcomes of the policy actions were, and why the series was canceled to inform the
design of the SEM DPL. The World Bank team again came to the determination that a DPL
programmatic series was necessary to achieve similar objectives with similar policy areas,
and again the series was canceled after the first loan.

2.38 It could also be questioned whether a DPL in general was the best instrument for
supporting the improvement of BNDES’s environmental and social management system. In
the SEM DPL Program Document, the Bank team highlights the risk that “full
implementation of the reform agenda within BNDES involves a challenging change in
corporate culture regarding environmental and social sustainability” (Program Document, p.
66). For a large, complex institution like BNDES, significant time is needed to produce the
changes to policies, institutions, and personnel capacity—not to mention culture—necessary
for implementation of such a system. The Program Document also states that “BNDES’
management recognizes clearly that the reform steps to be carried out reduce BNDES’
reputational risks associated with adverse environmental and social impacts by improving
screening and monitoring.” If BNDES management was already committed to improving its
environmental and social system, the longer-term opportunity for engagement and support
provided by an investment or technical assistance loan might have been more effective. 21
(The Program Document states that the risk of BNDES not carrying out the reform agenda
would be “addressed through the substantial expansion of the Env TAL project to allow
provision to BNDES of technical assistance and capacity building…”, but that never
happened.)

2.39 Considering the shortcomings in the Results Framework and project logic, the
appropriateness of the level of government targeted, and the choice of instrument, the
relevance of design is rated Negligible.


3. Implementation
3.1    The Bank team blamed the delay in effectiveness of the operation on the Borrower
and delays in its budget legislation. Since there were only three months planned originally
between release of Tranche 1 and release of Tranche 2, the nearly fifteen-month delay in
Tranche 1 should have provided more than adequate time for the Bank team to ensure that

20
 See BP 8.60 – Development Policy Lending for the requirements on evaluation of DPOs (World
Bank OPCS)
21
 Another possibility might have been a single-operation DPL paired with a longer TA loan to
BNDES.
                                             17


Tranche 2 release conditions were also met, and the tranches could have been released at
around the same time. Yet by the time of the Tranche 1 release, the Tranche 2 release
conditions (see the column “Policy Actions—DPL 1: Second Tranche Release Conditions” in
the Policy Matrix in Annex B) still had not been met, and required more than five months of
additional time, resulting in a delay of more than seventeen months compared to the
originally planned Tranche 2 release date—even greater than for Tranche 1.

3.2     Although the problems related to the Brazilian budget and loan approval process were
eventually addressed, and both tranches of SEM DPL 1 were disbursed, the planned second
loan in the series never materialized, and the SEM DPL series was eventually canceled.

3.3     The Bank team certified that the second tranche release conditions were met despite a
lack of evidence presented in the ICR or made available to the IEG team and serious
questions raised by civil society. A coalition of more than thirty national and international
CSOs raised serious questions about the operation and about the evidence for disbursement
of the two tranches. The CSOs sent letters to the Bank Regional Vice President and Country
Director. They requested a dialogue with the Bank team on these issues, disclosure of the
evidence, and a hold on disbursement of the second tranche.

3.4    Monitoring and evaluation were very limited. The monitoring system promised in
the Program Document was never implemented. As reported in the ICR (p. 8), “due to
unforeseen bureaucratic delays in contracting the Information Technology firm, the system
was not updated during the course of the project.” Considering that the Environmental
Technical Assistance Loan (Env TAL) became effective in April 2006, three years before the
SEM DPL, and that SEM DPL effectiveness was delayed by over 14 months, this does not
appear to be a valid justification for the lack of an M&E system.

3.5     There is no information in the ICR about M&E implementation with regard to
BNDES. In an interview, BNDES confirmed to IEG that even today they have no
environmental or social indicators with which to either monitor or evaluate the performance
of their investments.

3.6      In the absence of the intended M&E system, the ICR states that “the Bank
supervision team reviewed progress on actions and outcomes during the frequent meetings
and supervision missions with the implementing agencies, and by directly tracking and
reviewing publicly available monitoring systems (e.g., annual deforestation rate measured by
Brazil Space Agency-INPE).” However, monitoring is primarily the responsibility of the
client (in this case, MOF and MMA). Based on the information provided in the ICR, it is
clear that the monitoring system promised in the Program Document was never updated.
Since the SEM DPL team proposed using the system originally developed to “monitor the
previous PRL and the ongoing ENV TAL”, and since BNDES was not directly involved in
those operations, if the monitoring system was not updated for the SEM DPL, MOF and
MMA would not have been able to regularly monitor progress at BNDES, which was
implicated in so many of the actions. This is also evidenced in the progress reports provided
to the World Bank for the release of Tranche 2, which were submitted separately by BNDES
and MMA.
                                             18


4. Achievement of the Objectives
4.1    Evaluating the Achievement of the Objectives involves assessing not only whether
each of the key outcomes indicated in the operation’s statement of objectives has been
achieved, but also whether the outcomes can be attributed to the actions supported by the
operation. In the specific case of designing the results framework for a DPL, OPCS states:
“Don’t include results that are not directly influenced by actions that are part of the
operations or programmatic series of operations supported by the Bank.” (OPCS 2011) It is
also important to bear in mind that for the evaluation of a DPL programmatic series, such as
the SEM DPL, the operation is evaluated against the outcomes promised in the Program
Document for the entire series, whether or not one or more of the loans in the series is
canceled.

4.2     Brazil has made substantial progress in strengthening environmental management in a
number of areas, including the impressive reduction in the rate of deforestation in the
Amazon over the past decade. As an example, a definitive new article on the Amazon finds:
“Deforestation—the clear-cutting of mature forest—declined from a 10-year average of
19,500 km2 per year through 2005 to 5,843 km2 in 2013, a 70% reduction” (Nepstad and
others, 2014) But there is little if any evidence that the SEM DPL contributed to any of this.
As noted in the previous section, there are flaws in the results framework and project logic
that lead to a disjointed results chain and make it unclear how the series of actions
specified—even if they were carried out—would result in achievement of the intended
outcomes. The general nature of the objectives (especially Objective (a)) contributes to the
difficulty in assessing its achievement. The ICR contains no presentation of specific
information or analysis on whether or how any or all of the reforms that the SEM DPL was
supposed to support contributed to the achievement of the overall series objectives.

4.3     An assessment of the achievement of each of the two objectives is provided below,
with specifics for each of the policy areas under the objectives. A summary of the outcome
indicators that were supposed to be achieved by the program by 2011, and the achievements
as reported in the World Bank’s Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is provided in
Annex C for convenience.

Objective A: Improve the overall Brazilian environmental management
system.
4.4     With regard to improving the effectiveness of government agencies in implementing
mandated Brazilian environmental and social management procedures, as in the Monitoring
and Evaluation section below, the original indicator on the number of judicial challenges to
environmental licenses was not being met. The indicator was changed to “number of
environmental licenses issued at the Federal level”, which is not a good measure of the
intended outcomes. Moreover, these indicators have no direct relationship to the prior
actions under sub-objective A.i related to the Ministry of Environment or the National
Biodiversity Management Institute.
                                               19


4.5     The actions under this sub-objective related to restructuring and strengthening MMA
and its affiliates and IBAMA are virtually identical to actions under the 2004 Env PRL,
which were reported as achievements of that loan in its ICR. An analysis of the Brazilian
environmental licensing system carried out by the World Bank several years after the closing
of the Env PRL found that despite the actions supported by that loan, “environmental
agencies have to date failed to significantly bolster their institutional capacity” (World Bank
2008). With regard to the actions on increasing staff numbers at the agencies, that is only one
of many inputs required, and would by no means necessarily lead—on its own—to the
desired outcome of “improved effectiveness of government agencies.” Indeed, the 2008
World Bank analysis of the environmental licensing system found that simply increasing
staffing numbers was not sufficient to improve the environmental licensing process, and
identified a host of other areas where improvements were needed, including:

   •   a major training operation for IBAMA staff;
   •   changes in the staff mix, and particularly an increase in the number of professional
       staff with social science expertise;
   •   the need for a law to clarify the responsibilities of the Federal and State Governments
       with regard to environmental licensing;
   •   the establishment of a dispute resolution mechanism;
   •   addressing the risk averse behavior of IBAMA employees caused by a law that
       renders them personally and criminally liable for licensing decisions.

4.6      Although the SEM DPL was prepared soon after the completion of the analysis of
problems with the environmental licensing system, none of the issues above were addressed
by its policy actions. Instead, it again included an increase in staffing numbers. While there is
some evidence that IBAMA staffing numbers increased again around the time of the SEM
DPL, this is only an input to the environmental licensing process, and was unlikely on its
own to have much of an impact, for the reasons listed above. Interviews with IBAMA and
with representatives of its staff (ASIBAMA) revealed an institution that continues to face
major challenges. Although the number of staff has increased, because of high stress
resulting from political pressure to approve licenses, and low salaries, there is a very high
rate of staff turnover. One symptom of this is that only three staff members remain from the
time when IBAMA was restructured in 2002. There are also reportedly 900 IBAMA staff set
to retire shortly. Because of the high turnover, ASIBAMA reports that the licensing team has
limited experience, and this has an adverse impact on the licensing process.

4.7     IBAMA and ASIBAMA representatives shared with IEG their belief that the revised
indicator used by the SEM DPL team—the number of licenses issued—was a poor one. The
staff representative stated that “The speed of licensing should not be the main objective. The
objective should be to improve environmental outcomes.” To this end, the representative
stated that ASIBAMA had suggested alternative indicators, such as post-licensing monitoring
of environmental and social impacts, but that they had not been adopted. Meanwhile,
IBAMA monitors the time it takes to issue environmental licenses, but does not monitor
environmental and social impacts, which makes assessing the impacts of reforms difficult.
Moreover, as a result of a restructuring in 2007, IBAMA has closed more than half of its
regional offices, significantly reducing its already limited ability to monitor events on the
ground. The idea was to decentralize this responsibility to local governments, which in
                                                  20


theory could have benefits in terms of local ownership, but the local governments do not
have the capacity, and the SEM DPL contains no provisions for developing capacity at that
level. 22 This has created potential gaps in Brazil’s environmental licensing system.

4.8      In 2013 IBAMA issued Terms of Reference for consultancies paid for by another
World Bank-financed project—The National Environment Program 2—to improve the
environmental licensing system and capacity of its staff (IBAMA 2013a; IBAMA 2013b).
The Terms of Reference cite an array of problems that continue to adversely affect the
environmental licensing system in Brazil several years after the SEM DPL, and which cannot
be addressed by hiring additional staff. They include: “the need of greater transparence”; “a
deficit in the management capacity of methods—standards, concepts and procedures—that
makes the monitoring and control of results difficult”; “blanks, overlapping and ambiguities
in the definition of concepts, standards and procedures related to the FEL, EIA, EC
processes”; “low capacity to meet the demands and the lack of integration of standards and
compatibility of procedures among the partner agencies”; and “deficiencies in the
capacitation of environmental analysts”. The Terms of Reference warn that these problems
“can compromise the licensing quality” and were resulting in “the amplification of the
environmental conflicts.”

4.9     Restructurings of IBAMA that resulted in the creation of the independent ICMBio,
another policy action, and the Brazilian Forest Service have also led to coordination
problems among the various agencies, which used to all be under IBAMA. Moreover,
through review of official documents and interviews with Brazilian government officials,
IEG confirmed that the creation of the Brazilian Forest Service and ICMBio was completed
well before the SEM DPL (March 2006 and August 2007, respectively), and had no
relationship with it. 23

4.10 With regard to mainstreaming climate change in public and private sector
investments, the first actions for the two tranche releases of SEM DPL 1 required the drafting
and approval of a National Climate Change Action Plan (or “NCCAP”), which the Program
Document (p. 20) promised would “present a balanced set of command-and-control and
economic instruments covering both mitigation and adaptations” and that it would “address
the need of cross linking actions carried out by different sector agencies and key actors in the
economy” (World Bank 2009). In the ICR, the World Bank team reports that “the revised
NCCAP was approved by Law 12.187/2009 to institute a National Policy for Climate
Change” (World Bank 2011). . In fact, according to MMA’s website, what was established


22
  In the section of the Program Document on Relationships to Other Bank Operations (p. 38), there is
one line on the Brazil National Environmental Project (NEP) III, which it states was still under
preparation, and which would support environmental capacity in states and municipalities.
Presumably, it meant the second phase of the three-phase NEP II, which was approved in September
2009. That USD 24.3 million loan, which could have been important for supporting decentralization
efforts, has only disbursed USD 1.5 million so far, and is rated by the Bank supervision team as
“unsatisfactory” in the latest Implementation Supervision Report.
23
   See for example : http://www.florestal.gov.br/menu-horizontal-de-internet/institucional/servico-
florestal-brasileiro ; and: http://www.icmbio.gov.br/portal/quem-somos/o-instituto.html
                                                21


by Law No. 12.187/2009 was a National Policy on Climate Change, which was to be
implemented in part via a National Plan on Climate Change (see Box 1). 24

4.11 The National Policy on Climate Change is an important first step in establishing
climate change as a priority in Brazil and laying out in broad strokes what Brazil would like
to achieve, and how it intends to achieve it. But it is primarily a framework that establishes
the instruments that will be used to achieve the policy aims, including the National Plan on
Climate Change and the National Fund for Climate Change. It did include an overall, non-
binding emissions reduction target, previously announced by Brazil in the run-up to the
Copenhagen Conference of the Parties (COP) to the UNFCCC in December 2009: “the
country shall adopt actions to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions with the purpose of
reducing between 36.1% and 38.9% of projected emissions by 2020 as a national voluntary
commitment.” This is a potentially significant—though non-binding—commitment that has
been lauded by some, but criticized by others because rather than use an actual baseline,
Brazil set its emissions reduction target against projected future emissions under a business-
as-usual scenario, and did not make public its calculations (FAO 2011, WRI 2009). But it
leaves it to the other instruments and organizations cited to develop specific actions.

4.12 With regard to “tools for implementation”, the National Plan on Climate Change lists
a number of existing funds for financing investments relevant to Brazil’s climate change
efforts, including some by BNDES. But in terms of developing new economic instruments, it
states: “This item, which specifically addresses economic instruments…should be a detail in
the second phase of the plan….” The National Plan also stated that actions plans for
implementation were supposed to be sectoral, and that many plans would be prepared, one
for each sector. Without the sectoral and action plans, both National Policy and Plan consist
mainly of intentions, a few targets and broad guidelines without an implementation
mechanism. The sectoral plans were supposed to be ready and the National Climate Change
Plan revised before the end of 2011, but those deadlines were not met.. . At the time of this
evaluation, the revised National Plan had still not been completed. The government also
reports that a series of sector plans and Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions (NAMAs)
have been produced, though evidence of their existence, status, added value, and relation to
the SEM DPL is limited (see Box 1). There is no National Adaptation Plan.

4.13 Comparing what has been produced so far for Brazil reveals important contrasts with
climate change action plans for other countries such as Turkey and the United Kingdom,




24
  Source : http://www.mma.gov.br/clima/politica-nacional-sobre-mudanca-do-clima/plano-nacional-
sobre-mudanca-do-clima
An English version of the Law establishing the National Policy on Climate Change can be found at:
http://www.preventionweb.net/files/12488_BrazilNationalpolicyEN.pdf
National Climate Change Plan: http://www.mma.gov.br/clima/politica-nacional-sobre-mudanca-do-
clima/plano-nacional-sobre-mudanca-do-clima
                                                  22


which include many more specifics on mitigation and adaptation objectives, actions, and
targets for individual sectors. 25




25
     Turkey: http://www.preventionweb.net/files/29675_turkeynationalclimatechangeactionpl.pdf ;
UK: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2008/27/contents ;
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/209866/pb13942-nap-
20130701.pdf
                                                   23



 Box 1: Brazil’s National Policy on Climate Change

 The Brazilian National Plan on Climate Change, released in December 2008, was considered a
 significant achievement in the international climate change agenda. According to the Brazilian
 government, the Brazilian Forum on Climate Change (FBMC) played a central role in the process.
 However, criticism has since been leveled against the Plan regarding its objectiveness, deadlines
 and strategies (ICTSD 2008).
 “On 29 December, 2009, the Brazilian government took a historic step by establishing the National
 Policy on Climate Change by Federal Law No. 12,187. Under this law, Brazil shall adopt measures
 to reduce between 36.1 percent and 38.9 percent of its potential emissions by 2020 (i.e. a reduction
 of 17 percent compared to 2005 levels). This goal includes a reduction target of 80 percent in
 Amazon deforestation, as defined by the National Plan on Climate Change. Two policy instruments
 are established under this Plan: the National Plan on Climate Change and the National Fund on
 Climate Change, established by Law No. 12,114.
 On December 9, 2010, the Government of Brazil approved Decree 7.390 to regulate the National
 Policy on Climate Change by providing for the incorporation of sectoral plans for climate change
 mitigation and adaptation to the National Plan on Climate that were previously established by Law
 12.187, of December 29, 2009. The decree stated that the Sector Plans would be ready by 15
 December 2011 and that the National Climate Change Plan would be revised by that year as well.
 It was also expected that the release of the Action Plans for prevention and control of deforestation
 in key biomes would take place in 2011. On December, 15, 2011 Decree 7643 was approved and
 the deadline for revision and for releasing all of the sectoral action plans was postponed to April
 16, 2012. However, those deadlines were not met.
 Finally, in April 2013 preparation of the National Plan on Climate Change revision was initiated.
 Based on perceptions that the federal government had not provided any evidence of the
 implementation status of the 2008 National Plan on Climate Change, and that the revised National
 Plan would not represent a significant improvement, a large network of NGOs withdrew from the
 process, casting doubt on its future as well as its impacts to date.26 At the time of this evaluation,
 the revised National Plan had still not been completed, though the Brazilian government reports
 that it expects it to be approved in 2014. The government also reports that four sector plans were
 approved in June 2013 for industry, mining, transportation, and public health, and that in addition
 Brazil has since 2010 implemented Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions (NAMAs)27 to:
 reduce deforestation in the Amazon and Cerrado; promote low-carbon agriculture; support
 renewable energy and energy efficiency; and use charcoal more efficiently in the steel industry.
 The NAMAs were presented in the context of Brazil’s Copenhagen emission reduction



26
  See:
http://www.observatoriodoredd.org.br/site/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1204:or
ganizacoes-da-sociedade-civil-se-retiram-do-processo-de-revisao-do-plano-nacional-sobre-mudanca-
do-clima ; and:
 http://www.axa.org.br/?p=1335 (last visited September 10, 2014)
27
  NAMAs are prepared in the framework of the UNFCCC, which defines them as “any action that
reduces emissions in developing countries and is prepared under the umbrella of a national
governmental initiative.” See: http://unfccc.int/focus/mitigation/items/7172.php
                                                              24


 commitment. 28 Two-thirds of the emission reductions are intended to come from reduced
 deforestation in the Amazon and Cerrado, through Action Plans for the Prevention and Control of
 Deforestation in the Amazon and Cerrado, respectively. 29 While the Amazon Plan—combined with
 other efforts—has been an important success, it was prepared in 2003, years before the National
 Plan on Climate Change, the Copenhagen COP, or the SEM DPL (see below for a more detailed
 discussion of the Amazon Plan, known as “PPCDAM”). The Cerrado Plan was launched in 2010,
 but the planned Cerrado Law has been delayed and there is no evidence yet of reduced
 deforestation in the Cerrado. The energy NAMA appears to consist of pre-existing government
 strategies related to the secto.
 At the time of this evaluation, IEG examined the Brazilian Ministry of Environment’s official
 webpage on the sectoral plans. 30 Although it lists eight sectoral plans, links to only four NAMAs
 are provided there: on the Amazon, Cerrado, agriculture, and energy. The other plans were
 unavailable at the time of this evaluation, and so IEG was unable to evaluate them. 31 And although
 the NAMAs are grounded in Brazilian policy and legislation, they do not appear to have been
 officially submitted to or accepted by the UNFCCC, as Brazil’s official UNFCCC NAMA Registry
 Country Page was empty at the time of this evaluation.32
 The sectoral plans have also been criticized by Brazilian NGOs for not meeting minimum
 standards as they lack objectives, indicators, M&E frameworks, adequate policies, governance
 structures, and funding. IEG was not able to independently verify these claims, due to the fact that
 the documents were not publically available.
 With regard to climate change adaptation, there is currently no dialogue, and no National
 Adaptation Plan.
 Additional sources include: http://www.ipam.org.br/saiba-mais/abc/mudancaspergunta/O-que-sao-Servicos-Ambientais-possivel-
 compensar-economicamente-a-prestacao-destes-servicos-/41/21# ; http://ictsd.org/i/news/pontesquinzenal/33092/


4.14 As part of GOB’s contribution to the preparation of the ICR, MMA’s report states
simply that a preliminary low-carbon action plan was prepared for one sector—agriculture—
but that it was not being implemented. It also refers to Brazil’s Second National
Communication to the UNFCCC. It does not claim that a National Climate Change Action
Plan was prepared or approved. This information from the MMA report was not reflected in
the World Bank’s ICR.

4.15 The other actions for the “mainstream climate change” policy area, under SEM DPL
2, related to BNDES developing clean development and carbon funds programs in

28
  See: http://mitigationpartnership.net/brazil-voluntary-namas-achieve-ghg-emission-reduction-
between-361-and-389-2020-0 (last visited August 29, 2014)
29
 See: http://www.mmechanisms.org/document/NAMA/NAMA_LCA15_brazil_EN.pdf (last visited
August 29, 2014)
30
 See: http://www.mma.gov.br/clima/politica-nacional-sobre-mudanca-do-clima/planos-setoriais-de-
mitigacao-e-adaptacao (last visited August 29, 2014)
31
  For the four sectoral plans that are not available, the MMA website includes a note for each stating:
“presentation unavailable from 07.05.2014 to 10.26.2014, the election period….”.
32
  See: http://www4.unfccc.int/sites/nama/SitePages/Country.aspx?CountryId=24 (last visited August
29, 2014)
                                                                25


accordance with the NCCAP and its own new environmental and social policy. The outcome
indicator related to the promotion of projects under the CDM as well as BNDES’s programs
and the NCCAP. As noted in the previous paragraphs, sectoral action plans with targets have
not yet been developed.
4.16 The indicator selected for this policy area related to the CDM—“planned signed
reductions”—has no meaning in the CDM lexicon or project cycle, which has very specific
steps and requirements for each step. 33 So IEG was required to interpret the intentions behind
this indicator in consultation with carbon finance experts (see footnote to Figure 1).
Moreover, projects proposed for financing under the CDM were being prepared in Brazil
since 2003, six years before the SEM DPL, and also well before any of the Brazilian national
climate change plans was approved. Since then, Brazil has had 734 investments proposed
under the CDM, the majority of them before 2009. 34 The ICR reports that 19.8 million tons
of CO2 equivalent per year of planned emission reductions were signed “from CDM projects
and selected BNDES programs”, and claims that “99% of the target of 20 million tons of
CO2” was achieved. However, the target was for an increase in emission reductions of 20
million tons of CO2 (not a total figure of 20 million tons CO2) or an approximate doubling
of annual emission reductions to 40 million tons CO2 compared to a baseline of 19.5 million
tons from CDM projects as reported in the Program Document (footnote, p. 21). The
information provided in the ICR on this policy area is limited. IEG conducted its own
analysis and its results are presented in Figure 1.
Figure 1: Planned annual emission reductions in the Brazil CDM portfolio




Note: data as of August 2013. Source: UNEP RISOE : http://cdmpipeline.org



33
     See UNFCCC: http://cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/pac/index.html
34
  Based on official data from UNEP RISOE. See: http://cdmpipeline.org/ ; since, as noted above,
“planned signed reductions” has no meaning for CDM, IEG used the “First Start Comment” date as
the date when CDM projects were first proposed.
                                                26



4.17 As the figure illustrates, CDM project preparation began in Brazil in 2003, and
planned annual emission reductions from those projects peaked at about 15 million tons CO2
per year in 2005, before starting a steady decline to just over 3 million tons of CO2 in 2010,
the last year of the SEM DPL, and the last full year that could have been included in ICR.
The claim of either an increase or a total (depending on how one interprets the report from
BNDES) in CDM CO2 reductions of 14 million tons of CO2 is overstated.

4.18 The figure shows that there was a sharp increase in planned emission reductions from
proposed CDM projects in Brazil in 2011 and 2012. But as elsewhere in the world, “this did
not reflect the demand side but was driven by the upcoming end of Phase II of the EU ETS
and the start of Phase III, which sees the introduction of additional restrictions on the use of
international credits” at the end of 2012 (Carbon Finance, the World Bank, 2013). Since then,
planned emission reductions under the CDM have plummeted in Brazil, continuing their
long-term downward trend, to 1.5 million tons CO2 as of August 1, 2013. In general, the
evolution of the CDM portfolio in Brazil mirrors that of the CDM globally. Due to a lack of
demand, the price of CERs crashed to 0.34 euros in December 2012, and shows little sign of
recovering. The low prices do not even cover the costs of verification and issuance of CERs
for CDM projects, “thereby questioning the role of the CDM as a catalyst for private sector
investment in climate change mitigation” (Carbon Finance, the World Bank, 2013).
Therefore, the SEM DPL does not appear to have had any positive effect on emission
reductions under the CDM, and the significance of the CDM in general for “mainstreaming”
of climate change in Brazil going forward is doubtful.

4.19 It should also be noted that a “planned signed” emission reduction does not
necessarily lead to an actual reduction—which should be the real objective—and indeed in
the majority of cases it does not. Of the 734 Brazil projects proposed under the CDM since
its inception, only 135, or 20 percent, generated any CERs. Of the Brazil CDM projects
proposed since 2008, by 2013 only two had so generated any CERs—for a total of 0.09
million tons CO2—and none since 2010. 35

4.20 In the report submitted by BNDES to the Bank in June 2011 as ICR input, BNDES
noted that through its investments in wind power, mini hydropower plants, and biomass
cogeneration, it expected to reduce an additional 5.7 million tons of CO2 equivalent per year.
This is a notable increase that BNDES should be credited for. Nevertheless, even if combined
with the reductions from CDM, it still represents only about a quarter of the target.

4.21 Brazil’s National Fund on Climate Change (Climate Fund), created under the NPCC,
actually includes two funds: one reimbursable managed by BNDES, and a grant fund
managed by the Ministry of Environment. 36 For the reimbursable fund, BNDES announced
in 2012 a special line of credit with preferential interest rates “for projects that reduce



35
  It is possible that CDM projects in Brazil generated CERs after 2010, but they would have been
proposed before 2008.
36
     http://www.mma.gov.br/apoio-a-projetos/fundo-nacional-sobre-mudanca-do-clima
                                                 27


emissions”, including for renewable energy. 37 This is a positive development that could help
to further the goals of mainstreaming climate change in investments in Brazil, if designed
and implemented well. But in an interview, a knowledgeable Brazilian government official
stated that BNDES was still waiting for the first investments to be made by the fund, hoping
that the first 2-3 projects would be initiated in 2013. BNDES attributes the lack of
investments under the Climate Fund to the loss of attractiveness of the interest rates in the
face of more competitive rates from other sources following the global financial crisis.
However, BNDES reports that the Climate Fund is now on a better track after interest rates
were reduced in 2013, with operations starting to be contracted in 2014. One area where
BNDES does not appear to have increased its support is for energy efficiency, which has
been shown to have some of the highest rates of return for emission reductions (IEG 2010).
With regard to the grant fund managed by the Ministry of Environment, it was supposed to
be financed by royalties from Petrobras, but according to recent reports, new royalty rules
have eliminated that source of funding.

4.22 Ultimately, the essential indicator of progress on climate change mitigation is Brazil’s
overall level of greenhouse gas emissions. The official greenhouse gas inventory recently
released by the government provides a detailed stock-taking of this information (Ministry of
Science, Technology and Innovation, Brazil, 2013). The main message is that Brazil has
made dramatic progress, reducing its national greenhouse gas emissions by nearly 39 percent
from 2005-2010 (Nature 2013). Yet it also underscores that significant challenges lie ahead.
All of Brazil’s reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is due to the sharp decrease in
deforestation in the country, particularly in the Amazon. This is impressive, but as discussed
in detail below, appears to have started well before the SEM DPL and to have had little or
nothing to do with that World Bank loan. Moreover, emission reductions from avoided
deforestation are not eligible under the CDM that the SEM DPL targeted.

4.23 Other than avoided deforestation, the greenhouse gas inventory found that emissions
from all of Brazil’s other main sources increased from 2005-2010. Agriculture is now
Brazil’s biggest emitter, with greenhouse gases from the sector increasing 5.2% over the
period. The fastest rate of growth of greenhouse gas emissions in Brazil is found in the
energy sector. It is in these sectors—especially energy but also agriculture—where the CDM
often supports investments to reduce emissions around the world. But in Brazil, emissions
from the two sectors contributed 437 million and 399 million tons of CO2, respectively, over
the period, dwarfing both the targeted and actual emission reductions under the SEM DPL. In
2010 the government launched a fund called “the Low-Carbon Agriculture (ABC)
Program” 38, an ambitious plan to address the challenge of emissions from agriculture. But
due to a lack of demand, the program “didn’t manage to lend a single penny of its initial
US$1-billion endowment” in 2010-11, its first year (Nature 2012). The Nature article notes
that disbursements did pick up considerably in 2012, but only after the ABC plan had been

37

http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_en/Institucional/Press/Noticias/2012/20120213_f
undoclima.html
38
 This was apparently supposed to be a pilot of a sectoral plan under the National Plan on Climate
Change discussed above.
                                             28


“stripped of some of its environmental character”, and there is no way to know whether the
plan is having an impact because “the infrastructure to take the necessary measurements is
not in place.”

4.24 The World Bank argues that the support it provided under the SEM DPL was
important for getting Brazil to re-engage in a meaningful way in international climate
discussions, such as under the UNFCCC process, for example at the 2008 COP-14 meetings
in Posnan. Brazil did commit to cutting emissions by reducing deforestation by 70 percent by
2020, and its engagement in these processes is important. But as already noted, the cuts in
deforestation began much earlier, in response to actions supported by the Env PRL. Other
significant outcomes are not apparent. Thus, in general, the evidence points to a lack of
impact of the measures supported by the SEM DPL in mainstreaming climate change
mitigation in Brazil.

4.25 With regard to improving the effectiveness of environmental and social management
systems in BNDES and other financial institutions, this policy area was significant for the
SEM DPL because it represented a potentially new area for engagement under the operation,
compared to the other policy areas which were based on engagement that was initiated under
the 2004 Env PRL and other Bank activities. As the World Bank team stated in the ICR for
the operation, “the results obtained on the environmental management front are particularly
relevant for Brazil.” Nevertheless, the ICR includes only one sentence on this policy area in
the Achievement of Program Development Objectives section (page 11): “Meanwhile, the
BNDES screening of its proposals for compliance with its Environmental and Social
Institutional Policy reached 100%, from 35% in 2007.” In response, IEG carried out a
detailed assessment of the outcomes associated with this policy area under the operation has
been carried out for this evaluation.

4.26 In order for the SEM DPL to have been effective in supporting the achievement of
sub-sub-objective A.iii, and more importantly contributing in a significant way to the sub-
objective of “improving the overall Brazilian environmental management system,” several
conditions would have to be met:

   •   The new environmental and social (environmental and social) policies adopted should
       be well-designed.
   •   Improvements to environmental and social systems should go beyond BNDES to
       encompass other major financers of environmentally and socially investments.
   •   The environmental and social policies need to be properly used and monitored by the
       financial institutions to manage their investment portfolios.
   •   Implementation of the policies should result in improved environmental and social
       outcomes.

4.27 To begin with, the only action under this policy area related to “other financial
institutions” is the first one, “Revised Green Protocol approved and signed by GOB and all
federal public Brazilian Banks, including BNDES”. But neither the Program Document, nor
the ICR, nor the BNDES or MMA inputs to the ICR provide adequate information on the
signing, implementation, or results of the Green Protocol (GP). The “Green Protocol”
(Protocolo Verde in Portuguese) is a colloquial term that was first applied to a “Letter of
                                                   29


Intentions” titled “General Principles for Sustainable Development” signed by BNDES and
other Federal banks in 1995. 39 The 1995 letter contained a set of voluntary principles that
were found lacking, so it was eventually decided to try and improve upon them (Widmer
2012). The result was in fact two letters of intention: one for Federal public banks, 40 and
another for private banks. The main focus of the SEM DPL was the revised “Green Protocol”
officially called the “Protocol of Intentions on Social and Environmental Responsibility”, and
signed by the Minister of Environment, BNDES, and several other Federal banks on August
1, 2008. 41 The Program Document (p. 21) states that the provisions of the GP were supposed
to inform the development of BNDES’s new environmental and social Institutional Policy.

4.28 Very little information is available on the current status or past implementation of the
“revised Green Protocol”. For this policy area more generally, there is no information in the
ICR on the outcomes of the Green Protocol, or on any banks other than BNDES, and all of
the other actions and the outcome indicator for this policy area are addressed exclusively to
BNDES. 42 One of the other signatories of the Green Protocol, the state-owned Banco do
Brasil, has a webpage devoted to the Green Protocol. But the last entry there refers to a
workshop organized in June 2010 by FEBRABAN—Brazil’s official banking federation,
which was tasked with overseeing the Green Protocol—in order to work out implementation
modalities. 43 None of the other signatory banks provided any information. So IEG enquired
about the status of the Green Protocol with officials of FEBRABAN, the Brazilian banking
federation, and were told that implementation of the 2008 revision of the Green Protocol that
the SEM DPL was supposed to have supported is “on standby”, and moreover that “the
Protocol has lost its importance as an instrument of voluntary and guiding actions of banks.”

4.29 Apart from the status of the Green Protocol, IEG conducted an assessment of the
substance of the 2008 revised Green Protocol, along with BNDES’s new environmental and
social policies, by comparing the two sets of policies with an international benchmark—the


39
     http://www.mma.gov.br/estruturas/182/_arquivos/protocolo_verde_carta_de_intenes_1995.pdf
40
 http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/export/sites/default/bndes_pt/Galerias/Arquivos/empresa/dow
nload/ProtocoloVerde.pdf
41
     The two versions are in fact quite similar.
42
  See: http://www.bb.com.br/portalbb/page251,8305,3926,0,0,1,6.bb?codigoNoticia=28467 (last
visited August 29, 2014).
43
   As of April 2014, a new regulation has been issued by the Central Bank of Brazil, Resolution
4.327/2014. The resolution is a broad requirement for all financial institutions to develop a Policy of
Social and Environmental Responsibility (PRSA) to manage environmental and social risks. In terms
of its environmental and social content, the Resolution is less specific than and makes no mention of
the Green Protocol and leaves the details of the PRSA up to the individual financial institutions. It
requires that financial institutions approve PRSAs and action plans for implementing them by
February or July 2015 (depending on the status of the institution). The diffusion of such a requirement
to all Brazilian banks has the potential to broaden the use of environmental and social safeguards. But
this action was not supported by the SEM DPL and was not mentioned in the World Bank’s ICR, and
it is too early to assess what its impacts might be. See:
http://www.bcb.gov.br/pre/normativos/busca/normativo.asp?tipo=Res&ano=2014&numero=4327
                                                    30


Equator Principles. 44 According to a recent assessment by the Harvard Law School, “in the
last 10 years, the Equator Principles or EPs have emerged as the industry standard for
financial institutions to assess social and environmental risk in the project finance market,”
and have been adopted by “79 financial institutions in 32 countries …, reportedly covering
over 70% of international project finance debt in emerging markets.” 45 Moreover, as
discussed further below, BNDES had the opportunity to adopt the EPs through collaboration
with IFC at the time that the SEM DPL was prepared, but instead chose to develop its own
approach. Meanwhile, other major public and private Brazilian banks—including large state-
owned banks like Caixa Econômica Federal and Banco do Brasil—have already signed on to
the EPs.

4.30 The detailed comparison of the three approaches is provided in Annex E to this
PPAR. But a summary of some of the main differences is as follows:

      •   One general difference is immediately apparent upon examination of the three
          approaches. The Green Protocol and BNDES’s environmental and social policies are
          much less specific and detailed than the EPs. The elements of the GP and BNDES’s
          environmental and social policies are more like general principles, and therefore
          would require additional work to develop operational procedures to make them
          implementable. In the case of BNDES, this was apparently to be primarily through
          the promised sector-specific guidelines.
      •   The EPs put a common global “floor” under environmental and social standards by
          establishing that if a country’s national environmental and social legislation and
          capacity are insufficient, then the financial institution will adopt the IFC’s
          Performance Standards. In contrast, BNDES allows the use of country systems even
          in countries with weaker environmental standards than Brazil.
      •   The EPs include specific requirements on transparency; the GP’s and BNDES’s
          policies do not.
      •   The EPs provide for a grievance mechanism; the GPs and BNDES’s policies do not.
      •   The EPs include specific requirements on stakeholder consultation; the GPs and
          BNDES’s policies do not.

4.31 These differences are significant, and would already vitiate the effectiveness of the
GPs and BNDES’s environmental and social policies even if they were fully implemented.

4.32 The BNDES aspect of this objective was one of the original objectives of the
operation at the time when it was proposed as a DPL and then FIL to BNDES, and was an
area where the Bank had substantial direct engagement with the client through the SEM
44
  According to its website: “The Equator Principles (EPs) is a risk management framework, adopted
by financial institutions, for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social risk in
projects and is primarily intended to provide a minimum standard for due diligence to support
responsible risk decision-making.” For more information, see Annex C to this evaluation or the
Equator Principles website: http://www.equator-principles.com/index.php/about-ep/about-ep
45
     https://blogs.law.harvard.edu/corpgov/2013/06/18/equator-principles-iii-enters-into-force-this-june/
                                                  31


DPL. The Program Document Annex 8-Background on BNDES has a section on the
“Current Status of BNDES Environmental and Social Screening”, including “Box A: Areas
for potential improvement of the BNDES screening process for operations”. This discussion
appears, for the most part, to be an accurate reflection of the significant shortfalls in
BNDES’s environmental and social standards and procedures.

4.33 One point on which the Program Document states that BNDES should improve is by
establishing “a mechanism for applying BNDES environmental and social policies to the
projects financed by its financial intermediaries.” This would be important for achieving the
BNDES portion of this sub-objective because more than half of BNDES’s lending is in fact
through financial intermediaries, or “indirect”. And both the SEM DPL II trigger for this
policy area and the Program Document text (p. 21, p. 57) indicate that BNDES’s new
environmental and social policies would be applied to the full portfolio. But the SEM DPL
outcome indicator—with reported 100 percent achievement—is instead only for “projects
submitted directly to BNDES.” 46 Further, BNDES acknowledges that today it still does not
apply its environmental and social policies to even directly financed investments in what it
calls the “exports” sector. This sector was estimated at over US$ 5 billion in 2012 and
includes BNDES’s large and growing investments outside Brazil—much of it for major
infrastructure investments with serious environmental and social implications—in facilities
like hydropower dams, mines, highways, and airports, including in Amazon regions of
Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru (see for example the Wall Street Journal 2011).
Overall then, even if the SEM DPL achieved its target indicator, it would have affected less
than half of the investments of only one of Brazil’s public banks, diminishing from the
beginning its ability to achieve the program’s objectives. This restricted scope was not made
clear in the project documents.

4.34 There has been little if any discernible improvement in BNDES’s environmental
and social (environmental and social) system. Based on IEG’s review of the evidence
provided by the World Bank team and BNDES as well as third party sources, and interviews
of key stakeholders, particularly the staff of BNDES, there has been little discernible
improvement to BNDES’s environmental and social management system compared to the
one described—and critiqued—by the World Bank team during preparation. For those
BNDES investments that should have fallen under the provisions of the SEM DPL, the key
action cited under both the DPL-I Tranche Release Conditions and the DPL-II Triggers was
the approval of a new BNDES “Environmental and Social Institutional Policy”, and the
application of the new policy to the screening, approval and monitoring of BNDES projects.
In the Tranche Release Document (para. 18) certifying “full compliance” with the second
tranche release conditions, the evidence provided by the Bank for compliance of this policy
area is based on the approval by BNDES of three resolutions: Resolutions 2023/10, which

46
  BNDES divides its portfolio into what it calls “direct operations”, “non-automatic indirect
operations”, and “automatic indirect operations”. BNDES’s Socio-Environmental Policy states that it
applies only to the direct and non-automatic indirect operations. Including the non-automatic indirect
operations is a step in the right direction. However, for the non-automatic indirect operations, the
policy states that the financial intermediaries “are responsible for verifying the social and
environmental compliances of the borrower and the target project.” In 2011, the non-automatic
indirect operations constituted 51 percent of BNDES’s disbursements (BNDES 2011).
                                              32


the Tranche Release Document describes as the “Social and Environmental Responsibility
and Governance (SERG) for the entire BNDES system”; Resolution 2025/10, which is
described as “a new Environmental and Social Policy (ESP) governing BNDES operations”
in the framework of the SERG; and Resolution 2022/10, described as “a supplementing
resolution on the Structure and Use of Environmental and Social Guidelines. None of the
actual resolutions is publicly available on BNDES’s website, although content consistent
with the resolutions appears on the site where BNDES presents its environmental and social
policies.

4.35 IEG has reviewed official copies of all three resolutions. In a slight deviation from
what is stated in the Tranche Release Document, Resolution 2023 is actually titled “Social
and Environmental Responsibility Policy of the BNDES System” (i.e., there is no
“Governance”). It could best be described as a general statement of corporate values with
regard to social and environmental issues, such as “To promote an integrated development
that includes the economic, social and environmental dimensions”, and “Proactive attitude in
line with the Brazilian public policies and rules while in observance of international norms of
behavior.” It contains no information on how these policies are to be implemented or which
parts of the BNDES portfolio they apply to.

4.36 Resolution 2025 states that it is intended “to approve the environmental and social
policy of BNDES system.” Although the title of the resolution sounds similar to that of 2023,
the Tranche Release Document explains that 2025 “presents an updated screening process
regarding the social and environmental dimensions and guidance on operational
supervision,” and also establishes requirements for supervision of operations to track
environmental and social indicators and verify compliance with the environmental license.
But the contents of Resolution 2025 are, like Resolution 2023, quite vague. It begins with a
set of “Guidelines” that do not appear to commit the institution to anything more than
adhering to Brazilian law, such as “Acting in line with government policies and legislations,
in particular with the provisions of the National Environmental Policy.” Similarly, under the
heading “socio-environmental analysis of projects”, it states that “For financial support, are
observed: applicable laws, sector-specific norms,…” and so on. In terms of responses, it goes
on to explain that BNDES “may” take various actions. There is nothing that resembles a
specific, binding environmental or social safeguard.

4.37 Another important aspect of BNDES’s new environmental and social approach was
supposed to be the introduction of “sectoral guidelines” governing the application of
environmental and social good practices tailored to key sectors. Since neither Resolution
2023 nor Resolution 2025 establishes environmental and social safeguards or procedures for
implementing them, it is presumed that those (the “sector-specific norms” referred to in
Resolution 2025) would be established via the sectoral guidelines. The SEM DPL Program
Document (Annex 8) lists 13 specific sectors for which it says BNDES will develop
guidelines as part of the SEM DPL series (p. 104), including for hydroelectric plants. Three
sets of guidelines—livestock, ethanol and sugar, and soy—plus a fourth for a forest
management and plantation program (“REFLORESTA”) were supposed to be developed for
SEM DPL 1.
                                                 33


4.38 On BNDES’s website today there are only three sets of sectoral guidelines presented:
livestock, ethanol and sugar, and thermoelectric. That means that after five years, BNDES
has still only developed three out of the thirteen sectoral guidelines that were promised to be
developed under the SEM DPL series by 2011. And absent are guidelines for sectors that are
critical from an environmental and social perspective, such as hydroelectric plants, forest
management, soya, and water supply and sanitation. For the three sectoral guidelines that
BNDES has posted, each has a different structure and approach, and varying degrees of
detail. Although the specifics vary for each sector, in general all three simply require projects
financed by BNDES to comply with relevant Brazilian legislation (for example, having
appropriate licenses and complying with land use and anti-slavery laws). The one area where
the sectoral guidelines appear to go beyond these legal requirements is for livestock, where
the guidelines state that clients are required to “join a traceability system for the beef
production chain, from birth to slaughter, to check the regularity of the environmental supply
chain.” It made sense for BNDES to make the livestock sector a priority because, as
mentioned in the Introduction, BNDES and others were the subjects of an international media
campaign launched by Greenpeace aimed at raising awareness of the links between the sector
and Amazon deforestation. 47 But overall, BNDES has made no progress on development of
sectoral guidelines—one of the pillars of its new environmental and social policy—since
SEM DPL 1 closed in 2010.

4.39 There is no specific evidence provided either in the SEM DPL ICR, or on BNDES’s
website, or in the Brazilian government’s response to this PPAR that BNDES is actually
applying the new environmental and social policies to investments, how they are being
applied and monitored, and what the outcomes are. This lack of evidence was the basis of
criticism leveled by thirty CSOs in a letter of complaint to the World Bank Regional Vice
President (see below). In an interview with IEG, BNDES staff confirmed that the current
extent of their project environmental and social screening and monitoring is to classify
projects into categories “A, B or C”, which was something BNDES did even before the SEM
DPL (see the Program Document, p. 101), and ensure that the investment has an
environmental license if required by Brazilian law. To the extent that previously BNDES did
not ensure that investments it financed were in compliance with Brazilian law, this could be
seen as a step forward. But even though their own policy requires it, BNDES has no
environmental or social monitoring indicators, there is no supervision or evaluation by
BNDES of environmental and social aspects of projects under implementation, and BNDES
cannot reject project proposals on environmental and social grounds alone (as long as they
comply with Brazilian law).

4.40 BNDES points to changes it has made to its internal institutional structure as evidence
of progress, such as the upgrading of its Environment Department to an Environmental
Division. However, as illustrated by the “Credit concession process flowchart” on page 75 of
its 2011 Annual Report, and confirmed by BNDES staff, the Environment Division is not

47
  The resulting markets demands, combined with legal action taken by Brazil’s Public Prosecutor’s
Office against irregular slaughterhouses, “led to a ‘Cattle Agreement’ in which the region’s largest
beef processing companies agreed to exclude from their supply chain those livestock producers who
deforested after October 2009” (Nepstad et al., 2014). The Nepstad article does not mention the role
of BNDES.
                                                     34


involved in the analysis and approval of investments, including the environmental risk
screening, unless it is specially requested to provide input (BNDES 2011). As a result, the
impact of these institutional changes on environmental and social outcomes of BNDES’s
investments is unclear. The lack of progress on BNDES’s environmental and social system is
confirmed in multiple assessments by other parties since the closing of the SEM DPL
(Reporter Brazil 2011; Ramos and Garzon, 2013; Widmer 2012; Lopes Pinto 2012; Fonseca
and Mota 2013; Rainforest Foundation UK). 48 This falls far short of the ambitious goals of
the SEM DPL, which among other things stated that “Commitment by BNDES to
environmental and social outcomes is manifest by BNDES’ attempts to go beyond
environmental and social guidelines focused solely on legal compliance” (Program
Document, p. 102).

4.41 A critical case study for the application of BNDES’s environmental and social
system, and an opportunity to showcase any improvements to it supported by the SEM DPL,
is the Belo Monte hydroelectric dam complex in the Amazon rainforest of Pará State, Brazil.
The site was the subject of an IEG field visit for the purposes of this evaluation, and is
described in detail in Box 2. Reports indicate that Belo Monte will be the third largest dam in
the world ever built, and is also the largest investment ever financed by BNDES, with a total
cost of nearly USD 15 billion, Given the scale of the project, great environmental and social
sensitivity of the location, and the experience Brazil has with the significant adverse impacts
of large dam projects in the past, great care should have been taken to ensure that Belo Monte
met the highest environmental and social standards before proceeding with the loan. Yet the
Belo Monte investment has been widely criticized by other Brazilian government agencies,
international human rights organizations, and local and international civil society
organizations for adverse social and environmental impacts, and violations of Brazilian law,
international agreements, and BNDES’s own environmental and social policies (Library of
the European Parliament 2013; NORAD 2011).


     Box 2: BNDES financing for the Belo Monte Hydroelectric Dam
  A critical case study for the application of BNDES’s environmental and social system, and an
 opportunity to showcase any improvements to it supported by the SEM DPL, is the Belo Monte
 hydroelectric dam in the Amazon rainforest of Pará State, Brazil. Part of the Brazilian
 government’s PAC infrastructure investment program, 49 Belo Monte is a massive undertaking: the
 largest dam project under preparation anywhere in the world, once completed it will be the third
 largest dam ever built. It is also the largest investment ever financed by BNDES, with a total cost
 of nearly USD 15 billion, financed by BNDES at 80 percent, the limit for the bank. BNDES
 announced the first loan for the Belo Monte dam project well before the project had been granted
 the required license by IBAMA. According to BNDES’s environmental and social policy, an




48
     See also: http://amazonwatch.org/work/bndes
49
     http://norteenergiasa.com.br/site/ingles/norte-energia/
                                                   35


 IBAMA-issued Installation License 50 is required before an operation can be contracted.51 The first
 loan for the Belo Monte dam project was announced in December 2010, 52 well before IBAMA
 issued the Belo Monte consortium an Installation License (and only a week after the disbursement
 of the SEM DPL second tranche, raising the ire of the NGO community). At that point, only a
 Preliminary License had been issued based on a long series of conditions. The required Installation
 License was not issued until June 2011, and even then numerous conditions had still not been met.
 Many of the conditions were reported to still not have been met in 2013 53, and according to some
 analyses have even worsened. 54
 The consortium building the dam complex, Norte Energia S. A., claims that the project will
 “generate energy constantly, at a low social and environmental impact” (Norte Energia 2014).
 BNDES states that it has “adhered to the decisions of the competent authorities” and made efforts
 to address the environmental and social impacts of the project. But with construction of Belo
 Monte still at a relatively early stage, there are reports of significant environmental and social
 consequences. These include involuntary displacement of thousands of families, including
 indigenous people; destruction of forests and fisheries; tripling of the population of the local town
 of Altamira without adequate services like healthcare or schools; labor unrest by dam construction
 workers; and a jump in social problems like drug use, crime, and sex trafficking. These and other
 problems are the subjects of fifteen separate class-action lawsuits related to Belo Monte filed by
 the Prosecutors of the Brazilian Federal Public Prosecutor’s Office (Ministério Público Federal). 55
 According to the Federal Prosecutor’s Office, Federal Courts have already ruled against the Belo
 Monte consortium and BNDES in some important cases. They include halting construction at the
 end of 2013 due to the invalidity of environmental licenses issued by IBAMA, and a prohibition on
 BNDES financing, with the judge citing evidence of negative impacts on local communities and
 the environment. 56 In August 2014, a Federal Court confirmed that the environmental license



50
   The licensing process has three distinct stages: 1. Preliminary License, 2. Installation License, and
3. Operating License.
51
  See:
http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_pt/Institucional/Apoio_Financeiro/Politicas_Tran
sversais/Politica_Socioambiental/analise_ambiental.html ; and
http://www.bancoldex.com/documentos/2615_Memorias_ALI14-
3_Claudia_Nessi_Seminario_Bogota_19.11.2010_Claudia_Nessi_resumido.pdf
52
 http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_pt/Institucional/Sala_de_Imprensa/Noticias/201
0/energia/20101222_BeloMonte.html
53
  For example, see: http://www1.folha.uol.com.br/mercado/2013/07/1318408-obra-de-belo-monte-
pode-atrasar-por-problemas-com-ibama.shtml
54
  For example, see: http://www.socioambiental.org/pt-br/noticias-socioambientais/ibama-afirma-
que-o-cumprimento-de-condicionantes-de-belo-monte-so-piorou , and
http://www.socioambiental.org/sites/blog.socioambiental.org/files/nsa/arquivos/quadro_condicioanan
tes_2013_isa.pdf
55
  http://www.prpa.mpf.mp.br/news/2013/processos-judiciais-do-caso-belo-monte-sao-publicados-na-
integra-pelo-mpf
56
  http://noticias.pgr.mpf.mp.br/noticias/noticias-do-site/copy_of_indios-e-minorias/norte-energia-e-
obrigada-a-paralisar-obras-de-belo-monte-mais-uma-vez/?searchterm=Belo%20Monte (last visited
September 17, 2014).
                                                   36


 issued by IBAMA was void, citing faulty environmental impact assessments. 57 While some cases
 continue to be contested at various levels in Brazil’s legal system, the lawsuits provide a large
 amount of information on violations of Brazilian laws on the rights of indigenous peoples and on
 environmental protection, as well as violations of the terms of Belo Monte’s environmental
 licenses issued by the Brazilian environmental licensing agency, IBAMA. IBAMA itself has on
 more than one occasion cited numerous instances of non-compliance with the terms of the licenses
 issued for Belo Monte (IBAMA 2012, IBAMA 2013, ISA 2013). 58 As a result, IBAMA has
 imposed millions of dollars in fines on the Belo Monte consortium. 59 In the municipality of
 Altamira, which is the closest to the Belo Monte dam site, the Brazilian Institute for Applied
 Economic Research (Ipea), a Federal public foundation linked to the Strategic Affairs Secretariat
 of the Presidency, sponsored field research in 2011 and identified a host of serious urban
 environmental and social problems associated with the dam and influx of tens of thousands of
 workers, as well as increased pressure on surrounding protected areas and indigenous lands.60
 Their general conclusion is: “Overall, Belo Monte repeats the same mistakes of other major
 historical hydroelectric projects, when it disregards the seriousness of the social consequences
 already experienced by other populations and the specific socio-cultural, economic and
 environmental conditions of the region.” This was echoed by multiple sources interviewed by IEG,
 who saw Belo Monte as a missed opportunity to finally do hydropower right from an
 environmental and social perspective.
 Internationally, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights of the Organization of
 American States in April 2011 “granted precautionary measures for the members of the indigenous
 communities of the Xingu River Basin” and “requested that the State of Brazil immediately
 suspend the licensing process for the Belo Monte Hydroelectric Plant project and stop any
 construction work from moving forward until certain minimum conditions are met,” including
 carrying out a proper consultation process with indigenous communities and adopting “measures to
 protect the life and physical integrity of the members of indigenous peoples” (IACHR 2010) 61.
 The Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations for the
 International Labor Organization (ILO) cited the Brazilian government for violating the rights of
 indigenous communities in the Xingu region while approving Belo Monte. The ILO reports allege
 that GOB violated the ILO’s Convention 169, which guarantees indigenous peoples the right to
 free, prior and informed consultation over projects that affect their lands and rights (ILO 2012).
 IBAMA itself has issued reports citing numerous violations of the conditions under which a partial
 environmental license was eventually issued for the project. The project and the licensing process
 have also been heavily criticized by a large number of national and international CSOs (ISA,
 Xingu Vivo, Survival International, WWF, Green Peace, Amazon Watch), who also document




57
  http://noticias.pgr.mpf.mp.br/noticias/noticias-do-site/copy_of_meio-ambiente-e-patrimonio-
cultural/tribunal-nega-recurso-da-norte-energia-e-confirma-prazo-de-90-dias-para-novos-estudos-de-
belo-monte/?searchterm=Belo%20Monte (last visited September 17, 2014).
58
  See also previous two footnotes and here:
http://www.socioambiental.org/sites/blog.socioambiental.org/files/nsa/arquivos/3_parecer_ibama.pdf
59
  For example, see: http://www1.folha.uol.com.br/mercado/2013/07/1318408-obra-de-belo-monte-
pode-atrasar-por-problemas-com-ibama.shtml
60
     http://www.ipea.gov.br/code2011/chamada2011/pdf/area7/area7-artigo19.pdf
61
     http://www.oas.org/en/iachr/indigenous/protection/precautionary.asp
                                                 37


 adverse environmental and social impacts, including through video evidence. 62 At the same time,
 some have questioned the economic viability of the project (Fearnside, P. 2012). 63 The general
 view of those familiar with the history of large dam projects in Brazil is that BNDES and the Belo
 Monte consortium have missed a great opportunity to improve environmental and social standards
 based on the lessons of past projects, but are instead repeating most of the same mistakes, and may
 be an effort to spearhead more dam construction in the Amazon (Fearnside, P. 2012). Similar
 complaints were mentioned during a meeting of dozens of community members attended by IEG.




4.42 Although Belo Monte is an emblematic example of the continuing weaknesses in
BNDES’s environmental and social management system, it is not the only one. A recent
investigation of the twenty largest BNDES-financed investments in the Amazon over the past
five years found that at least sixteen were subject to legal action by federal prosecutors,
states, or labor or civil society organizations due to environmental problems (Fonseca, B. and
J. Mota, 2013). Approximately half of the twenty largest Amazon investments by BNDES
were related to hydroelectric dams and transmission lines. All of the dams were the target of
lawsuits for environmental and social problems. The problems include the poor quality of
environmental impact assessments, involuntary resettlement, lack of consultation and
disclosure with indigenous populations and other affected communities, and shortfalls in the
environmental licensing process. An expert interviewed for the report stated that “compared
to what the bank [BNDES] could do, what other international banks do, and what Brazilian
law requires BNDES to do, it fails.”

4.43 Among the list of major investments financed by BNDES after the SEM DPL 1 is the
Teles Pires hydroelectric dam (BNDES 2011). 64 Like Belo Monte, Teles Pires is accused of
significant adverse environmental and social impacts, including lack of consultation with
affected indigenous peoples, destruction of spawning grounds for fish that the local
population depends on for its livelihood, and shortcomings in the environmental licensing
process (Ministério Público Federal e Ministério Público no Estado de Mato Grosso 2012). 65

62
  See for example: http://www.xinguvivo.org.br/2011/06/01/ibama-libera-licenca-de-instalacao-para-
belo-monte-as-vesperas-do-dia-mundial-do-meio-ambiente/ ;
http://oglobo.globo.com/economia/miriam/posts/2011/01/27/belo-monte-licenca-parcial-nao-existe-
359392.asp ; http://www.xinguvivo.org.br/2011/06/01/ibama-libera-licenca-de-instalacao-para-belo-
monte-as-vesperas-do-dia-mundial-do-meio-ambiente/ ;
http://www.internationalrivers.org/campaigns/belo-monte-dam; http://www.wwf.org.br/?28983/;
www.socioambiental.org/esp/bm/index.asp ; http://amazonwatch.org/news/blog?start=55
63
  http://www.economist.com/news/americas/21577073-having-spent-heavily-make-worlds-third-
biggest-hydroelectric-project-greener-brazil
64
  http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_pt/Hotsites/Relatorio_Anual_2011/Capitulos/de
sempenho_operacional/infraestrutura/geracao_de_energia_de_base_hidreletrica.html
65
  http://www.aneel.gov.br/arquivos/PDF/SUSPENSAO_UHE_TELES_PIRES_uniao_e_aneel_v3_bi
p_junho_2012.pdf ; and http://www.internationalrivers.org/resources/comments-to-pjrces-on-the-
teles-pires-hydropower-project-brazil-3056
                                               38


In response to a recent civil society request to BNDES—under the Brazilian Law on Access
to Information—for detailed information regarding the environmental and social safeguards
applied in the case of Teles Pires, including the application of BNDES’s new environmental
and social policy, BNDES stated only that the Teles Pires Hydroelectric Company was
required to comply with Brazilian labor laws and environmental licensing requirements.
These are Brazilian legal requirements regardless of BNDES’s involvement, and with or
without the SEM DPL.

4.44 Another issue is BNDES’s continued lack of transparency with regard to
environmental and social aspects of the investments it finances. The Equator Principles
include Principle 10: Reporting and Transparency, which requires that, at a minimum, a
summary of the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment is accessible and available
online for relevant projects (see Annex E). The EP Principle 5: Stakeholder Engagement,
also requires that financial institutions make assessment documentation readily available to
affected communities and other stakeholders. BNDES’s Environmental and Social Policy
contains no specific measures for disclosing information on projects. To its credit, in 2008
BNDES began posting on its website lists of investments it finances in Brazil (see Annex G
for a sample). 66 But the list contains only very basic information such as the name of the
client, date and financing amount of the loan, sector, and a one-line description of the project.
The list also excludes “automatic indirect” investments and all investments if finances
outside of Brazil (whether direct or indirect). Moreover, a project is included in the list only
after the financing contract has been signed, and the only location information provided is the
state, making it very difficult for affected stakeholders to be made aware in a timely fashion.
BNDES still provides no information on environmental or social aspects of its investments,
including the basic risk categorization, any safeguards applied, and actual impacts.

4.45 BNDES’s approach to reporting and disclosure of environmental and social
information is limited compared to, for example, the World Bank, to whom Brazil turned for
international best practice in this area under the SEM DPL. The World Bank discloses,
during preparation of its investment operations, drafts of the Integrated Safeguards Data
Sheet with detailed information on which safeguards are triggered (and which are not), why
they are triggered, mitigation measures, and mechanisms for consultation and disclosure; and
a Project Information Document with a detailed description of the operation. 67 Once an
investment operation has been approved, the final Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet and full
Project Appraisal Document or Program Document (in the case of DPLs) are typically
disclosed. And during supervision, the World Bank now discloses information from the
Implementation Supervision Reports for all operations. While it would not be realistic to
expect BNDES to attain the level of safeguards of the World Bank and other international
development banks right away, there should have been more progress in that direction given

66
 http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_pt/Institucional/BNDES_Transparente/Consulta
_as_operacoes_do_BNDES/operacoes_diretas.html
67
  No Safeguards Data Sheet is prepared for DPLs since according to the World Bank’s definition,
“safeguards” do not apply to DPLs. For DPLs, relevant analytic work conducted by the World Bank
in relation to environmental and social aspects is supposed to be made public as part of the
consultation process.
                                             39


the intention to learn from the World Bank’s experience. As discussed above, BNDES’s
policies also fall short of the Equator Principles, another international standard.

4.46 Given the dearth of evidence of progress in achieving Objective A and its sub-
Objectives attributable to the SEM DPL, the Achievement of Objective A is rated as
Negligible.

Objective B: Manage natural resources sustainably, reducing the
degradation of agricultural lands, forests (in particular the Amazon), and
water resources, and promoting renewable energy.
B.1. Natural Resource Management and Conservation

4.47 With regard to improving the sustainability of natural resource management, through
strengthening of the forest legal framework, both the Public Forest Management Law and the
Atlantic Forest Law were already supported by the 2004 Env PRL. The Public Forest
Management Law was enacted in March 2006, and the Atlantic Forest Law was enacted in
December 2006. Resolution 3545 of the National Monetary Council was enacted in February
2008, before preparation of the broader SEM DPL began.

4.48 With regard to improving Amazon regional planning for sustainable development and
reduced deforestation, this has been one of the emblematic challenges and most important
environmental goals for Brazil, and arguably for the planet. However, the preparation of the
PAS and signing of an agreement to establish it was cited as an action taken under the 2004
Env PRL in its ICR. Ecological Economic Zoning in the Amazon and elsewhere (“area of
invluence of the BR-163” and “North, North-East and Middle-West regions”) was also
supported by the Env PRL.

4.49 As to the intended outcome of reducing deforestation in the Amazon, data show that
Amazon deforestation peaked at 27,000 km2 per year in 2004, well before the SEM DPL, and
began continuously decreasing over the following years. The evolution of Amazon
deforestation is illustrated in Figure 2.

4.50 In fact, research has demonstrated that the greatest reductions in Amazon
deforestation were likely due to the Brazilian government’s own Action Plan for the
Prevention and Control of Deforestation in the Legal Amazon (PPCDAM) that was launched
in 2004 (Nepstad and others 2014; IPEA and others 2011). Particularly impactful were
increases in enforcement activities and a massive expansion of protected and indigenous
areas, as well as a cutoff in agricultural credit to noncompliant farmers and ranchers via
Resolution 3545 and the blacklisting of municipalities with high rates of deforestation in
2008 (Assunção and others 2013a, 2013b; Nolte and others 2013; The Economist 2013b).
Interviews by IEG with key sources in Brazil confirmed that there is general agreement that
PPCDAM has played a major role, and that it was primarily an initiative of the Brazilian
government. Prior support by the Bank to the creation of protected and indigenous areas was
also important, but these actions were largely in place by the end of 2006 Indeed, the
Director General of the Federal Forest Service, who had worked with the service for decades,
stated that he had never before heard of the SEM DPL.
                                                               40


4.51 Another action under this policy area was the macro ecological-economic zoning of
the Amazon region, which has been completed. In principle the idea of planning which areas
of the Amazon should be used for which purposes (including conservation) makes sense. It
has been pursued for many years in Brazil. IEG interviews at the federal and state level
found that the macrozoning effort was a paper exercise with little evident impact on interstate
planning or coordination.

4.52 In short, Brazil has made major strides in reducing its deforestation rate over the past
decade, through policies other than those supported by the SEM DPL. Maintaining and
increasing the reductions, according to an analysis for IEG’s Country Program Evaluation of
Brazil, will require a new set of policies to support Brazil’s newly revised Forest Code (IEG
2013). These will include implementing the comprehensive rural cadaster, finding ways to
minimize the costs to landholders of complying with the Code, and addressing the challenge
that residual deforestation is becoming increasingly concentrated among low-income
smallholders.

Figure 2: Area of Amazon deforestation over time




Source: PRODES Project, INPE, Brazilian Ministry of Science and Technology


4.53 With regard to improving rainforest conservation, the main actions were related to
the Amazon Fund (with the Atlantic Forest Fund planned to come in under SEM DPL 2). As
an evaluation by the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD) makes
clear, “the creation of the Amazon Fund was a Brazilian initiative” with financial support
provided by Norway’s International Climate and Forest Initiative (NICFI) providing “a
significant stimulus” in February 2008, before preparation of the SEM DPL began (NORAD
2011). The NORAD report provides a detailed evaluation and history of the Amazon Fund,
with no mention of a role for the World Bank. The evaluation finds that “NICFI has been
effective in getting things started”, but that “what has been done so far has had limited
effectiveness and has not been able to be particularly efficient due to procedural constraints”
on the part of BNDES, who manages the fund. This has caused frustration amongst the CSOs
                                              41


and potential beneficiaries of the fund. More seriously, the evaluation notes that “the
bureaucratic and legal bottlenecks encountered…are moreover not only seen by indigenous
organisations and community associations as a technical problem, but a mechanism that
repeats failures to recognize their rights and importance in reducing deforestation.” At the
time of the evaluation in 2011, there was as yet “no clear sustainability strategy for the
Fund.”

4.54 More recently, there is evidence that activity has picked up under the Amazon Fund,
with a reported 58 projects supported at a total commitment level of R$ 878 million—though
only three projects have so far been completed (Amazon Fund). The Amazon Fund website,
meanwhile, could serve as a model for BNDES, with more detailed information on projects,
including geo-referencing (though still no information on environmental and social
safeguards applied). 68 BNDES also reports progress with the establishment of the BNDES
Mata Atlantica Initiative, which is intended to provide grant support for restoration projects
in the Atlantic Forest biome. The BNDES website notes that 15 projects have been approved
so far, for a total of R$ 25 million, though as with BNDES’s other investments, minimal
information is provided on the individual projects (BNDES 2014). 69

B.2. Water Resource Management

4.55 With regard to improving management and quality of water resources, the ICR
reports that 116,144 km of rivers were being monitored as of June 2011, surpassing the
program target of 90,000 km. Based on interviews conducted by IEG and a visit to the
federal water agency, ANA, Brazil does appear to have made good progress in terms of
increasing the coverage of water monitoring sites around the country. It is not clear to what
extent this can be attributed to the SEM DPL. The first action under the SEM DPL, approval
of the Water Resources National Plan (PNRH), was accomplished in 2006, several years
before the SEM DPL, while the documentation for the plan was prepared in 2004 and was an
action under the earlier Env PRL operation. The quality of the outcome indicator could also
be questioned, as it does not specify which parameters are to be monitored.

4.56 ANA reports progress in signing cooperation agreements with states for
implementing the National Water Quality Program (PNQA), the second tranche release
condition. The PNQA is an important advance in Brazilian water resource management
policy. It is clear that the ANA monitoring network was strengthened by the agreements
established with the states, especially those with pre-existing monitoring systems. The
benefits of the PNQA for the states are less clear. The actual implementation of the water
monitoring, as well as the use of the information, should be carried out by local governments,
which the SEM DPL did not involve. In interviews with state government water and
environment officials, they reported that the relationship with the Federal ANA on water

68
   See http://www.fundoamazonia.gov.br/FundoAmazonia/fam/site_pt/Esquerdo/Projetos_Apoiados/
(last visited August 18, 2014).
69
  See
http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_pt/Areas_de_Atuacao/Meio_Ambiente/Mata_Atla
ntica/ (last visited August 18, 2014).
                                               42


quality monitoring was mostly one-way: the states provide their water quality monitoring to
ANA, but have thus far not received in return any support, for example to invest in necessary
water monitoring infrastructure or to improve human capacity. The signing of the
cooperation agreements is however an important first step.

4.57 The most important aspect of the SEM DPL outcome indicator was that the results of
water monitoring were to be used “for prioritization of investments for improved water
quality.” On this count ANA could not cite any examples. Nor did the Bank’s ICR provide
any information on the use of the water quality information.

B.3. Environmental Sanitation

4.58 With regard to reducing environmental impacts through improved water, wastewater
treatment, and solid waste services, the prior action on enacting the National Guidelines for
Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation (Law 11,455) was approved on January 5, 2007,
approximately two years before the SEM DPL, and therefore could not be attributed to the
World Bank loan.

4.59 The ICR reports that 141,280 tons of pollution loads (biochemical oxygen demand, or
BOD) were being reduced by June 2011, surpassing the target of 110,000 tons. These
pollution reductions were supposed to be achieved by a combination of BNDES-financed
investments “reviewed under new BNDES social and environmental guidelines,” and
investments financed under the “updated PRODES program.” The World Bank team set the
baseline at zero, “since the new BNDES social and environmental guidelines and the updated
PRODES program are not available yet” (Program Document). As discussed in detail above,
the new BNDES environmental and social guidelines have major flaws and gaps. Moreover,
the promised sector guidelines on solid waste management, and on water, sanitation and
drainage, were apparently never finalized, or at least are not in use. No information is
provided on pollution reductions from BNDES projects before the SEM DPL to establish a
more valid baseline. No information is provided on how the pollution reductions were
achieved (for example, through which investments) or on how they were measured. In their
comments on this evaluation, BNDES notes that the 141,280 tons of BOD were the result of
15 projects in nine states. BNDES also indicates that they were financing wastewater
treatment investments prior to the SEM DPL, but “did not systematically measure the
quantities of BOD.” They credit the SEM DPL with introducing this practice, which is a
positive sign. However, it also means that we do not know what incremental reduction in
pollution loads can be attributed to the SEM DPL, since the baseline was not zero BOD as
indicated in the Program Document and ICR, but rather some unknown quantity.

4.60 Improvement of the national PRODES program, which promised to be highly
innovative by taking a payment for results type approach to sewage treatment, was already
supported under the 2004 Env PRL. Although it was supposed to be a key aspect of this
policy area, the ICR does not report any information on it. In its submission of a report to the
Bank in June 2011 as input to the ICR, MMA and ANA did provide information on
PRODES. They state that the program did not operate at all over the period of the SEM DPL
due to a lack of funding. This is confirmed by the Water Agency (ANA) website, which
                                                43


shows that no new contracts were issued in 2009 or 2010. 70 Even prior to the SEM DPL, as
mentioned in the Program Document, up-take on this program had been uneven due to the
inability of local governments to provide the required up-front financing. There is no
indication that this problem has been addressed. Although there were contracts signed in
2011 and 2012, there were again no contracts issued in 2013. In interviews with IEG, the Rio
state government (one of the highest-capacity in Brazil) cited the lack of up-front financing
as a continuing major shortcoming, and the main reason why, to the best of their knowledge,
no PRODES investments had been implemented in the state.

B.4. Renewable Energy

4.61 With regard to promoting renewable energy potential, the ICR reports that 50,102
terajoules per year were being generated from renewable energy sources supported by
BNDES, just short of the 60,000 terajoule target. The evidence for the renewable energy
production comes from a report submitted by BNDES as input to the ICR in June 2011.
BNDES reports that 50,102 terajoules per year were produced by renewable energy sources
since January 2009. But to arrive at this figure, BNDES took into consideration the potential
energy generation from wind power, mini hydropower and biomass cogeneration projects
approved since 2007, as well as the projects considered “enquadrados”, or framed, but not
yet approved. Over half of the total came from biomass cogeneration. The document
mentions that 5 regions would be hosting 77 renewable energy projects.

4.62 Similarly to the environmental sanitation policy area, while no information is
provided on renewable energy generation from BNDES projects before the SEM DPL, the
Program Document sets the baseline at zero. However, evidence indicates that BNDES did
support investments in renewable energy prior to the SEM DPL. BNDES’s 2012 Annual
Report provides data showing that the bank disbursed R$ 5.7 billion for renewable energy
and energy efficiency in 2008, and R$ 6.1 billion in 2012. While BNDES should be
recognized for its significant support for these investments, the incremental change over the
period is relatively minor (BNDES 2012, BNDES presentation to the IAEA 2013). The
biggest share of BNDES’s renewable energy investments—totaling R$7.1 billion in 2012—
continues to go to large hydropower dams, which as described elsewhere continue to suffer
from important adverse environmental and social consequences as a result of weak
safeguards. But BNDES deserves credit for increasing its investments in other forms of
renewable energy as well.

4.63 It should be noted that the target for this policy area is specific to BNDES, and has
little relation to the prior action on introducing the Integrated Environmental Assessment
(IEA) methodology in the Brazilian national Handbook of the Electricity Sector’s Inventory.
The IEA methodology was apparently included in the Handbook of the Electricity Sector’s
Inventory in December 2007 (a year before the SEM DPL). The World Bank had been
engaging on this issue through its analytical work under other activities (see for example
World Bank 2008). It is not clear that the World Bank’s recommendations were fully
captured by the new IEA methodology. The World Bank, as elsewhere in the world, had
promoted a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) approach, which would examine the
70
     http://www.ana.gov.br/prodes/default.asp
                                              44


potential environmental, social, and economic—as well as technical—impacts of
hydroelectric dams at various sites along an entire river basin, and use the results to inform
decisions about whether, where and what to build. The approach that Brazil continues to use
has been criticized for selecting sites first based on technical engineering grounds, and only
then attempting to estimate the environmental, social, and economic implications.

4.64 In some areas, Brazil has made good progress on this sub-objective, including
significantly reducing deforestation and increasing water quality monitoring. It is often less
clear whether this progress can be attributed to the SEM DPL, particularly in the case of the
decreased deforestation. In other areas, such as using the water quality information to
prioritize investments, or expanding the PRODES wastewater treatment program, intended
outcomes have still not been achieved. Overall, the Achievement of Objective B is rated as
Modest.




5. Ratings
Outcome
5.1     The Relevance of Objectives is rated Substantial due to the importance of improving
management of the environment for Brazil and consistency with the CPS that prevailed at the
time of loan closing. But because of weaknesses in the results framework, project logic, and
choice of instrument, the Relevance of Design is rated Negligible.

5.2     In its justification for assigning the loan an overall outcome rating of “satisfactory”,
the ICR states that “the results obtained on the environmental management front are
particularly relevant for Brazil. BNDES now systematically screens, approves and monitors
all projects according to the BNDES new Environmental and Social Institutional Policy.” Yet
IEG found no evidence either of improved screening by BNDES or more importantly of
improved environmental and social outcomes from its investments. The ICR provided no
information on other financial institutions. For other policy areas such as those related to
mainstreaming climate change and improving water quality, the reforms seem to have stalled,
with no evidence of outcomes. For remaining policy areas such as reducing deforestation,
Brazil has achieved success, but this could not be attributed to the SEM DPL. The
Achievement of Objective A under the operation suffered from severe shortcomings, with a
consistent lack of evidence that it achieved its objectives, and was therefore rated Negligible,
while the Achievement of Objective B suffered from major shortcomings and was rated
Modest.

5.3     Overall, much more should have been expected in terms of outcomes from the largest
ever single World Bank loan to Brazil, for US$ 1.3 billion. A Substantial rating for
Relevance of Objectives, one Modest and one Negligible rating for Achievement of the
Objectives, and a rating of Negligible for Relevance of Design, leads to the SEM DPL being
rated Unsatisfactory for the Outcome.
                                              45


Risk to Development Outcome
5.4    In general, as discussed in detail in the Achievement of Objectives section, the
relevant outcomes that could be attributed to the SEM DPL operation were limited, so there
are fewer achievements to sustain. For some of the policy areas, there appears to be good
government ownership and momentum, because actions began well before the SEM DPL—
including in some cases under the earlier Env PRL DPL–and continue today. But little of this
could be attributed to the SEM DPL in the first place. Examples include reducing
deforestation, increasing water quality monitoring, and providing BNDES financing for
renewable energy investments.

5.5     In other areas, progress has been slower than expected. The revision of the National
Plan on Climate Change that Government committed to is years behind schedule, progress on
development and implementation of the sectoral action plans is lacking, and the withdrawal
of CSOs from the consultations has cast doubts on the process. However, the Government
now reports that some sectoral plans have been developed and that approval of the revised
National Plan is imminent. The intermittent funding for and uptake of the PRODES program
has meant that the growth of that innovative mechanism to finance sanitation has lagged
behind expectations. For the financial sector, the implementation of the 2008 revision to the
Green Protocol supported by the SEM DPL was put on hold, and its contents fell short of
international standards.

5.6      With regard to some policy actions, there is greater uncertainty. For example, a very
different, new Forest Code was approved by the Brazilian government in 2012. Though some
of the changes are controversial, implementation mechanisms are still being developed and it
remains to be seen how this will affect deforestation in the Amazon and elsewhere (Soares-
Filho and others, 2014). With regard to the strengthening of environmental institutions, the
evidence indicates that Brazil’s main Federal environmental agencies continue to suffer from
institutional, legal, and human resources problems.

5.7     As for the key actions aimed at improving BNDES’s environmental and social
management system, not only did progress fall short under the SEM DPL, it has continued to
lag in the intervening years. A prime example is the sectoral guidelines that were supposed to
be developed under the SEM DPL program in order to provide detailed instructions on
application of BNDES’s new environmental and social policies. Of the thirteen guidelines
promised in the Program Document, only three have been developed. In addition, the
resolution BNDES approved to govern the application of the new guidelines (Resolution
2022) does not state that they are binding. Overall, there is almost no evidence that BNDES
has improved its environmental and social management system in practice. At the same time,
BNDES reports that it has maintained or continued to develop policies and institutions
related to its environmental and social management system. The challenge remains for
BNDES to put these changes into practice in order to improve the outcomes of its
investments.

5.8    Risk to Development Outcome is rated Moderate.
                                             46


Bank Performance
Quality at Entry

5.9     Quality of program logic: In some cases, it can be seen as a positive for the World
Bank to be responsive to the changing needs and priorities of Borrowers by being flexible in
the design of operations and the instrument employed, within the requirements of World
Bank policies and procedures. In the case of this operation, the objectives changed
significantly from an effort to finance BNDES’s investments while improving its
environmental and social standards, to a broad-based improvement in the national
environment. In making that transition, the World Bank team tried to quickly merge elements
of both concepts, and in the process ended up with a muddled program logic that made it
unclear what the operation was trying to achieve.

5.10 Learning from previous operations: The Program Document has a section that
explains how the SEM DPL team has learned from the experience of the first World Bank
environmental DPL with Brazil, the First Env PRL that was approved in 2004. The SEM
DPL Program Document goes so far as to say that “this operation is based to a large degree
on the lessons extracted from the Env PRL I”. Nevertheless, as mentioned in the Relevance
of Design section, a major shortcoming in the design of the SEM DPL was the lack of
learning from the lessons of the Env PRL. The Env PRL had similar objectives, similar
policy areas, and used the same instrument. But the World Bank team proceeded with
preparation of the SEM DPL without having properly evaluated and completed the required
full ICR of the Env PRL. Not having learned the lessons of why the Env PRL series was
canceled after the first loan, they repeated the same mistake, designing the SEM DPL as a
programmatic series that was again canceled after the first loan.

5.11 The World Bank team also designed the SEM DPL with many of the same policy
areas—and some very similar policy actions—as the Env PRL. But without a comprehensive
evaluation of the status of actions and outcomes from the Env PRL, there was a lack of
determination of what had already been accomplished under the policy areas and what was
yet to be completed, and more importantly what the outcomes were.

5.12 Inclusion of unattributable policy actions: As indicated in the Good Practice Note
for Development Policy Lending: Designing Development Policy Operations, and confirmed
in discussions with OPCS, actions included in a DPO policy matrix must be the result of the
World Bank’s engagement in relation to the DPO, for example through dialogue, analytical
work, or technical assistance provided. In the case of the SEM DPL, as established for many
of the policy areas in the Achievement of the Objectives section above, the Bank team
included multiple policy actions that took place well before the preparation of the SEM DPL
began, or that were already supported by the Env PRL.

5.13 Timing and readiness: Once it was decided to change the loan instrument to a DPL,
the operation was prepared very quickly, with the Program Document being finalized within
four months and approved by the Board in less than five months. The loan then sat for nearly
15 months with no disbursements due to a delay in effectiveness. The ICR states that “the
delay was caused by the Borrower not having formally requested the reflection of the receipt
                                               47


of the Loan funds in its 2009 federal budget.” But given the large number of operations that
the Bank has with Brazil, including DPLs, the Bank team should have been more aware of
this risk at entry, and ensured that any Brazilian legal prerequisites were in place prior to
approval of the loan. The additional time could have been usefully employed to improve the
quality of the operation. The three months originally allotted between disbursement of
Tranche 1 and Tranche 2 also appears inadequate given the many Tranche 2 release
conditions, a number of which would have been challenging for the client to implement.

5.14 Sequencing and backloading of reforms: One difference in design between the
SEM DPL and the Env PRL was that the SEM DPL divided the first loan into two tranches,
so that even though there were long delays in the disbursement of the second tranche,
eventually the Bank team certified that the tranche release conditions were met. Dividing the
first loan into two tranches appears to have increased the motivation for the government to
continue with the loan through the second tranche because they had already signed the loan
agreement that covered both tranches. Nevertheless, full implementation of many of the
reforms was not foreseen until SEM DPL 2, which was designed as a separate loan, and
which was canceled. This is contrary to OPCS guidance, which advises teams to spread
critical reform steps evenly across loans in a programmatic series.

5.15 Identification and mitigation of risks: The Bank team underestimated the risk of
“the possibility of the reform agenda not being carried out by BNDES” rating it “moderate to
substantial” (World Bank Program Document, 2009), and did not follow through on
promised mitigation actions. The main mitigation response described in the Program
Document was the provision of technical assistance and capacity building to BNDES through
the “substantial expansion” of the separate Environmental Technical Assistance (ENV TAL)
Project. However, the ICR for the ENV TAL, which is now also closed, makes no mention of
any support provided to BNDES, and the ENV TAL was never expanded (World Bank
2011b). 71 The Bank team approached the risk as a technical problem (i.e., how to carry out
the reforms), rather than as a risk of lack of political will both inside BNDES and in the
Brazilian Government to fully carry out the reform agenda that could result in the slowing or
limiting of certain investments at a time when the PAC was calling for major increases in
BNDES financing for large infrastructure investments. The Program Document also states
that an overall risk mitigation factor for the SEM DPL is “the factor of continuity with the
Env PRL I of all policy areas.” This is not accurate, as the Env PRL I did not include policy
actions related to BNDES’s environmental and social management systems, which is where
the greatest risks lay.

5.16 As noted above, the SEM DPL was a loan to the federal government and was
supposed to support policy actions primarily at the federal level, but implementation of many
of the policies depends at least in part on state and municipal governments. It should have
been considered important therefore for the SEM DPL team to coordinate closely with the
National Environment Project, which was supposed to provide capacity building for state and
municipal environment agencies, and to help ensure its successful implementation in tandem
with the SEM DPL. As noted above, the SEM DPL Program Document makes only a single
71
  In fact, the ENV TAL had only disbursed about 65 percent of its original commitments when it was
closed.
                                               48


sentence reference to the National Environment Project. Phase 2 of NEP II was approved in
September 2009, but by the end of 2013 it had disbursed less than 7 percent of its funds and
its progress was rated “unsatisfactory”. The potential failure of this project to provide needed
support to local governments was never identified as a risk by the SEM DPL team, and
coordination on the operations was apparently not adequate to ensure that they both
progressed adequately. In interviews with IEG, stakeholders in Brazil frequently cited the
continued lack of capacity at these local government levels as a significant weakness in
Brazil’s environmental management system.

5.17 Collaboration and coordination with partners: “Coordination with Development
Partners” is a requirement of OP 8.60. At the time of the preparation of this loan, the IFC had
already been engaged with BNDES in a dialogue on improving BNDES’s environmental and
social standards through the adoption of the Equator Principles, which are based on IFC’s
Performance Standards, and IFC had invited BNDES to be part of IFC’s Performance
Standards Community of Learning. Since BNDES finances both private and public
investments, there would have been advantages to learning from IFC’s approach. Other
public and private banks in Brazil have already adopted the Equator Principles. The SEM
DPL Program Document makes no mention of IFC’s dialogue with BNDES on their
environmental and social system. Adoption of the Equator Principles could have been a
policy action under the loan, and would have saved BNDES from “reinventing the wheel” in
developing its policies, and would have integrated them in an established community of
practice. Instead, the Bank team neglected to incorporate IFC in its engagement with BNDES
on environmental and social issues, and BNDES’s engagement with IFC on these issues
stalled. There was in general a lack of coordination between IBRD and IFC on engagement
with BNDES on its environmental and social management system.

5.18 More generally, there are numerous other organizations working on environmental
issues in Brazil, including other IFIs as well as important bilateral and civil society donors.
The SEM DPL could have been used as an opportunity to enhance coordination and
partnership across these organizations. But according to the Program Document and ICR, no
other partners were included.

5.19 Mitigation of adverse environmental and social impacts: In general, the SEM
DPL Program Document attempts to address environmental and social issues by arguing that
“the policies and reforms supported by this operation are likely to have a significant positive
impact.” Nevertheless, the Program Document identified several potential social and
environmental threats related to specific policy areas targeted by the SEM DPL (pp. 51-58).
On the social (and poverty) side, the Program Document identified potential adverse impacts
including restricted access resulting from the creation of protected areas; increased water
tariffs as a result of policy reforms; and loss of “habitat” by indigenous communities as a
result of hydroelectric sector development in the Amazon. With regard to the environment,
potential adverse impacts identified in the Program Document include deforestation
associated with the expansion of the ethanol sector; “habitat degradation” related to the
expansion of hydropower; and deforestation arising from unclear guidelines for logging.

5.20 For the potential adverse environmental and social impacts identified, the Program
Document describes mitigation measures that will be put into effect in association with the
                                                  49


loan. These include actions such as improvements to the environmental licensing process,
increasing transparency and civil society participation, support for sustainable forestry
practices, the adoption of improved BNDES environmental and social guidelines for a
variety of sectors, and improvements to basin-wide integrated planning of the hydroelectric
sector.

5.21 Of particular importance, the Program Document acknowledges “BNDES’ significant
role in financing projects and enterprises which engage in activities with potential adverse
environmental impacts” (p. 57). In response to this concern, the Program Document states
that “the proposed operation is expected to have a leveraged impact: the full spectrum of
BNDES over 70 financial agents is expected to observe the same improved environmental
and social policies to be adopted by BNDES with support from this operation.” This seems to
indicate that all of BNDES’s “indirect” investments through financial intermediaries, or
“financial agents”, will also be covered by the improved environmental and social system,
but in reality this was not the case. Both the SEM DPL policy actions described in the
Program Document and the GOB’s Letter of Development Policy indicate that only
BNDES’s directly financed operations would be covered. 72 In the same section, the Program
Document also cites the adoption of a number of environmental and social sectoral
guidelines by BNDES as mitigation actions, including for agriculture, sanitation, and
renewable energy/hydropower, but there is no evidence (including on BNDES’s own
website) that BNDES has approved any sectoral guidelines other than for livestock, ethanol,
and thermoelectric (and even for those there is no evidence of implementation or results).

5.22 If this loan had continued to be prepared as a FIL—a type of investment lending
instrument—as proposed in the two Concept Notes issued in June and September 2008, the
operation would have had to adhere to the World Bank’s OP 8.30, which among other things
requires removal of interest rate subsidies, application of World Bank policies on
environmental and social safeguards, and financial management and procurement, to the loan
and all sub-projects financed. 73 In their written comments, reviewers of the Concept Note
were critical with regard to these requirements and BNDES’s ability to meet them, including
because BNDES supplies loans at subsidized interest rates, and because one of the main
rationales for the operation was that BNDES’s environmental and social policies were weak.

5.23 As a result of the SEM DPL loan, the resources were transferred in their entirety to
BNDES and used to finance its investment operations, as discussed in the Background
section and Annex H. The environmental and social requirements of OP 8.60 address only
the potential impacts of the policy reforms supported by DPLs, and not the potential impacts
of the financing, because it is assumed that under budget support operations, there are no
investments with “footprints” to be concerned about. But in this case, the US$ 1.3 billion
SEM DPL financing used by BNDES to finance its investment operations could have had a
significant footprint, particularly considering the many large infrastructure investments that
BNDES finances. According to the official interpretation of OP 8.60, all lending is fungible,

72
  As discussed in the Achievement of Outcomes section, BNDES now reports that it applies the
policies to “non-automatic indirect operations”, but not to “automatic indirect operations”.
73
     OP 8.30 was replaced by OP 10.00 - Investment Project Financing, in April 2013.
                                              50


and the government can do whatever it wants with the money, so there is no connection
between the DPL and the money that the government on-lent to BNDES. But this is
inconsistent with a common-sense view that the funds were in fact earmarked for BNDES,
given that: a) there were explicit legal provisions and contracts to transfer the DPL resources
to BNDES on similar terms to the World Bank’s; b) BNDES stated that these resources were
used “to complement the BNDES disbursement budget”; and c) BNDES’s lending increased.
The potential environmental and social impacts of the investments financed are unexamined,
and this created reputational risks for the Bank, as evidenced by the many complaints this
loan generated from a diversity of civil society organizations, and echoed by development
partners (see discussion under Quality of Supervision below).

5.24 Inconsistency between results promised and actions supported: With regard to the
policy area to “Improve the effectiveness of environmental and social management systems
in BNDES and other financial institutions”, it was already explained in Section 2 that there
was an inordinate focus in the policy actions on BNDES. Even for BNDES alone, the policy
actions and indicator that were included in the policy matrix are substantially less ambitious
than what was promised. At the time the Program Document was written, two-thirds of
BNDES’s lending was done indirectly, through financial intermediaries. The Program
Document (p. 44) promised that the SEM DPL would target “the promotion of greater
facilitation of sustainable investments (directly through BNDES and indirectly),” and later
(p. 21) states that “a trigger for the SEM DPL II would be that BNDES apply the new
Environmental and Social Institutional Policy to its full portfolio, including operations
managed by its financial intermediaries…” The actual outcome indicator for improvement of
BNDES’s environmental and social systems, however, applied only to “projects submitted
directly to BNDES.” So not even the majority of BNDES's investments were subject to the
actions supported under the SEM DPL.

5.25 Analytic underpinnings: OP 8.60 states that “a development policy operation draws
on relevant analytic work…”, including explicitly on “social impacts of proposed policies,
environment and natural resource management”. The Bank team was able to draw on
extensive analytical work produced over the years as a result of the Bank’s many
environmental activities in Brazil over the years, as described in the SEM DPL Program
Document section IV.E. Analytical Underpinnings. Much of this analytical work was on
topics related to the management of forest resources and Amazon conservation, as well as
additional work on water resources, sanitation, energy, and environmental licensing. A
notable exception is the absence of any analytical work on BNDES or “other financial
institutions” and their environmental and social management systems, despite the prominent
role that BNDES in particular was supposed to play in the operation, and the significant risks
involved. The Bank also lacked an overall environment strategy for Brazil that could help to
prioritize reforms. As noted above, the design of the SEM DPL did not include the
recommendations of the environmental licensing study that was completed not long
beforehand.

5.26 Absence of consultation, transparency, and disclosure measures: An important
aspect of environmental and social management at development Banks such as the World
Bank is the establishment of policies and procedures for consultations, transparency, and
disclosure of potential impacts and mitigation measures. Yet, despite the absence of such
                                              51


measures at BNDES, the SEM DPL policy matrix did not contain any actions related to these
important aspects of a modern environmental and social management system. And as
analyzed in detail in Annex E, neither BNDES’s new environmental and social policy nor the
Green Protocol contained such measures.

5.27 There are also requirements for “Consultations and Participation” spelled out in the
Bank’s OP 8.60 for all DPLs. The SEM DPL Program Document provides a description of
the GOB’s consultation process on its 2008-2011 Multiyear Plan, as well as other national
processes and plans, as evidence for relevant consultations. But there is no evidence of
consultations related to BNDES or its environmental and social systems, and no evidence
that the Bank team supported a robust consultation process as part of preparation. OP 8.60
also contains a requirement that “Relevant analytic work conducted by the Bank, particularly
on poverty and social impacts and on environmental aspects, is made available to the public
as part of the consultation process” (World Bank OP 8.60). IEG could find no evidence that
this was done in relation to the SEM DPL. The lack of consultation, transparency and
disclosure were some of the main complaints leveled against the World Bank and the SEM
DPL by an array of civil society organizations in letters to World Bank management.

5.28 Finally, none of the World Bank’s SEM DPL documents—including the Program
Document and ICR—mentions that the operation was previously considered using different
instruments and beneficiaries, and that all of the funds were on-lent by the Brazilian
government to BNDES. In the interest of transparency, it would have been preferable for the
World Bank team to provide that information in the SEM DPL program documentation.

5.29   Quality at Entry is rated Unsatisfactory.

Quality of Supervision

5.30 Five supervision missions were conducted, with 30 weeks of Bank staff input. Eight
months after approval, with zero disbursements, the Implementation Supervision and Results
Report (ISR) still rated performance on DO as satisfactory and on IP as moderately
satisfactory. It was only after more than one year without disbursements that these ratings
dropped to Moderately Unsatisfactory and Unsatisfactory respectively. The early ratings now
appear overly optimistic and not fully candid.

5.31 The Bank team blamed the delay in effectiveness of the operation on the Borrower
and delays in its budget legislation. Since there were only three months planned originally
between release of Tranche 1 and release of Tranche 2, the nearly 15 month delay in Tranche
1 should have provided more than adequate time for the Bank team to ensure that Tranche 2
release conditions were also met, and the tranches could have been released at around the
same time. Yet by the time of the Tranche 1 release, the Tranche 2 conditions apparently still
had not been met, and required more than five months of additional time, resulting in a delay
of more than 17 months compared to the originally planned Tranche 2 release date—even
greater than for Tranche 1.

5.32 Although the problems related to the Brazilian budget and loan approval process were
eventually addressed, and both tranches of SEM DPL 1 were disbursed, the Bank team was
                                              52


not able to continue the engagement with the client necessary to ensure continued momentum
under the planned SEM DPL 2. The different explanations provided for this by the Bank
team are not very convincing. The ICR states that because disbursement of SEM DPL 1 was
so delayed, the preparation of SEM DPL 2 “was not started in time to meet [the] required
follow-up preparation timeframe of two years from World Bank’s Board approval” (which
would have meant March 2011). It continues that “a follow-up operation would fall into the
next CPS implementation period, within which it would no longer be a priority activity to
either the Bank or the Client”, but in the next paragraph states that GOB continues to
implement the main policies. It is not clear how the improvement of Brazil’s environmental
management system could go from being a major priority to justify the original operation and
its disbursement to no longer being a priority in the course of two years. In interviews, Bank
Brazil Country Office staff stated that the reason for the cancelation of SEM DPL 2 was that
the client’s priority was now to provide budget and other support at the state level rather than
the federal level, because that’s where the needs are the greatest. However, this was already
known at the time of preparation of the 2008-2011 CPS (p. 10) and did not prevent both
parties from agreeing to the SEM DPL program in the first place. Moreover, since the SEM
DPL resources went to BNDES it meant that they were used to finance investments at the
local level anyway. Overall, the ICR provides little analysis of why the second loan in a
Brazil environmental DPL series was canceled for the second time in a row.

5.33 The Bank could have been more candid in reporting on the performance of the
SEM DPL, including in the Second Tranche Release Document and the ICR. As described in
detail in Section 4, Achievement of the Objectives, the SEM DPL in many cases fell short in
implementing the reform program described in the Program Document. For example, the
Tranche Release Document (para. 19) for the second tranche states that “a supplementing
resolution on the Structure and Use of Environmental and Social Guidelines (Resolution
2022/10) gives binding force [emphasis added] to all the sectoral guidelines including those
that BNDES has designed for three sectors under the scope of the SEM DPL I.” However,
that is not stated in the resolution. On the contrary, the introduction to Resolution 2022
states: “The guidelines have an instructional character and their content does not create
obligations additional to the existing Brazilian legislation and Resolutions from BNDES
Directorate”. This seems to indicate that the sectoral guidelines are voluntary.

5.34 Also for release of the second tranche, BNDES was supposed to apply its new
environmental and social policy to all of its directly financed operations. This is a critical
action that was not addressed in the Second Tranche Release Document, and no evidence that
BNDES was meeting it was found by IEG.

5.35 In the case of their ICR, in some cases the Bank team did not fully and accurately
report information provided by the implementing agencies as input to the ICR. Examples
include the failure to mention that the PRODES program had not been funded; that BNDES
reported screening of projects according to its new environmental and social system for a
period of only three months, and that it excluded indirectly financed investments and foreign
investments with potentially serious environmental and social implications; and that the
emission reductions from carbon investments were reported as a total instead of the increase
over the baseline that the indicator targeted.
                                              53


5.36 The incomplete evidence of full implementation of SEM DPL actions, combined with
limited transparency and public consultations, led to civil society organizations raising
serious questions about the loan. For example, a letter dated Dec. 17, 2010 was sent to the
World Bank Regional Vice President, with copy to the World Bank Country Director and
others, and signed by thirty Brazilian and international CSOs. It stated that “the purpose of
this letter is to communicate the existence of serious problems and to request clarifications
and other needed actions from the World Bank regarding Loan Agreement No. 7660-BR in
the amount of USD 1.3 billion for the SEM DPL 1.” The letter goes on to request that “the
second disbursement of the SEM DPL 1 for USD 500 million should not be approved by the
World Bank…we convey our extreme concern [emphasis from original] with the lack of
evidence regarding implementation of BNDES social and environmental safeguards policies
in emblematic cases, such as the unprecedented subsidized loan for the USD 14.7 billion
Belo Monte Hydroelectric Complex, whose approval was signaled prior to completion of
technical analysis of the project.” The CSOs requested a dialogue with the Bank team on
these issues, disclosure of the detailed evidence used to justify the disbursement of the loan,
and a hold on disbursement of the second tranche. World Bank Management responded and
in at least one case did provide essentially the same evidence that the World Bank team used
to justify the second tranche release internally. But the evidence fell short of what the CSOs
had expected, and Bank Management offered the possibility of dialogue only in the context
of the preparation of the SEM DPL 2 loan, which never materialized. In the midst of this
exchange, the Bank disbursed the second tranche of SEM DPL 1 without informing civil
society, and quickly closed the operation a few weeks later. This generated a great deal of
controversy and suspicion on the part of the CSO community that continues to this day,
including in entire reports critical of the loan produced by CSOs, and echoed by important
development partners (Library of the EU Parliament 2013; BICECA 2011; Rainforest
Foundation UK).

5.37 Despite the broad, active CSO community in Brazil that has an interest in the
environment in general and in the SEM DPL in particular, and the potential impacts of the
operation on stakeholders, the World Bank team’s ICR left blank the annexes on
“Beneficiary Survey Results”, “Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results”, and “Comments
of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders”.

5.38 Supervision of environmental and social impacts was inadequate. As noted
above, the SEM DPL Program Document describes an array of potential adverse
environmental and social impacts from the reforms supported, as well as mitigation measures
that will be put in place in association with the loan, as required by OP 8.60 (paragraphs 10
and 11). However, OP 8.60 is less clear on requirements for monitoring and evaluating the
actual environmental and social impacts of DPLs and the efficacy of the mitigation measures.
OPCS has confirmed to IEG that there is currently no explicit requirement for monitoring or
evaluation of environmental and social aspects of DPLs. There is however OPCS Good
Practice Note 4 on Environmental and Natural Resource Aspects of Development Policy
Lending, which was prepared in 2004, and suggests that with regard to potential effects on
the environment, DPLs should have “an explicit monitoring and evaluation strategy to review
                                                54


progress during, as well as beyond, implementation” (OPCS 2004). 74 In the case of the SEM
DPL, despite the importance of the mitigation measures proposed in the Program Document
and the environmental and social impacts of the policy areas, there is no follow-up discussion
in either the ISRs or ICR of any of the potential adverse impacts identified in the Program
Document, mitigation measures implemented, or their efficacy. As discussed above, the
extent of the implementation of a number of the mitigation measures is questionable.
Moreover, the potential adverse impacts generated by the financing of BNDES investments
were never acknowledged in any Bank documents, and therefore not mitigated or monitored.

5.39 The Bank supervision team also appears to lack the participation of a qualified social
expert for many of the missions, even though one of the objectives was to improve BNDES’s
social as well as environmental management systems, and other policies promoted by the
loan (such as the increase in protected areas) have important social implications. For
example, ISR #3, dated 05/17/2010, states that “The Bank team has held several
meetings…related to (i) development of an overall BNDES social policy to be integrated to
its environmental policy, (ii) environmental and social traceability requirements related to
cattle ranching, …” [emphasis added], but the mission did not include a social development
specialist. The World Bank’s ICR also lists an environmental and social specialist as part of
the supervision team, but when contacted by IEG, the staff member reported never having
participated in supervision.

5.40 The ISRs also regularly neglected to report on the “Progress to Date” of many or even
any of the outcome indicators for the SEM DPL, as required. They also did not flag for
management attention the lack of progress on the M&E system for the loan (see M&E
section below), or take action to ensure that the M&E system promised in the Program
Document was actually implemented.

5.41   Quality of Supervision is rated Unsatisfactory.

5.42 In light of the many Quality at Entry problems and the lack of success in addressing
the problems or continuing the engagement during Supervision, Overall Bank Performance
is rated Unsatisfactory.

Borrower Performance
Government Performance

5.43 Although the SEM DPL project documents list the Ministry of Finance (MOF) as
well as the Ministry of Environment and BNDES as implementing agencies, MOF was
primarily responsible for the flow of funds and there were no policy actions related to it.

5.44 Delay in effectiveness: The ICR (pages 8, 16) attributes the delay in effectiveness of
more than 14 months for the SEM DPL 1 to the government (World Bank 2011). The long
delay undermined part of the rational for a DPL as fast-disbursing budget support. The

74
  According to OPCS, there is no requirement in OP 8.60 to monitor and evaluate the social and
environmental impacts of DPLs or the efficacy of mitigation measures.
                                               55


reported cause relating to the lack of inclusion of the SEM DPL in the budget indicates
inadequate planning on the part of the government, and the issue was not dealt with in a
timely manner, with the ICR (page 8) criticizing the “extraordinarily lengthy” senate
approval process.

5.45 Cancelation of the series: The ICR (page 16) also lays responsibility for cancelation
of SEM DPL 2 on the Brazilian government and the effectiveness delays that it caused,
stating that “the 14 month delay of Effectiveness affected the possibility of carrying out the
second operation of the SEM DPL series as designed.” The cancelation after the first loan of
an environmental DPL series that the Government had committed to—for the second time in
a matter of years—combined with the lack of progress on a number of environmental policy
areas discussed in Section 4, indicates uncertainty and a degree of lack of commitment by the
Government to the SEM DPL reform agenda. As discussed in the Risk to Development
Outcome section, this appears to have had an adverse impact. In particular, though the
Ministry of Finance is one of the most important sources of BNDES’s capital, there is no
evidence that it used its influence to encourage BNDES to improve its environmental and
social management system in a timely manner..

5.46 In comments, the Brazilian government stated that SEM DPL 2 did not materialize
due to their decision to prioritize borrowing for subnational units (states and municipalities)
rather than for the federal government. That was the same reasoning given in interviews for
the cancelation of the earlier Env PRL series. Moreover, the World Bank-Brazil Country
Partnership Strategy for 2008-2011, approved in May 2008, almost a year before the SEM
DPL, already stated that “the federal government wants the focus of the IBRD program to
change to one in which there is…a major lending program with states, on state priorities,”
and SEM DPL 1 was approved as a loan to the federal government nearly a year later
anyway (World Bank 2008).

5.47 Monitoring and evaluation: According to the design of the SEM DPL as described
in the Program Document, “in order to monitor this operation and the entire SEM DPL
series, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environment will use the monitoring
system developed through the [Env TAL] project….” The Program Document also promised
that the system would be “web-based and open to the public”. As indicated in the ICR, the
promised system was never implemented “due to unforeseen bureaucratic delays in
contracting the information technology firm.” The Borrower’s comments on the ICR
consisted of only three sentences (ICR Annex 5).

5.48 Progress on the Green Protocol: One SEM DPL area where the federal government
was supposed to play a central role was on the revision and implementation of the Green
Protocol. However, as discussed in Section 4, there was little follow-up on the revised Green
Protocol and all indications are that it has now been abandoned. The lack of follow-up is an
indication of insufficient federal government ownership.

5.49   Government Performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

Implementing Agency Performance
                                                 56


5.50 The implementing agencies responsible for carrying out the policy actions were
MMA and BNDES. MMA does not appear to have had much direct engagement with the
World Bank on the SEM DPL. But it does appear to have carried out, or is continuing to
carry out, a number of the policy actions that appear in the SEM DPL Policy Matrix—some
in relation to the previous Env PRL, many of its own accord—though these could not be
attributed to the SEM DPL in most cases.

5.51 Lack of progress at BNDES: BNDES was the agency responsible for most of the
actions attributable to the SEM DPL, and was the recipient of all of the funds. One of the
main justifications for the loan was BNDES’s reported commitment to improving its
environmental and social systems. However, in reality BNDES’s progress in this regard has
been much slower and more limited than promised. As just one example, one of the pillars of
BNDES’s new and improved environmental and social management system was to be the
development of 13 sectoral guidelines under the SEM DPL. Five years later, BNDES has still
only developed three guidelines. BNDES also remains highly opaque with regard to sharing
information on its investments in general and environmental and social management aspects
in particular.

5.52 Areas of shortfalls at the Ministry of Environment: MMA also demonstrated less-
than-promised progress in some areas under their aegis. Those included mainstreaming
action on climate change adaptation and mitigation in public and private sector investments,
and improving the environmental licensing process. Issues with the Brazilian environmental
licensing process in particular are long-standing (they were also highlighted in the Env PRL
Program Document), yet evidence of progress in addressing them is scant.

5.53 Monitoring and evaluation: As noted above, the monitoring and evaluation system
promised in the SEM DPL Program Document never materialized. That was supposed to be
primarily the responsibility of the MMA, which was also the Implementing Agency for the
Env TAL that was supposed to finance the monitoring and evaluation system.

5.54 Absence of consultation and participation: As discussed in the Bank Performance
section above, OP8.60 includes requirements on consultations and participation. As part of
this, the Bank team is supposed to advise the Borrower “to consult with and engage the
participation of key stakeholders in the country….” But the Borrower also has an important
role to play. There is no evidence that this was done by BNDES in the context of the SEM
DPL. This was especially important because well before the SEM DPL CSO had been highly
critical of BNDES’s environmental and social systems, its lack of consultations with civil
society, and its lack of transparency. 75 But there is no evidence in the project documents of
efforts by BNDES to address these concerns through consultations with stakeholders.
BNDES reports no system for monitoring its environmental and social policy
implementation. More generally, as mentioned in the Bank Performance section above, the
ICR annexes on “Beneficiary Survey Results”, “Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results”,
and “Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders” were all left blank.


75
 See for example Spink 2013 for a recent history of the mostly fruitless efforts of CSOs to get
BNDES to become more transparent and engage with civil society.
                                              57


5.55   Implementing Agency Performance is rated Unsatisfactory.

5.56 Given that Government Performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory and
Implementing Agency Performance is rated Unsatisfactory, overall Borrower Performance
is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

Monitoring and Evaluation
5.57 There were problems with the design of the M&E system to begin with, since
responsibility was assigned to the project management unit from another project under
MMA, and there is no information that BNDES was included in the plans. Indicators were
flawed and did not reflect outcomes. The monitoring system promised in the Program
Document was never implemented. Since no M&E system was implemented, it does not
appear that appropriate data were used to inform decision-making. The lack of an M&E
system also hindered the measurement and communication of any SEM DPL results to
stakeholders. The important potential adverse environmental and social impacts and
mitigation measures described in the Program Document appear not to have been monitored.
The MMA was designated as the sole agency responsible for monitoring, even though it has
no direct responsibility over the monitoring of BNDES’s internal processes and portfolio
environmental and social performance, beyond the licensing process.

5.58 The “outcome indicators” for the SEM DPL series in many cases are not sufficient to
measure achievement of the operation’s objectives. An important example is in relation to
sub-objective A.iii, “improve the effectiveness of environmental and social management
systems in BNDES and other financial institutions.” The outcome indicator target was that
“100 percent of the projects submitted directly to BNDES screened, approved and monitored
according to the new Environmental and Social Institutional Policy”. First, measuring the
way projects are screened, approved and monitored is not the same as measuring
environmental and social outcomes. Second, while the sub-objective targets “other financial
institutions” in addition to BNDES, the indicator only relates to BNDES. Another example is
in relation to sub-objective A.i, “improve effectiveness of government agencies in
implementing mandated Brazilian environmental and social management procedures.” The
original indicator on the number of judicial challenges to environmental licenses by the
Public Processor’s Office was not being met (and, as reported in the ICR, was ultimately not
met). The indicator was changed to “number of environmental licenses issued at the Federal
level”. This is not a good measure of the intended outcomes. For example, a greater number
of licenses could be issued if standards were lowered, which would not necessarily lead to
improved environmental or social outcomes. No other relevant information on
“effectiveness” or outcomes is provided in the ICR. Interviews with staff of both Federal and
State Public Prosecutor Offices (PPOs; in Portuguese, Ministério Público, or literally "Public
Ministry" ) revealed that in fact the number of lawsuits they file on environmental and social
grounds has been increasing, due both to the poor quality of environmental impact
assessments (EIAs) for investments, as well as a lack of implementation and monitoring of
mitigation measures. The Brazilian PPO is credited with being one of the most important and
effective institutions in representing the public interest and promoting the enforcement of
environmental legislation (Crawford 2009). The public attorneys interviewed by IEG were
critical of the original SEM DPL indicator on environmental licensing. Moreover, these
                                                 58


indicators have no direct relationship with the majority of prior actions under sub-objective
A.i, in particular those related to the Ministry of Environment or the National Biodiversity
Management Institute, since Federal environmental licenses are the responsibility of
IBAMA. 76

5.59 Another example of a poorly designed indicator is for sub-objective A.ii on
mainstreaming climate change. As discussed above, the indicator for this was based on
“planned signed” greenhouse gas emission reductions, firstly from CDM projects. The scale
of the CDM compared to the emission reduction needs of a large economy like Brazil’s is
marginal. While potentially useful as an approach to piloting incentive programs for emission
reduction investments, it was from the beginning limited by its inclusion under the Kyoto
Protocol, and even more so by the fact that the dominant buyer of credits generated by the
CDM is the European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS). The EU announced some
time ago that after the end of 2012, only Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) from projects
hosted by Least Developed Countries (LDCs) would be eligible for the EU ETS, meaning
that Brazil is no longer eligible (Carbon Finance, the World Bank, 2013). Moreover, the
indicator used by the team—“planned signed reductions”—has no meaning in the CDM
lexicon or project cycle, which has very specific steps and requirements for each step. 77 In
interviews with IEG, carbon finance specialists found the use of CDM “planned signed
reductions” an odd indicator for national climate change policy implementation. A more
meaningful indicator for Brazil’s progress in climate change mitigation would have been, for
example, reductions in national emissions, which are inventoried. 78 Finally, “mainstreaming”
climate change should include adaptation, which should be a priority for Brazil, as well as
mitigation, but there is no indicator for adaptation.

5.60 In a number of cases, the Bank team did not fully and accurately report
important monitoring information in the ICR, even when the information was provided as
input to the ICR by the implementing agencies. Specific examples are discussed in the
Quality of Supervision part of Section 5 above. The lack of candor contributes to a
misleading representation of the achievements of the operation.

5.61      Overall, Monitoring and Evaluation is rated Negligible.




6. Lessons
6.1    Certain aspects of the World Bank’s policies and guidance on Development
Policy Lending should be clarified. The lack of clarity with regard to certain aspects of the

76
  http://www.mma.gov.br/governanca-ambiental/portal-nacional-de-licenciamento-
ambiental/licenciamento-ambiental/compet%C3%AAncias-para-o-licenciamento
77
     See UNFCCC: http://cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/pac/index.html
78
  See Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation, Brazil, 2013:
http://www.mct.gov.br/upd_blob/0226/226578.pdf
                                                  59


World Bank’s OP 8.60 and associated guidance notes led to confusion on the part of the
World Bank team, the Borrower, and civil society, as described at various points in this
evaluation. The following questions governing the design, implementation and evaluation of
DPLs should be clarified:

     •   According to the official interpretation, all lending is fungible, and the government
         can do whatever it wants with the money, so there is no connection between the DPL
         and the money that the government on-lent to BNDES. This is inconsistent with the
         common-sense view of the money being transferred to BNDES to complement their
         disbursements. There is a reputational risk to the Bank in such a case, particularly in
         relation to the potential environmental and social impacts of the financing. Such
         impacts are not covered by OP 8.60, which addresses only the potential impacts of
         policy reforms.
     •   The requirements for monitoring and evaluation of potentially adverse social and
         environmental impacts of policies supported under DPLs are also not clear. While
         those impacts and mitigation mechanisms are supposed to be identified in the
         Program Document, the requirements on how to monitor them after the reforms are
         put in place and how to evaluate them in the ICR are not clear.

6.2    Particularly for DPLs focused on reforms in a sector—rather than on macro-
economic stability—the impacts of the actions supported can often not be adequately
perceived within the short timeframe of the loan, making monitoring and evaluation of
outcomes difficult. The tight deadline for submitting an ICR after closure of an operation
often does not allow for additional outcome evidence to be available and collected. It would
be preferable to require that DPL operations wait for a reasonable period either before
closing or before producing an ICR—at least one year—in order to allow for adequate
monitoring and evaluation.

6.3     Back-loading of reforms in a DPL programmatic series can increase the risk of
later loans in the series being canceled without full realization of the objectives of the
series. This appears to be the case with the SEM DPL. “Back-loading” refers to the practice
of placing reforms that are more meaningful and have greater value-added—but are also
often more difficult—later in a DPL series. 79 In this regard, the SEM DPL does not appear to
have benefitted from the lessons of the earlier Brazil environmental DPL, the 2004 Env PRL,
which was planned as a three-loan programmatic series, but was also canceled after the first
loan.

6.4    In future, when attempting to support reforms in state-owned banks like
BNDES that finance both public and private-sector investments, it will be important to
take a “One World Bank Group” approach. BNDES combines characteristics of the
World Bank/IBRD and IFC: it lends both for large public sector infrastructure projects, as

79
  For example, a “back-loaded” DPL series would typically have actions related to carrying out a
study or drafting a law under loan/tranche 1, approving a law under loan/tranche 2, and implementing
the loan under loan 3. For a law to have any impact, it has to be effectively implemented, but this is
typically more difficult than drafting it.
                                             60


well as to the private sector. IFC was engaged in high-level discussions with BNDES on
improving their environmental and social safeguards—including a visit to BNDES by IFC’s
then-Vice President for Business Advisory Services—at the time the Bank began preparation
of the SEM DPL. They were encouraging BNDES to adopt the Equator Principles, derived
from IFC’s Performance Standards, as other Brazilian banks have. By working together with
the IFC, the World Bank could have helped ensure that BNDES adopted environmental and
social standards that were considered as good practice internationally, and that were
appropriate for both public and private investments. It also would have saved BNDES from
having to “re-invent the wheel” by developing its own approach. This is consistent with
IEG’s often-repeated assertion that the IFC and the World Bank should work together more
to increase development effectiveness.

6.5     The level of government targeted by DPL reforms should be consistent with the
outcomes intended and the client country’s institutional structure. Brazil has a federal
system of government. Although many national-level laws and policies are approved by the
central government, implementation depends in large part on lower levels of government—
particularly states and municipalities. That was the case with a number of the policy areas
targeted by the SEM DPL, including improving the environmental licensing process,
improving water quality, and implementing wastewater and solid waste investments. By
limiting itself to federal-level implementing agencies, the SEM DPL had reduced scope to
influence the achievement of objectives related to these policy areas.
                                                             61


        References

AIDA. “Belo Monte hydroelectric dam”. Available at http://www.aida-americas.org/en/project/belomonte (last
       visited 10 September 2013)
Amazon Fund (Fundo Amazonia). “Funded Projects”. Available at:
       http://www.fundoamazonia.gov.br/FundoAmazonia/fam/site_pt/Esquerdo/Projetos_Apoiados/ (last visited
       August 18, 2014).
Amazon Watch. 2010. “Banking Amazon Destruction: BNDES” Available at http://amazonwatch.org/work/bndes
       (last visited 21 August 2013)
Asian Development Bank (ADB). 2012. “Accountability Mechanism: Summary Brochure”. Available at:
        http://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/pub/2012/accountability-mechanism-summary-brochure.pdf
ASIBAMA. 2012. “Carta Aberta do V Congresso de Servidores Federais da Carreira de Especialistas em Meio
      Ambiente”. Available at:
      http://www.asibama.org.br/editor/arquivos/Carta%20aberta_final_V%20CONGRESSO%20ASIBAMA%2
      0NACIONAL.pdf (last visited 20 September 2013)
Banco Central do Brasil.. “Relatorio de Inflacao”. Bacen website. Available at http://www.bcb.gov.br (last visited
       20 September 2013)
BBC News. 2011. “Brazil grants building permit for Belo Monte Amazon dam”. Available at
      “http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-latin-america-13614684”. (last visited 27 July 2013)
BBC News. 2012. “Work to resume on Brazil's Belo Monte dam”. Available at “http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-latin-
      america-19404740”. (last visited 27 September 2013)
BICECA. 2011. “Bulletin October 2011”. Available at http://www.bicusa.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Boletin-
      October-2011.pdf (last visited 15 September 2013)
BIZ. 2011. “BNDES increases disbursements to US$ 870 million for Latin America”. Available at
        http://www.bizusaperu.com/news_details.php?cat=&noti=2458 (last visited 25 September 2013)
Bloomberg Business Week. 2013. “Batista Collapse Has Prosecutors at BNDES’s Door: Brazil Credit”. Available at
       http://www.businessweek.com/news/2013-07-18/batista-collapse-has-prosecutors-at-bndes-s-door-brazil-
       credit (last visited 26 September 2013)
BNDES .2013a. “The Evolution of the BNDES’ Disbursements”. BNDES website. Available at
      http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_en/Institucional/The_BNDES_in_Numbers(last visited
      20 September 2013)
BNDES and Renewables: 60 Years, presentation to the IAEA, 2013. Available at:
      http://www.iea.org/media/workshops/2013/scalingupfinancingtoexpandrenewables/6BNDES%28MariaHel
      ena%29IEARenewableEnergy%2809.04.13%29.pdf (last visited Sept. 28, 2013).
BNDES. “Análise socioambiental de projetos”. BNDES website. Available at
      http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_pt/Institucional/Apoio_Financeiro/Politicas_Transversa
      is/Politica_Socioambiental/analise_ambiental.html (last visited 24 August 2013).
BNDES. “BNDES aprova empréstimo-ponte de R$ 1 bilhão para usina de Belo Monte”. BNDES website. Available
      at
      http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_pt/Institucional/Sala_de_Imprensa/Noticias/2010/energi
      a/20101222_BeloMonte.html (last visited 24 August 2013)
BNDES. “BNDES e o Protocolo Verde”. BNDES website. Available at
      http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_pt/Hotsites/Relatorio_Anual_2011/Capitulos/atuacao_i
      nstitucional/o_bndes_e_protocolo_verde.html (last visited 10 June 2013).
                                                            62

BNDES. “Consulta às operações do BNDES”. BNDES website. Available at
      http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_pt/Institucional/BNDES_Transparente/Consulta_as_op
      eracoes_do_BNDES/ (last visited 24 August 2013)
BNDES. “Critérios socioambientais para apoio ao segmento de geração elétrica”. BNDES website. Available at
      http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_pt/Institucional/Apoio_Financeiro/Politicas_Transversa
      is/Politica_Socioambiental/criterios_socioambientais_geracao.html (last visited 24 August 2013)
BNDES. “Diretrizes da Politca Socioambiental”. BNDES website. Available at
      http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_pt/Institucional/Apoio_Financeiro/Politicas_Transversa
      is/Politica_Socioambiental/diretrizes.html (last visited 24 August 2013).
BNDES. “Diretrizes e critérios ambientais para apoio ao setor de açúcar e álcool”. BNDES website. Available at
      http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_pt/Institucional/Apoio_Financeiro/Politicas_Transversa
      is/Politica_Socioambiental/diretrizes_acucar_alcool.html (last visited 24 August 2013)
BNDES. “Diretrizes socioambientais para pecuaria bovina”. BNDES website. Available at
      http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_pt/Institucional/Apoio_Financeiro/Politicas_Transversa
      is/Politica_Socioambiental/diretrizes_pecuaria_bovina.html (last visited 24 August 2013)
BNDES. “Roteiros e Manuais”. BNDES website. Available at
      http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_pt/Ferramentas_e_Normas/Roteiros_e_Manuais/ (last
      visited 24 August 2013)
BNDES. “Social and Environmental Responsibility”. BNDES website. Available at
      http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_en/Institucional/Social_and_Environmental_Responsibi
      lity/ (last visited 24 August 2013).
BNDES. “Socioenvironmental Policy ”. BNDES website. Available at (last visited 24 August
      2013).http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_en/Institucional/Social_and_Environmental_Res
      ponsibility/environmental_policy.html (last visited 24 August 2013).
BNDES. 2011. “Annual Report 2011”. Available at
      http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_en/Institucional/The_BNDES_in_Numbers/Annual_Re
      port/ (last visited 10 September 2013)
BNDES. 2012. “Annual Report 2012”. Available at:
      http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_en/Institucional/The_BNDES_in_Numbers/Annual_Re
      port/ (last visited August 18, 2014)
BNDES. 2013. “BNDES and Renewables” IEA website. Available at
      http://www.iea.org/media/workshops/2013/scalingupfinancingtoexpandrenewables/6BNDES(MariaHelena)
      IEARenewableEnergy(09.04.13).pdf (last visited 27 September 2013)
BNDES. 2014. “BNDES Mata Atlantica. Available at:
      http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_pt/Areas_de_Atuacao/Meio_Ambiente/Mata_Atlantica/
      (last visited August 18, 2014).
Central Bank of Brazil. 2014. Resolution 4.327, of April. 25, 2014. Available at:
         http://www.bcb.gov.br/pre/normativos/res/2014/pdf/res_4327_v1_O.pdf (last visited August 18, 2014).
Chico Mendes Institute for Biodiversity Conservation (ICMBio). http://www.icmbio.gov.br/portal/quem-somos/o-
       instituto.html (last visited August 14, 2014)
Colby, S. 2012. “Explaining the BNDES: what it is, what it does and how it works”, Centro Brasileiro de Relacoes
        Internacionais, Volume 3. Available at http://www.cebri.org/midia/documentos/bndes.pdf . (last visited 20
        September 2013)
Crawford, C. 2009. “A Review of Lesley Mcallister’s Making Law Matter: Environmental Protection and Legal
        Institutions in Brazil”. The George Washington International Law Review. Vol. 40, pages 619-647.
        Available at: http://docs.law.gwu.edu/stdg/gwilr/pdfs/40-3/40-3-2-crawford.pdf (last visited January 15,
        2014).
                                                             63

DW. 2013. “Construção de Belo Monte já rende 19 processos na Justiça”. Available at
       http://www.dw.de/constru%C3%A7%C3%A3o-de-belo-monte-j%C3%A1-rende-19-processos-na-
       justi%C3%A7a/a-17087946 (last visited 20 September 2013)
El Saifi, Samira; Sampaio Dagnino, Ricardo de. 2011. “Grandes projetos de desenvolvimento e implicações sobre
          as populações locais: o caso da usina de Belo Monte e a população de Altamira, Pará”. IPEA. Available at
          http://www.ipea.gov.br/code2011/chamada2011/pdf/area7/area7-artigo19.pdf (last visited 20 September
          2013)
The Economist. 2013a. “The rights and wrongs of Belo Monte”. Available at
       http://www.economist.com/news/americas/21577073-having-spent-heavily-make-worlds-third-biggest-
       hydroelectric-project-greener-brazil (last visited 20 September 2013)
The Economist. 2013b. “Trees of Knowledge”. Available at http://www.economist.com/news/special-
       report/21585096-how-brazil-using-education-technology-and-politics-save-its-rainforest-trees (last visited
       20 September 2013)
The Economist. 2013c. “Brazil’s development banks: A ripple begets a flood”. October 19, 2013. Available at:
       http://www.economist.com/news/finance-and-economics/21588133-politically-inspired-surge-lending-
       weakening-state-owned-banks-latin (last visited January 9, 2014)Febraban. 2009. “Protocolo Verde”.
       Available at
       http://www.febraban.org.br/protocoloverde/PROTOCOLO%20DE%20INTEN%C3%87%C3%95ES.PDF
       (last visited 25 August 2013)
Equator Principles. “The Equator Principles III – 2013”. Equator Principles website. Available at
        http://www.equator-principles.com/resources/equator_principles_III.pdf (last visited 24 August 2013).
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). 2011. “Project Complaint Mechanism: A User’s
        Guide”. Available at: http://www.ebrd.com/downloads/research/guides/pcm_eng.pdf
Fearnside, P. 2012. “Belo Monte Dam: A spearhead for Brazil’s dam-building attack on Amazonia?”. GWF
        Discussion Paper 1210, Global Water Forum, Canberra, Australia. Available at:
        http://www.globalwaterforum.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/04/Belo-Monte-Dam-A-spearhead-for-Brazils-
        dam-building-attack-on-Amazonia_-GWF-1210.pdf (last visited January 16, 2014)
FEBRABAN. 2010. “Política Ambiental e Instrumentos de Colaboração Financeira para Meio Ambiente”. Available
      athttp://www.febraban.org.br/7Rof7SWg6qmyvwJcFwF7I0aSDf9jyV/sitefebraban/Raphael%20Stein%20T
      reinamento%20BID-Febraban%20nov10.pdf (last visited 18 August 2013)
Financial Times. 2010. “Brazil accelerates investment in Africa”. By Richard Lapper. February 9, 2010. Available
         at: http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/e9550408-1519-11df-ad58-00144feab49a.html#axzz2g1RBGLq5 . (last
         visited September 26, 2013).
Financial Times. 2011. “Pristine forest is finite resource”. By John Paul Rathbone. December 1, 2011. Available at:
         http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/c4a347f8-110e-11e1-a95c-00144feabdc0.html#axzz2g1RBGLq5 (last
         visited September 26, 2013).
Financial Times. 2012. “Brazil: A bank too big to be beautiful”. By Samantha Pearson. September 23, 2012.
         Available at: http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/983f1bca-0234-11e2-b41f-
         00144feabdc0.html#axzz2g1RBGLq5 . (last visited September 26, 2013).
Financial Times. 2013a. “Brazil: The creaking champions”. By Joe Leahy. April 21, 2013. Available at:
         http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/8fbc8b50-a391-11e2-8f9c-00144feabdc0.html#axzz2g1RBGLq5 . (last
         visited September 26, 2013).
Financial Times. 2013b. “Questions surround Brazil bank in Carrefour deal”. By Joe Leahy. July 13, 2011.
         Available at: http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/46fda736-ad71-11e0-bc4f-
         00144feabdc0.html#axzz2g1RBGLq5 . (last visited September 26, 2013).
Financial Times. 2013c. “Brazil: showing Africa some love”. By Samantha Pearson. May 29, 2013. Available at:
         http://blogs.ft.com/beyond-brics/2013/05/29/brazil-showing-africa-some-love/ (last visited December 12,
         2013).
                                                              64

Financial Times. 2013d. “Brazil’s development bank heads for Africa”. By Adam Green. December 5, 2013.
         Available at: http://blogs.ft.com/beyond-brics/2013/12/05/brazils-development-bank-heads-for-africa/ (last
         visited December 12, 2013).
Financial Times. 2013e. “BNDES, Caixa: robbing Peter to pay Paul”. By Joe Leahy. March 21, 2013. Available at:
         http://blogs.ft.com/beyond-brics/2013/03/21/bndes-caixa-robbing-peter-to-pay-paul/#axzz2pjtvpLgG (last
         visited January 9, 2014).
Financial Times. 2013f. “Brazil slows down: The time has come for Dilma Rousseff to change tack”. December 4,
         2013. Available at: http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/fe25491c-5cdf-11e3-a558-
         00144feabdc0.html?siteedition=intl#axzz2qbG0uLQR (last visited January 16, 2014).
Folha de Sao Paulo. 2008a. “BNDES terá R$ 5 bilhões do Banco Mundial para crédito a empresas”. Available at
         http://www1.folha.uol.com.br/folha/dinheiro/ult91u469808.shtml. (last visited January 11, 2014)
Folha de Sao Paulo. 2008b. “Lula assina medida que repassa US$ 2 bilhões do Bird ao BNDES”. Available at
         http://www1.folha.uol.com.br/folha/dinheiro/ult91u477337.shtml (last visited January 11, 2014)
Folha de Sao Paulo. 2013. “Obra de Belo Monte pode atrasar por problemas com Ibama”. Available at
         http://www1.folha.uol.com.br/mercado/2013/07/1318408-obra-de-belo-monte-pode-atrasar-por-problemas-
         com-ibama.shtml (last visited 20 September 2013)
Folha de Sao Paulo. 2014. “Disputa entre banco e Controladoria espera parecer da AGU”. January 19, 2014.
         Available at http://www.estadao.com.br/noticias/impresso,disputa-entre-banco-e-controladoria-espera-
         parecer-da-agu--,1120268,0.htm (last visited January 22, 2014)
Fonseca, B. and J. Mota. 2013. “The Footprints of BNDES in the Amazon”. Agencia Publica and O Eco. October
        15, 2013. Available at: http://www.apublica.org/2013/10/investimentos-bndes-em-infraestrutura-na-
        amazonia-caso-da-hidreletrica-de-dardanelos/ (last visited January 17, 2014).
Forest Service of Brazil. http://www.florestal.gov.br/menu-horizontal-de-internet/institucional/servico-florestal-
         brasileiro (last visited August 14, 2014).
G1. 2013. “Bancos públicos emprestam mais do que privados em 2012”. Available at
        http://g1.globo.com/economia/seu-dinheiro/noticia/2013/01/bancos-publicos-emprestam-quase-4-vezes-
        mais-do-que-privados-em-2012.html (last visited 20 September 2013)
Global Environment Facility Evaluation Office 2012. “Avaliação de Portfólio de Projetos do GEF:Brasil (1991–
        2011), volume 2” available at
        http://www.thegef.org/gef/sites/thegef.org/files/documents/GEF%20Brazil%20CPE%20-
        %20Final%20Report%20-%20Volume%202_0.pdf September 2012.
Greenpeace. 2009. “Slaughtering the Amazon”. Available at
       http://www.greenpeace.org/international/en/publications/reports/slaughtering-the-amazon/ (last visited June
       5, 2014)
The Guardian. 2011. “Lehman Brothers: financially and morally bankrupt” available at
       http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/cifamerica/2011/dec/12/lehman-brothers-bankrupt (last visited
       25 September 2013)
The Guardian. 2011. “What's behind the Belo Monte dam” available at
       http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/cifamerica/2011/feb/15/brazil-energy (last visited 25
       September 2013)
The Guardian. 2012. “Belo Monte dam construction halted by Brazilian court” available at
       http://www.theguardian.com/world/2012/aug/16/belo-monte-dam-construction-suspended (last visited 25
       September 2013)
The Guardian. 2013 “Brazil's hydroelectric dam boom is bringing tensions as well as energy”. February 12, 2013.
       Available at: http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/feb/12/brazil-hydroelectric-jirau-dam
Guia dos Bancos Responsaveis (GBR). “Casos Polemicos” . Available at http://www.gbr.org.br/casos-polemicos-
        integra-2.php (last visited 10 June 2013)
                                                            65

Hall, A. (ed.), Amazonia at the Crossroads: the challenge of sustainable development, Institute of Latin American
          Studies, School of Advanced Studies, University of London, 2000: 99-114.
Hall, A. ‘Environment and Development in Brazilian Amazonia: From Protectionism to Productive Conservation’
Hall. A. 1997 Sustaining Amazonia: Grassroots Action for Productive Conservation, Manchester University Press,
         Manchester.
IBAMA. 2013a. “Term of Reference No. 01”. National Environment Program – NEP (Phase 2). February 2013.
      Available at: http://www.ibama.gov.br/phocadownload/ibama/tr%20ingles%20mi%2001-2013%20-
      %20laf%20aia.pdf (last visited June 4, 2014)
IBAMA. 2013b. “Term of Reference No. 02”. National Environment Program – NEP (Phase 2). February 2013.
      Available at: http://www.ibama.gov.br/phocadownload/ibama/tr%20ingles%20mi%2002-2013%20-
      %20mapeamento%20de%20competencias.pdf (last visited June 4, 2014)
IBAMA. 2013. “Análise do 3° Relatório Consolidado de Andamento do PBA da UHE Belo Monte”. PAR.
      004933/2013. Available at:
      http://www.socioambiental.org/sites/blog.socioambiental.org/files/nsa/arquivos/3_parecer_ibama.pdf (last
      visited October 3, 2013)
IBAMA. 2011. “Ibama autoriza instalação de Belo Monte”. Available at
      http://www.ibama.gov.br/publicadas/ibama-autoriza-a-instalacao-da-usina-de-belo-monte (last visited 20
      June 2013)
ILO 2012, Report of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations,
       International Labour Conference, 101st Session, ILC.101/III1A. Available at:
       http://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---ed_norm/---
       relconf/documents/meetingdocument/wcms_174843.pdf
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG). 2011. The World Bank Group’s Response to the Global Economic Crisis,
        Phase 1. Washington, DC: The World Bank Group.
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG). 2012. The World Bank Group’s Response to the Global Economic Crisis,
        Phase II. Washington, DC: The World Bank Group.
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG). 2013. Brazil Country Program Evaluation: FY2004-11. Washington, DC: The
        World Bank. Draft.
International Monetary Fund (IMF). “Guidelines for Fiscal Adjustment”. Available at
         http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/pam/pam49/pam4902.htm (last visited 20 September 2013)
International Partnership on Mitigation and MRV. “Brazil: Voluntary NAMAs to achieve a GHG emission reduction
         between 36.1% and 38.9% by 2020”. Available at: http://mitigationpartnership.net/brazil-voluntary-namas-
         achieve-ghg-emission-reduction-between-361-and-389-2020-0 (last visited 29 August 2014)
Infolatam. 2012. “BNDES lidera recorde de credito em 2012”. Available at
         http://www.infolatam.com.br/2013/01/23/bndes-libera-valor-recorde-de-credito-em-2012/ (last visited 24
         September 2013)
Instituto de Pesquisa Ambiental da Amazonia. “Qual o objetivo do Plano e da Politica Nacional de Mudanca do
          Clima criados no Brasil?” Available at http://www.ipam.org.br/saiba-mais/abc/mudancaspergunta/O-que-
          sao-Servicos-Ambientais-possivel-compensar-economicamente-a-prestacao-destes-servicos-/41/21# (last
          visited 10 September 2013)
Instituto de Pesquisa Econômica Aplicada (Ipea). 2012. “O Bndes e a “Copa da Fifa” no Brasil” Available at
          http://www.ipea.gov.br/desafios/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=2719:catid=28&Itemid
          =23 (last visited 21 August 2013)
Instituto Socio Ambiental (ISA). 2013. “Análise do atendimento de condicionantes da Licença de Instalação da
          Usina de Belo Monte”. Available at
          http://www.socioambiental.org/sites/blog.socioambiental.org/files/nsa/arquivos/quadro_condicioanantes_2
          013_isa.pdf (last visited 21 August 2013)
                                                             66

Instituto Socio Ambiental (ISA). 2013. “Ibama afirma que o cumprimento de condicionantes de Belo Monte só
          piorou”. Available at http://www.socioambiental.org/pt-br/noticias-socioambientais/ibama-afirma-que-o-
          cumprimento-de-condicionantes-de-belo-monte-so-piorou (last visited 21 September 2013)
Instituto Socio Ambiental (ISA). 2013. “Responsabilidade socioambiental do BNDES em Belo Monte é “para inglês
          ver””. Available at http://www.socioambiental.org/pt-br/blog/blog-do-xingu/responsabilidade-
          socioambiental-do-bndes-em-belo-monte-e-para-ingles-ver (last visited 21 August 2013)
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). 2010. “Policy Establishing the Independent Consultation and
        Investigation Mechanism”. Available at:
        http://idbdocs.iadb.org/wsdocs/getdocument.aspx?docnum=35074768 (last visited September 21, 2013).
International Center for Trade and Sustainable Development. 2008. “Plano Nacional sobre Mudanca do Clima
         recebe criticas de ONGs ambientais” Available at http://ictsd.org/i/news/pontesquinzenal/33092/. (last
         visited 25 September 2013)
International Labour Organization (ILO). 2012. “Report of the Committee of Experts on the Application of
         Conventions and Recommendations”. Available at http://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---ed_norm/--
         -relconf/documents/meetingdocument/wcms_174843.pdf (last visited 27 August 2013).
Law 11.943, May, 2009. Available at https://www.planalto.gov.br/ccivil_03/_ato2007-2010/2009/lei/l11943.htm
Le Monde. 2013. “Au Brésil, chantier de titan à Belo Monte” Available at :
       http://www.lemonde.fr/international/article/2013/05/21/bresil-chantier-de-titan-a-belo-
       monte_3414793_3210.html (last visited 21 September 2013)
Leitao, Miriam. 2011. “Belo Monte: licença parcial não existe”. O Globo Blogs. Available at
         http://oglobo.globo.com/economia/miriam/posts/2011/01/27/belo-monte-licenca-parcial-nao-existe-
         359392.asp (last visited 10 September 2013).
Library of the European Parliament. 2013. “Brazil’s Belo Monte Dam project: Financial impact, indigenous peoples’
         rights & the environment”. Library Briefing. June 20, 2013. Available at:
         http://www.europarl.europa.eu/RegData/bibliotheque/briefing/2013/130579/LDM_BRI%282013%2913057
         9_REV1_EN.pdf (last visited January 16, 2014).
Lopes Pinto, João Roberto (editor). 2012. Ambientalização dos Bancos e Financeirização da Natureza: Um debate
        sobre a política ambiental do BNDES e a responsabilização das Instituições Financeiras. Brasilia: Rede
        Brasil sobre Instituições Financeiras Multilaterais. Available at:
        http://www.scribd.com/doc/140772638/ambientalizacaodosbancosefinanceirizacaodanatureza
Lopez-Calva, Luis F. and Nora Lustig. 2010. “Explaining the Decline in Inequality in Latin America: Technological
       Change, Educational Upgrading, and Democracy”. Brookings. Available at:
       http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/press/books/2010/declininginequalityinlatinamerica/declininginequality
       inlatinamerica_chapter.pdf
Merriam-Webster. 2014. Definition of “earmark”. Britannica Digital Learning. Unabridged. Available at:
       http://unabridged.merriam-webster.com/unabridged/earmark (last visited January 11, 2014)
Ministério da Agricultura Pecuária e Abastecimento. 2013. “Estatisticas e Dados Basicos de Economia”. Available
         at http://www.agricultura.gov.br/arq_editor/Pasta%20de%20Junho%20-%202013.pdf (last visited 20
         September 2013)
Ministerio da Ciencia e Tecnologia. 2013. “Estimativas Anuais de Emissoes de Gases de Efeito Estufa”. Available
         at http://www.mct.gov.br/upd_blob/0226/226578.pdf (last visited September 21 2013)
Ministerio do Meio Ambiente (Ministry of Environment). “Planos Setoriais de Mitigação e Adaptação”. Available
         at: http://www.mma.gov.br/clima/politica-nacional-sobre-mudanca-do-clima/planos-setoriais-de-mitigacao-
         e-adaptacao (last visited 15 September 2014)
Ministerio do Meio Ambiente (Ministry of Environment). “ Plano Nacional Sobre Mudancas do Clima”. Available
         at http://www.mma.gov.br/clima/politica-nacional-sobre-mudanca-do-clima/plano-nacional-sobre-
         mudanca-do-clima (last visited 15 September 2014)
                                                             67

Ministerio do Meio Ambiente (Ministry of Environment). “Competencias para o Licensiamento”. Available at
         http://www.mma.gov.br/governanca-ambiental/portal-nacional-de-licenciamento-ambiental/licenciamento-
         ambiental/compet%C3%AAncias-para-o-licenciamento(last visited 24 September 2013)
Ministerio do Meio Ambiente (Ministry of Environment). “Politica Nacional Sobre Mudanca Climatica”. Available
         at http://www.mma.gov.br/clima/politica-nacional-sobre-mudanca-do-clima (last visited 18 September
         2013)
Ministério do Meio Ambiente (Ministry of Environment).2008. “Protocolo de Intenções pela Responsabilidade
         Socioambiental”. Available at
         http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_pt/Ferramentas_e_Normas/Roteiros_e_Manuais/(last
         visited 10 August 2013)
Ministério Público Federal (Federal Public Prosecutor). 2010. “Análise de pedido de financiamento para AHE Belo
         Monte”. Procuradoria da Republica do Pará. Available at http://www.xinguvivo.org.br/wp-
         content/uploads/2010/10/Oficio-2-BNDES.pdf (Last visit 20 August 2013)
Ministério Público Federal (Federal Public Prosecutor). 2010. “MPF questiona BNDES sobre financiamento de
         Belo Monte”. Procuradoria da Republica do Pará. Available at
         http://www.prpa.mpf.mp.br/news/2010/noticias/mpf-questiona-bndes-sobre-financiamento-de-belo-monte
         (Last visit 20 August 2013)
Ministério Público Federal e Ministério Público no Estado de Mato Grosso. 2012. Ação Civil Pública no. 0003947-
         44.2012.4.01.3600. Available at:
         http://www.aneel.gov.br/arquivos/PDF/SUSPENSAO_UHE_TELES_PIRES_uniao_e_aneel_v3_bip_junho
         _2012.pdf (last visited December 16, 2013).
Ministério Público Federal (Federal Public Prosecutor). 2013. “Processos judiciais do caso Belo Monte são
         publicados na íntegra pelo MPF”. Procuradoria da Republica do Pará. Available at
         http://www.prpa.mpf.mp.br/news/2013/processos-judiciais-do-caso-belo-monte-sao-publicados-na-integra-
         pelo-mpf (Last visit 20 August 2013)
Ministério Público Federal (Federal Public Prosecutor). 2013b. http://noticias.pgr.mpf.mp.br/noticias/noticias-do-
         site/copy_of_indios-e-minorias/norte-energia-e-obrigada-a-paralisar-obras-de-belo-monte-mais-uma-
         vez/?searchterm=Belo%20Monte (last visited September 17, 2014).
Ministério Público Federal (Federal Public Prosecutor). 2014. http://noticias.pgr.mpf.mp.br/noticias/noticias-do-
         site/copy_of_meio-ambiente-e-patrimonio-cultural/tribunal-nega-recurso-da-norte-energia-e-confirma-
         prazo-de-90-dias-para-novos-estudos-de-belo-monte/?searchterm=Belo%20Monte (last visited September
         17, 2014).
Ministry of External Relations and Ministry of Environment. “Brazil’s Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions”.
         Available at: http://www.mmechanisms.org/document/NAMA/NAMA_LCA15_brazil_EN.pdf (last
         visited August 29, 2014)
Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation, Brazil, “Estimativas anuais de emissões de gases de efeito estufa
         no Brasil”, 2013: http://www.mct.gov.br/upd_blob/0226/226578.pdf
Nature 2012, “Brazil’s fund for low-carbon agriculture lies fallow”, http://www.nature.com/news/brazil-s-fund-for-
        low-carbon-agriculture-lies-fallow-1.11111
Nature 2013, “Brazil reports sharp drop in greenhouse emissions”: http://www.nature.com/news/brazil-reports-
        sharp-drop-in-greenhouse-emissions-1.13121
Nepstad, Daniel and others. 2014. “Slowing Amazon deforestation through public policy and interventions in beef
        and soy supply chains”. Science 344, 1118. Available at:
        http://www.sciencemag.org/content/344/6188/1118.full.html (last visited June 8, 2014)
New York Times. 2012. “The Dam Boom in the Amazon”. Available at
       http://www.nytimes.com/2012/07/01/opinion/sunday/the-dam-boom-in-the-amazon.html?_r=3&
New York Times. 2010. “Amazon Dam Project Pits Economic Benefit Against Protection of Indigenous Lands”. By
       Alexei Barrionuevo. Published April 16, 2010. Available at:
       http://www.nytimes.com/2010/04/17/world/americas/17brazil.html?_r=0 (last visited 21 August 2013)
                                                             68

Nolte, C., A Agrawal, K Silvius, and B. Soares-Filho. 2013. “Governance regime and location influence avoided
         deforestation success of protected areas in the Brazilian Amazon”. PNAS Early Edition. Available at:
         http://www.pnas.org/content/110/13/4956 (last visited August 20, 2013).
Norad. 2011. “Real-Time Evaluation of Norway’s International Climate and Forest Initiative Contributions to
        National REDD+ Processes 2007-2010.Country Report: Brazil”, Evaluation Report 13/2010. Available at:
        http://www.oecd.org/derec/norway/48086441.pdf
Norte Energia. 2014. “Belo Monte”. From the company’s website. Available at:
        http://norteenergiasa.com.br/site/ingles/belo-monte/ (last visited January 16, 2014).
O Estadao. 2013. “Belo Monte leva o maior financiamento da história do BNDES: R$ 22,5 bilhões”. Available at
        http://www.estadao.com.br/noticias/impresso,belo-monte-leva-o-maior-financiamento-da-historia-do-
        bndes-r-225-bilhoes-,965721,0.htm (last visited 21 August 2013)
O Globo. 2013. “BNDES não cumpre exigência ambiental no crédito a Belo Monte”. Available at
       http://oglobo.globo.com/economia/bndes-nao-cumpre-exigencia-ambiental-no-credito-belo-monte-8295084
       (last visited 21 August 2013)
OECD. 2013. OECD Economic Surveys: Brazil 2013. OECD Publishing. Available at: http://www.oecd-
       ilibrary.org/economics/oecd-economic-surveys-brazil-2013_eco_surveys-bra-2013-en (last visited June 4,
       2014)
OPCS. 2004 (?). “Good Practice Note 4 – Environmental and Natural Resource Aspects of Development Policy
       Lending”. OPCS. The World Bank. (undated)
OPCS 2008. “Good Practice Note: Using Poverty and Social Impact Analysis to Support Development Policy
       Operations”. OPCS. The World Bank. August 2008
OPCS. 2010. “Good Practice Note: Addressing Financial Management Issues in Development Policy Lending”.
       Financial Management Sector Board. The World Bank. October 2010.
OPCS. 2011. “Good Practice Note for Development Policy Lending: Designing Development Policy Operations”.
       OPCS. The World Bank. January 2011.
OPCS. 2011, “Good Practice Note for Development Policy Lending: Results in Development Policy Lending”. The
       World Bank. January 2011.
OPCS 2012. “2012 Development Policy Retrospective”. The World Bank.
Organization of American States (OEA). 2011. Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR):
        Precautionary Measure MC-382-10. Available at http://www.oas.org/en/iachr/decisions/precautionary.asp
        (last visited 21 August 2013)
Oxford English Dictionary. 2014. Definition of “earmark”. Usage example from 1928 Manch. Guardian Weekly 31
        Aug. 179/2. Digital version (last visited January 11, 2014).
Presidency of the Republic 2008. Civil Affairs Ministry, Sub-office of Legal Affairs. Interim Measure Number 450.
        December 9, 2008. Available at: http://www.planalto.gov.br/ccivil_03/_ato2007-2010/2008/Mpv/450.htm
        (last visited January 12, 2014).
Presidency of the Republic 2009, Civil Affairs Ministry, Sub-office of Legal Affairs, Law No. 11.943, Article 15. 28
        May 2009. Available at: http://www.planalto.gov.br/ccivil_03/_ato2007-2010/2009/Lei/L11943.htm (last
        visited August 12, 2014).
Previ. 2011. “O BNDES e o Meio Ambiente: DiretrizesSocioambientais e Instrumentos de ApoioFinanceiro”.
         Available at
         http://www.previ.com.br/pls/portal/docs/PAGE/PREVI_DESENV/INVESTIMENTOS/GOVERNANCA/G
         OV_CONSELHEIROS/ENCONTRO_DE_CONSELHEIROS_2010/ENCONTRO_2009_APRESENTAC
         OES/14H15_SERGIO%20WEGUELIN.PDF (last visited 24 July 2013)
R.Guimarães.1991. The Ecopolitics of Development in the Third World: Politics and the Environment in Brazil,
       Lynne Rienner, Boulder, Colorado and London.
                                                             69

Rainforest Foundation UK. “The Brazilian National Development Bank”. Available at:
        http://www.rainforestfoundationuk.org/files/The%20Brazilian%20National%20Development%20Bank%20
        Fact%20Sheet.pdf (last visited October 3, 2013)
Ramos, Adriana, and Biviany Rojas Garzon. 2013. “The lack of an effective safeguards policy at the Brazilian
       Development Bank”. Forest Peoples Programme. Available at http://www.forestpeoples.org/topics/other-
       institutions/news/2013/04/lack-effective-safeguards-policy-brazilian-development-bank (last visit 14
       August 2013)
Reporter Brasil. 2011. “BNDES and its environmental policy: A critique from the perspective of organised civil
        society”. São Paulo. Available at: http://reporterbrasil.org.br/documentos/BNDES_English.pdf
Reuters. 2012. “Brazil's BNDES approves $10.8 bln loan for Amazon Belo Monte dam”. Available at
         http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/11/26/bndes-belomonte-idUSL1E8MQ76I20121126 (last visited 21
         August 2013)
Senate of Brazil. 2008. Available at http://www.senado.gov.br/atividade/materia/detalhes.asp?p_cod_mate=88646
         (last visited 20 September 2013).
Soares-Filho, B., R. Rajão, M. Macedo, A. Carneiro, W. Costa, M. Coe, H. Rodrigues, A. Alencar. 2014. “Cracking
        Brazil’s Forest Code”. Science 25 April 2014: Vol. 344 no. 6182 pp. 363-364. Available at:
        http://www.sciencemag.org/content/344/6182/363.full.pdf (last visited August 19, 2014).
Soares-Filho, B. et al. 2006. “Modelling conservation in the Amazon Basin”, Nature, 440, 23
Spink, P. 2013. “The Art of Getting in the Way: Five Years of the BNDES Platform”. Social Science Research
         Network, and International Budget Partnership. Study No. 13. June 2013. Available at:
         http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2324454 (last visited August 7, 2014)
UNEP RISOE. “CDM/JI Pipeline Analysis and Database” Available at http://cdmpipeline.org/ (last visited 15
      September 2013)
UNFCCC. NAMA Country Page: Brazil. Available at:
     http://www4.unfccc.int/sites/nama/SitePages/Country.aspx?CountryId=24 (last visited 15 September 2014)
UNFCCC. “CDM Project Activity Cycle”. Available at http://cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/pac/index.html (last visited 20
     September 2013)
Veja. “Notícias com a tag "belo monte". Available at http://veja.abril.com.br/tag/belo-monte (last visited 21 August
        2013)
Verdum, Ricardo. 2013. “Systematized Information on BNDES Funded Projects in the Amazon Region with
       Implications for Deforestation”. Derecho, Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (DAR). Available at
       http://www.vigilamazonia.com/uploads/files/3be77d3f622d8b65fc1e3d379e406e6e.pdf (last visited 10
       September 2013)
Widmer, Roland. 2012. “The Brazilian Safeguard Regime, Its Application, and Recommendations for the Future”.
       OneAdvisory, funded by the World Resources Institute. Available at:
       http://www.internationalrivers.org/files/attached-files/case_study_hydropower_development_in_brazil.pdf
The Wall Street Journal. 2011. “Indian Protests Spur Bolivia Crisis”. The Wall Street Journal Online. October 10,
       2011.
World Bank 2008, “Environmental Licensing for Hydroelectric Projects in Brazil: A Contribution to the Debate”,
       Summary Report, World Bank Report No. 40995-BR, March 28, 2008.
World Bank 2009, “Program Document for a Proposed First Programmatic Development Policy Loan for
       Sustainable Environmental Management in the Amount of US$1.3 billion to the Federative Republic of
       Brazil,” Report No. 47215-BR, The World Bank.
World Bank. 2009. “World Bank Group Response to Financial Crisis”. Available at
       http://www.worldbank.org/financialcrisis/pdf/WBGResponse-VFF.pdf (last visited 24 September 2013)
World Bank. 2011. “Implementation Completion and Results Report on a First Programmatic Development Policy
       Loan for Sustainable Environmental Management in the Amount of US$1.3 billion to the Federative
       Republic of Brazil.” Report No. ICR00001982. The World Bank.
                                                           70

World Bank. 2011b. “Implementation Completion and Results Report: Brazil Environmental Sustainability Agenda
       Technical Assistance Project”. Report No. ICR00001997. The World Bank. September 23, 2011.
World Bank. 2012. OP 8.60 – Development Policy Lending. World Bank Operational Manual. Revised March 2012.
WWF. 2011. “Serious risks expected to the Belo Monte hydroelectric dam project due to climate change impacts in
      the Amazon” Available at http://www.wwf.org.br/?28983/(last visited 23 September 2013)
Xingu Vivo. 2011. “Ibama libera Licença de Instalação para Belo Monte às vésperas do Dia Mundial do Meio
       Ambiente”. Available at http://www.xinguvivo.org.br/2011/06/01/ibama-libera-licenca-de-instalacao-para-
       belo-monte-as-vesperas-do-dia-mundial-do-meio-ambiente/ (last visited 10 September 2013)
Xingu Vivo. 2011. “Com Belo Monte, violência sexual contra criança e adolescente cresce 138%”. Available at:
       http://www.xinguvivo.org.br/2011/10/11/com-belo-monte-violencia-sexual-contra-crianca-e-adolescente-
       cresce-138/ . (last visited September 26, 2013)
Yale. 2012. “Brazil’s Belo Monte Dam: A Conflict in the Amazon”. Available at
        http://e360.yale.edu/feature/video_belo_monte_dam_conflict_in_the_brazilian_amazon/2536/. (last visited
        20 September 2013)
                                              71                                      ANNEX A


Annex A: Basic Data Sheet
FIRST PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN FOR SUSTAINABLE
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT (LOAN IBRD-76600)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                           Appraisal       Actual or        Actual as % of
                                           estimate     current estimate   appraisal estimate
 Total project costs                        1,300.0         1,300.0               100
 Loan amount                                1,300.0            1,300.0            100
 Cofinancing
 Cancellation


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                          FY09                 FY10              FY11
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                800,000.0             1,300.0          1,300.0
Actual (US$M)                                                 797,750.0       1,297,750.0
Actual as % of appraisal                                        61.3              99.8
Date of final disbursement: 12/08/2010


Project Dates
                                                  Original                   Actual
Initiating memorandum                            11/11/2008
Negotiations                                     12/18/2008
Board approval                                   03/05/2009
Signing
Effectiveness                                    05/12/2009                06/21/2010
Closing date                                     12/31/2010                12/31/2010


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank budget only)
                Stage                                          US$ 000s (including travel and
                                  Staff Weeks (number)
                                                               consultant costs)
Lending
 FY05                                               1                          0.47
 FY06                                               1                         10.13
 FY07                                               1                          2.37
 FY08                                              15                        109.45
 FY09                                              38                        344.74
ANNEX A                                         72

                               Total:                55                           467.16
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                                3                            42.10
  FY10                                               15                           132.27
  FY11                                               12                           196.60
                               Total:                30                           370.97


Task Team Members
Other Project Data
  Name                              Title (at time of appraisal and     Unit       Responsibility/
                                    closure, respectively)                         Specialty
  Lending
  Marcos T. Abicalil                Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.         LCSUW
  Alexandre Moreira Baltar          Water Resources Mgmt. Spec.         LCSEN
  Garo J. Batmanian                 Sr Environmental Spec.              LCSEN
  Regis Thomas Cunningham           Sr Financial Management Spec.       LCSFM
  Estanislao Gacitua-Mario          Lead Social Development Spec.       LCSSO
  Augusto Juca                      Sr. Energy Specialist               LCSSD
  Mark R. Lundell                   Sector Leader                       LCSSD
  Isabella Micali Drossos           Senior Counsel                      LEGLA
  Alberto Ninio                     Chief Counsel                       LEGEN
  Miguel-Santiago da Silva          Senior Finance Officer              CTRFC
  Oliveira
  Paula Silva Pedreira de Freitas   Operations Analyst                  LCSEN
  Luis R. Prada Villalobos          Senior Procurement Specialist       MNAPR
  Paul Procee                       Senior Infrastructure Spec.         EASCS
  Cristina Oliveira Roriz           Operations Analyst                  LCSRF
  Jennifer J. Sara                  Sector Manager                      EASVS
  Eduardo Martin Urdapilleta        Sr Financial Economist              LCSPF
  Supervision/ICR
  Marcos T. Abicalil                Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.         LCSUW
  Alexandre Moreira Baltar          Water Resources Mgmt. Spec.         LCSEN
  Garo J. Batmanian                 Sr Environmental Spec.              LCSEN
  Fernando Andres Blanco Cossio     Senior Economist                    AFTP4
  Estanislao Gacitua-Mario          Lead Social Development Spec.       LCSSO
  Daniella Ziller Arruda            Program Assistant                   LCC5C
  Karagiannis
  Alberto Ninio                     Chief Counsel                       LEGEN
  Paula Silva Pedreira de Freitas   Operations Analyst                  LCSEN
  Paul Procee                       Senior Infrastructure Spec.         EASCS
  Cristina Oliveira Roriz           Operations Analyst                  LCSRF
  Jennifer J. Sara                  Sector Manager                      EASVS
  Eric Shayer                       Sr Environmental Spec.              CESI1
  Barbara Farinelli                 Economist                           LCSSD
  Abdoulaye Sy                      Economist                           LCSSD
Borrower/Executing Agency:
Follow-on Operations
Operation                                       Credit no.        Amount          Board date
                                                                  (US$ million)
                                                                       73                                                            ANNEX B



Annex B: SEM DPL Development Policy Matrix
        Policy Area           Policy Actions – DPL I: First   Policy Actions – DPL I: Second       DPL II - Triggers          Outcome Indicators for
                                 Tranche Prior Actions         Tranche Release Conditions                                       Program for 2011


      Sub-objective A: Improving the Overall Brazilian Environmental Management System
 Improve effectiveness of           ·     MMA and its                                               Formal selection and         Improve the
 government agencies in       affiliates restructured to                                       hiring processes to fill    environmental licensing
 implementing mandated        support the implementation of                                    600 vacancies to staff      process using as a proxy the
 Brazilian environmental      environmental policies,                                          ICMBio and AFB              decrease by 20 percent the
 and social management        processing of environmental                                      concluded.                  number of judicially
 procedures                   licenses and enforcement of                                                                  challenged licenses by Public
                              environmental regulations                                                                    Prosecutor`s Office compared
                              through: i) the establishment                                                                with the nenumber of
                              of a new institutional structure                                                             environmental licenses issued
                              for MMA; ii) the creation of                                                                 at the Federal level during
                              the National Biodiversity                                                                    2002-2007.
                              Management Institute
                              (Institute Chico Mendes –
                              ICMBio) and the Brazilian
                              Forest Service (SFB); iii) the
                              restructuring of IBAMA to
                              focus on environmental
                              licensing and enforcement;
                              and, iv) increase staffing of
                              MMA and IBAMA.




                                                                                                                                Revised: Number of
                                                                                                                           environmental licenses issued
                                                                                                                           per year at the Federal level.
ANNEX B                                                                 74



 Mainstream Climate                 ·    National Climate           ·    National Climate               BNDES clean                Increase planned signed
 Change in public and          Change Action Plan drafted      Change Action Plan, approved       development and carbon      reductions of 20 million tons
 private sector investments    by the Inter-ministerial        by the Inter-ministerial           funds programs (in equity   of CO2 equivalent/year from:
                               Committee for Climate           Committee, after public            investment funds)           (i) CDM projects; (ii) other
                               Change and submitted for        consultation                       approved and operating in   selected BNDES projects;
                               public consultation                                                accordance with the         and (iii) other actions
                                                                                                  National Climate Change     monitored under the National
                                                                                                  Action Plan and its New     Climate Change Action Plan.
                                                                                                  Environmental and Social
                                                                                                  Institutional Policy.




 Improve the effectiveness          ·    Revised Green              ·     New Environmental             BNDES` new                 100 percent of the
 of environmental and social   Protocol approved and signed    and Social Institutional Policy,   Environmental and Social    projects submitted directly to
 management systems in         by GOB and all federal public   which includes the provisions of   Institutional Policy        BNDES screened, approved
 BNDES and other financial     Brazilian Banks, including      the Green Protocol, is approved    applied to its full         and monitored according to
 institutions                  BNDES                           by BNDES Board of Executive        portfolio through           the new Environmental and
                                                               Officers and applied to BNDES’     procedures specified        Social Institutional Policy.
                                                               directly financed operations       diferentially for each
                                                                                                  major type of operation.
        Sub-objective B: Integrating Principles of Sustainable Development in Key Sectors
                     B.1. Natural Resources Management and Conservation
                                                                         75                                                        ANNEX B



Improve sustainability of         ·    Forest legal                 ·    BNDES programs on                                     Sustainable Natural
natural resources           framework strengthened            forest management, forest                                   Forest Management of
management                  through the enactment of three    plantations, agriculture and                                private and public areas
                            key legal acts: Public Forest     associated processing industries                            expanded from 27,000 km2 to
                            Management Law which              restructured to provide                                     50,0002.
                            promotes forest management        incentives for long-term forest
                            in public land; Atlantic Forest   management and sustainable
                            Law which promotes                land use, and three sub-sectoral
                            conservation of this highly       guidelines and the
                            endangered biome; and,            REFLORESTA Program are
                            Resolution 3545 of the            designed to ensure coherence
                            National Monetary Council         with the new forest legal
                            that regulates bank lending to    framework and BNDES’ new
                            agribusiness                      Environmental and Social
                                                              Institutional Policy




Improve Amazon regional          ·   National Sustainable                                             Ecological               Reduction in average
planning for sustainable    Amazon Program (PAS)                                                 Economic Zoning at the   annual rate of deforestation
development and reduced     approved by GOB and the                                              macro scale (1 : 1       un the Amazon for the period
deforestation               governors of the Amazon                                              million) of the Amazon   2008-1020 to 20 percent
                            region                                                               Region, based on PAS,    below 2005-2007 average
                                                                                                 concluded.               annual rate of deforastation
                                                                                                                          (14,800 km2).
ANNEX B                                                               76



 Improve Rainforest                ·     Presidential decree                                      Amazon Fund                   An area of 500,000
 Conservation                 regulating the Amazon Fund                                     operational policies          hectares receiving support
                              issued, to support grant                                       approved by its managing      from the Amazon and
                              activities that promote                                        committee (COFA),             Atlantic Forest Funds for
                              sustainable use of natural                                     Amazon Fund                   activities that promote
                              resources, rehabilitated                                       operational, and              sustainable use of natural
                              degraded areas or,                                             Presidential decree           resources and biodiversity
                              prevent/combat deforestation                                   regulating the Atlantic       conservation, rehabilitate
                                                                                             Forest Fund, including its    degraded areas or, prevent/
                                                                                             operational mechanisms,       combat deforestation.
                                                                                             issued.



                               B.2. Water Resource Management
 Improve management and             ·   The Water                 ·    ANA Signs                   ANA sigs                     Water quality
 quality of water resources   Resources National Plan       cooperation agreements with      cooperations agreements       monitoring and evaluation for
                              (PNRH) and the National       five states for the purpose of   with additional five states   90,000 km of main rivers
                              Water Quality Evaluation      implementing the National        for the purpose of            being executed and publicly
                              Program (PNQA) approved by Water Quality Evaluation            implementing the              released on a regular basism
                              GOB                           Program (PNQA) at the state      National Water                with results used for
                                                            level                            QualityEvaluation             priorization of investments
                                                                                             Program (PNQA) at the         for improved water quality.
                                                                                             state level.



                                B.3. Environmental Sanitation
                                                                                  77                                                         ANNEX B



  Reduce environmental                   ·    Law 11,445/07 on               ·    BNDES ensures that          PRODES rules and           Projected reduction of
  impacts through improved          National Guidelines for Water      programs for water and           regulations governing      110,000 tons of pollution
  water, wastewater                 Supply and Environmental           environmental sanitation are     payments for wastewater    loads (tons of bio-chemical
  treatment, and solid waste        Sanitation enacted                 coherent with the new legal      treatment updated and      oxygen demand - BOD per
  services                                                             framework and with BNDES’        approved by ANA, in        year) discharged into rivers:
                                                                       new Environmental and Social     accordance with the new    i) from approved BNDES
                                                                       Institutional Policy             legal framework.           environmental sanitation
                                                                                                        BNDES` new                 projects reviewes under new
                                                                                                        Environmental and Social   BNDES social and
                                                                                                        Institutional Policy.      environmental guidelines;
                                                                                                                                   and, ii) from the updated
                                                                                                                                   PRODES program.



                                          B.4. Renewable Energy
  Promote renewable energy               •     Integrated                    •    BNDES ensures that         BNDES six sub-             60,000 tera joules per
  potential                         Environmental Assessment           programs for energy efficiency   sectoral guidelines for    year (TJ/year) to be produced
                                    (IEA) methodology for              and renewable energy are         renewable energy           by renewable energy sources
                                    improving the environmental        coherent with BNDES’ new         designed to ensure         or saved by energy efficiency
                                    and social sustainability of the   Environmental and Social         coherence with BNDES       projects supported by
                                    hydroelectric sector included I    Institutional Policy             new Environmental and      BNDES, once they are fully
                                    the handbook of the                                                 Social Institutional       operational.
                                    Electricity Sector’s inventory                                      Policy.
                                    and applied in ten river basins




Source: World Bank Program Document, 2009
ANNEX C                                           79


Annex C: Summary of outcome indicators and
achievements as reported in the World Bank’s ICR*
              Policy Area                    Outcome Indicators for Program for        Achievements as Reported
                                                           2011                            in the Bank's ICR

 Sub-objective A: Improving the Overall
  Brazilian Environmental Management
                 System
 Improve effectiveness of government            Improve the environmental                  Estimated 30 percent
 agencies in implementing mandated         licensing process using as a proxy the     judicially challenged
 Brazilian environmental and social        decrease by 20 percent the number of       licenses by Public
 management procedures                     judicially challenged licenses by Public   Prosecutor`s Office.
                                           Prosecutor`s Office compared with the
                                           number of environmental licenses
                                           issued at the Federal level during 2002-
                                           2007.




                                                 Revised: Number of                         Revised: From 375 to
                                           environmental licenses issued per year     475
                                           at the Federal level.


 Mainstream Climate Change in public            Increase planned signed                    19,762,768 tons of CO2
 and private sector investments            reductions of 20 million tons of CO2       equivalent/year.
                                           equivalent/year from: (i) CDM
                                           projects; (ii) other selected BNDES
                                           projects; and (iii) other actions
                                           monitored under the National Climate
                                           Change Action Plan.




 Improve the effectiveness of                    100 percent of the projects                100 percent.
 environmental and social management       submitted directly to BNDES screened,
 systems in BNDES and other financial      approved and monitored according to
 institutions                              the new Environmental and Social
                                           Institutional Policy.



 Sub-objective B: Integrating Principles
   of Sustainable Development in Key
                 Sectors
  B.1. Natural Resources Management
            and Conservation
ANNEX C                                                80

 Improve sustainability of natural            Sustainable Natural Forest                  33,415 km2 in private
 resources management                    Management of private and public            and public land.
                                         areas expanded from 27,000 km2 to
                                         50,0002.

 Improve Amazon regional planning for         Reduction in average annual rate            Annual average rate in
 sustainable development and reduced     of deforestation in the Amazon for the      2008-2010 is 8,942 km2, a
 deforestation                           period 2008-2010 to 20 percent below        decrease of the annual
                                         2005-2007 average annual rate of            average rate of deforestation
                                         deforestation (14,800 km2).                 of 40.3%,



 Improve Rainforest Conservation              An area of 500,000 hectares                 20,250 km2.
                                         receiving support from the Amazon and
                                         Atlantic Forest Funds for activities that
                                         promote sustainable use of natural
                                         resources and biodiversity
                                         conservation, rehabilitate degraded
                                         areas or, prevent/ combat deforestation.




   B.2. Water Resource Management
 Improve management and quality of            Water quality monitoring and                116,141 km.
 water resources                         evaluation for 90,000 km of main rivers
                                         being executed and publicly released
                                         on a regular basis with results used for
                                         prioritization of investments for
                                         improved water quality.




      B.3. Environmental Sanitation
 Reduce environmental impacts through         Projected reduction of 110,000              141,280 tons of
 improved water, wastewater treatment,   tons of pollution loads (tons of bio-       pollution loads.
 and solid waste services                chemical oxygen demand - BOD per
                                         year) discharged into rivers: i) from
                                         approved BNDES environmental
                                         sanitation projects reviews under new
                                         BNDES social and environmental
                                         guidelines; and, ii) from the updated
                                         PRODES program.




         B.4. Renewable Energy
                                                               81                                                    ANNEX C

  Promote renewable energy potential                       60,000 terajoules per year                         50,102 TJ/year
                                                     (TJ/year) to be produced by renewable
                                                     energy sources or saved by energy
                                                     efficiency projects supported by
                                                     BNDES, once they are fully
                                                     operational.


Source: World Bank Program Document and ICR. * Note that the information contained in this table was transposed as accurately as
possible from the relevant Bank documents, and do not reflect IEG’s assessment.
ANNEX D                                     83


Annex D: Poverty and Social Impacts, and
Environmental, Forests, and other Natural Resources
Aspects of DPLs
The World Bank’s environmental and social safeguard policies are designed to ensure that
potentially adverse impacts of Bank-supported programs on the environment and people are
avoided or minimized, and unavoidable adverse impacts are mitigated. When applied
correctly, they also help to reduce risks to the Bank’s reputation.

Under the World Bank’s OP 8.60 governing DPLs, the safeguards and fiduciary requirements
for typical investment operations do not apply. The reasoning in both cases is essentially the
same: DPLs are for general (in this case national) budget support, budget resources are
fungible, and expenditures are too diffuse to be tracked or to have a significant footprint
through any specific investment. This does not however mean that there are no risks or
impacts related to these issues.

As noted above, when the operation P095205 was proposed as a Financial Intermediary Loan
to BNDES, commenters on the Concept Notes raised serious doubts regarding the ability and
willingness of BNDES to meet World Bank safeguards and fiduciary requirements on the
investments financed by the loan, and also about the possibility of adhering to World Bank
restrictions on the subsidization of interest rates under OP 8.30 on FILs. After all, one of the
main justifications for the operation was the need to improve BNDES’s environmental and
social safeguards. After the instrument for the loan was switched from a FIL to a DPL, those
responsible were able to achieve the same goal of providing financing for BNDES’s
investments, but without having to apply any of the World Bank’s requirements on
environmental and social safeguards, fiduciary oversight, or interest rate subsidization.

Although the World Bank’s definition of environmental and social “safeguards” does not
technically apply to the financing of DPLs, the “Design of Development Policy Operations”
section of OP 8.60 does include requirements for determining whether the policies supported
by DPLs could have significant environmental or social consequences. These requirements
are described in paragraphs 10 and 11 of the OP, titled “Poverty and Social Impacts,” and
“Environmental, Forests, and other Natural Resources Aspects.” (World Bank Operational
Manual 2012) In both cases, the OP states: “If there are significant gaps in the analysis of
shortcomings in the borrower’s systems, the Bank describes in the Program Document how
such gaps or shortcomings would be addressed before or during program implementation, as
appropriate.” The potential environmental and social consequences and the borrower’s
systems for mitigating them are supposed to be described in the Program Document, and any
potential shortcomings are supposed to be identified along with measures for addressing
them before or during implementation.
                                              85                                ANNEX E


Annex E: Comparison of the Equator Principles with
Brazil’s Green Protocol and BNDES’s environmental and
social policy

This section compares the provisions of these three sets of policies. The information used for the
Equator Principles was based on the initiative’s website. 80 The information for the Green Protocol
was based on the protocol’s document available in BNDES’s website. The information regarding
BNDES was based on the institution’s website and on BNDES’s resolutions 2023/10 and 2025/10.
The latter two carry different names but are very similar in content.

Equator Principles

“The Equator Principles (EPs) are a risk management framework, adopted by financial
institutions, for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social risk
in projects and is primarily intended to provide a minimum standard for due diligence to
support responsible risk decision-making.

The EP apply globally, to all industry sectors and to four financial products 1) Project
Finance Advisory Services 2) Project Finance 3) Project-Related Corporate Loans and 4)
Bridge Loans. The relevant thresholds and criteria for application is described in detail in the
Scope section of the EP.

Equator Principles Financial Institutions (EPFIs) commit to implementing the EP in their
internal environmental and social policies, procedures and standards for financing projects
and will not provide Project Finance or Project-Related Corporate Loans to projects where
the client will not, or is unable to, comply with the EP.

While the EP are not intended to be applied retroactively, EPFIs apply them to the expansion
or upgrade of an existing project where changes in scale or scope may create significant
environmental and social risks and impacts, or significantly change the nature or degree of an
existing impact.

Currently 78 adopting financial institutions (77 EPFIs and 1 Associate) in 35 countries have
officially adopted the EPs, covering over 70 percent of international Project Finance debt in
emerging markets”.

Green Protocol



80
  Since the time of the SEM DPL and this analysis, the EPs were further strengthened. See:
http://www.equator-principles.com/index.php/ep3
ANNEX E                                                 86


 “The Protocol of Intentions on Environmental and Social Responsibility, informally known
as the Green Protocol is a charter of principles for sustainable development signed by official
banks in 1995 (Banco do Brazil, Banco do Nordeste, Banco da Amazônia, BNDES, Caixa
Economica Federal and Banco Central Brazil) in which they propose to undertake policies
and practices that are always and increasingly in harmony with the objective to promote
development that does not compromise the needs of future generations.

In May 2008, as a result of discussions on the impacts of deforestation in the Amazon
involving both government and federal banks, it was established an informal working group
to review and revision of the Green Protocol. The group was composed of representatives
from the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of National Integration, Ministry of Finance,
Bank of Northeast Brazil, the National Bank of Economic and Social Development, Banco
da Amazonia, Caixa Economica Federal and Banco do Brazil.

The result of this effort was to propose a new wording which argues that banks can play a
role in inducing fundamental pursuit of sustainable development that assume responsibility
for environmental preservation and continuous improvement in social welfare. To do so, they
are provided principles that involve the commitment of banks: the promotion of sustainable
development, the environmental assessment of projects to be funded, the eco-efficiency of
administrative practices, the development of policies and practices aimed at sustainability,
and forecasting mechanisms governance and monitoring of commitments made by
signatories” 81.

BNDES

“Economic development on sustainable bases and support for environmental conservation
initiatives and for investments of a social nature are part of the BNDES’ commitment to
present and future generations.

The BNDES not only respects social and environmental principles when granting credit, but
also maintains its commitment to providing adequate funding to foster socially and
environmentally sustainable efforts.

Fostering sustainable development, proactively and in all the projects supported, is the main
objective of the Bank’s Socioenvironmental Policy, focusing on the integration of economic,
social, environmental and regional aspects. 82”




81
     http://www.bb.com.br/portalbb/page251,8305,3926,0,0,1,6.bb?codigoNoticia=28467
82

http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_en/Institucional/Social_and_Environmental_Resp
onsibility/environmental_policy.html
                                          87                                        ANNEX E


BNDES’s present Social and Environmental Policy and BNDES’s Social and Environmental
Responsibility were signed in November 2010 according to BNDES’s resolution 2023/10
and 2025/10.

Equator Principle as a global reference

The criteria used in this analysis took as reference the Equator Principles. During “the last 10
years, the Equator Principles or EPs have emerged as the industry standard for financial
institutions to assess social and environmental risk in the project finance market. The EPs –
which are based on the International Finance Corporation or IFC’s performance standards on
social and environmental sustainability and the World Bank’s environmental, health and
safety guidelines – have significantly increased attention on social/community responsibility,
including as related to indigenous peoples, labor standards, and consultation with locally
affected communities. They have also promoted convergence in the market: at present, 79
financial institutions in 32 countries have officially adopted the EPs, reportedly covering
over 70% of international project finance debt in emerging markets” 83

      1. Review and Categorization of Investments

Equator Principles: According to the Equator Principles III (third version) “when a Project is
proposed for financing, the EPFI [Equator Principles Financial Institution] will, as part of its
internal environmental and social review and due diligence, categorize it based on the
magnitude of its potential environmental and social risks and impacts”. The categories are A
to C, having A as the projects with highest risks of potential impacts and C with the lowest or
minimal adverse impacts.

Green Protocol: The protocol’s guideline is “to consider the impacts and socio-environmental
costs of asset management (owned and Third party) and the analysis of customer and
investment risks based on Brazil’s National Environment Policy, subject to the following : (i)
The funding of potential polluter projects or effectively using natural resources in the
production process should be conditioned to the environmental legislation and licensing (ii)
Incorporate socio-environmental criteria in the process of analyzing and conceding credit for
investment projects, considering the magnitude of their impacts and risks and the necessity of
mitigating and compensating measures; (iii) Carry out socio-environmental analysis of
clients whose activities require environmental licensing and / or representing significant
adverse social impacts (iv) to take into consideration during the credit analysis the
recommendations and restrictions mentioned in the agro-ecological zoning or, preferably, the
ecological-economic zoning during the credit analysis”. The Green Protocol does not provide
specific criteria for the categorization for its projects.



83
     https://blogs.law.harvard.edu/corpgov/2013/06/18/equator-principles-iii-enters-into-force-this-june/
ANNEX E                                                88


BNDES: According to the BNDES’s environment and social policy “the categorization of
environmental and social risks will be defined according to the sector and type of activity, its
location, attributes and the magnitude of environmental impacts inherent to the project. The
Environmental category established for a certain investment will determine the procedures
during the Analysis and Monitoring phases of the operation.” The categories are A to C,
having A as the projects with highest risks of potential impacts and C with the lowest or
minimal adverse impacts.

   2. Environmental and Social Assessment

Equator Principles: Based on the Equator Principle III “for all Category A and Category B
Projects, the Equator Principle Financial Institutions (EPFI) will require the client to conduct
an Assessment process to address, to the EPFI’s satisfaction, the relevant environmental and
social risks and impacts of the proposed Project. The Assessment Documentation should
propose measures to minimize, mitigate, and offset adverse impacts in a manner relevant and
appropriate to the nature and scale of the proposed Project”.

Green Protocol: According to the protocol’s guidelines there are no suggested pre-established
procedures to assess environment and social impacts of the projects. Still the protocol
suggests that “all activities should consider the impacts and socio-environmental costs in
asset management (own and third party) and the analysis of customer and investment’s risks
based on Brazil’s National Environment Policy on Environment. This includes incorporating
socio-environmental criteria in the process of analyzing and conceding credit for investment
projects, considering the magnitude of their impacts and risks and the necessity of mitigating
and compensating measures. Last, for investments with potential social and environmental
risks the protocol suggests the compliance with the environmental legislation”.

According to BNDES’s website in order “to grant financial assistance, the following are
respected: applicable legislation; the beneficiary’s policy of social and environmental
responsibility; environmental compliance; environmental risk of the undertaking, in addition
to social and environmental practices that raise the level of competitiveness of organizations
and economic sectors and contribute to the improvement of social and environmental factors,
not only of undertakings, but also of the country.”

   3. Applicable Environmental and Social Standards

Equator: According to the Equator Principles III, “the Assessment process should, in the first
instance, address compliance with relevant host country laws, regulations and permits that
pertain to environmental and social issues. EPFIs operate in diverse markets: some with
robust environmental and social governance, legislation systems and institutional capacity
designed to protect their people and the natural environment; and some with evolving
technical and institutional capacity to manage environmental and social issues. For projects
in countries with robust environmental regulation and governance, the process evaluates
                                    89                                     ANNEX E


compliance with the relevant country law and for project in countries without a robust
environmental governance, the process evaluates compliance with the then applicable IFC
Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability (Performance Standards)
and the World Bank Group Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines(EHS Guidelines)”

Green Protocol: Based on the protocol’s guidelines “the environmental assessments will be
taken under the guidance of Brazil’s National Environmental Policy”. The protocol does not
mention the environmental & social standards to be applied in investments abroad.

BNDES: According to the BNDES’s environmental and social policy, the institution requires
environmental obligations established by Brazilian law. There is no information regarding
environmental and social assessments applied to BNDES projects in other countries.

   4. Environmental and Social Management System

Equator Principles: According to the Equator Principle’s III document “for all Category A
and Category B Projects, the EPFI will require the client to develop or maintain an
Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS). Further, an Environmental and
Social Management Plan (ESMP) will be prepared by the client to address issues raised in
the Assessment process and incorporate actions required to comply with the applicable
standards. Where the applicable standards are not met to the EPFI’s satisfaction, the client
and the EPFI will agree an Equator Principles Action Plan (AP). The Equator Principles AP
is intended to outline gaps and commitments to meet EPFI requirements in line with the
applicable standards”

Green Protocol: The protocol’s orientation is “to guide the borrower in order to induce the
adoption of production practices and sustainable consumption”.

BNDES’s environmental and social policy mentions that “the institution will promote and
guide the adoption of preventive and mitigation of social and environmental impacts.” Still
according to its website, BNDES “may, for example, recommend the project be revised;
offer resources to strengthen mitigation measures to stimulate the achievement of social and
environmental investments by the beneficiaries; and even refuse financial support due to non-
compliance or social and environmental risks.”

   5. Stakeholder Engagement

Equator Principles: According to the Equator Principles’ III document “for all Category A
and Category B Projects, the EPFI will require the client to demonstrate effective
Stakeholder Engagement as an ongoing process in a structured and culturally appropriate
manner with Affected Communities and, where relevant, Other Stakeholders. For Projects
with potentially significant adverse impacts on Affected Communities, the client will conduct
an Informed Consultation and Participation process. The client will tailor its consultation
ANNEX E                                                 90


process to: the risks and impacts of the Project; the Project’s phase of development; the
language preferences of the Affected Communities; their decision-making processes; and the
needs of disadvantaged and vulnerable groups. This process should be free from external
manipulation, interference, coercion and intimidation”.

Green Protocol: The protocol’s orientation is “to inform, sensitize and continuously engage
stakeholders in policy and sustainable practices of an institution by enabling the workforce to
develop the skills necessary to implement the principles and guidelines of this protocol; to
develop mechanisms for consultation and dialogue with stakeholders, and to publish annually
the results of the implementation of the principles and guidelines set forth in this protocol.”
BNDES’s environmental and social responsibility guidelines say that the institution will
concentrate efforts to “develop partnerships and share experiences with other organizations
in order to foster social and environmental responsibility and to strengthen transparency and
dialogue among stakeholders while reinforcing citizen participation in public management”;

   6. Grievance Mechanism

Equator Principles: The Equator Principles III mention that “for all Category A and, as
appropriate, Category B Projects, the EPFI will require the client, as part of the ESMS, to
establish a grievance mechanism designed to receive and facilitate resolution of concerns
and grievances about the Project’s environmental and social performance. The grievance
mechanism is required to be scaled to the risks and impacts of the Project and have Affected
Communities as its primary user. It will seek to resolve concerns promptly, using an
understandable and transparent consultative process that is culturally appropriate, readily
accessible, at no cost, and without retribution to the party that originated the issue or concern.
The mechanism should not impede access to judicial or administrative remedies. The client
will inform the Affected Communities about the mechanism in the course of the Stakeholder
Engagement process”.

Green Protocol: The protocol’s orientation is to develop mechanisms for consultation and
dialogue with stakeholders. No mention is made of grievance mechanism in the protocol.

BNDES: Similarly to the green protocol, there is no guidance in this specific topic in the
BNDES environmental social policy.

   7.   Independent Review

Equator Principles: The principle’s document says that “for all Category A and, as
appropriate, Category B Projects, an Independent Environmental and Social Consultant will
carry out an Independent Review of the Assessment. For project-related corporate loans an
Independent Review by an Independent Environmental and Social Consultant is required for
Projects with potential high risk impacts including, but not limited to, any of the following:
                                     91                                      ANNEX E


(i)adverse impacts on indigenous peoples; (ii) Critical Habitat impacts; (iii) significant
cultural heritage impacts and (iv) large-scale resettlement”.

Green Protocol: There is no reference to independent review in this protocol.

BNDES: Independent reviews are not mentioned in BNDES environmental and social policy.

   8. Covenants

Equator Principles: According to the principle’s document “an important strength of the
Equator Principles is the incorporation of covenants linked to compliance. For all Projects,
the client will covenant in the financing documentation to comply with all relevant host
country environmental and social laws, regulations and permits in all material respects”.

Green Protocol: The protocol does not mention the incorporation of covenants. Still, the
protocol mentions that potential polluters projects or effectively using natural resources in the
production process should be conditioned to legislation compliance.

BNDES: The BNDES does not mention the incorporation of covenants.

   9. Independent Monitoring and Reporting

Equator: The Equator Principle’s document says that “to assess Project compliance with the
Equator Principles and ensure ongoing monitoring and reporting after Financial Close and
over the life of the loan, the EPFI will, for all Category A and, as appropriate, Category B
Projects, require the appointment of an Independent Environmental and Social Consultant, or
require that the client retain qualified and experienced external experts to verify its
monitoring information which would be shared with the EPFI. On the Project-Related
Corporate Loans For Projects where an Independent Review is required under Principle 7,
the EPFI will require the appointment of an Independent Environmental and Social
Consultant after Financial Close, or require that the client retain qualified and experienced
external experts to verify its monitoring information which would be shared with the EPFI”.

Green Protocol:”No independent monitoring mechanism and report is mentioned in this
protocol.

BNDES: Still and according to the BNDES’s social and environmental policy, BNDES will
provide “internal socioenvironmental guides, assessment methodologies of beneficiaries,
assessment of credit risk and monitoring and impact assessment of projects supported” .

However, the institution does not mention the use of an independent mechanism/consultant
to monitor its projects.
ANNEX E                                               92


   10. Reporting and Transparency

Equator Principles: According to the principles’ document “for all Category A and, as
appropriate, Category B Projects (1) The client will ensure that, at a minimum, a summary of
the ESIA is accessible and available online; (2) The client will publicly report GHG emission
levels (combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions) during the operational phase for Projects
emitting over 100,000 tons of CO2 equivalent annually. Refer to Annex A for detailed
requirements on GHG emissions reporting”.

“The EPFI will report publicly, at least annually, on transactions that have reached Financial
Close and on its Equator Principles implementation processes and experience, taking into
account appropriate Except in cases where the client does not have internet access”.

Green Protocol: The protocol’s orientation is “to commit to publish annually the results of
the implementation of the principles and guidelines set forth in the protocol”.

BNDES: The BNDES expressed intention is “To continuously expand and update
knowledge concerning sustainable development as well as social and environmental
responsibility while sharing information and experiences with beneficiaries, financial
institutions and other organizations, seeking dialogue and fostering the integration of efforts
to strengthen the approach to social and environmental dimensions as a strategic issue. Still,
according to BNDES’ social and environmental responsibility the institution considers
“ethics and transparency as the pillars of relations with all stakeholders, ensuring dialogue
and accounting for its decisions and efforts” However there is no expressed commitments on
annual reports or on individual projects.
ANNEX F                                93



Annex F: Organization of Brazil’s Federal Ministry of Environment and related
Agencies




 Source: GEF Evaluation Office, 2012
                                                                                                                                                                                 94                                                                                                                                                           ANNEX G



Annex G: Project Information Available from BNDES’s Website
                                                                                                                                                                                   Data da     Val Contratado
                            Cliente                           CNPJ                                                Descrição do Projeto                                      UF                                         Porte da Empresa                        Ramo/Gênero de Atividade                            Área Operacional            Modalidade de Apoio
                                                                                                                                                                                 Contratação         R$


                                                                           CONTRIBUIR PARA O DESENVOLVIMENTO ECONOMICO DO ESTADO DE SANTA CATARINA POR MEIO DO APOIO A
ESTADO DE SANTA CATARINA                                  82951229000176   EMPREENDIMENTOS PRODUTIVOS, SELECIONADOS POR UM OU MAIS EDITAIS, PARA A INCLUSAO DE PESSOAS      SC     1/8/2013          10,000,000 ADMINISTRAÇÃO PÚBLICA DIRETA   COMERCIO E SERVICOS/ADMINISTRAÇÃO PÚBLICA             AREA AGROPECUARIA E DE INCLUSAO SOCIAL   NÃO REEMBOLSÁVEL
                                                                           DE BAIXA RENDA.



                                                                           IMPLANTACAO DE UM PARQUE EOLICO, COM CAPACIDADE INSTALADA TOTAL DE 30 MW, ENVOLVENDO
PEDRA BRANCA S/A                                          12709996000198                                                                                                    BA     1/8/2013          50,654,100 GRANDE/MÉDIA-GRANDE            COMERCIO E SERVICOS/ELETRICIDADE E GÁS                AREA DE INFRA-ESTRUTURA                  REEMBOLSÁVEL
                                                                           MONTAGEM DE TURBINAS EOLICAS, CONSTRUCAO DA INFRAESTRUTURA E INSTALACOES ELETRICAS.




                                                                           IMPLANTACAO DE UM PARQUE EOLICO, COM CAPACIDADE INSTALADA TOTAL DE 30 MW, ENVOLVENDO
SAO PEDRO DO LAGO S/A                                     12709813000134                                                                                                    BA     1/8/2013          51,746,800 GRANDE/MÉDIA-GRANDE            COMERCIO E SERVICOS/ELETRICIDADE E GÁS                AREA DE INFRA-ESTRUTURA                  REEMBOLSÁVEL
                                                                           MONTAGEM DE TURBINAS EOLICAS, CONSTRUCAO DA INFRAESTRUTURA E INSTALACOES ELETRICAS.




                                                                           IMPLANTACAO DE UM PARQUE EOLICO, COM CAPACIDADE INSTALADA TOTAL DE 30 MW, ENVOLVENDO
SETE GAMELEIRAS S/A                                       12710327000136                                                                                                    BA     1/8/2013          55,146,700 GRANDE/MÉDIA-GRANDE            COMERCIO E SERVICOS/ELETRICIDADE E GÁS                AREA DE INFRA-ESTRUTURA                  REEMBOLSÁVEL
                                                                           MONTAGEM DE TURBINAS EOLICAS, CONSTRUCAO DA INFRAESTRUTURA E INSTALACOES ELETRICAS.




                                                                           VIABILIZAR A EXECUCAO DE PROGRAMAS DE DESENVOLVIMENTO INTEGRADO CONSTANTES DO PLANO
ESTADO DO MARANHAO                                        06354468000160                                                                                                    MA    1/14/2013       1,001,340,520 ADMINISTRAÇÃO PÚBLICA DIRETA   COMERCIO E SERVICOS/ADMINISTRAÇÃO PÚBLICA             AREA DE INFRAESTRUTURA SOCIAL            REEMBOLSÁVEL
                                                                           PLURIANUAL E LEIS ORCAMENTARIAS ANUAIS DO ESTADO DO MARANHAO



                                                                           AMPLIACAO, MANUTENCAO E EXPLORACAO DOS 84 PRIMEIROS MESES DA CONCESSAO DO AEROPORTO
INFRAMERICA CONCESSIONARIA DO AEROPORTO DE BRASILIA S/A   15559082000186   INTERNACIONAL DE BRASILIA, DENOMINADO PRESIDENTE JUSCELINO KUBITSCHEK, LOCALIZADO EM BRASILIA,   DF    1/14/2013         488,000,000 GRANDE/MÉDIA-GRANDE            COMERCIO E SERVICOS/TRANSPORTE AÉREO                  AREA DE INFRA-ESTRUTURA                  REEMBOLSÁVEL
                                                                           DISTRITO FEDERAL, OBJETO DO EDITAL DO LEILAO Nø 2/2012 DA ANAC, REALIZADO EM 06/02/12.



                                                                           DESENVOLVIMENTO DE UM CIRCUITO INTEGRADO (CHIP) DO TIPO ASIC (APPLICATION SPECIFIC INTEGRATED
FUNDACAO CPQD CENTRO PESQ. DESENV. EM TELECOMUNICACOES    02641663000110   CIRCUIT) COM A FINALIDADE DE PROCESSADOR OTN (OPTICAL TRANSPORT NETWORK), PARA APLICACOES EM     SP    1/16/2013          29,328,080 MPME                           COMERCIO E SERVICOS/ATIV IMOBIL, PROFISSIONAL E ADM   AREA INDUSTRIAL                          NÃO REEMBOLSÁVEL
                                                                           REDES OPTICAS OPERANDO A 100 GBIT/S.


                                                                           FINANCIAMENTO NO AMBITO DO PROINVESTE, DE DESPESAS DE CAPITAL RELATIVAS A AMORTIZACAO DO
                                                                           PRINCIPAL DA DIVIDA DO ESTADO DE GOIAS DECORRENTE DO CONTR.DE FINANCIAMENTO MEDIANTE A
ESTADO DE GOIAS                                           01409580000138                                                                                                    GO    1/18/2013         260,416,043 ADMINISTRAÇÃO PÚBLICA DIRETA   COMERCIO E SERVICOS/ADMINISTRAÇÃO PÚBLICA             AREA DE INFRAESTRUTURA SOCIAL            REEMBOLSÁVEL
                                                                           ABERTURA CREDITO N.10201371(PEF2), CELEBRADO COM BNDES EM 01/06/2010, E APORTE PARA AUMENTO DE
                                                                           CAPITAL DA SANEAGO CONTRAPART



                                                                           IMPLANTACAO DO ACORDO DE COOPERACAO ENTRE BNDES E MINISTERIO DA INTEGRACAO NACIONAL - ACOES
CIA DE DESENVOLV DOS VALES DO SAO FRANCISCO E PARNAIBA    00399857000126                                                                                                    IE    1/22/2013          38,000,000 MPME                           COMERCIO E SERVICOS/OUTRAS ATIV SERVIÇOS              AREA AGROPECUARIA E DE INCLUSAO SOCIAL   NÃO REEMBOLSÁVEL
                                                                           EMERGENCIAIS DE CONVIVENCIA COM A SECA.




                                                                           IMPLANTACAO DO ACORDO DE COOPERACAO ENTRE BNDES E MINISTERIO DA INTEGRACAO NACIONAL - ACOES
DEPARTAMENTO NACIONAL DE OBRAS CONTRA AS SECAS            00043711000143                                                                                                    IE    1/22/2013          19,000,000 MPME                           COMERCIO E SERVICOS/OUTRAS ATIV SERVIÇOS              AREA AGROPECUARIA E DE INCLUSAO SOCIAL   NÃO REEMBOLSÁVEL
                                                                           EMERGENCIAIS DE CONVIVENCIA COM A SECA.



                                                                           VIABILIZAR A EXECUCAO DO PROGRAMA MULTISSETORIAL DE APOIO A INTERIORIZACAO DO DESENVOLVIMENTO
ESTADO DE PERNAMBUCO                                      10571982000125   SUSTENTAVEL DO ESTADO DE PERNAMBUCO, COMPOSTO POR PROJETOS CONSTANTES DO PLANO                   PE    1/23/2013         423,613,990 ADMINISTRAÇÃO PÚBLICA DIRETA   COMERCIO E SERVICOS/ADMINISTRAÇÃO PÚBLICA             AREA DE INFRAESTRUTURA SOCIAL            REEMBOLSÁVEL
                                                                           PLURIANUAL E LEIS OR‡AMENTARIAS DO POSTULANTE.



                                                                           DESENVOLVIMENTO DE UM SISTEMA OPTICO DE VARREDURA E LEITURA A LASER, BASEADO NA TECNOLOGIA
INSTITUTO ATLANTICO                                       04614281000123   DE FILMES FLUORESCENTES DE FOSFORO (PSPL), INCLUINDO UM SOFTWARE DE GERACAO DE IMAGENS PARA      CE    1/24/2013           5,627,273 MPME                           COMERCIO E SERVICOS/ATIV IMOBIL, PROFISSIONAL E ADM   AREA INDUSTRIAL                          NÃO REEMBOLSÁVEL
                                                                           USO EM RADIOLOGIA DIGITAL ODONTOLOGICA, NO AMBITO DO BNDES FUNDO TECNOLOGICO - BNDES FUNTEC.




               Source: BNDES’s website, direct contracts, posted by 8/10/2013, accessed on 10/1/2013; available at:
               http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_pt/Institucional/BNDES_Transparente/Consulta_as_operacoes_do_BNDES/operacoes_diretas.html
ANNEX H                                                         95


Annex H: History and Timeline of the Operation

To properly evaluate the SEM DPL, it is important to understand the history and evolution of
the operation, and the context in which it was prepared. Over the course of the preparation
process, there were significant changes to the design—including to the financing instrument,
the objectives, and the implementing agencies—that affected issues that arose later, including
with the project logic, the delay in effectiveness, the inclusion of actions previously
supported by the Env PRL, and the Bank’s reputation. Having the complete story up-front in
one place makes it more coherent, and allows the report to refer back to certain aspects of it
later in the evaluation where relevant. To summarize the many steps involved, a Timeline is
provided at the end of this section.

According to documentation and World Bank management, preparation of the operation,
with the same project ID (P095205) began with a World Bank mission to the headquarters of
the National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES) in Rio de Janeiro in
November 2007. BNDES is a wholly owned Brazilian federal government development bank
that finances both private and public investments, including large infrastructure projects, and
whose annual lending has grown to several times that of the World Bank globally (BNDES
2013a; Colby 2012). 84 BNDES has also been increasing its presence internationally,
particularly in other countries in Latin American, where it has become one of the most
important financial institutions (Financial Times 2012, 2013b; BIZ 2011; Rainforest
Foundation UK). It also finances investments in Africa, and recently opened its first
representative office in Africa in order to expand its presence there (Financial Times 2010,
2012, 2013c, 2013d). 85

The World Bank memo with the objectives of the first mission referred to the operation as
the “BNDES PAC-Env DPL”, and said that the World Bank team would “discuss with the
main counterparts key design aspects of a potential PAC and environmental and social policy
operation.” The “PAC” is the Portuguese acronym for the Brazilian government’s flagship
Program for Accelerated Growth to support a major scaling-up and acceleration of
infrastructure investment, and the World Bank team’s back-to-office report highlighted
“BNDES as the primary channel for federal financing of this ambitious program,” and noted
that as a result, “infrastructure lending is projected to more than double in 2007-2010.” At
the same time, BNDES had received criticism nationally and internationally for the adverse
environmental and social impacts of some of its investments, including in large
slaughterhouse operations in the Amazon (see for example, Greenpeace 2009), and both the
BNDES and World Bank teams recognized that there were significant weaknesses in
BNDES’s approach to environmental and social safeguards (see Program Document).
BNDES therefore wanted to make “the widespread strengthening of BNDES social and


84
     http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_en/Institucional/The_BNDES_in_Numbers/
85
  http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_en/Institucional/Press/Noticias/2013/20131206_
africa.html
ANNEX H                                           96


environmental screening policies and of their implementation throughout the BNDES
portfolio” one of the main objectives of the operation.

According to the Country Director at the time, the World Bank consciously made a major
change in direction at the time in deciding to engage in financing development in the
Amazon. Apart from “boutique” environmental projects, the World Bank had not engaged in
lending for economic development in the Amazon since the 1980s, and wanted to support
investments in sectors like energy, agriculture, mining, and infrastructure, and to do it in an
environmentally sustainable way. This was reflected in the World Bank’s 2008-2011 Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Brazil, which states that “…the Bank Group will reverse its
de facto decades’ long withdrawal from the financing of development in the Amazon…”
through what it called the Amazon Partnership Program, which among other things would
support “…the planning and implementation of major energy and transport infrastructure…”
(World Bank 2008). In view of BNDES’s extensive financing of projects in the Amazon,
including in the context of the PAC, the planned World Bank loan to BNDES was seen as a
manifestation of the new focus.

In March 2008, the Government of Brazil External Financing Commission (COFIEX),
authorized the preparation of a “DPL/BNDES-World Bank” program. It specified that the
loan would be in the amount of US$ 1 billion, with BNDES as the only beneficiary, and the
Federal Government of Brazil as the guarantor.

The DPL is the World Bank’s main instrument for providing a client country budget support
through “rapidly disbursing policy-based financing”, and its use is governed by Operational
Policy (OP) 8.60. 86 Although up until that point the idea was to prepare a DPL to BNDES, at
the first formal stage in the World Bank project preparation cycle, the Concept Note issued
for the operation in June 2008 was not for a DPL, but rather for a Financial Intermediary
Loan (FIL) from the World Bank to BNDES titled the “BNDES Environmental and Social
Sustainability Project” (though still with the same project code, P095205). The proposed US$
1 billion in financing was to be divided into two Components: (A) Strengthening of
Environmental and Social Screening and Monitoring would provide US$ 10 million for
technical assistance and training to BNDES; and (B) a US$ 990 million Line of Credit to
finance BNDES investments in infrastructure and green lines of business.

The June 2008 Concept Note contains a section wherein the Bank team discusses alternative
lending instruments that they had considered but rejected in favor of the FIL instrument. In
particular, they discuss at some length the originally proposed DPL instrument—which the
Bank team reports was the preferred option of BNDES—and why the Bank team rejected it
for the operation. The June 2008 Concept Note states: “Though BNDES deemed that a policy
based loan is the most appropriate instrument, this would require that either BNDES receive
DPL funding through on-lending through the Federal Government or through a DPL directly
to BNDES which would entail the granting of an exception to OP 8.60 by the World Bank’s
Board” because, they explain, “OP 8.60…states that only Bank members and their sub-

86
  See World Bank Operational Manual, available at:
http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/PROJECTS/EXTPOLICIES/EXTOPMANUAL/0,,
menuPK:64142516~pagePK:64141681~piPK:64141745~theSitePK:502184,00.html
                                          97                                           ANNEX H


national divisions may benefit from a DPL.” The Bank team expressed uncertainty about
whether such an exception would be granted. The Concept Note further states that “an
approach for this sort of operation in which the government borrows from the Bank and then
on-lends to BNDES is not consistent with the financial requirements of the country.” In
detailing why the government did not want to borrow from the Bank and on-lend to BNDES,
the Concept Note refers to concerns by the client about the impact on the external debt
statistics of the Federal government.

If this loan had continued to be prepared as a FIL as previously proposed, the operation
would have had to adhere to the World Bank’s OP 8.30, which among other things requires
removal of interest rate subsidies, application of World Bank policies on environmental and
social safeguards, and financial management and procurement, to the loan and all sub-
projects financed. 87 In their written comments, reviewers of the Concept Note were critical
with regard to these requirements and BNDES’s ability to meet them, including because
BNDES supplies loans at subsidized interest rates, and because one of the main rationales for
the operation was that BNDES’s environmental and social policies were weak. The Bank
team did not receive clearance to proceed with preparation of the operation at the Concept
Review Meeting in June and, unusually, Decision Notes were never circulated. A revised
Concept Note was issued—again for a FIL to BNDES—and a Concept Review Meeting held
in September 2008. As reflected in the Decision Notes from the meeting issued on October 8,
2008, many of the same issues remained as in June, but nevertheless the Bank team received
clearance to proceed with preparation of the FIL—with guidance to take care to address the
many outstanding issues that remained, including with interest rate subsidies, safeguards, and
procurement. 88

In the meantime, Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy in September of 2008, sparking the
global financial crisis. Although we now know that Brazil emerged from the crisis relatively
unscathed, at the time there was a great deal of uncertainty. In a special annex to the SEM
DPL Program Document on “The Brazilian Economy in the World wide Financial Crisis”,
the World Bank highlighted that “despite its increased resilience, Brazil has been hit hard by
the global financial crisis,” which had “already shocked the real economy” (World Bank
2009). In response, the Brazilian Government “recently announced the adoption of
countercyclical fiscal policies,” including through accelerated financing of infrastructure
investments through BNDES.

In this context, the World Bank Annual Meetings were held from October 11-13, 2008. The
BNDES President took the unusual step of traveling to Washington, DC to attend, and a
meeting was organized between him, World Bank management, and Brazilian government
officials to discuss the loan. According to World Bank team members and those familiar with
the meeting, BNDES needed the money to help increase its lending, but they objected to
requirements of OP 8.30 on FILs. According to those familiar with the discussions, BNDES
objected to applying World Bank investment lending requirements—particularly restrictions
on interest rate subsidies, the application of World Bank policies on environmental and social

87
     OP 8.30 was replaced by OP 10.00 - Investment Project Financing, in April 2013.
88
     The Decision Notes contained no recommendation to change the instrument to a DPL.
ANNEX H                                           98


safeguards, and procurement rules—to the sub-investments financed. So agreement was
reached to abandon the idea of a FIL, and instead pursue other options. Brazilian government
representatives noted that since the earlier discussions on a DPL, its debt situation had
improved (due in part to exchange rate depreciation; see Program Document Annex 9).
Moreover, the Brazilian officials noted that there was still an unfinished environmental
policy reform agenda in Brazil from the earlier Env PRL series, and that many of the 15
policy areas from that earlier environmental DPL could be revisited to help justify a broader
national-level policy operation.

So agreement was reached that the Brazilian Federal Government would borrow the money
from the World Bank in the form of an environmental DPL, and on-lend the money to
BNDES. This allowed the World Bank, to prepare the loan and disburse the money much
faster than would have been possible under a FIL—without having to deal with FIL
requirements related to interest rate subsidies, environmental and social safeguards, and
fiduciary oversight. It also allowed the Bank to reverse a steep decline in lending to Brazil,
which had fallen from $3.2 billion over 2005-6 to less than $300 million in 2007. World
Bank Brazil team members reported that they felt pressure from senior management, at the
time, to increase lending.

From that point, the operation was prepared very quickly. In November 2008, another
Concept Review Meeting was held, this time for the “Brazil: First Programmatic
Development Policy Loan for Sustainable Environmental Management”, or SEM DPL.
Although the project ID remained the same, a programmatic DPL was now proposed with
nine policy areas and two objectives that were virtually the same as the objectives for the
earlier Env PRL: improve the Brazilian environmental management system, and mainstream
environment into targeted sectors. The lending amount for the series was doubled from that
originally requested by COFIEX for the BNDES DPL and proposed by the World Bank in
the FIL Concepts: from US$ 1 billion to US$ 2 billion. The Ministry of Environment was
added as an implementing agency. Though the title and objectives no longer mentioned of
BNDES, BNDES remained an implementing agency and a major focus of the reforms the
SEM DPL aimed to support. Less than three months later, on February 3, 2009, the Program
Document was finalized for the SEM DPL, and the SEM DPL 1 loan was approved by the
World Bank Board on March 5, 2009. None of the World Bank documentation for the SEM
DPL—including the Program Document, Loan Agreement, and the Implementation
Completion and Results Report (ICR)—mentioned that all of the financing would be on-lent
to BNDES, or that other instruments and beneficiary arrangements had been considered.

On the part of the Borrower, the plan to on-lend the SEM DPL funds to BNDES was made
official through Interim Measure 450 of the Brazilian Presidency in December 2008, several
months before the SEM DPL was submitted to the World Bank Board of Directors
(Presidency of the Republic 2008; Senate of Brazil 2008). 89 The measure authorizes the
Brazilian federal government to transfer up to US$ 2 billion from the World Bank (IBRD) to


89
   Available at: http://www.planalto.gov.br/ccivil_03/_ato2007-2010/2008/Mpv/450.htm . The
Presidency website notes that Interim Measure 450 was revoked once Law No. 11.943 was approved
(thus the strikethroughs).
                                         99                                         ANNEX H


BNDES. 90 The Interim Measure later became Brazilian Law number 11.943, Article 15,
which authorizes the transfer of up to the full US$ 2 billion planned for the SEM DPL series,
in the form of a loan from the Federal Government to BNDES (Presidency of the Republic
2009). 91 The law is dated May 28, 2009, not long after the SEM DPL was approved by the
World Bank Board, and specifies that “the Government will pass on resources to BNDES
under the same financial terms offered by the IBRD.”

Despite the speed with which the SEM DPL was prepared and approved, and the argument
made in the Program Document that “the aim of ensuring adequate credit resources to the
financial system is a key motivating factor of the GOB’s request for the SEM DPL” in
response to the financial crisis, the loan then lingered for more than a year before the Loan
Agreement was signed and the operation made effective. Based on interviews and
documentation, IEG understands that the delay was due to the need for the loan to be
approved by the Brazilian Senate, which took some time. In preparation for the vote in the
Senate, detailed official Legal Opinions (“Parecer” in Portuguese) were prepared by the
Brazilian Treasury, Ministry of Finance, on March 31, 2010 (Parecer PGFN/COF/No.
589/2010) and by the Senate on April 20, 2010 (Parecer No. 410 of 2010). The Legal
Opinions explain that all of the funds provided by the World Bank through the SEM DPL
would be directed to BNDES. Moreover, they say that the Brazilian Treasury entered into the
SEM DPL on behalf of BNDES, with the purpose of on-lending the funds to BNDES on the
same terms that the World Bank lent the money to the Government of Brazil. The Legal
Opinions also emphasize that because the money is being lent by the World Bank under its
DPL instrument, the proceeds from the loans “are not allocated for investments.”

The SEM DPL was signed and became effective on June 21, 2010. The first tranche of
US$800 million was released on June 30, 2010, fifteen months later than what was planned
when the loan was approved by the World Bank Board. The second tranche of US$500
million was disbursed on December 15, 2010, seventeen months late. Thus the total amount
of US$1.3 billion for SEM DPL 1 was disbursed. Each of these disbursements was
accompanied by a detailed contract signed between the Federal Government of Brazil and
BNDES (Financing Contracts 544 and 590, respectively). The Financing Contracts were
quite detailed and in many respects passed on to BNDES terms that were specified in the
SEM DPL Legal Agreement signed between the Federal Government and the World Bank
(IBRD), stating that the “financing must observe the same financial conditions agreed in the
IBRD Loan Contract”, and integrating copies of the World Bank Loan Agreement and The
General Conditions for IBRD Loan Contracts, including the interest rate and the amortization
schedule. There was however at least one notable difference: each of the Brazilian Financing
Contracts specified that “this contract aims at granting credit to BNDES…to provide it with
the resources for application in its investment operations.”


90
  Although the SEM DPL is not mentioned by name, there were no other World Bank loans to
BNDES around that time, and the amount of US$ 2 billion quoted is the same as the total planned for
the SEM DPL series. As noted below, a subsequent legal review by the Brazilian Treasury does name
the SEM DPL, and links it to the earlier Interim Measure and Law cited here.
91
     Available at: http://www.planalto.gov.br/ccivil_03/_ato2007-2010/2009/Lei/L11943.htm .
ANNEX H                                               100


The SEM DPL was closed two weeks after the second tranche was disbursed, on December
31, 2010. The planned second loan in the series, SEM DPL 2, never materialized. To provide
perspective on the scale of the SEM DPL 1, it was equivalent to the total average annual
financing commitment for the environment for the entire World Bank from 2008-2012,
including financing from the Global Environment Facility (GEF), and it was ten times larger
than the World Bank’s total global GEF-financed commitments in 2011 or 2012. 92 Looking
only at the non-DPL environment portfolio (since the SEM DPL itself is included in the
overall calculation), SEM DPL 1 was more than 2.5 times bigger than the World Bank’s
global average annual financing commitment for the environment from 2008-2012.

Not long after the SEM DPL 1 closed, the Brazilian Federal Prosecutor's Office (Ministério
Público Federal) enquired about the loan with BNDES, and BNDES confirmed that the full
US$1.3 billion “were transferred to BNDES for complementing its investment budget”.
BNDES’s response stated further that the resources were provided as a concessionary loan by
the Federal Treasury “to BNDES in order to provide resources to be applied in its investment
operations. That way, the resources from the financing were utilized to complement the
BNDES disbursement budget.” Indeed, BNDES ramped up its lending in a major way at the
time of the SEM DPL, reporting that its disbursements increased by 23% in 2010 (BNDES
2013a). The large amounts of money that the Brazilian government has been channeling
through BNDES was recently criticized by the OECD. 93



Timeline for World Bank operation P095205 (“SEM DPL” and other manifestations)
     Date                      Event                                    Comments
                                        2007
 Nov. 13-14 World Bank mission to BNDES “PAC” is the Portuguese acronym for
            for preparation of a “BNDES      Brazil’s “Program for Accelerated
            PAC-Env DPL”                     Growth”, a major government
                                             infrastructure investment program. There
                                             is no indication that Brazilian agencies
                                             other than BNDES were involved.
                                        2008
 Mar. 27    COFIEX sends fax to World       The fax specified that the beneficiary of
            Bank authorizing the            the loan should be BNDES, with the
            preparation of a “DPL/BNDES- Federal Government of Brazil as the
            World Bank”                     guarantor, for US$ 1 billion.
 June 4     Concept Note for a “Brazil:     The Concept was for a US$ 1 billion loan
            BNDES Environmental and         to BNDES, with US$ 10 million for

92
  Source: World Bank Business Warehouse.
93
  In its 2013 Brazil Economic Survey, the OECD was critical of the significant increase in transfers
from the national budget to BNDES, noting that “a large share of BNDES loans is extended to large
companies…[which] would be the ones that would probably enjoy the easiest access to credit in
private credit markets.” It recommends that “private entry will require levelling the playing field by
phasing out all direct and indirect financial support to BNDES.” (OECD 2013)
                                   101                                        ANNEX H


             Social Sustainability Project”  environmental and social TA, and US$
             Financial Intermediary Loan     990 million to finance BNDES
             (FIL) formally issued by World  investments. It argued that a DPL would
             Bank team for comment           not be appropriate. Serious issues were
                                             raised by reviewers. No Decision Notes
                                             were ever issued.
Sept. 6      A second Concept Note for a     The Concept is similar to the one issued in
             “Brazil: BNDES Environmental June 2008.
             and Social Sustainability
             Facility” FIL was formally
             issued by World Bank team.
Oct. 8       The Decision Notes issued for a The Decision Notes reflect serious issues
             Concept Review Meeting for      that continued to be raised by reviewers;
             “BNDES Environmental and        instruct Bank team to pay attention to
             Social Sustainability Facility” these during project preparation. No
             FIL held on Sept. 12.           mention of a decision to change to the
                                             DPL instrument.
Oct. 11-13   BNDES President attends         A meeting is held between the BNDES
             Annual Meetings of the World    President, Brazilian government officials,
             Bank in Washington, DC          and World Bank management to discuss
                                             the loan. Agreement is reached to prepare
                                             DPL to the Federal Government, which
                                             would pass the financing to BNDES.
Nov. 3       Concept version of a Program    The Program Document is now for a
             Document for “Brazil: First     programmatic series of two loans totaling
             Programmatic Development        US$ 2 billion; SEM DPL1 for US$1.3
             Policy Loan for Sustainable     billion. Implementing agencies: Ministry
             Environmental Management”       of Finance, Ministry of Environment, and
             (SEM DPL) completed             BNDES. No mention of earlier efforts to
                                             prepare a loan to BNDES. No mention of
                                             financing going to BNDES.
Nov. 11      Concept Review Meeting for      Decision Notes state “Despite the key role
             “Brazil: First Programmatic     to be undertaken by BNDES, it was
             Development Policy Loan for     reiterated clearly that the loan is designed
             Sustainable Environmental       as a DPL.” And “highlight the importance
             Management” (SEM DPL)           of BNDES without generating the
                                             erroneous perception that we are directly
                                             supporting investments.”

Dec. 9       Brazilian President issues        The news is covered in Brazilian media,
             Interim Measure 450 that          including the largest paper in the country.
             authorizes the government to
             transfer up to US$ 2 billion
             from the World Bank to
             BNDES.
Dec. 18      Begin Negotiations
ANNEX H                                      102


                                        2009
Feb. 3     Program Document for SEM         There is no mention of the earlier efforts to
           DPL finalized                    prepare a loan to BNDES, or that other
                                            instruments were considered. No mention
                                            of financing going to BNDES.
Mar. 5     World Bank Board approval        No discussion of earlier efforts to prepare
                                            a loan to BNDES, or consideration of
                                            other instruments. No mention of
                                            financing going to BNDES.
May 28     Law 11,943 enacted by            The Law replaces Interim Measure 450.
           Brazilian government
           authorizes the government to
           transfer up to US$ 2 billion
           from the World Bank to
           BNDES.
                                        2010
April 13   Bank receives Legal Opinion      The 10-page Opinion explains in detail
           (Parecer) 589 from Ministry of plans by GOB to on-lend the SEM DPL
           Finance                          funds in their entirety to BNDES, on
                                            IBRD terms. States: “According to IBRD
                                            DPL procedures, the funds will not be
                                            destined to new investments...”
April 20   Federal Senate issues Legal      Similar to the Ministry of Finance Legal
           Opinion (Parecer) 410            Opinion. Also confirms that the funds are
                                            not intended for new investments, and will
                                            be “allocated to BNDES to finance actions
                                            for the management of Brazilian
                                            environmental sustainability.”
June 21    SEM DPL 1 loan for US$ 1.3       Effectiveness is 13 months behind
           billion becomes effective        schedule. The Bank blames this on GOB
                                            forgetting to put the loan in the budget the
                                            previous year.
June 30    SEM DPL 1, tranche 1, is         The disbursement is 15 months late.
           disbursed for US$ 800 million
June 30    BNDES and Federal                The contract states that the purpose is “to
           Government sign Financing        provide [BNDES] with the resources for
           Contract 544, granting BNDES application in its investment operations.”
           a loan for US$ 800 million       Other content of the contract is similar to
           from the SEM DPL.                the World Bank Loan Agreement.
Dec. 15    CSO representatives meet with The CSOs seek clarification on
           Bank Management in Brasilia      achievement of SEM DPL policy actions,
                                            and request that SEM DPL tranche 2 not
                                            be disbursed in the meantime.
Dec. 15    SEM DPL 1, tranche 2, is         The disbursement is 17 months late.
           disbursed for US$ 500 million
                                 103                                      ANNEX H


Dec. 15    BNDES and Federal                The contents appear identical to Contract
           Government sign Financing        544. Again confirms that funds are for
           Contract 590, granting BNDES     BNDES’s investment operations.
           a loan for US$ 800 million
           from the SEM DPL.
Dec. 17    More than 30 international and   Stated that there were “serious problems”
           national CSOs write to World     with the SEM DPL, and expressed
           Bank LAC VP about SEM            “extreme concern” regarding lack of
           DPL.                             transparency, consultations, and evidence
                                            of implementation of reforms. Raises
                                            specific questions about BNDES.
                                            Requested dialogue with the Bank and
                                            hold on disbursement of tranche 2.
Dec. 31    SEM DPL 1 is closed

                                         2011
Jan. 13    World Bank Brazil Country         States: “the documents presented by the
           Director responds to CSO letter borrower as evidence of compliance with
           of 12/17/10 (on behalf of VP)     the second tranche release conditions of
                                             the SEM DPL 1 were received in
                                             confidence and cannot be disclosed by the
                                             Bank…”
Feb. 14    Brazilian Federal Prosecutor’s    Specific questions on the SEM DPL relate
           Office writes to BNDES            to BNDES’s use of the funds, and actions
           President to enquire about the    taken to improve BNDES environmental
           SEM DPL.                          and social management.
April 25   BNDES responds to the Federal States that the funds from the SEM DPL
           Prosecutor’s Feb. 14 enquiry.     were completely transferred to BNDES, on
                                             concessionary terms, “to be applied in its
                                             investment operations…to complement the
                                             BNDES disbursement budget.”
?          SEM DPL 2 is canceled             The planned second loan in the
                                             programmatic series never materializes.
Aug. 12    SEM DPL Implementation            There is no mention of funds being on-lent
           Completion and Results Report to BNDES. The Bank team rates the
           completed.                        operation “Satisfactory”.
ANNEX I                                104


Annex I: List of Persons Interviewed
                                 Brazilian Officials
         Name                                       Designation
Rodrigo Vieira              General Coordinator for External Financing, SEAIN
                           (Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais), Ministry of Planning
Leny Maria Corazza         Substitute Coordinator of Social Projects, SEAIN, Ministry
                           of Planning
Tania Ribeiro              Manager, Environmental Projects, SEAIN, Ministry of
                           Planning
Marcus Barreto             Coordinator of Institutional Development Projects and State
                           Reform, SEAIN, Ministry of Planning
Lilia Maya Cavalcante      Coordinator of Social Projects and Substitute coordinator of
                           External Financing, SEAIN, Ministry of Planning
Paulo Lopes Varella        Director, ANA - Agência Nacional de Águas (National
                           Water Agency)
Marcos Neves               Advisor, ANA - Agência Nacional de Águas (National
                           Water Agency)
Antônio Carlos Hummel      General Director, SFB (Serviço Florestal Brasileiro)
Daniel Tristão             Governmental Manager – Head of International Cooperation
                           Division, SFB (Serviço Florestal Brasileiro)
Ana Maria Evaristo Cruz    President, ASIBAMA (Associação Nacional dos Servidores
                           do IBAMA)
Volney Zanardi Junior      President, IBAMA (Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e
                           dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis)
Carlos Klink               Secretary of Climate Change and Environmental Quality,
                           MMA (Ministério do Meio Ambiente / Ministry for the
                           Environment)
Artur Lacerda              Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Affairs /
                           Coordinator-General for International Financial Institutions,
                           Ministry of Finance
Juliana Torres da Paz      Operation Specialist, Treasury, Ministry of Finance
Roberto Sainz              Researcher at EMBRAPA, Brazil / Professor at the
                           Department of Animal Science, University of California,
                           Davis
Roberto Ricardo Vizentin   President, ICMBio (Instituto Chico Mendes de Conservação
                           da Biodiversidade)
Gustavo Luedemann          CDM Designated National Authority, Ministry of Science
                           and Technology
Mario Sérgio Vasconcelos   Director, International Relations, FEBRABAN (Brazilian
                           Banking Federation)
Alessandra Panza           FEBRABAN (Brazilian Banking Federation)
Paulo Araujo               Head of Department of International Division – Institutional
                           Funding and International Relations Department, BNDES
Vivian Machado             Manager for International Organizations, BNDES
                                 105                                       ANNEX I


Marcio Macedo             Head of Environment Department, BNDES
Rafael da Silva Andrade   BNDES
Daniel Soeiro             BNDES
Ana Paula                 BNDES
Fabricio Barreto          Former Program Coordinator, MMA (Ministério do Meio
                          Ambiente / Ministry of Environment)
Fátima Soares             Manager, Water Quality Department, SEA/RJ (Secretaria do
                          Ambiente do Estado do Rio de Janeiro)
Anselmo Frederico         Environmental Specialist, SEA/RJ (Secretaria do Ambiente
                          do Estado do Rio de Janeiro)
Luiz Firmino              Undersecretary Executive, SEA Secretariat for the
                          Environment of Rio de Janeiro State
Denise Lobato             Superintendent of International Relations, SEA Secretariat
                          for the Environment of Rio de Janeiro State
Victor Zveibil            Superintendent of Sanitation Policy, SEA Secretariat for the
                          Environment of Rio de Janeiro State
Fátima Soares             Manager of Water Quality, SEA Secretariat for the
                          Environment of Rio de Janeiro State
Anna Cristina Henney      Director of Environmental Licensing, INEA/ SEA
                          Secretariat for the Environment of Rio de Janeiro State
Justiniano Netto          Secretary, Pará State Secreatary for Programa Municípios
                          Verdes
Meliza Alves Barbosa      Prosecutor, Ministério Público Federal
Pessoa
Felício Pontes Júnior     Prosecutor, Ministério Público Federal, Pará
Ubiratan Cazetta          Prosecutor, Ministério Público Federal, Pará
Helena Palmquist          Assessora-Chefe de Comunicacao, Ministério Público
                          Federal, Pará
Lilian Regina Furtado     Promotora de Justica, Ministério Público, State of Pará
Braga
Eliane Moreira            Promotora de Justica, Ministério Público, State of Pará


                                   World Bank

           Name                                    Designation
Mark Lundell                   Country Director, AFCS2; former Brazil Sector Leader
                               and SEM DPL TTL
Garo Batmanian                 Lead Environmental Specialist, EASCS; former SEM
                               DPL co-TTL
Deborah Wetzel                 Country Director, LCC5C
Gregor Wolf                    Sector Leader, LCSSD
Laura Tuck                     Vice President, ECA Region; former Sector Director,
                               LAC Region
John Briscoe                   Former Country Director, Brazil (retired)
Adriana Moreira                Senior Environmental Specialist, LCSEN
 ANNEX I                                     106


Alberto Ninio                   Chief Counsel for Environment (currently on leave)
Jennifer Sara                   Sector Manager; former Sector Leader, Brazil
Miguel Santiago da Silva        Senior Finance Officer
Oliveira
Isabella Micali Drossos         Senior Counsel, LEGAM
Kirk Hamilton                   Lead Environmental Economist
Erick Fernandes                 Adviser
Klaus Oppermann                 Team Leader, Policy and Methodology Team, Climate
                                Policy and Finance Department, Carbon Finance Unit

Mauricio Athie                  Senior Environmental Specialist, IFC, CESI2 (formerly
                                based in Brazil)
Alexander Indorf                Principal Environmental Specialist, IFC, CESI2
                                (formerly based in Brazil)
Eric Shayer                     Senior Environmental Specialist, IFC, CESI2
                                (currently based in Brazil), team member
Judith Lisansky                 Senior Social Specialist (retired)
Isabel Braga                    Senior Environmental Specialist (retired)
Robert Schneider                Sector Leader (retired)
Stephen Lintner                 Senior Adviser, OPSOR
Manuela Francisco               Economics Adviser, OPSPQ
Qays Hamad                      Senior Operations Adviser, OPSOR
Katia Madeiros                  Environmental Specialist supporting World Bank (and
                                other IFI) operations, FAO Investment Center


                    Civil Society Organization Representatives
          Name                                      Designation
Oriana Rey                 Lawyer and advisor of the Eco-Finance Program, Amigos da
                           Terra Amazônia. Member of Amazon Fund Advisory
                           Committee
Pedro Bara Neto            Infrastructure Strategy Leader, Living Amazon Initiative,
                           WWF
Carlos Tautz               Coordinator, Instituto Mais Democracia, Rio
Adalberto Veríssimo        Senior Researcher, IMAZON (Instituto do Homem e Meio
                           Ambiente da Amazônia)
Cássio Pereira             Researcher, IPAM (Instituto de Pesquisa Ambiental da
                           Amazônia); formerly of MMA and Agency for Development
                           of the Amazon
Vincent McElhinny          Senior Policy Advisor, Bank Information Center
Brent Millikan             Amazon Program Director, International Rivers
Maíra Irigaray             International Finance Advocate and Amazon Watch Brazil
                           Campaign Coordinator, In Casa do Indio
Sarah Freeman              Amazon Watch
Antonia Melo               Coordinator, Movimento Xingu Vivo
                                107                                     ANNEX I


Marcelo Salazar           ISA- Instituto Socioambiental, Adjunct Coordinator of
                          Xingu Program
Leonardo José Amorim      Lawyer, ISA - Instituto Socioambiental, Programa Xingu
Jammilye Sales            Lawyer, International Rivers/AIDA (Interamerican
                          Association for Environmental Defense)
Roberta Amanajás          Lawyer, Programa de Acesso à Justiça Internacional
                          SDDH (Sociedade Paraense de Defesa dos Direitos
                          Humanos)
Walter Silva Santos       CSP – CONLUTAS (Central Sindical e Popular)


               Attendees at Group Meeting with Community Members,
                           Field Visit, Altamira, Para State
          Name                                      Designation
Juma Xipaia                 Indigenous leader
Maria do Socorro            Community member
Ivana                       Community member
Moacyr                      Community member
Maria das Graças            Fisher, saleswoman
Vanusia Brito               Community member
Ivoneia                     Community member
Mariano                     Community member
Silvia                      Community member
Antonia                     Fisher, Arara ethnicity
Cecilio Kayapó              Fisher and Kaiapó Representative
Leonardo Kayapó             Indigenous leader
Maria de Nazaré Barroso     Women representative. Movement of Women from BR-1 63
                            and Midwives
Santa Duarte Vieira         Quilombola representative
Helenilda                   Community member
Soror Maria Vitti           Community member
Cileanto                    CIMI (Conselho Indigenista Missionário)
Helena                      Instituto Xingu Vivo
Milene Simone               Instituto Xingu Vivo
Benedita                    Franciscan Sister
Irmã Terezinha Jesus de     Franciscan Sister
Brito
José Bernardo               Representative of Altamira’s potters
Adam Fest                   Altamira’s Parish Articulator
Caroline Militão            Community member
Ana Paula                   Community member
Mazeth                      Community member
Sarah Freeman               Amazon Watch
ANNEX J               108


Annex J: Borrower Comments
109   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   110
111   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   112
113   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   114
115   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   116
117   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   118
119   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   120
121   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   122
123   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   124
125   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   126
127   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   128
129   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   130
131   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   132
133   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   134
135   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   136
137   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   138
139   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   140
141   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   142
143   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   144
145   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   146
147   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   148
149   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   150
151   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   152
153   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   154
155   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   156
157   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   158
159   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   160
161   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   162
163   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   164
165   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   166
167   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   168
169   ANNEX J
ANNEX J   170
171   ANNEX J
