Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9332
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
(CREDIT 991-SE)
JANUARY 25, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Monetary Unit : CFA Franc (CFAF)
Per US$ 1.00
Appraisal Year      CFAP 210
Intervening Years CFAF 350
Completion Year    CFAF 300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BNDS         Banque Nationale de D6veloppement du S6n6gal (National Development
Bank)
CRA          Capital Replacement Account
FAC          Fonds d'aide et de coop6ration (France)
FED          Fonds Europ;en de D6veloppement (European Development Fund)
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PMU          Project Management Unit
RMWA         Resident Mission in West Africa
SAED         Soci6t6 d'Am6nagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta du
Fleuve S6n6gal et des Vall6es du Fleuve S6n6gal et de la Fal6m6
(Senegal River Valley Development Authority)
SERAS        Soci6t6 pour l'Exploitation des Ressources Animales du S6n6gal
(National Animal Resource Development Agency)
SODEFITEX    Soci6t6  pour  le  D6veloppement  des  Fibres  Textiles  (Cotton
Development Agency)
SODESP       Soci6t6  pour  le  D6veloppement  de  l'Elevage  dans  la  zone
sylvopastorale (Livestock Development Agency)
SODEVA       Soci6t4 de D6veloppement et de Vulgarisation Agricole (Agricultural
Extension Agency)
SOMIVAC      Soci6t4 de Mise en Valeur de la Casamance  (Casamance Regional
Development Agency)
SONED        Soci6t6  Nationale  d'Etudes  pour  le  D6veloppement  (National
Consulting Firm)
SRO          Small Rural Operations Project
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30



FOl. OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Was:iington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of DOteemW-Ckiwal
Opetatmns Ivaluasrn
January 25, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report: Senegal - Small Rural
Overations Proiect (Credit 991-SE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Senegal - Small Rural Operations Project
(Credit 991-SE)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankc authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
(Credit 991-SE)
Table of Contents
Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Evaluatior Summary   .                        . . . . . . ..  . . . . . . . . .
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .                      . .
2.  Background  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. ....  .  .  .    ...  1
3.  Project Objectives  ....  .          .  .    .. . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  2
4.  Project Design and Organization . .          .....  .     .    . . . . .  .  .    .  2
5.  Project Implementation  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ....  5
6.  Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 8
7.  Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 11
8.  Bank and Borrower Performance ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .    ......    .  11
9.  Documentation and Data  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .    .  12
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . .                 13
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank Loan/Credits ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  15
2.  Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 15
3.  Credit Disbursements   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ........     16
4.  Project Implementation  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ........ .       17
5. Project Costs and Financing
A.  Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                18
B.  Project Financing ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ...... .  19
6. Project Results
A.  Direct Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                20
B.  Economic Impact ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  20
C.  Financial Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                21
D.  Studies . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .             ..       .   . . . .     21
7. Status of Covenants ....     .                                                     22
8. Use of Bank Resources
A.  Staff Inputs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                23
B.  Missions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               23
Map: IBRD 14615R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
(CREDIT 991-SE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Senegal Small Rural
Operations Project, for which Credit 991-SE in the amount of $11 million was
aiproved on March 11, 1980. The project was closed on September 20, 1988, over
three years behind schedule. It was virtually fully disbursed, with just $5,500
cancelled, and the last disbursement was on September 20, 1988.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division, Sahelian
Department, Africa Region Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III)
on the basis of the Borrower's detailed completion report of April 1988. On
April 6, 1990, the Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and III with the request to
prepare Part II by June 1, but no reply was received.
Preparation of this PCR was started in mid-1989, after project closure,
and is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision
reports, correspondance between the Bank and the Borrower and internal Bank
memoranda, the Borrower's own Completion Report of April 1988, and the Staff
Appraisal Report for the Second Small Rural Operations Project of February 6,
1989.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
(CREDIT 991-SE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.        The Small Rural Operations Project was  designed  in response to
Government's statements of objectives for the rural sector, and the objectives
underlying iajor policies, which included: (i) the promotion of greater
cohesiveness in rural society; (ii) increased production of home-grown food and
making output less dependent on rainfall; (iii) diversification of exports; (iv)
increased rural incomes and mitigation of urban-rural income differences; and (v)
promotion of savings in the rural sector.
Oblectives
2.        The broad objectives of the project were to encourage local initiatives
and tI.ereby broaden popular participation in investment decisions in the rural
sector, and to undertake only those small rural projects that were manifestly in
the interest of the beneficiaries. More specific objectives were to render small
groups of producers creditwzrthy in the judgment of the local banking system, and
to strengthen the existing Senegalese capacity for identification and preparation
of small rural projects. Increased crop and animal production were additional,
but incidental, project objectives.
Implementation Experience
3.        After a two-year preparation period, the project was appraised in July
1979 and the Credit became effective on September 10, 1980. The original closing
date of June 30, 1984 was postponed twice, and the project closed on September
20, 1988. The project's difficulties included: producers' lack of familiarity
with the innovative financial arrangements, discrepancies between different aid
agencies' operating procedures, design errors that necessitated the reorientation
of some sub-projects, and f -i,ent changes of sub-project managers.  Sub-project
performance was uneven, as was che attainment of project objectives. The Capital
Replacement Accounts, which were devices to provide for forced saving toward
renewal of mcdium-term assets, had mixed success; payments into such accounts
were low but variable in the sub-projects in the north of the country, but high
and more uniform in the south. Performance was judged sufficiently satisfactory
with regard to the other objectives -- i.e, encouragement of creation of producer
groups, reinforcement of the national project preparation capacity, and
stimulation of interest in this sort of activity in the population -- to justify
a follow-on project.



- iv -
Resrilts
4.        In terms of the number of activities undertaken, project outcomes
exceeded appraisal estimates (Part III, Section 4) but the total number of
beneficiary families is estimated at 2900 (para 36) ins'ead of 4200 (para 12).
The recalculated economic rate of return is estimated at 13% as the weighted
average for the five directly-productive subprojects (excluding village water
supplies) instead of 17% at appraisal;  including management overheads, the
recalculated return is 10% instead of 14% at appraisal (para 38).
Sustainabilitv
5.        The Project appears to be sustainable: most farmer groups are willing
to do their share of manual labor, investment proposals are plentiful, and
acceptance of the Capital Replacement Accounts is 3.ncreasing. The sustainability
of particular subprojects is not yet assured, in those cases where payments into
Capital Replacement Accounts are lagging behind the costs of renewal of medium-
term assets.
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.        The main lessons learned from this project are as follows:
(a)  The scattering of heterogeneous subprojects over very disparate
areas makes implementation difficult, since effective supervision
is difficult, yet the success of this type of project depends to
a great extent on close supervision.   There is a conflict,
however, between the desirability of good supervision and spatial
concentration, and demand-driven participation that may be
spatially quite diverse.   A difficult ci.aice has to be made,
although implementation can be improved by (b) and (c) below.
(b)  Executing agencies for identified operations should be closely
involved in the preparation and appraisal of subprojects for
which they are later responsible. A necessary but insufficient
condition for success is that contracts linking the Project
Management Unit and the agencies must spell out clearly:
(i)   super-ision   responsibilities   during   both
construction and project execution;
(ii)  inputs expected from the agencies in preparing
procurement     documents and the selection of
contractors; and
(iii) the departments within the executing agencies to
be responsible for backing up the subproject
head and his team.
(c)  Attention must be paid to farmer training in management of
collective assets and in making provisions for renewal of medium-
term assets. This is a necessary but r.ot sufficient condition
for success since collective management, even where there are
clear scale economies, is a particularly tricky business.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
(CREDIT 991-SE)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Protect Identity
Name: Small Rural Operations Project
Credit No.: 991-SE
Regiont Africa
Country: Senegal
Sector: Agriculture
2. Background
1.01      Senegal has a population of about 6.8 million (5.2 million at the time
this project was appraised) of which 70Z derive their livelihood from the rural
sector.  The country covers 200,000 km2, of which about 70% is suitable for
rainfed production. Irrigation potential is substantial, exceeding 200,000 ha
along the Senegal Valley  alone.   Aboat  60%  of  the rural population  is
concentrated within about 150 km of Dakar in the central Groundnut Basin. In
this area, local population densities often exceed 100/km2 and there is little
scope for further expaneion of extensive farming. Despite poor soils and erratic
rainfall, and although its contribution to GDP is much lower than in most West
African countries, the rural sector remains crucial to the Sengalese economy, and
will remain in the foreseeable future the main source of employment and revenue
for most of the population.
1.02      The Small Rural Operations (SRO) project was conceived as a follow-up
to the Drought Relief Fund (Credit 446-'SE) which, through an innovative financial
procedure, had financed rural water supplies, firebreak construction and fire-
fighting equipment, as well as a one-year livestock vaccination campaign.
Government and the Bank agreed that a follow-up project should emphasize more
directly productive activities, and hence more direct participation by project
beneficiaries.  Under a PPF, detailed preparation studies were undertaken in
March 1978 by the national consulting firm, SONED, with help from staff of the
Ministry of Rural Development and the Bank's Regional Mission for West Africa
(RMWA). Preparation was unusually long due to difficulties in deciding on an
appropriate institutional framework and on effective means of providing
guarantees for credit to be extended to beneficiaries. Preparation was completed
in early June 1979, and ar. ap'raisal mission visited Senegal in June-July 1979.



-2-
1.03      As proposed, the project focussed on channelling funds and technical
services to small groups of rural producers who were to provide labor and cash
for the development of a variety of directly productive activities, of which five
types were appraised.   The project also included village water supplies,
management services, and an allocation for other directly-productive activities
to be identified and prepared during implementation.
3. Proiect Obiectives
1.04      The broad objectives of the project were to encourage local initiatives
and thereby broaden popular participation in decisions concerning investments in
the rural sector, and to undertake only those small rural projects that were
manifestly in the interest of, and solicited by, the beneficiaries. The more
specific objectives were to render small groups of producers creditworthy in the
judgement of the local banking system, and to strengthen the existing Senegalese
capacity for identification and preparation of small rural projects. Increased
crop and animal production wias an additional, but incidental, project objective.
4. Proiect Design and Organization
1.05      The SRO project was designed against a backdrop of stagnation in the
rural  sector.    Output  from  rainfed  farming was  stationary,  since  land
intensification themes, as then defined, were not being adopted. The performance
of the regional development agencies had thus far beeu disappointing, and
Government recognized the need to make their top management and structure more
effective. Decentralization of decision-making was being implemented by SAED,
and similar steps were being considered for other agricultural parastatals. The
provision for recurrent cost financing was also inadequate and the scope for
increasing public  revenue was  severely  limited.   Government had recently
tightened up on agricultural credit, refusing it for the 1979/80 season to
cooperatives that had not paid at least 65% of all repayments due; the
possibility of levying user charges was also being seriously examined. Finally,
the cooperative movement as then constituted had not engendered local farmers'
organizations capable of organizing joint endeavors. It was thus increasingly
recognized that approaches other than cooperatives should be explored.
1.06      At the 1976 Annual Meetings, the Minister of Plan and Cooperation
requested a follow-up project to the Drought Relief Fund Project (Cr. 446-SE).
Terms of reference for a study were drafted by the RMWA in early 1977 in
agreement with the Government, and Senegal's technical agencies were asked to
submit project ideas.   Preparation was delayed by disagreements between the
Ministries of Plan and Rural Development on who should take the lead, and by
subsequent disagreements on the need for outside consultants.
1.07      Other rural sector projects had already been implemented in Senegal,
many with components similar to ones proposed for the SPO Project. Performance
under those projects had been patchy and expected benefits increasingly
unrealized. The main shortcomings mentioned in the completion reports related
to: (i) the quality of engineering design and supervision of construction of
project works; (ii) marketing problems, unremunerative prices and ineffective
input distribution; and (iii) the need to investigate more thoroughly the social
aspects involved in project planning and execution.  During appraisal of the



-3-
Smell Rural Operations Project, particular attention was therefcre paid to sound
engineering preparation and supervision of small rural works, and to delivery of
effective technical assistance to beneficiaries during and after construction.
1.08      While most rural development projects work more  r less directly with
producers and a limited number of suppliers, and concentrate on a few themes in
a homogeneous geographic zone, the design of the SRO Project was considerably
more complex: (i) it worked with producers through implemei.ting agencies and
producer groups; (ii) the project was involved simultaneously in se,eral far-
flung and dissimilar ecological zones (Fleuve, Sine-Saloum, Casamance, coastal
belt) and handled disparate themes (rice, vegetables, wells, bananas, beekeeping,
fishing); (iii) instead of handling only elements that had already been
identified and appraised, a considerable portion of project financing had to do
with operations to be identified and appraised in the course of implementation;
and (iv) instead of providing producers with productive investments on no other
condition than that they be properly used and maintained, the Project aimed to
have producers contribute to those investments and to their renewal; (v) its
basic objective -- the stimulaticn of entrepreneurial initiatives and self-
management in the rural populati..a -- was Ltself much more subtle and complex
than the delivery of irrigated perimeters, bbtz'ives or f'.shing boats. Such a
strategy was ambitious, given the mediocre results obtained previously in Senegal
with far simpler projects.
1.09      The location of the project in the Ministry of Social Development was
a second-best compromise reached during appraisal.   NGOs in Senegal deal
primarily with this Ministry, while the execut4ng agencies responsible for the
subprojects deal with the Ministry of Rural Development. The Project Director,
who had also been the Director of the Drought Relief Project, felt that such an
arrangement would afford him important leverage and bs-aining power that would
be lost if the project were submerged _n the Ministry of Rural Development.
1.10      The criteria used for selection of the appraised operations under the
project were that they be: (a) directly productive; (b) financially and
economicallv profitable, with a net income per labor-day at full development of
at least CFAF 275 (US$ 1.31 at the then-prevailing exchange rate), which was 25%
more than the nationwide average rural income, and an internal economic rate of
return of at least 10%; and (c) requested by, and manifestly in the interest of,
a group or groups of producers.  Those criteria were to be retained, during
implementation, for the as-yet unidentified activities. An exception to the
selection criteria was made for village water supplies, because of the difficulty
in assessing the benefits of this investment.
1.11      As appraised, the Project included the following specific components:
a)   construction, equipment and technical services for 30 perimeters
of 20 ha each for irrigation of rice in the Ngalenka Valley in
the Fleuve Region;
b)   construction, equipment and technical services for 18 perimeters
of 2 ha each for irrigation of vegetables in ThiOs and northern
Sine Saloum Regions;



-4-
c)   construction, equipment and technical services for 15 perimeters
of 4 ha each for irrigation of bananas at Sedhiou in Casamance
Region;
(d)  construction, equipment and technical services for beekeeping and
processing of honey and wax for four groups of beekeepers at
Bignona in Casamance Region;
e)   provision of 20 small fishirg boats with outboard motors and
ancillary equipment in Louga Region;
f)   provision of equip;ent for an open well brigade, construction of
50 new wells and deepening of 50 other wells in Sine Saloum
Region;
g)   unidentified activities;
h)   provision of a management structure with the required technical
and   administrative staff and logistical support, including the
capability for identifying, preparing, appraising and evaluating
small rural projects.
1.12      It was estimated at appraisal that the Project's directly-productive,
appraised activities, namely operations (a) through (e) above. would benefit some
2.400 families or 24,000 people. When unidentified activities were factored in,
the total number of beneficiaries was estimated at 4,200 families or 42,000
people. In addition, abouit 100,000 people were to benefit from permanent village
water supplies.
1.13      The extent to which the apprassed operations had really been reauested
by groups of producers was in all cases problematic, since the identification
initiatives came largely from regional development agencies and Government
technical departments. Their proposals did, however, reflect ideas expressed in
meetings between field staff and producers/beneficiaries. Once the project was
underway, one of the main tasks of Project Management was to disseminate
information on sub-project selection criteria and procedures. Producers were,
moreover, better able to propose inivestment ideas once a tangible entity was in
place with funds available. Up to then, there had been no clear procedures,
little information available and only vague prospects of obtaining funds. The
allocation for unidentified operations was to be used for small rural projects
in which the producers had taken the key initiatives. The same tests of manifest
i-terest on the part of the beneficiaries applied, namely: (a) a commitment to
-rovide all unskilled labor during construction with no remuneration, either in
cash or in kind; (b) lump sum cas3h payments into special Capital Replacement
Accounts prior to the initial installation of medium-term assets; and (c)
undertaking to provide for veplacement of such assets by making an annual
payment, calculated at replacement cost, into each group's Capital Replacement
Fund. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the three above-mentioned
criteria and the three tests of manifest interest would be applied in the
selection of additional small rural projects to be financed from the allocation
for unidentified activities.



5. Project Implementation
1.14      The project was exac! ed by the Project Managemenrt Unit (P!IU), existing
technical service agencies, and producer groups. The PMU was established in the
Department of Small Rural Projects in the Ministry of Social Development.
Execution included the six appraised operations, as well as the identification,
preparation and appraisal of as-yet unidentified operations and their subsequent
execution. F,ach operation was confined to a limited geographic area, with fiel4
execution undertaken by one technical ser,vice agency and any number of producer
groups. Producer groups averaiged about 30 participants per group.
1.15      Responsibilities of the PMU. For each appraised operation, the PMU was
responsible for: (a) drawing up a contract for technical services with the
relevant technical ageacy; (b) drafting a contract between the technical agency
and each producer group; (c) acting, wherever appropriate, as procurement agent
for the technical agency; (d) supervising the project's physical and financial
execution;  and  (e)  performing  adequate  monitoring  and  evaluation.    For
unidentified operations, the PMU was responsible for disseminating information
on selection critera, terms and conditions of financing and procedures to be
followed, as well as for assisting technical service agencies and producer groups
in project preparation by providing guidelines and formal training. The PMU also
had to appraise each new operation proposed and report thereon to the
Interministerial Committee, which was set up to ensure broad project oversight.
The PHU's other main responsibilities included preparation of the annual work
program and budget, and semi-annual and annual progress reports, including the
consolidated project account and a statement of the status of each Capital
Replacement Account.  These reports were to be submitted simultaneously to the
Interministerial Committee and to IDA. To carry out these tasks, the 'MU had six,
people working exclusively on the Project: the Project Manager, two rural
engineers, two agricultural economists, and an accountant.
1.16      Responsibilities of the Technical Service Agencies.  For the appraised
operations, the agencies responsible for providing technical services were:
Smell rice perimeters          SAED
Small vegetable perimeters    Rural Development Centers
Small banana perimeters        SOMIVAC
Beeke. sing                    Livestock Department, Casamance
Fishing                        Fisheries Department, Louga
Village water supplies         Water Supply Dept., Sine Saloum
Depending on the complexity of the operation and the producer groups' activities,
the extent of the agencies' responsibility ranged from direct management of the
first year's establishment of plantations in the small banana perimeters to a
relatively light managerial input in fishing. For each operation, the relevant
technical service agency was to keep accounts for project-financed expenditures,
verify the .apital Replacement Accounts maintained by producer groups, and report
on a quarterly basis to the Project Manager.
1.17      Responsibilities of the Producer Groups.   The responsibilities of
producer groups varied as a function of those of the technical service agencies.
For all operations, however, the producer groups were supposed to organize
themselves to: (a) provide all unskilled labor required during construction; (b)



- 6 -
collect the cash deposit required prior to initial installation of medium-term
assets, and subsequently to collect the annuity; (c) allocate land; (d) devise
and apply rules ior access to common goods and services; and (e) col'ect the cash
and/or provide the labor for operation and maintenance of shared facilities. To
exercise these responsibiliti-s, the group required only a de facto identity with
an appropriate operational structure, including the capacity to enter into
contracts with the technical agencies that were providing assistance. A group's
operational structure was to include, as appropriate, a general assembly, a
management committee, and members elected for particular functions such as
financial control and water distribution.  Each group had to maintain simple
accounts for common expenditures and receipts, and draw up an annual or seasonal
financial statement and forecast. The technical service agency offered help on
a demand basis.   Each group had at least one bank account,  the Capital
Replacement Account and, at the option of the group, a second operating account
for recurrent activities. While the PMU and the technical service agency advised
groups of producers on an appropriate legal status and operational structure, the
ultimate decision was the responsibility of each group.
1.18      Capital Replacement Accounts (CRAsO.  One of the innovative features
of this project was the provision of medium-term assete to groups of producers
through Capital Replacement Accounts (CRAs) instead of through medium-term
credit. The idea behind CRAs was to avoid some of the shortcomings experienced
in Senegal with conventional medium-term lending for rural equipment.  Banks
could not get adequate guarantees on such lending, and were reluctant to channel
funds.  Also, collection performance of such medium-term credit extended by
institutions other than banks had been disappointing and such loans were no
longer perceived as being necessarily repayable. Finally, small rural projects
had often begun well and then collapsed because the original medium-term
equipment was not replaced. Under the system of CRAs, the PMU retained ownership
of the equipment loaned to producer groups, and each group was required to
accumulate enough savings to purchane replacement equipment when needed, which
was generally four years after installation of the original equipment.
1.19      For each medium-term asset to be provided, the producer group would
open a CRA at the nearest branch of BNDS, power of withdrawal being vested
exclusively in the group. As a condition for receiving the asset, the group had
to pay into its CRA an amount equivalent to at least 5% of the delivered cost of
the asset.   The asset remained the property of the PMU until the group had
deposited sufficient funds into the account to replace it.
1.20      Overall,  the project got off to a fair start, with only minor
administrative problems. The project's mid-term review (June 1983), however,
deplored the fact that implementation of the subprojects had begun to bog down.
Two subprojects -- the vegetable and banana perimeters -- were held up by the
need for redesign of the pumping systems. Two others -- beekeeping and fishing -
- were held up by easily-avoidable mistakes in the specifications of the beehives
and the fishing boats.   Many avoidable delays in all the subprojects arose
essentially from poor planning by the PMU. This poor planning created friction
between the PMU and the technical agencies, hampering the alreauy difficult task
of coordination and causing further delays.   The case of the fishing boats
illustrated Project Management's tendency to concentrate power too much.
Procurement of the boats was a top-down rather than a consultative process, and



-7-
the boats proved unsuited to their intended users.  Technical difficulties with
the construction of bunds at the rice perimeters of Ngalenka were also partly
attributable to difficulties of coordination between the PMU and SAED.
1.21      Despite the existence of implementation contracts between the PHU and
the executing agencies, project implementation was actually carried out by the
PMU in collaboration with subproject teams nominated by those agencies.  The
teams often consisted of low-level technicians who were more extension agents
than "project managers" and the PMU therefore began to fill this perceived
managerial void by making most decisions about procurement, construction,
creation of producer groups and technical control of works. This situation led
to a lack of interest on the part of the executing agencies, and to insufficient
follow-up on works.
1.22      The executing agencies had a tendency to consider the subprojects
attached to them, and for which they were supposed to take virtually full
responsibility, as marginal activities. The opening of the CRAs was also delayed
by some inconsistencies in the agencies' approach to farmers. For most of the
subprojects, farmer groups contributed some money to their CRA, but the initial
lump sum payments were almost all tardy, either because the PMU was unable to
install the equipment or to calculate how much the groups should pay into the
account, or because the subproject teams failed to insist on payments. In many
cases, farmer groups were found to be willing enough to open their CRAs, but were
not receiving sufficient help in doing so. In this, as in most other things, the
PMU was obliged to take the lead.
1.23      This lack of commitment on the part of the agencies was particularly
noticeable in the case of SAED, which became uneasy in the course of project
execution with the idea of a 5% initial deposit from producer groups, since the
rules SAED applied to its own rice perimeters were different, depending on the
source of donor funding.  Sound conditions, such as the initial deposit into
Capital Replacement Accounts, were driven out by lenient conditions admitted
elsewhere. The degree of commitment to the basic principles of the project was
somewhat greater with the other executing agencies. although they all had a
tendency to view the project from a distance.
1.24      Slow execution of sub-projects was also partly attributable to the
inadequate travel allowar.ce paid to local staff for supervision missions to the
remote subproject sites. Since there was great reluctance to set a precedent
with regard to incentives for project personnel, it was ultimately decided to
have the IDA credit finance travel allowances and bonuses. Implementation may
well have been easier if the sub-projects had been less disparate, both
technically and geographically, and had been started in a phased manner. i.e.,
two per year, rather than all at once.
1.25      The main handicaps of the PMU were  (i) a lack of planning and
programming; (ii) a lack of technical know-how and, consequently, ineffective
supervision and control of subprojects; (iii) too much concentration of power,
even if by default; (iv) a lack of understanding of the project's administrative
and financial requirements and (v) an ad-hoc decision-making process. The mid-
term review mission made detailed proposals for improving the PMU, including the
international recruitment of a rural engineer and of a project administrative and



- 8 -
financial manager. These proposals were adopted in spirit if not to the letter;
competent nationals were appointed to these positions.
1.26      As subproject proposals ("unidentified projects" component)  ¢ widely
differing quality began to pour in, the PMU did a reasonably good job oi sifting
through them. The test of manifest interest was applied in respect of the
commitment by groups to provide unskilled labor with no remuneration, and the
provision for replacement of medium-term assets. However, one critical test,
namely the lump sum cash payments into CRAs prior to initial installation of
medium-term assets, was not consistently applied. There were some extenuating
circumstances, most notably an NGO initiative in the area of the rice perimeters,
which planned to provide pump sets with no down payment, to pay beneficiaries for
their unskilled labor, and to impose only vague conditions on pump replacement.
Although this initiative was stopped, the expectations it raised among would-be
rice farmers were high enough to force the project to adopt a compromise: no
payment for unskilled labor, but also no initial cash payment into the CRAs.
1.27      Results with the CRAs were mixed in I rms of farmer acceptance and
establishLent of the accounts, which were suppose - to provide farmer groups with
sufficient funds for future replacement of medium-term assets. With the possible
exception of the banana perimeters, acceptance of the idea of the CRA was very
patchy from the beginning, the main obstacle being farmers' mistrust and
incomprehension of its true function.  Also, some farmers have always harbored
the notion that Government can be counted upon to come to their aid and replace
worn-out equipment if they cannot do so themselves. Another problem was the
tendency of Rural Development Agencies, and especially SAED, to emphasize debt
reimbursement for inputs those agencies had provided on credit, while sometimes
neglecting to emphasize also the need for contributions to the CRA. This gave
farmers the distinct impression that the CRAs were less important. Some farmer
groups, however, have used funds from their CRAs to replace their motorpumps and
have thus come to sppreciate their utility.  Farmers are increasingly convinced
that it is in their own interest to establish these CRAs, both as a means of
obtaining initial free capital, and to reduce their dependency on the Government.
CRA contributions from the last cropping season were encouraging, and groups are
expected henceforth to give priority to payments into CRAs.
1.28      The main problems encountered under the SRO Project were: (i) the poor
quality of construction, especially on the small rice perimeters; (ii) lack of
clarity on the respective responsibilities of the PMU and some executing
agencies; (iii) farmers' initial misunderstanding of the purpose and usefulness
of CRAs; and (iv) inadequate provisions for the maintenance of developed
perimeters. Though most acute in the Ngalenka rice subproject, these problems
existed to varying degrees elsewhere, and made it difficult for farmers,
especially in the rice perimeters, to achieve reasonable yields and hence to
honor their financial obligations. Most of the executing agencies considered the
project to be peripheral to their main activities and therefore did not devote
much attention to it. The staff initially chosen to head subprojects were often
not up to the task, and this, coupled with the absence of support from the
executing agencies to the subproject teams, led to poor supervision during
construction, inadequate extension advice and farmer training, and a failure to
insist on financial obligations. There were thus several changes in subproject
leadership during the first three years.



- 9 -
1.29      Overall, the mid-term review concluded that, despite a number of
problems that had slowed implementation, the objectives and basic design of the
project were still valid and its objectives attainable.   Progress towards
achieving the main objectives was mixed, but from the point of view of
encouraging local initiatives, results were definitely positive. Innovations put
into the project at appraisal -- (i) replacement of medium-term assets by means
of Capital Replacement Accounts; (ii) provision of these assets to producer
groups instead of to cooperatives; and (iii) technical assistance to the groups
by existing agencies and administrative departments --- were still being tested.
Implementation improved considerably after the mid-term review, and two
postponements of the closing date were granted.
6. Proiect Results
1.30      The irrigated rice Derimeters at Ngalenka consisted of 30 perimeters
of 20 ha each (later revised to 30 ha each) for irrigated rice.  Of the 30
planned perimeters, 28 (93%) were constructed. Difficulties were encountered
with SAED (see para 23). which was negligent in ensuring farmers' payments into
the CRAs.  This problem persisted, partly because SAED, in its dealings with
farmers. insisted more on its own debts than on those related to the project.
The project also lacked a specific interlocutor within SAED for ad hoc problem
solving. This agency tended to intervene in physical works (as was its habit
elsewhere in the region), whereas the intent of this project had been to innovate
by requiring some unpaid labor input from farmers.  The farmers' refusal to
perform unpaid land preparation work was finally overcome by a compromise
consisting of non-renumeration of labor for such activities in exchange for
forgiveness of the initial contribution into the CRA.
1.31      The small vepetable perimeters at Thi4s/Sine Saloum had some technical
difficulties related to pumping conditions and water availability. Some farmers
also had their parcels withdrawn because they did not follow the technical
recommendations. Payments into the CRA were a problem, and the project withdrew
motor pumps from some producer groups to make its point, the sanction that had
originally been foreseen, and which required political courage to execute. In
terms of surface area, this subproject exceed-ud its objectives (of 36 ha to be
developed, 66 ha (183%) were set up). The goal of 18 perimeters was not met,
however: 12 (66%) were established.
1.32      The banana perimeters at S6dhiou were overseen by SOMIVAC, which had
trouble establishing the producer groups and in getting their deposits into the
CRA. Difficulties were also observed with pumping equipment, which had been
badly chosen, and with contractors' failing to honor their obligations. Producer
groups had problems transporting and marketing their production, which must
sometimes compete with bananas from C8te d'Ivoire.   Still, the sub-project
exceeded surface area objectives (66.4 ha planned; 71 ha (107%) built) and
inspi-ed several applications for the "projects to be identified" category.
Marketing problems were tackled by establishing a jointly-owned marketing
company.
1.33      Beekeepinp at Bipnona  (Casamance) was overseen by the Livestock
Department, which failed to provide adequate technical follow-up and guidance.
Two difficulties -- technical problems with the hives and slow payments into the



- 10 -
CRAs -- were probably interrelated. After delays in delivery of hives and honey
processing equipment, a drought made it difficult for producers to populate the
hives and produce honey, and thus to make deposits into the CRA. Despite the
slow distribution of hives, however, all 500 hives were placed by the end of the
project, and 97 beekeepers (out of 100 planned) were paid up and equipped.
1.34      The provision of 20 fishinR boats and related eauipment in Loupa reRion
was overseen by the Fisheries Department. The fishing boats originally provided
were rejected on technical grounds by the fishermen, who had not been consulted
on their design (para 20). There was thus a delay while replacements were built.
It was discovered after about a year that in some producer groups, only the heads
had contributed to the CRA (the other group members being fictitious), and that
some boats were being used by fictitious groups.   In addition to the problem of
fraud, monitoring of legitimate groups was made difficult by their desire to move
from one fishing zone to another during the year. In short, the design of this
sub-project did not take account of the special characteristics of artisanal
fishing.
1.35      Well construction in Sine Saloum was aimed at building 50 new wells,
repairing 50 existing ones and drawing up an inventory of modern wells in the
region. Delays encountered were due to the resignation of the first sub-project
head and a lengthy search for a replacement, the slow delivery of construction
material and equipment, and fuel shortages that made it difficult to establish
the inventory of wells (which was not completed). Despite these problems, all
the planned wells were built and functioned satisfactorily.
1.36      The component dealing with subproiects  "to be identified during
implementation" generated much interest and the PMU received nearly 300 requests
for financing. Nearly all the requests that were approved were similar to, and
often geographically close to, activities already being implemented. Four of
these were for banana perimeters of 15 ha each, involving four producer groups,
one was for fishing, and most of the rest for small vegetable permimeters of 2-8
ha and involving nine producer groups. About 1,700 families benefitted from the
operations identified at appraisal, and about 1,200 families benefitted from the
subprojects "to be identified", for a total of about 2,900 families.
1.37      In terms of the number of activities undertaken, project outcomes
exceeded appraisal estir as. Some revisions were made in the initial stages in
order to take farmers'    .ands and other constraints into consideration.  For
example, the size of each rice perimeter was increased from 20 to 30 ha,
tubewells were used for irrigation in the vegetable perimeters instead of
ordinary wells, and the banana perimeters were redesigned to account for the fact
that surface water was no longer available for irrigation. The average size of
the vegetable perimeters was increased from about 2 ha to about 6 ha, and the
average size of a banana perimeter increased from 4 ha at appraisal to about 15
ha.  Since the PMU's monitoring and evaluation system was not very rigorous,
actual lield figures were not systematica.' monitored.  In most cases, frequent
personnel changes in subprojects as wel- as farmers' reluctance to declare
production levels (in order to avoid taxation) also meant that only fragmentary
production data was available.  It is known, he ever, that production on the
rice, vegetable and banana perimeters has reached, and in some seasons surpassed,
appraisal targets. The various subprojects are still operating satisfactorily,



- 11 -
with the exception of the fishing subproject, which had to be closed down by
project management due to problems mentioned in para. 34.
1.38      Economic Returns.  Assessment of the project's economic results is
particularly difficult in view of: (i) the problem of geographic dispersion that
bedevilled thorough supervision also posed problems for monitoring of outputs
(and some inputs); (ii) in some subproject sites, beneficiaries were not disposed
to reveal outputs for fear of local taxation; (iii) beneficiaries' labor inputs
into investment (sweat equity) or operations are not known with any precision;
and (iv) uncertainties with regard to renewal of medium-term assets and the
sustainability of the subprojects; in some cases, particularly in the south of
the country, Capital Replacement Accounts have fulfilled their intended function
but, even where such accounts have not sufficed, other more informal financial
mechanisms have been called upon to fill the gap. An ex-post economic rate of
return has been calculated as indicated at Part III, Table 6. The recalculated
weighted average rate of return for the five directly-productive subprojects,
covering 74% of project costs, is 13%. I.cluding project management, and thereby
covering 85% of project costs, the rate of return falls to 10%. In comparison,
the ex-ante rates of return were 17% on the weighted average of subprojects and
14% including management overheads.
1.39      Finance and Accounts.  Total project costs were estimated at appraisal
at US$ 14 million: US$ 11 million from an IDA credit and US$ 3 million from the
Senegalese government. The IDA credit was to cover 95% of investment costs, 100%
of expatriate salaries, and 95% of Senegalese managerial salaries. Government
was to pay 5% of investment costs as well as 100% of staff salaries, travel
allowances and all utilities such as rent, telephone, water, electricity, etc.
Other than financing of some travel allowances, and some locally-recruited staff
on a contractual basis, these arrangements were adhered to; actual project cost
was 91% of the appraisal estimate in US dollars.
7. Project Sustainability
1.40      One of the most important project benefits was the establishment of an
institutional framework to encourage and support local initiatives in preparing
and executing small rural investments.  With the exception of Ngalenka rice
perimeters, farmer groups have clearly been willing to do their share of manual
labor, and this augurs well for the project's future. The PMU has managed to
publicize its existence and activities sufficiently to ensure a steady flow of
sub-project proposals from the grass-roots level.   Sustainability should be
assured provided the PMU can continue its efforts to promote and explain the
Capital Replacement Accounts to producer groups, thus increasing the level of
acceptance of this crucial tool.
8. Bank and Borrower Performance
1.41      The Bank devoted many missions to this project, in all phases of its
implementation. Project files show eight missions that dealt, either partially
or exclusively, with some aspect of its preparation alone. There was both an
appraisal and a post-appraisal mission, and sixteen supervision missions over a
period of about seven years. The spacing between missions varied from a gap of
nine months at one point to two or three months at other times. The average



- 12 -
interval was about six months, a rhythm which was maintained for the last five
missions. It is also noteworthy that the recorded input into supervision was 65%
of the total Bank input into the project cycle (92sw out of 144sw).
1.42      The scattered nature of the subprojects made systematic supervision of
all of them impractical, and this may have been a contributing factor in their
uneven performance. The PCR for the Drought Relief Project had recommended that
the Bank compensate for staffing constraints by using consultants as visiting
agents for the more remotely-situated subprojects, but this advice was not
followed; the PHU/executing agency contracts were expected to remedy the problem.
Because of the project's design, with a component of "subprojects to be
identified", supervision missions were in effect expected not only to supervise,
but also to perform some preparation/appraisal tasks. This work was well done.
Procedurally, supervision reports were issued promptly after mission return, as
were letters to Government confirming mission conclusions.
1.43      On the Government side, problems with the payment of counterpart funds
surfaced regularly, sometimes making it difficult for staff salaries to be paid.
The fact that the Interministerial Committee did not meet as often as planned
sometimes made it difficult for the Project to resolve problems of administration
and coordination (e.g., problems with the Customs Service) and to process new
sub-projects quickly.
9. Documentation and Data
1.44      From the outset, the project had a problem with programming, monitoring
and evaluation, largely caused by Project Management's inability to generate the
data for these purposes by calling working meetings at appropriate intervals and
ensuring the production of field mission reports. This lack of programming (and
documentation of project results) extended to the personnel of the sub-projects,
and led to great difficulty in documenting production figures. Moreover, farmers
were often reluctant to reveal accurate production figures, for fear of the
taxation that might result.



- 13 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
2.01      Not supplied, although the Borrower did complete a long, detailed,
comprehensive Project Completion Report in April 1988, from which much of Parts
I and III has been drawn.



- 15 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                     Purpose                 Approval
Agricultural Credit             Short and medium-term           FY69
Ln. 584-SE/                     credit, principally for
Cr. 140-SE                      rainfed farming in the
Groundnut Basin.
Agricultural Credit II          A follow-up to the above,       FY73
Cr. 404-SE                      with emphasis on medium-
term credit and
institutional
strengthening of the
financial intermediary.
Drought Relief                  Diverse, small rural            FY73
Cr. 446-SE                      operations aimed to
generate income in the
aftermath of the 1972-3
drought.
Second Small Rural Operations  A follow-up to 991-SE,           FY89
Cr. 991-SE                      with similar subprojects
and eligibility criteria,
with 30% of the funds for
unidentified projects
earmarked for women's
groups operations.
2. Proiect Timetable
Planned     Revised         Actual
Identification                    10/79          -            10/77
Preparation                       03/78           -        03/78-06/79
Appraisal                         03/79          -            07/79
Negotiations                      10/79           -           01/80
Board Approval                    12/79           -          03/11/80
Signature                         03/80           -          04/02/80
Effectiveness                     06/80           -          09/10/80
Completion                      06/30/84      06/30/85       06/30/87
Closing                         12/31/84      12/31/85       09/20/88



- 16 -
3. Credit Disbursements
Disbursements (in $ million)
Credit 991-SE
Bank Fiscal Year               Estimated            Actual            Actual 2 of
and Quarter                 Cumulative        Cumulative            Estimated
FY81   1                          0.8               0                      0
2                          0.8               0.79                  99
3                          1.2               0.79                  66
4                          1.6               0.79                  49
FY82   1                          2.3               0.79                  34
2                          3.0               1.02                  34
3                          3.8               1.02                  27
4                          4.7               1.21                  26
FY83   1                          5.6               1.74                  31
2                          6.5               1.98                  30
3                          7.4               2.37                  32
4                          8.3               2.81                  34
FY84   1                          9.1               3.13                  34
2                          9.8               3.29                  34
3                         10.3               3.48                  34
4                         10.7               3.82                  36
FY85   1                         11.0               4.29                  39
2                         11.0               4.62                  42
3                         11.0               5.14                  47
4                         11.0               5.56                  51
FY86   1                         11.0               5.96                  54
2                         11.0               6.36                  58
3                         11.0               6.94                  63
4                         11.0               7.41                  67
FY87   1                         11.0               7.83                  71
2                         11.0               8.92                  81
3                         11.0               9.44                  86
4                         11.0              10.03                  91
FY88   1                         11.0              10.51                  96
2                         11.0              10.77                  98
3                         11.0              10.93                  99
4                         11.0              10.96                 100
FY89   1                         11.0              10.99                 100



- 17 -
4. Proiect ImRlemnentation
Objectives (Total Project)                        Achievements
Sub-Projects                Appraisal           Revised as per mid
Term Review
Nb     Area    Prod.    Nb    Area    Prod.        Nb         Area       Prod.
(ha)                                                   (ha)      (85/86)
| Irrigated Rice
I  Project base        1                        1                          1
| . Perimeters         30     600              30     900                  29-      824 I
I  Stores              30                      30                           5 2/
. Paddy (tons)                        2,400                   2,400                 516         2,473 3/
|  Maize (tons)                        240                     300                    4         n.a.
|  Tomatoes (tons)                    1,200                   3,000                   79        n.a.
. Onions (tons)                         _                       _                    12         n.a.
Vegtetables                                                                              5
|  Perimeters          18      36               8      36                   9        50 5
I  Stores              18                       8                         10
|  Prod.(MCFAF)                         70                      70                              n.a.
Bananas
l   Tubevells          -                        5                          9
l   Perimeters         15      60               5      67                   5 _t     70
.Stores               -                        5                          5
l   Access roads       _                        2                          2
|  Prod. (tons)                       1,200                   1,340                               340
BookkeepinRg
Rehab.regional
center                1                       1                          1
Beehives            500                      500                        500
Extrac.centers       4                        4                          4
|  Production
-honey (tons)                         20                      20                              n.a.
-Vax (tons)                          1.5                     1.5                              n.a.
Fishin9a
|Canoes F20                             10                     32   _n_n.a. 9/
Rural Wells
. New                  50               50                     54
Rehabilitation       50               60                      51
1/ Only 28 perimeters covering 719 ha being operated.
2 Other stores in progress
31  Production of 1986/87 rainy season, of which about 750 tons expected to be marketed (in 1985/86, 585
tons, of which only 12 tons marketed, produced on 157 ha); some 50 ha of rice pla:ned for warm dry
season.
41  Down from a projection of about 250 ha, due to delays in and preparation snd marketing contracts.
5/  To be added, vegetable gardens of Prison administration; only 7 perimeters covering 44 ha being operated
in addition to Prison gardens; development of 2 other perimeter covering 6 ha in progress.
6/  three more, covering 45 ha, in progress.
71  Up to end 1988; sharp decline in production, due in particular to breakdown of equipment; remedied
during 1988.
8/  Of which 476 hives operated, but only 209 of them are populated.
9/  20 Tons of salted dried fish in storage at Lompouil have been marketed.



- 18 -
5. Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Proiect Costs
Appraisal        Actual g      A/E
Estimate W
---- (Uss million)----        %
Small Rice Perimeters                      2.5             4.0         160
Small Vegetable Perimeters                 1.2             2.3         192
Small Banana Perimeters                    1.2             2.6         216
Beekeeping                                 0.1             0.3         300
Fishing                                    0.1             0.1         100
Village Water Supplies                     2.0             1.9          95
Project Management                         2.3             1.4          61
Unidentified Activities  '                 4.4             0.0           0
Refunding of PPF                           0.2             0.2         100
TOTAL                                     14.1            12.8          91
"' Project costs were initially estimated in CFAF and converted into US$ at the
appraisal exchange rate of CFAF 210 per US$.
g   Best estimate.  Project accounts included only those funds managed by the
project.  Other contributions to actual project costs were made by BNDS,
FAC, and the beneficiaries (as was intended) but also by subproject
executing agencies (beyond what was intended) and by Government (whose
contribution by way of incremental input subsidies cannot be known
accurately).
f Actual expenditures were made by particular types of subprojects, i.e.,
small rice perimeters, etc.



- 19 -
B. Project Financing
Planned         Actual         A/E
----(USs million)----- 
IDA                                       11.0            11.0         100
FAC v                                      0.4             0.1          25
Government  '                              2.4             1.4          58
BNDS /                                     0.1             0.0           0
Beneficiaries g                            0.2             0.3         150
TOTAL                                     14.1            12.8          91
g As planned, FAC was to provide a technical specialist for four years to
manage the village water supplies subproject. In the event, the technical
specialist resigned after one year and was replaced with a locally-recruited
subproject manager on a contractual basis, and financed by IDA.
k/ As planned, Government was to finance all incremental local staff. In the
event, Government was unable to provide staff for certain key positions in
the Project Management Unit.   Such positions were filled by locally-
recruited personnel on a contractual basis, and financed by IDA.
Incremental input subsidies were lower than foreseen since such subsidies
were phased out during project execution.
f   BNDS encountered financial difficulties soon after the project started, and
ceased lending for agriculture in 1982.
g' Neither the planned nor the actual data include the unremunerated labor
provided by producers' groups as sweat equity during the construction phase
of the subprojects.



- 20 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appras_.sal   Estimated at    Estimated at
Estimate    Closing Date   Full Development
No. of beneficiary families:
from productive subprojects        4200           2900 1/         2900
from village water supplies  '    1000           10500            10500
a/  Table 4 shows that the area developed in the three main subprojects was
higher than foreseen: rice perimeters (37Z), vegetable perimeters (672).
banana perimeters (92%), but about equal to what was anticipated with the
provision for unidentified activities included. The fall in the number of
beneficiaries arose from the dynamics of the producer groups; groups were
sometimes smaller than foreseen, or sometimes were able to develop more land
than foreseen.
k/  Expressed at appraisal as 100,000 people.  Expressed here as families (10
persons). 105 instead of 100 wells were built/reconstructed.
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate    Actual
Economic Rate of Return:
directly-productive subprojects                 17%               132
incl. management overhead                       14%               10%
Given the uncertainties indicated at para. 38 in Part I, the ex-post economic
rate of return has been determined as follows:
(a) expenditures on new subprojects allocated pro rata with rice (412).
vegetable (21%) and banana (38%) subprojects;
(b) expenditure on the Special Account allocated pro rata with all
sLvbprojects, i.e., the three above (81%), plus beekeeping (2%), fishing
(2%) and village water supplies (15%);
(c) expenditures on the project management unit allocated as a lump sum to
the sum of all subprojects excluding village water supplies;
(d) rates of return per subproject as estimated for the follow-up project:
rice perimeters 22%, vegetable perimeters 13%; banana perimeters 212;
beekeeping 13%. The small fishing subproject, which was stopped as a
failure, is given a rate of return of zero, and the village water
supplies subproject is excluded from the analysis. In addition, 12 of
the 29 rice perimeters are in need of some rehabilitation (included in
the follow-up project) and are given a rate of return of zero here.



- 21 -
C. Financial Impact
As Apgraised "'        Actual
Without   Incremental        Incremental M
Proiect   with Proiect l   A         B
Family Income
Rice Perimeters                      200          55             6C     120
Vegetable Perimeters                 350         124            150     300
Banana Perimeters                    370          82             90     180
Beekeeping                           300          52             60     120
Fishing                              250         136              0       0
Weighted Average                     300          76             89     198
v As 1979 prices.
At appraisal, it was  foreseen that family income from the directly-
productive subprojects would all be incremental, since plot sizes per family
were expected to be very small.
LI Rough estimates based on beneficiaries' continuing interest in exploiting
the respective directly-productive subprojects and on requests for new
subprojects; A:  1979 prices, inferred from the appraisal estimate; B:  1990
prices.  These estimates do not take account o£ the larger-than-foreseen
plot sizes per family (Part III, 6. A.). but t;no likelihood is that such
families' without-project incomes will have fa11en, as more labor will have
been put into the larger plots, so that the increment will be similar.
D. Studies
Study               Purpose Defined           St-tu3       Impact of study
at ADpraisal            _
More  '
LI Although no specific studies were defined at appraisal, a major task of the
Project Management Uni,, was to identify, prepare and appraise new
subprojects for financing from the unidentified category.



- 22 -
7. Status of Covenants
Session Number                                Covenant                                           Status
of Credit
ARreement
3.01(b)       Maintaining a Management Comittee chaired by tho Minister of  Substantially complied
Promotion Humaine, which was to hold meetings twice a year to  with.
(i) review and approve reports, work programs and budgets;
(ii) approve new subprojects, and (iii) examine the status of
Capital Replacement Accounts (CRAs), and issue instruction to
cover arrears.
3.01(c)       Maintaining at the head of the Project unit a Project Manager  Substantially complied
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank,    with.
and establishing a project management team consisting of at
least 2 rural engineers, 2 agricultural economists and an
accountant, all qualified and experienced.
3.01(d)       Opening Project Account in the Treasury and making at least    Complied with.
quarterly deposits on the basis of cash forecasts.
3.03        EnteriKg into agreements with SAED, CER, SOMIVAC, the               Complied with, but
Livestock and Fisheries Departments to carry out sub-              arrangements often left
projects.                                                          responsibilities unclear.
Arrangements improved under
follow-on projects.
3.04        Each entity involved in carrying out subprojects to enter           Payment of replacement
into agreements with Producer Groups to (i) provide unskilled  annuities remained
labor for construction, (ii) collect initial contribution of   sluggish.  When
5X to be deposited into CRAs; (Iii) collect and pay into CRAs  beneficiaries were too much
replacement annuities, and (iv) allocated land within each         in default, equipment was
perimeter to members of the Producer Group.                        removed until arrears were
paid.
3.05        Additional subprojects to be selected on the basis of being    Complied with.
(i) directly productive, (ii) being financially and
economically profitable, and (iii) being requested by
Producer Groups willing to accept conditions of Section 3.04.
3.07(c)       Preparing Completion Report not later than 6 months after          Complied with.
closing date.
3.08        Making sure that SAED operations were carried out with              Complied with.
sufficient autonomy.
3.09        Reviewing jointly with Bank by not later than June 30, 1982,    Complied with.
the efficiency of the approval process for new subprojects.
3.10 (a)      Maintaining project accounts on a yearly basis to reflect, in  Complied with.
accordance with appropriate accounting practices, the
operations, resources and expenditures of the agencies
responsible for carrying out the projects.
3.01 (c)      Having accounts verified quarterly by independents auditors         Complied with up to 1985,
acceptable to the Bank and furnishing not late than 6 months   but with the appointment of
after the end of the fiscal year an audit reporting,               a qualified accountant,
including a separate opinion on SOEs.                              there were no more
quarterly verifications.



- 23 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff-weeks)
FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  Total
Preparation 25.9                                                                       25.9
Appraisal     6.9  35.2                                                                42.1
Negotiations                3.1                                                                3.1
Supervision          1.4  10.4  10.2  26.7  12.7    7.1  6.5   8.9   1.6   1.3   86.8
Other         1.5           0.1          0.1                0.9   2.7           0.6    5.9
Total        34.3  39.7  10.5  10.2  26.8  12.7   7.1  7.4  11.6    1.6   1.9  143.8
B. Missions
month/      No. of    Days in   Specializations   Performance  Rating    Type of
Year        Persons   Field       Represented /a   Status  /b  Trend /c  Problems/d
Preparation 1            12/77          1          5            a
Preparation 2             4/78          1          5            a
Preparation 3             7/78          1          4            a
Preparation 4            10/78          2          9            l,a
Preparation 5             1/79          1          3            a
Preparation 6             2/79          1          4            a
Preparation 7           4-5/79          3          30           a(2).e
Preparation 8             6/79          1          4            e
Appraisal                 6-7/79        5          30           e,a,i
Post-appraisal           12/79          2          10           e(2)
Supervision 1             8/80          2          11           e(2)                 2           1      0
Supervision 2            11/80          1          20           e                    2           1      0
Supervision 3           3-4/81          1          17           e                    2           1      T,O
Supervision 4            11/81          1          23           e                    2           2      O,T
Supervision 5             6/82          1          26           e                    2           2      M,O
Supervision 6 /e          3/83          4          21           en,a,lf              3           2      M,T,O
Supervision 7             7/83          1          10           e
Supervision 8             10/83         2          8            a,i
Supervision 9             12/83         2          7            a,l,                 2           1      M,O
Supervision 10             6/84         2          14           a,i                  2           3       ,O.T.F
Supervision 11            10/84         1          10            a,i                 -           -
Supervision 12             3/85         2          8            a.f                  2           1      M,O.T.F
Supervision 13          9-10/85         1          10           a                    2           2      F,M
Supervision 14             4/86         1          10           a                    2           2      F.M
Supervision 15             10/86        1          5            a                    2           2      M,F
Supervision 16             4/87         1          7             a                   2           2      M.F
/a Key to specialties: a- agronomist, 1- livestock specialist. i- irrigation engineer, e- economist, f-
financial analyst, o - operations assistant.
/b 1-No problems, 2- Moderate problems. 3- Serious problems
/c 1-improving, 2-stationary, 3-worsening
/d Problems: T- technical. M- managerial. F- financial. 0- other
/e Mid-term review



IBRD 14615 1
SW  E NcnC                                                                                                                                                                                  K G A L  .!   M     A    U    R     I  T    A     Nw  I    A  (F.,. I w  \  I   by.
SENEGAL                                                    NA                                 IQ       T A          N1IAkchoitP.n&w
SMALL RURAL PROJECTS                                            I                                    ' ' ' ' ' ._  r int,.dNflno.n.,                                                                        K  A1 0,,a           pn
w                    M~~~~~~~.  IK
( SM ALL     RICE   PERIM ETERS                                                                                                            "S n r   T o  . &o,                 M o o rI o n
SMALL VEGETABLE PERIMETERS            /                         Rinleond Toll
3SMALL BANANA PERIMETERS                                                                                                                                             T GoSE o                 J
(    B E E K E E P I N G                                 B.                                                                                                                  oh'  o                  B osA   ,-               -    I
F ISHING ROATS                                                                                                                                                                                               N5Row~
_1A*  (@   VILLAGE WATER SUPPLY   EASE            &'                                                                                                                               Sierro  Leon , '   (C IRr
POPULATION DENSITY / KE2                                                                                              _ohen
K       YS    20b           tpeee ohotr   ej
5 - 20 ~        URA        -    BooOro,~N',d
Nguc                                   oO0"n ;                     fl.a ' rS                             _,e-                                                                      2                         ' 
DAA2G -oey I                                         KI 
GRAVEL-RADS        Joh.     F  -L    0OO'                         -   G      Hoo/            -'k    ohl
I        PAOVIEDROADSNDSRlS<  erreM<°e{(   /%/ ;'
AROTS                 N                         di TE
; _334^                                                                  '         0       >   \               <       \     )       <                   _iboroyDo- 0Kidi
PAEDS1OCROUNADS                                  AlssmeMo'n
.GRNTELRNTONALDS  NRE
CCENC T                                                      UINEA-B   SAU
AIRORT                                                                                                                                          E                       A     L ^P|#|#.j  G    U   I   N    E  kA  tl



