Document of
The World Bank                     FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2673a-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
February 20, 1980
11hi decuset hena ret    d*rbutim  an my be an  by reipients  ny in te pefnmnce of  j
their gUlu dutie  It contitB my not otherwie be disd  withou Wol Dak authortn.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:      CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00          -  CFAF 210
CFAF 1 million   -  US$4,762
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
1 meter (m)                -  3.28 square feet (ft.)
1 square meter (m2)        = 10.76 square feet (sq. ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   -  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)             =  2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDS     - Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal
FAC      - Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED      = Fonds Europeen de Developpement
ONCAD    -  Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance
pour le Developpement
SAED     -  Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres
du Delta du Fleuve Senegal
SOMIVAC  -  Societe de Mise en Valeur de la Casamance
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of Senegal
Amount:        US$11 million equivalent
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description:   The proposed project focusses on channelling funds and technical
services to small groups of rural people who will undertake to
provide labor, and some funds, for the development of several
types of directly productive activities, namely: development
of small perimeters for irrigated cultivation of rice, vege-
tables, and bananas; beekeeping; and fishing. The project also
includes village water supplies, an allocation for additional
directly productive activities to be identified and prepared
during implementation, and provision for a management structure.
The project's directly productive activities will benefit
some 4,200 families, or 42,000 people, nearly all presently
having incomes at or below the relative poverty level.
In addition, about 100,000 people will benefit from permanent
village water supplies.
The most important project benefits will be the establish-
ment of an institutional framework to encourage and support
local initiatives in preparing and executing small rural
investments, and the opportunity afforded to render small
producer groups creditworthy in the judgment of the local
banking system. Experience acquired with other rural develop-
ment fund-type projects in West Africa suggests that the main
risks would concern quality of construction works, the role of
technical service agencies in assuring beneficiary participation
and initiative, and the diversity in terms and conditions laid
down for such participation. These risks have been assessed
during project preparation and appraisal, and appropriate
measures--geographic concentration of project activities,
decentralization of decision-making, and creation of a special-
ized Department to plan and manage small rural projects--have
been taken to offset them.
This document has a re.ticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated
Project Cost:        The cost of the proposed project (net of identifiable
taxes and import duties) is estimated at US$14.1 million
equivalent, including foreign costs of about US$7.4
million (about 52%). A summary table of cost estimates is
shown below:
Local    Foreign    Total
(in US$ thousand)
Small Rice Perimeters           1,010       1,052      2,062
Small Vegetable Perimeters        448         567     1.015
Small Banana Perimeters           505         500     1,005
Beekeeping                          62         52        114
Fishing                            57          48        105
Village Water Supplies             714        990      1,704
Project Management                933         948      1,881
Unidentified Activities         2,119       2,295      4,414
Refunding Project Preparation
Advance                             71         76        147
Base Cost                       5,919       6,531    12,450
Contingencies
- physical                       138         172        310
- prices                         643         697      1,340
Total Project Cost             6_700        7,400    14,100
Financing Plan:      The project will be financed from the following sources:
(i) the proposed IDA Credit of US$11 million; (ii) addi-
tional external financing from French technical assist-
ance, which will provide a technical specialist over
the four-year project period, at an estimated cost of
US$0.4 million; and (iii) a Senegalese contribution of
US$2.7 million equivalent, of which US$2.4 million from
the Government to finance incremental operating costs
including local staff and input subsidies, US$0.1 million
from the Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal
(BNDS) for incremental inputs supplied as credit-in-kind,
and US$0.2 million as contributions from project bene-
ficiaries to finance operating costs of pumps for small-
scale irrigation, and incremental cash purchases of
inputs. The total external financing of US$11.4 million
equivalent will cover 100% of foreign costs and about 60%
of local costs, representing approximately 81% of total
project costs net of taxes.



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:                    FY 81   FY 82   FY 83   FY 84   FY 85
Annual        1.6      3.1      3.6      2.4     0.3
Cumulative   1.6       4.7      8.3    10.7    11.0
Rate of Return:    The overall economic return for the project is estimated
at 14% (on 85% of project costs, see para. 79).
Estimated Project
Completion Date:   June 1984
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Report No. 2700a-SE dated February 19, 1980
Map:                 IBRD No. 14615R:  Location of Appraised Operations






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELORIENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Senegal for the equivalent of US$11
million to help finance a Small Rural Operations Project. The Credit will be
on standard IDA terms. Additional external financing for the proposed
project is expected from the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC),
which will provide a technical specialist over the four-year project period
at an estimated cost of US$0.4 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Economy of Senegal" (212-SE) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on September 10, 1973. Since
then, a series of preparatory sector missions, a basic economic mission,
and most recently a public finance mission and an updating economic mission
have visited Senegal to update the macroeconomic data base and to review the
country's development strategy. The following paragraphs reflect the findings
of these missions, whose conclusions will be included in a basic economic
report now being finalized. Updated country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Senegal, at the western extreme of the African continent, has
three-quarters of its territory in the Sahel zone which suffers from low
rainfall and periodic droughts. In the traditional sector of the economy,
the mainstay is millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic
consumption, and groundnut cultivation for exports. Soils are generally poor,
and periodically food shortages occur in the months between the sowing and
harvesting of the next crop. The large river basins -- some of them fed in
the tropical rain zone -- have so far been exploited only marginally. Land
distribution is fairly even. In the western part of the country arable land
is becoming scarce, but in the extreme southeast some good land is still
available. The modern sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar, the
capital, a city of about one million inhabitants, the economic base of which
consists of excellent port facilities, an important industrial sector, and a
small but fast-growing tourism industry. Senegal's per capita GNP for 1978
was estimated at US$340.



- 2 -
4.        During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual stag-
nation as real output increased at about the same pace as population, at
a rate estimated at 2.7 percent per annum. Two factors were responsible for
this situation. Firstly, with independence, Senegal lost its privileged
position as the center of French West Africa, and subsequently had to adapt to
its reduced economic, administrative, and political position. Secondly, in
the latter part of the decade, production of groundnuts (its principal export)
fell due to unfavorable weather and declining export prices.
5.        In the 1970s, Senegal's narrow-based export sector was hit by sharp
fluctuations in volumes and prices, and even with the achievement of higher
rates of both private and public investment, average annual growth was not
raised above the earlier 10 years' level. Thus, output and incomes were
depressed in 1972 and 1973 by the Sahel's most severe drought in over a
century, which brought a decline in real national income. Thereafter, when
weather conditions improved and purchasing power of the rural population was
substantially restored, both agricultural and industrial production increased
markedly. However, in 1977 the country suffered another severe drought, the
magnitude of which is reflected in the variations in groundnut crops; from a
historical record of 1.45 million tons in 1975/76 (more than double the
average for the 1968-73 period), output fell to less than 0.6 million tons
in 1977/78; it recovered to about 1.0 million tons in 1978/79, but the
most recent crop fell again, to less than 0.7 million tons. Despite these
wide fluctuations in agricultural production, industrial output (excluding
groundnut processing) did grow at a fairly even rate of about 5 percent a
year. Thanks to the recovery from the earlier droughts, real GDP increased
at about 5 percent between 1973 and 1977, but in 1978 it is estimated to have
declined by 10 percent reflecting the effect of the 1977/78 drought, and,
after recovery in 1979, is expected in 1980 to remain about 4 percent below
its 1977 level due to the bad crop in 1979/80.
6.        The large fluctuations in physical production were aggravated by
price fluctuations of Senegal's major export and import commodities. In 1974,
the terms of trade improved by over 21 percent, because of exceptionally
high prices for phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity. However,
in 1975 export prices for both phosphate rock and groundnuts declined sharply.
The recent hike in oil prices brought a further deterioration in terms of
trade, causing a loss in income of roughly 5 percent of GDP compared to the
favorable year in 1974. These wide international price fluctuations, together
with the above fluctuations in output, had serious consequences on domestic
prices, public finance, and balance of payments.
Public Finance
7.        The Government has responded with flexibility in adapting its
financial policies to changes in the economic environment. In 1974,



the retail prices for rice, sugar, and groundnut oil were raised by 40 to 90
percent in order to reduce consumer subsidies that had ballooned following the
price hikes for these commodities on the world market. Government also
brought producer prices for groundnuts closer to world prices which were
particularly high at that time. The loss of revenue to the Treasury because
of this latter step was expected to be compensated by additional revenues from
the phosphate mine, in which Government increased its participation as well as
levied an 80 percent tax on excess profits, which accrued from the quadrupling
of export prices of phosphates in 1974. In 1974 and 1975, Government did
indeed receive high revenues from phosphates amounting to roughly US$45
million a year, or 12 percent of tax receipts.
8.        These steps led to a net increase in public savings after debt
service from a yearly average of US$25 million during 1971-73, to US$46
million during 1974-76. This high level of public savings was doubtless an
important factor in stimulating Government to increase public investment
outlays from a yearly average of US$24 million to US$49 million during the
same two periods. In addition, however, Government purchases of equity and
lending to domestic enterprises increased sharply, mainly because of increased
participation in the phosphate mine and the acquisition of two foreign-owned
public utility companies. The combined capital outlays of the Government were
thus substantially in excess of public savings, and were financed in large
part through medium-term foreign bank loans. As a consequence, foreign debt
service carried by the Central Government increased from US$8 million in
1972/73 to US$38 million in 1975/76, representing about 10 percent of Central
Government revenues.
9.        A sudden fall in world phosphate prices in 1976'eliminated Govern-
ment revenues from this source. In the following year, Government'increased
taxes, limited recurrent expenditures, and undertook some new commercial
borrowing for its investment program. When it became clear that the 1977/78
crop would fail, Government endeavored to avoid famine in the countryside by
importing more cereals and absolving farmers' debts; however, the added
financial burden which these measures entailed was accompained by reductions
in capital expenditures, which were financed through heavy commercial borrowing
amounting to US$122 million in 1977 and US$200 million in 1978. As a conse-
quence, in 1980/81, when grace periods are over, debt service obligations of
the budget will reach about US$150 million (or 18 percent of Government
revenues).
10.       In August 1978, the National Assembly was called from summer recess
to approve a new fiscal package amounting to US$20 million in additional
revenues. The 1978/79 budget presented a tax reform that aimed at removal of
tariff distortions and administrative deficiencies, but which also increased
Government receipts through reductions in exemptions. Further tax measures
are in preparation for the 1980/81 budget which will bring the ratio of
Government receipts to GDP to 29 percent, as compared to 19 percent in 1970/71
and 23 percent in 1976/77.



-4-
Balance of Payments
11.       The balance of payments came under heavy pressure in 1973 because
of low groundnut exports and increasing imports of foodstuffs and equipment
goods, and Senegal's net foreign assets fell to minus US$15 million.
In the following years, the deficit on current account was reduced, but
outflows of private capital related to the acquisition of foreign enterprises
continued, and net foreign assets declined further to minus US$48 million at
the end of 1975. Since then, the situation has not improved. In 1976, the
State Marketing Board purchased a record groundnut crop at the high producer
prices established in 1974, injecting massive purchasing power into the
economy and adding to the domestic demand resulting from the Government's
monetary and budgetary policies, which in turn put added pressure on imports.
However, because both groundnut and phosphate prices were at considerably
lower levels in 1976, export revenues stagnated; even though there were price
declines of the same order in some of Senegal's food imports, the net effect
on the terms of trade was heavily negative. Although the 1976/77 groundnut
crop was good, the balance of payments stayed in deficit. The 1977/78 drought
caused a loss of US$200 million in groundnut revenues, but the Government's
commercial borrowing limited the decline of net foreign assets to US$93
million. In 1979, the groundnut crop was good and Senegal received an alloca-
tion from the EEC STABEX Fund of US$64 million, but strong import demand,
the terms of trade loss from the hike in oil prices, and the fall in groundnut
prices, led to a further decline in net foreign assets of at least US$90
million, reducing the level of these assets to minus US$236 million at the end
of the year. These negative reserves were financed by outstanding drawings
on the IMF in an amount of US$52 million, by a change in Senegal's position in
the monetary union, and through short-term foreign borrowing by the commercial
banks.
12.       Although exogenous factors such as droughts and variations in world
market prices explain in part the fall in net foreign assets since 1973,
it is also due to more perennial factors such as sluggish growth of export
volumes, slow drawings on public aid commitments, increasing debt service
related to heavy reliance on commercial funds, and excessively expansionary
monetary and budgetary policies. Senegal's basic problem has been the failure
of production and exports to respond to higher investment levels and other
expansionary policies.
Stabilization Program
13.       In December 1979, during his annual speech to the National Assembly,
the Prime Minister explained the urgency of modifying prevailing tendencies
in the economy, and outlined a medium-term rehabilitation and stabilization
program. This program was informally discussed with and broadly supported
by the Bank and the Fund. The main objectives are to increase substantially
the level of domestic savings, especially in the public sector, over a period
of six years, with the first two years focussing mainly on stabilization, and
the following four years (which would coincide with the Sixth Four-Year Plan)
on the achievement of a still modestly higher rate of economic growth of
4 percent a year.



14.       According to the stabilization plan, public savings after debt
service would increase from 1 percent of GDP in 1978/79 to 3.5 percent of GDP
in 1985, mainly through a freeze of recurrent expenditures in real terms. Any
shortfalls below this target are to be compensated by new tax measures and
increased savings from public entities such as the stabilization fund. This
savings target would allow the Treasury to contribute at least 15 percent to
financing of the public investment program in the near future, to be improved
to 25 percent by 1985. The 15 percent minimum contribution serves a planning
function and is likely to be exceeded in favorable years, but may fall short
in unfavorable years, such as in 1977/78 when it dropped to a negative level.
In such cases, the additional requirements in foreign finance should be on
concessionary terms.
15.       Increased savings in the private sector would be encouraged by
higher interest rates on deposits and savings certificates, and through the
allocation of cheap housing loans based on earlier savings performance. In
rural areas, the savings of farmers will be mobilized. However, the bulk of
private savings will have to come from private enterprises. To achieve this
goal, the Government proposes to ease price policies and reduce profit taxes;
to induce more private investment, levies on non-invested profits will be
substantially increased. A very tight credit policy, in particular for
non-productive projects, will evidently increase the need for own funds in the
private sector.
16.       Recognizing that the savings drive will weaken domestic demand and
that production costs in Senegal are too high to meet foreign competition,
the Government is taking steps to provide more protection to the domestic
producers by raising import duties, and by subsidizing export industries with
excess capacity. This policy allows for the fact that parity of the local
currency is fixed in the framework of the monetary union to which Senegal
belongs.
17.       The para-public sector--which represents a serious drain on Gov-
ernment finances--will be placed on a sounder footing through the conclusion
of medium-term program contracts between the Ministry of Finance and individual
para-public enterprises, with the aim to reduce present levels of budget
support. More scope will be given to these enterprises to adjust tariffs to
more economical levels.
18.       The stabilization program limits borrowing of commercial funds to
projects that generate a sufficient cash flow to service such debt, and
abolishes Government guarantees on loans to private and mixed enterprises
unless such guarantees are required by the statutes of the lending institution.
These measures will bring a highly desirable reduction in Government's expo-
sure to commercial risks.
19.       To achieve the objectives of the stabilization plan, administrative
reforms have placed all public finance functions under the Minister of Finance.
Of particular importance is the centralization of debt management (previously
a responsibility split between the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minis-
ter), which will have its own tax resources and bank account, and an improved
system of financial planning and control.



- 6 -
20.       The development of wages in the modern sector remains a matter of
some concern. After sizable wage increases in 1979, Government decided as of
January 1, 1980 to raise the minimum wage by 25 percent; and Government
salaries were increased from 34.4 percent for the lowest paid workers to 3.6
percent for the highest paid, to be followed by another increase of 7 percent
as of July 1. These increases are meant to compensate for past inflation
and to cushion the effect on real incomes of the stabilization measures;
however, they are relatively large and may lead to excessive inflationary
pressure.
Prospects
21.       The Government's long-range development strategy continues to be
based on the promotion and diversification of agriculture and export-oriented
activities. The agricultural program calls for development of areas less
afflicted by drought (Casamance and Eastern Senegal), where cash crops other
than groundnuts can be grown. Irrigated cereal production is being developed
in the arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River. This policy
will make the country less dependent on the uncertainties of its climate and
world market prices, and reduce the heavy burden of food imports. To stimulate
agricultural production in the Groundnut Basin, which has not substantially
increased since Independence, Government proposes to overhaul the state-
cooperative system, trimming the heavy bureaucracy and transferring economic
initiative back to the farmers. Agricultural research will be oriented more
on farm systems than on individual crops, with the objective of lowering the
costs of the agricultural techniques propagated, and better adaptation to
farmers' needs. The Government also aims at a modest expansion of phosphate
mining, and development of light export industries and tourism; moreover,
contracts have been signed for construction of a ship-repair yard, and plans
for a phosphoric acid plant are in an advanced stage. However, with limited
prospects for export growth in the groundnut sector, and because of the modest
scale of the export subsidy scheme, no spectacular improvements in the
balance of-payments can be expected. Government counts heavily on the
implementation of a number of large investments, either in irrigation to
diminish the heavy dependence on rice imports, or in export-oriented manu-
facturing industries. However, these investments have long gestation periods
and involve the Government in substantial risks, and a cautious view of the
long-term outlook is therefore warranted. During the next few years, even if
economic growth could be raised to a modest 4 percent a year between 1982 and
1985, the long-term trend between 1977 and 1985 would probably not exceed 2.4
percent a year, which is still not above population growth.
22.       Government intends to rely more on the private sector for investment
in industry, tourism and other productive activities; however, it will take
some time before this new emphasis will be reflected in the composition of
investments. The private sector has a low propensity to invest because of
Senegal's relatively high production costs, and (after a period of active



- 7 -
state intervention) often insists upon Government participation or loan
guarantees for new ventures, thus reducing the size of its risks. Moreover,
some public investments are needed in view of the country's critical depen-
dence on state-financed irrigation.
23.       The stabilization plan will help Senegal to overcome the effects of
the recent drought, the higher oil prices, and the high debt service built up
over the past five years. Its strict implementation is therefore crucial for
Senegal's prospects for economic growth and creditworthiness. To help Gov-
ernment achieve the structural reforms needed, the Bank is planning to expand
ongoing technical assistance to the parapublic sector and in particular to the
agricultural institutions, provide assistance to the setting up and imple-
mentation of the export subsidy scheme, help Government in establishing
systems to monitor national savings, assist in improving the development,
evaluation and choice of projects, and support the administrative reorganization
in the Ministry of Finance to assure speedier execution of ongoing projects.
Creditworthiness
24.       The ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services increased
rapidly from 6 percent in 1976 to 13 percent in 1979, and an estimated 16
percent in 1980, a level which should not be exceeded in Senegal's current
economic circumstances. This steep increase has mainly been due to a rise in
the share of commercial borrowing from about 25 percent of total borrowing
during 1973-76 to an average of 56 percent during 1977 and 1980. Thanks to
considerable restraint by the Government on commercial borrowing in 1979 (US$9
million), and the termination of repayments on earlier commercial credits,
debt service will level off in the early 1980's. In the medium-term, expected
improvement in export performance related to better crops, a few large
export-oriented projects, and implementation of the export incentive scheme is
expected to allow Government to keep the debt service ratio around 15 percent
of export earnings.
25.       The weak balance of payments position is dominated by the need to
strengthen Senegal's foreign reserve position. In the short term, Senegal can
afford low reserve levels through its membership in the West African Monetary
Union which provides for pooling of foreign reserves, and whose currency is
guaranteed by the French Government. Moreover, as the experience in 1978 has
shown, IMF and STABEX facilities provide a buffer for the periodic drops in
export revenues linked with droughts and fluctuations in world market prices.
However, if Senegal maintains negative balances for an extended period,
it could weaken this regional institution whose existence is a cornerstone for
Senegal's creditworthiness. The impact on the balance of payments of the oil
price hike and the bad 1979/80 groundnut crop to be sold at low prices could
widen the overall balance of payments deficit to some US$250 million in 1980
and about US$100 million in 1981. Since Senegal's debt service burden is
already extremely heavy, full Eurodollar financing of these deficits should not
be envisaged. Foreign donors should therefore be prepared to raise the
percentage of foreign finance in their projects, and consider program aid
in the first instance to help cushion the impact of these developments on net



- 8 -
foreign assets, as well as to support the structural reforms being undertaken
as part of the stabilization plan.
26.       With implementation of the Government's economic stabilization
plan, Senegal would remain creditworthy for some lending on IBRD terms. The
Government has demonstrated its commitment to development by expanding its
public investment effort substantially between 1970/71 and 1977/78. The
Government has also demonstrated an adequate capacity to respond to the
problems which its vulnerable economy is bound to encounter periodically.
Senegal's prospects for long-term divefsification and growth are modest, but
essential to provide a reasonable basis for social and economic development.
Its access to short-term financing facilities and membership in the West
African Monetary Union also reduce the risks associated with economic fluctua-
tions. However, lenders (including the Bank Group) should provide a large
part of their assistance on concessionary terms in order to avoid a further
rapid buildup of debt service, and should be prepared to finance a consider-
able part of the local costs of projects. Moreover, in the coming two years,
financial assistance of a program nature and close monitoring of the economy
will most likely be required to support the Government in its structural
adjustment policies.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
27.       The Bank Group has had 42 operations in Senegal to date.  Total
outstanding amounts to US$230.8 million, including 22 IDA credits, 14 Bank
loans, two blends of Bank and IDA funds, three IFC operations, and one blend
of Bank and IFC funds. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits, and IFC investments as of December 31, 1979, and notes on the
implementation of ongoing projects. Physical execution of these projects is
progressing reasonably well, although some operations are affected by the
shortage of counterpart funds due to the Government's continuing difficult
public finance situation, as well as by lack of qualified local staff for key
positions; but the largest obstacle to really efficient project implementation
is the number of institutional bottlenecks which are present in several
sectors. The Government is well aware of the need to reduce delays caused by
these problems, and particularly of the importance of assuring good management
supervision of projects in all sectors. In this respect, the ongoing Para-
Public Sector Technical Assistance Project will initiate and implement measures
necessary to resolve on a sector-wide basis some of the issues regarding the
financial management and Government control of public enterprises and mixed
companies, particularly those which are channels for Bank Group assistance.
In addition, the Government has recently created an Interministerial Committee
with representation of foreign aid donors, to expedite preparation of new
investment projects, and to identify bottlenecks in project execution and take
remedial action. The work of this committee has already begun to produce some
positive results.



- 9-
28.       The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to
Senegal over 1977-81 will stay at around 12 percent, of which roughly 54
percent in IDA financing. The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed
debt was 18 percent in 1979, and will (after falling slightly in 1980-83)
slowly start to surpass that level, reaching about 20 percent in 1985. The
Bank Group's share in public debt service is expected to increase from 3.8
percent in 1979 to about 4.9 percent in 1985, a rise which is mainly due to
the increase in Bank loans from 32 percent of the Bank Group's total outstand-
ing and disbursed funds to Senegal to about 42 percent by 1985.
29.       The objectives of Bank Group lending in Senegal fall under five main
headings. First, priority continues to be given to rural development, includ-
ing development of irrigation in the Senegal River Valley Region, rainfed
agriculture in the well-watered southern regions of the country, intensifica-
tion of groundnut production and diversification into new crops and new
regions, proposed national projects for improvement of agricultural research
and for reafforestation, and the proposed operation for Small Rural Projects
presented in this report which in many ways represents an innovative approach
to development of the rural sector. As in the past, agricultural lending
over the next few years is expected to exceed one-third of the total. Secondly,
the Bank Group has supported diversification of the economy by lending to the
growing industrial sector through the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le
Developpement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development finance
company established with Bank Group assistance in 1974, and through an ongoing
project for development of tourism infrastructure.    irdly, Bank Group
projects have supported modernization and expansion (where economically
desirable) of the country's infrastructure. A Second Aviation Project was
approved by the Executive Directors in early FY79. Also, an engineering
project approved later in FY79 finances studies and technical assistance
for water supply and sanitation development in eleven secondary centers, and
is expected to pave the way for future Bank Group involvement in that sector.
A Fourth Highway Project emphasizing improved road maintenance will be pre-
sented for Board consideration later in FY 80. Fourthly, assistance is being
provided under the Third Education Project approved in FY79 to help the
Government re-orient and expand the country's education system at all levels,
by meeting in particular the needs for trained high- and middle-level techni-
cians and managers in the modern sector and in agricultural development
activities, and by increasing access to primary level education, particularly
in rural areas. Further, the Bank Group remains conscious of the need to
support other projects in the social services sector (within the limits of the
Government's ability to bear the recurrent costs involved), and has started
preparing a production-oriented Integrated Food and Nutrition Project.
Finally, continuing assistance is being provided to help Government increase
its absorptive capacity for planning, executing, and managing development
projects through institutional support within individual Bank Group projects,
and through broader efforts such as the Para-Public Sector Technical Assis-
tance Project. Several Bank Group operations which fit into the overall
objectives of the Government's economic strategy, notably in tourism, tele-
communications, port infrastructure, loans to SOFISEDIT, and in airport
development, have the additional merit of generating revenues for the
Senegalese Treasury.



- 10 -
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
A.   Background
30.       Senegal has a population of about 5.2 million (1977 estimate),
of whom nearly 70% live in rural areas and depei1d on agriculture to
provide a livelihood. The country covers almost 200,000 km2, of which
a relatively high 70% is suitable for rainfed crop production. Basic
foodcrops are millet, sorghum, rice, and maize; groundnuts and cotton are
the major cash crops. About 60% of the rural population is concentrated
within about 150 km of Dakar in the central Groundnut Basin; population
density in this area is almost four times as high as the national average,
and there is little scope for further expansion of extensive farming.
Large areas in the northern and eastern parts of the country are suitable
only for livestock production under extensive grazing. The two large
river basins (Senegal in the North, Casamance in the South) offer an
important water resources potential for agriculture, but have only in
recent years begun to be developed.
31.       The availability of social services to the rural population is
generally inadequate, and the quality of the few services provided is poor.
As regards education, the Senegalese system continues to follow the French
academic model, and is poorly adapted to the needs of the rural population.
Moreover, because the system is costly, Government can afford to educate only
about 40% of the total population, mostly in urban areas; the result is that
children and illiterate adults in rural areas have very limited access to
formal schooling or basic education programs. Government spending in the
health sector is also very limited, and almost 80% of the rural population,
particularly the vulnerable mother and child group, has almost no access to
health care services or basic education in nutrition or sanitation. As a
general rule, income disparities and the sharing of services between the urban
and rural areas are particularly sharp in Senegal, also with regard to public
utilities services to which the rural poor have almost no access, even in
cases where they do represent basic needs.
Significance of the Rural Sector for the Economy
32.       Despite generally poor soils and erratic rainfall, and although its
contribution to GDP (about 35%) is much lower than in most countries of West
Africa, the rural sector remains a key sector in the Senegalese economy.
Agriculture produces about half of export income (with groundnuts accounting
for 90% of this), and employs about 70% of the labor force; but per capita
income of the rural population averages only about US$150 per year compared
with the national GNP per capita average of US$340 (1978 estimates).  Almost
all output of the rural sector is produced by small-scale units, but there is
much diversity in farm size, labor availability, ownership of agricultural
equipment, productivity, and income.
B.   Sector Institutions
33.       The Ministry of Rural Development has overall responsibility for
development of the sector, but some matters are handled by other Ministries,



- 11 -
notably those for Human Affairs, Public Works and Water Supply, and one
recently created for Forestry and Inland Fisheries. While these Ministries
are responsible for policy, execution of that policy is increasingly entrusted
to the six para-public regional development agencies charged with implementing
rural development programs in particular areas. At the same time, however,
Government departments have retained a large network of field staff, primarily
in the Rural Development Centers (RDC) which operate nationwide at the local
district level.
34.       Financial Institutions.  There are two principal financial institu-
tions serving the sector. The Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal
(BNDS) was established in 1964 to assist development projects in agriculture,
livestock, fisheries, small industries, housing and handicrafts, and to
provide funds for agricultural inputs supplied in kind to cooperatives. BNDS
has not actively sought to make loans directly to small rural producers since
it considers the guarantees offered too uncertain, and the costs of debt
collection too high. BNDS' financial and accounting procedures have been
reorganized and improved with assistance provided under Credit 140-SE, and
these aspects of its operation are now satisfactory. The proposed project
will make use of BNDS' established financial channels. The Office National
de Cooperation et d'Assistance au Developpment (ONCAD) was established in 1966
to promote the establishment of cooperatives, to procure and deliver farm
inputs on credit provided by BNDS and to recover such credit, and to organize
nationally the marketing of groundnuts and cereals, including imported rice.
ONCAD's overall performance has been poor: its financial situation has
become critical due to poor management and inadequate financial control,
and ONCAD has been unable to stimulate the development of cooperatives
into financially viable institutions or entities that could mobilize local
initiatives and support for development activities. Nonetheless, ONCAD has
done a reasonable job of delivering farm inputs and implements, and will have
a role in performing this function under the proposed project. For the
future, plans call for ONCAD's diversified functions to be gradually assumed
by the regional development agencies.
35.       Local Government Institutions.  In 1972, Government launched an
Administrative Reform program to decentralize power over public investments
through local allocation of local tax revenues, and to encourage greater
popular participation in the political process. The local decision-making
bodies were to be elected councils for Rural Communities comprising about
10,000 people. One of the few attempts to reorganize pre-independence
structures of local government in West Africa, this reform has now been
successfully implemented in six of the eight provinces of the country,
with the remainder scheduled to be completed by 1982. Despite the
success of the reform, Government still considers it premature to assign
certain responsibilities to the Rural Communities, for example, guaranteeing
loans to small groups of Community members. The proposed project will
nonetheless work to help strengthen the Rural Communities, and one of the
project benefits will be this institution-building effort (para. 77).
36.       Management of Small Rural Development Schemes.  An increasingly
large number of small rural projects (for example, well digging, poultry
rearing, marketing cooperatives) is being financed by various bilateral and



- 12 -
international agencies, and particularly by non-governmental organizations.
These operations have to date been carried out or supervised by various
Government bodies in different Ministries, with the result that there has
been much duplication of effort, and even competition between operations or
their sponsors. Government is increasingly concerned about the diversity
of approach in planning and execution of the operations, particularly in
respect of terms and conditions governing the participation in cash or
in kind by the beneficiaries, and the extent of financial and/or technical
assistance provided by the sponsors. To help overcome these problems,
Government has grouped the responsibilities for planning and management of
all small development projects in the rural sector under a single Depart-
ment for Small Rural Projects (Fonds National de Developpement Communautaire)
established in January 1980 within the Ministry for Human Affairs, and under
which the proposed project will be managed (para. 57).
C.   Sector Strategy and Issues
37.       Development strategy for the rural sector necessarily reflects
Government's stated desire to achieve the following objectives: socialize
rural society; increase home-grown food and make output less dependent on
rainfall; diversify exports; increase rural incomes and restrain urban-
rural income differences; and generate public savings from the rural sector.
Over the years, however, there has been some fluctuation in the priorities
assigned to these various objectives, with the result that policies have
tended to be inconsistent. Strategies actually adopted by the Government
have included: increasing output of irrigated and rainfed cereals;
putting increasing emphasis on large-scale irrigation; promoting cotton
and confectionary groundnuts, in addition to yield increases of groundnuts
for oil; and encouraging migration to the Senegal River Delta and to
Eastern Senegal.
38.       Although the various elements of the strategy outlined above
are all important, the programs and projects undertaken have had limited
success, primarily because of several outstanding issues in the sector:
First, output from rainfed farming is stagnating since land intensification
themes as presently defined are not sufficiently widely adopted. Government
now acknowledges the need to define improvements in respect of types of
farming systems (an agricultural research project focusing on farming sys-
tems was appraised in December 1979) and has commissioned a study on farming
incentives that will for the first time examine in depth the problem of
urban/rural terms of trade.  Second, the performance of ONCAD and the regional
development agencies has been disappointing, but Government now recognizes
that important changes in their structure and management are required to make
them effective, and has started taking some measures to this end. Third,
provision for recurrent cost financing is inadequate, and the scope for
increasing public revenue is severely limited. Fourth, Government has recently
tightened up on agricultural credit, refusing it for the 1979/80 season to
cooperatives that had not paid at least 65% of all repayments due; also, the
possibility of levying user charges is being seriously examined. Fifth, the
cooperative movement as presently constituted has not developed local farmers'
organizations capable of organizing joint endeavors. In the current debate on
how to encourage grassroots organizations, there is increasing recognition
that approaches other than cooperatives should be explored.



- 13 -
D.   The Bank Group's Role in the Sector
39.       Bank Group operations in the agricultural and rural sector have been
designed to fit into the general framework of current Government strategy, and
to meet the particular investment opportunities of various regions of the
country. Overall, they have been directly productive operations aimed at
contributing to economic growth generally, and directed as much as possible to
the poorer segments of the rural population. Total Bank Group lending
for agricultural and rural development amounts to US$74.3 million for 12
operations as follows: three projects for engineering and construction
of river polders and large irrigation perimeters in the Senegal River Delta;
two projects for development of rice cultivation in the southern Casamance
region; two programs for resettlement of farm families in the underpopulated
Eastern Senegal region; an agricultural development project for crop improve-
ment and diversification in the southern Groundnut Basin; two operations to
establish and implement an agricultural credit program; an emergency drought
relief program; and a livestock development project. Notes on the progress of
execution of these projects are given in Annex II.
40.       The Bank Group has in the past collaborated with various inter-
national and bilateral agencies active in Senegal in the planning of agricul-
tural and rural development projects and the development of sector institu-
tions, and several of the larger operations have benefitted from co-financing
arrangements, notably with the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Econo-
mique (CCCE) and the Fonds d' Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), the Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) and the Kuwait Fund. It is planned to
continue this international cooperation in future operations.
41.       Primarily because of the constraints discussed in para. 38 above,
Project implementation has been achieving mixed results; in spite of large
provisions for technical assistance and training, management effective-
ness has recently been deteriorating, and project benefits are not always
fully realized. Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued for the
first Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 584-SE and Credit 140-SE), the first
Casamance Rice Project (Credit 252-SE), the Terres Neuves I Resettlement
Project (Credit 254-SE), the Drought Relief Project (Credit 446-SE), and the
River Polders Project (Credit 350-SE). The main shortcomings mentioned in
these reports concern: (i) the quality of engineering design and supervision
of construction of project works; (ii) marketing, unremunerative prices,
and input distribution; and (iii) the need to investigate more thoroughly the
social aspects involved in project planning and execution.  While these
lessons are not generally relevant to the small, discrete operations that
constitute the project proposed in the present report, experience acquired
with rural development fund-type projects in West Africa, including the
six-country Drought Relief Project, is of relevance. For this latter opera-
tion, works in Senegal were found to be more successfully executed than
similar projects in the other five Sahelian countries. The quality of super-
vision of well construction was, however, inadequate; the village water supply
component in the proposed project takes into account the need to overcome
this failing. More generally, particular attention was paid during project
appraisal to measures to ensure sound engineering preparation and supervision
of small rural works, to arrangements for financing recurrent costs of small



- 14 -
rural projects, and to delivery of effective technical assistance to bene-
ficiaries during and after construction.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
A.   Background
42.       In September 1976, Governmeat informed the Association of its
interest in a follow-up project to the Drought Relief Fund which had financed
three small operations in rural water supplies, firebreak construction, and a
one-year livestock vaccination campaign. Government and the Association
agreed that a follow-up operation should emphasize more directly-productive
activities rather than infrastructure, and thus more direct participation by
the project beneficiaries. Detailed preparation studies were carried out by
the Senegalese para-public consulting firm SONED (Societe Nationale d'Etudes
pour le Developpement), with financing provided by an advance of US$142,000
equivalent from the Project Preparation Facility, and technical assistance
from staff of the Ministry of Rural Development and the Bank's Regional
Mission for West Africa.
43.       The project preparation phase was unusually long because of dif-
ferences among the several Government agencies concerned on the appropriate
institutional framework within which the project would operate, and on effec-
tive means of providing guarantees for credit to be extended to the
beneficiaries. Preparation was finally completed in agreement with the
Association in early June 1979, and an appraisal mission visited Senegal in
June/July 1979. Credit negotiations were held in Washington in January 1980
with a Senegalese delegation led by Mr. Louis Alexandrenne, Minister for
Planning and Cooperation. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 2700a-SE dated
February 19, 1980 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
B.   Project Objectives and Description
44.       The project now proposed focusses on channelling funds and
technical services to small groups of rural people who would undertake to
provide labor, and some funds, for the development of several types of
directly-productive activities. The broad objectives of the project are
to encourage local initiatives thereby increasing popular participation
in decision-making on investments in the rural sector, and to undertake
only those operations that are manifestly in the interest of beneficiaries.
The main specific objectives are to render small groups of producers
creditworthy in the judgment of the local banking system, and to develop
the existing local capacity for identification and preparation of directly-
productive small rural projects.
45.       The proposed project, to be implemented over four years, includes
the following items:
(a) construction, equipment, and technical services for 30 perimeters
of 20 ha each for irrigated cultivation of rice in the Galenka
Valley in the Fleuve Region;



- 15 -
(b) construction, equipment, and technical services for 18 perimeters
of 2 ha each for irrigated cultivation of vegetables in the Thies
and northern Sine Saloum Regions;
(c) construction, equipment, and technical services for 15 perimeters
of 4 ha each for irrigated cultivation of bananas at Sedhiou in
the Casamance Region;
(d) construction, equipment, and technical services for beekeeping
and processing of wax and honey at Bignona in the Casamance Region;
(e) provision of 20 small fishing boats with outboard motors and
ancillary equipment in the Louga Region;
(f) equipment for an open well brigade, construction of 50 new wells,
and deepening of 50 other wells in the Sine Saloum Region;
(g) provision for unidentified activities; and
(h) provision of a project management structure.
46.       Selection Criteria and Initiatives.  The criteria used for selec-
tion of the appraised operations were that they be: directly productive;
financially and economically profitable, with a net income per labor-day at
full development of at least CFAF 275 (about 25% more than the nationwide
average rural income), and an internal economic return of at least 10%; and
requested by, and manifestly in the interest of a group or groups of producers
(paras. 71 and 72). The criteria of operations being directly productive or
financially viable do not apply to village water supplies. The above criteria
will be retained for preparation and appraisal of currently unidentified
activities during project implementation. (Sections 3.04 and 3.05 of draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Detailed Features of Proposed Operations (See Map)
47.       Small Rice Perimeters.  In an area along the Galenka, a tribu-
tary of the Senegal River, there are about 12,000 people presently cultivating
millet on the sand dunes in the rainy season, and sorghum and other crops in
the valley bottoms as the floods recede in the dry season. Production and
income vary with the rains and the floods, and there is much emigration from
the area. The proposed project will provide assistance to each of 30 groups
of producers to construct and operate irrigated perimeters of 20 ha each with
full water control. An operation similar to that proposed for the Galenka was
started in 1975 at Matam, about 200 km upstream on the Senegal River, where 36
perimeters are now being cultivated by about 700 farmers; the success achieved
there prompted demand both from the people and the regional development
agency, SAED, for the Galenka perimeters.



- 16 -
48.       SAED will be responsible for preliminary surveys (an additional PPF
advance of $20,000 approved in January 1980 will finance this effort), and
construction supervision, and will provide technical assistance and training
during initial farming operations, deliver inputs on behalf of ONCAD, and
purchase paddy and tomatoes on behalf of the processing plants located down-
stream.  Producer groups will be responsible for providing all unskilled labor
for perimeter construction, performing all farming operations, paying for
operation and maintenance of their pump, and providing in cash and in kind for
maintenance of the water distribution system.  Land allocation within the
perimeters will be decided by the groups of producers; if the Matam experience
is followed as expected, each group would have about 40 members each receiving
0.5 ha.
49.       Small Vegetable Perimeters.  In the area bounded by Thias, Joal,
and Fatick, about 80 km from Dakar, there is already much vegetable develop-
ment using various irrigation techniques applicable to small-scale cultivation.
There is now much demand from groups of small producers for an improved method
of water extraction for irrigating vegetables. The proposed project will
provide assistance to each of 18 groups of producers to construct and operate
small irrigated vegetable perimeters of 2 ha each, with water to be supplied
by manually powered pumps erected on open wells.
50.       The main crops to be grown will be potatoes, onions, tomatoes,
cabbage and beans. Inputs will be purchased by farmers from private
suppliers who are well represented in the area; production will be sold
to the well-established network of private buyers. Local branches of the
Rural Development Centers will be responsible for supervising construction
and providing technical assistance and extension advice during initial
farming operations. Producer groups will be responsible for providing all
unskilled labor for construction, performing all farming operations, and
paying for maintenance of their pump and water distribution facilities. Land
allocation within the perimeters will be decided by the groups of producers;
each group would have about 20 members each receiving 0.1 ha.
51.       Small Banana Perimeters.  Although the climate in the Southern
Casamance Region is marginal for banana cultivation, the crop has developed
over the last 10 years through private investment in small perimeters,
and through assistance from the FED for larger perimeters of about 20 ha each.
There is now much demand from groups of producers for further investments, but
in smaller-scale perimeters. The proposed project would provide assistance to
15 groups of producers in the Sedhiou District to construct and operate
irrigated banana perimeters of 4 ha each, with water provided by mechanical
pumping.
52.       The regional development agency SOMIVAC would be responsible
for perimeter construction and initial planting of bananas, provide extension
service and technical assistance (in collaboration with FED experts) during
initial operations, and deliver inputs on behalf of ONCAD. Producer groups



- 17 -
would be responsible for providing all unskilled labor for construction,
performing all farming operations, paying for operation and maintenance of
their pump, and providing in cash and in kind for maintenance of the water
distribution system and the banana sorting and treatment center. Land alloca-
tion within the perimeters will be decided by the groups of producers; each
group would have about 40 members each receiving about 0.1 ha.
53.       Beekeeping.  In the Bignona District of the Casamance Region,
collection of wild honey and wax is a traditional occupation, and in the past
decade some modern hives have been installed, as well as an extraction center
with quality control and packaging facilities. There is now great demand for
more of the modern, locally-designed and constructed hives, and from groups of
producers for more honey and wax extraction facilities. The project will
provide for: installation of four honey and wax extraction centers for four
groups of 25 beekeepers each; installation of five hives per beekeeper, and
provision of necessary equipment, including mesh frames, fumigators, and
protective clothing; and rehabilitation of the existing extraction center
which would serve as a regional quality control and packaging center. The
Livestock Department of the Ministry of Rural Development will be responsible
for installing the facilities, and has adequate technical assistance available
for both production and marketing. Producer groups will be responsible for
performing all beekpeeing and processing operations, and paying for maintenance
of their extraction facilities.
54.       Fishing.  There is a strong fishing tradition in the area of
Lompoul and Tare on the coast of Louga Region, and a recently created
Provincial Fisheries Department has been actively organizing activities
in the sector. In early 1979, the Government financed four motorized canoes
to groups of young fishermen at Tare, and since then the demand to participate
has been overwhelming. The proposed project will provide, to each of 20
groups of five young fishermen, a canoe equipped with a 20HP outboard motor,
and a complete set of nets. The project will also provide drying stands,
salt tanks, and other processing equipment at both Tare and Lompoul. The
Provincial Fisheries Department will be responsible for installing facilities,
and will provide technical assistance for processing and marketing. Producer
groups will be responsible for all fishing and processing operations, and
paying for maintenance of their boats, nets, and processing equipment.
55.       Village Water Supplies.  In contrast to the Drought Relief Project
which financed well construction in five Regions, works under the proposed
project will be concentrated in a single Region, Sine Saloum, and undertaken
in only one district per year. This will permit improved quality control of
work, as well as increased pace of operations since plant and equipment could
be more readily maintained. The proposed project provides for strengthening
the existing open well brigade at Kaolack, for construction by the brigade of
50 new open wells, deepening of about 50 existing unfinished open wells, and



- 18 -
increasingly over the project period, for supervision and subsequent deepening
of wells constructed by small contractors with financing from Rural Communities.
The Water Supply Department, through its Kaolack base, will be responsible for
execution; and the project will finance the services of a Works Manager,
internationally recruited in agreement with IDA, responsible for sound tech-
nical execution of the proposed operations, and to ensure effective planning
and organization of well maintenance and repair works. Draft terms of reference
have been discussed and agreed with the Government. (Section 3.02 of draft
Development Credit Agreement). Over time, the proposed operation would serve
as a model for developing an increased role for other open well brigades by
strengthening their capacity to supervise rural works executed by private
contractors, and to execute works that are difficult to contract out such as
major repairs, deepening of existing wells, maintenance, and even construction
of new wells in isolated cases where contract lots are unattractive for
competitive bidding.
56.       Unidentified Activities.  During project preparation, many promising
proposals for small rural projects were considered and rejected, often because
of incomplete preparation. The proposed Credit therefore includes an alloca-
tion of about US$3.0 million equivalent (representing about 30% of total
project costs) to finance additional directly productive operations to be
identified, prepared, and appraised during project implementation, following
specified criteria and procedures (paras. 46 and 71). The allocation will be
used for new project ideas (and in some cases extensions of appraised opera-
tions) in which producers will be expected to take the key initiatives once
the Project Management Unit has effectively diffused to interested producer
groups all relevant information regarding availability of funds and procedures
for gaining access to them.
57.       Management Structure.  A Project Unit will be created in the Depart-
ment of Small Rural Projects of the Ministry of Human Affairs. The Unit
will be headed by a Senegalese Project Manager who has been appointed, is
acceptable to IDA, and who was a member of the Government's delegation to
Credit negotiations. Detailed Terms of Reference for the Project Manager have
been discussed and agreed with the Government (Schedule 4 of draft Development
Credit Agreement). Other personnel in the Unit will include four technical
specialists (of whom two will be expatriate expert staff), an accountant, and
support staff. The project will provide office accommodation, vehicles,
equipment and furniture, as well as accounting and audit services, consultants
and materials for training, office operating facilities, and local staff
travel.
C.   Project Cost and Financing
58.       The total cost of the proposed project (net of identifiable taxes,
and import duties from which the project would be exempt) is estimated at
US$14.1 million equivalent, including foreign exchange costs of US$7.4 million
(about 52%). Base cost estimates reflect prices at July 1980. Physical
contingencies have been applied at 10% on civil works and equipment. Expected



- 19 -
price increases have been estimated at 9% in 1980, 8% in 1981, and 7% per year
thereafter, and total 17% of base project costs, not including the provi-
sion for unidentified activities. The project provides for 12 man-years of
technical assistance at an estimated unit cost of US$80,000, of which about
60% in salaries.
59.       The project will be financed from the following sources:  (i) the
proposed IDA Credit of US$11 million; (ii) additional external financing from
French technical assistance, which will provide an agricultural economist for
the Project Unit over the four-year project period, at an estimated cost of
US$0.4 million; and (iii) a Senegalese contribution of US$2.7 million equiva-
lent, of which US$2.4 million from the Government to finance incremental
operating costs including local staff and input subsidies, US$0.1 million from
BNDS for incremental inputs supplied as credit-in-kind, and US$0.2 million as
contributions from project beneficiaries to finance operating costs of pumps
for small-scale irrigation, and incremental cash purchases of inputs. The
total external financing of US$11.4 million will cover 100% of foreign costs
and approximately 60% of local costs, representing about 81% of total project
costs net of taxes.
60.       On the basis of the above arrangements, the proposed financing plan
is as follows:
(in US $ Millions)
Total    IDA   FAC    Govt.   BNDS  Beneficiaries
Small Rice Perimeters         2.1    1.3    -        0.6      0.1        0.1
Small Vegetable Perimeters   1.0    0.8    -         0.2       -          -
Small Banana Perimeters       1.0    0.8    -        0.1       -         O.i
Beekeeping                    0.1    0.1    -         -
Fishing                       0.1    0.1    -         -         -
Village Water Supplies        1.7    1.6    -        0.1       -          -
Project Management             1.9    1.2   0.3      0.4        -         -
Unidentified Activities        4.4    3.7    -       0.7        -         -
Refunding PPF                 0.2    0.2    -         -         -
Contingencies                  1.6    1.2   0.1      0.3        -         -
Total                        14.1   11.0   0.4       2.4       0.1       0.2
Percentage                  100      78     3        16         1         2



- 20 -
D.   Project Execution
61.       Project execution is scheduled to start in mid-1980 and to last
about four years. Responsibility for carrying out the appraised operations
and preparing currently unidentified operations will rest with the Project
Unit; each operation will be confined to a limited area, with field execution
undertaken by a single technical service agency and a still undetermined
number of producer groups (paras. 47-57). Over the project period, there
would likely be a total of at least ten different operations and about 150
groups of producers, averaging about 30 participants per group.
62.       Financial transactions of the project will be handled through
two separate accounts to be opened, one for Government funds, and the other
for proceeds of the IDA Credit; the latter will be designated a "Special
Account" into which payments could be made without passing through the
Government's Treasury Department. For both accounts, Government's Chief
Financial Controller will exercise a posteriori control of expenditures
rather than a priori control which is normally the case. The pre-financing
of project expenditures will require an initial deposit of CFAF 160 million
(US$760,000 equivalent), representing estimated quarterly project expenditures.
Contributions to this fund will be paid by Government and IDA into their
respective accounts in approximately the proportion of Senegal's and external
financiers' share of total project costs; IDA participation in financing of
this fund is justified on the basis of Senegal's continuing difficult public
finance and budgetary circumstances. Opening of the project accounts, and
Government's payment of its initial deposit of CFAF 24 million (US$110,000)
will be a condition of Credit effectiveness. (Section 5.01(b) of draft
Development Credit Agreement). The project's Government account will be
replenished at least quarterly by Government on the basis of supporting
documentation for expenses incurred, and cash forecasts made by the Project
Unit in order to have sufficient funds to meet project expenditures for the
following three months. The project's IDA account will be replenished
from Credit proceeds upon receipt of satisfactory evidence of disbursements
from the fund for eligible expenditures. Should, however, any disbursement
from the IDA account be found ineligible for financing from Credit proceeds,
Government will be responsible for replenishing the account in the corres-
ponding amount (Section 2.02(f) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
63.       Experience acquired with procurement of civil works for rural
projects in Senegal shows that foreign firms are not likely to bid unless
a contract is worth over US$1 million. Since contract lots under the proposed
project will be much smaller, procurement of civil works (estimated cost
US$4.0 million) will be by competitive bidding through local procedures
acceptable to IDA. Procurement of vehicles and equipment (estimated cost
US$3.9 million) will be through international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank Group guidelines in the case of contracts over US$100,000
(approximately US$2.1 million); competitive bidding following local



- 21 -
procedures will be used for contracts for equipment and materials between
US$25,000 and US$100,000 (approximately US$1.6 million); for contracts less
than US$25,000 (approximately US$0.2 million), competitive shopping will be
employed; domestically-manufactured goods will be allowed a 15% preference or
the applicable import duty, whichever is lower. Other small investments (for
example surveys, initial upkeep of banana perimeters, and tree planting
(US$0.4 million) will be undertaken by force account by the responsible
technical service agencies as specified in their contracts with project
management (para. 67). Well deepening and construction (US$1.1 million) will
also be undertaken by force account, with materials and supplies procured by
competitive bidding through local procedures. Services of the interna-
tionally-recruited agricultural economist, Works Manager for village water
supplies, and locally-recruited consultants for specialized services (US$0.9
million) will be obtained following procedures acceptable to IDA. The
remaining items to be procured with IDA funds include office accommodation,
overheads and staff travel for the Project Unit team, and training materials
(US$0.7 million), and will not be suitable for competitive bidding. The
above arrangements have been discussed and agreed with the Government (Schedule
3 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursement
64.       Proceeds from the proposed IDA Credit will be disbursed as
follows:
(a) for civil works and surveys, vehicles, and equipment, 95% of
total expenditures: for appraised operations (US$4.7 million);
for unidentified operations (US$3.0 million);
(b) for Project Unit, 95% of total expenditures on vehicles and equipment,
local training, accounting and audit services, locally recruited
consultants, office accommodation and overheads, and staff travel
(uS$900,000);
(c) for expatriate staff: 100% of expenditures (US$600,000);
(d) initial deposit into the Special Account to pre-finance items under
specific categories (US$650,000);
(e) refunding of the Project Preparation Advance (US$162,000);
and
(f) unallocated (US$988,000).
65.       The Project Unit will establish accounts to record all project
expenditures; these accounts will be verified quarterly and audited
annually by independent auditors in agreement with the Association
(Section 4.01 of draft Development Credit Agreement). All IDA disbursements
will be fully documented, except for force account works, training, office
accommodation and overheads, and local staff travel which will be made
against certified statements of expenditure; documentation for these will be
held by the Project Unit and made available for quarterly verification by the
independent auditors, as well as review by IDA supervision missions.



- 22 -
E.   Organization and Management of the Proposed Project
66.       As discussed in paras. 57 and 61 above, overall responsibility
for project execution will rest with the Project Unit established within the
new Department of Small Rural Projects. The Government also intends to create
an Interministerial Management Committee with broad responsibility for efficient
operation of the new Department, and particularl-y for implementation of the
proposed project; the Chairman of this Committee will be the Minister for
Human Affairs. The draft decree for creation of the Committee has been
reviewed by the Association and found satisfactory. Official publication of
the decree would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit
(Section 5.01(a) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
67.       Role of Technical Service Agencies.  Regional agencies will
provide technical and accounting support to the various producer groups
as required. The agencies will report quarterly to the Project Manager
on all aspects of sub-project implementation. Remuneration to the agencies
will take account of the complexity of services provided, and activities of
the respective producer groups. Agency contracts acceptable to IDA will be
entered into with the Project Unit, and will specify that such remuneration
would cover only the additional direct costs incurred, with no contribution to
overheads (Section 3.03 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
68.       Status and Role of Groups of Producers.  The responsibility of
groups of producers for each operation will vary according to the respective
responsibilities of the technical service agencies. Generally, though,
responsibility for the proposed operations will be vested in these groups of
producers which will comprise between ten and forty families, depending on the
type of asset to be operated and managed. Producer groups will not neces-
sarily have to be a de lure entity, and will require only a de facto identity
with an appropriate operational structure, (including the capacity to enter
into contracts with the technical service agencies providing assistance
under the project), and at least one bank account, the Capital Replacement
Account (paras. 69-70). Selection of the appropriate status for a particular
producer group will be determined under the guidance of the Project Unit
and in cooperation with the responsible technical service agency, which will
continue to provide all necessary supervision of the group's operations
(Sections 3.03 and 3.04(a) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
69.       Capital Replacement Accounts.  A particular feature of the
proposed project will be the provision of medium-term assets to groups of
producers through capital replacement accounts instead of conventional
medium-term credit.  The proposed approach, which has the full support of the
Government, is considered justified in the case of these small operations
primarily because medium-term credit has a poor record in Senegal, and because
the intended beneficiaries would not be deemed creditworthy by the local
banking system. Each producer group will, for each medium-term asset to be
provided, open a capital replacement account at the nearest branch of BNDS;
power of withdrawal from such accounts will be vested in nominated repre-
sentatives of the group. As a condition for provision of the asset, the group
will pay into its capital replacement account an amount of at least 5% of the
delivered cost, of the asset; such payments will be verified by the Project



- 23 -
Unit (Section 3.04(a) of draft Development Credit Agreement). The first time
an asset were provided to a group, it would remain the property of the Project
Unit until the group had put sufficient funds into the account to replace the
asset. The first and all subsequent replacements would be financed by the
group's savings in its capital replacement account. Savings would accumulate
through annual payment of an annuity calculated to generate sufficient savings
(including expected price increases) to replace the asset at the end of its
life. The contract between the technical service agency and the producer
group will specify the amount of the annuity and the date payable (Section
3.04 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
70.       Prospects for obtaining payment for assets under the proposed
scheme are expected to be good because beneficiaries will be making payments
into an account in their own name and identified specifically to replace the
asset. Nevertheless, to ensure successful operation of the scheme, instances
of overdue accounts will be reported by technical service agencies in their
quarterly reports to the Project Unit, which will in turn report at least
semi-annually to the Interministerial Management Committee. At the same
time, producer groups will be notified that appropriate action will be taken
unless arrears were paid off by the next meeting of the Committee; the
Committee will issue the necessary instructions to take action in the case of
accounts which still remained delinquent (Section 3.01(b) of draft Development
Credit Agreement). In addition, IDA supervision missions will carry out a
systematic review of the capital replacement accounts to report on their
status, and make periodic judgments on whether or not medium-term assets
should continue to be provided under the proposed system.
71.       The Small Rural Projects Cycle for Unidentified Operations.  The
cycle of project initiation, preparation, appraisal, and approval will
comprise the following phases. First, initiation of project ideas and pro-
posals will stem increasingly from groups of producers in response to the
diffusion of information by the Project Unit on their eligibility for funds.
Second, preparation will be undertaken by groups of producers who would enlist
the help of a local technical service agency to write up an outline project
proposal. This proposal will be distributed for comments simultaneously to
the Rural Community Council, district and provincial officials, and the
Project Unit, which will provide appropriate guidance in refining the proposal
and submitting an official request for financing. Third, appraisal of the
request will be undertaken at three levels, namely the Rural Community, the
Provincial Development Committee chaired by the Governor, and the Project
Manager. Fourth, power of approval will be vested in the Interministerial
Management Committee subject to IDA approval of all new operations, and all
extensions of appraised operations, which exceed specified levels in costs per
group of producers or per participating family. (Section 3.05 and Schedule 1,
para. 3(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement). As soon as a proposal is
approved, the Project Unit will draft contracts between itself and the technical
service agency, and between the latter and the producer group, and ensure that
they are discussed and agreed in detail, and explained to the producer groups
as appropriate.



- 24 -
72.       The proposed cycle is well adapted to Senegalese administrative
procedures which require that many agencies and levels of authority have
the right of consultation in proposed development activities. Nevertheless,
to avoid any uncertainty about the efficacy of what could prove a lengthy
process, IDA and the Government will undertake a joint review of the procedures
midway through the proposed project, i.e. by June 30, 1982 (Section 3.09 of
draft Development Credit Agreement).
73.       Training.  As part of its task of diffusing information on eligi-
bility for funding, the Project Unit will conduct training courses on selection
criteria, the small rural projects cycle, and the rights and obligations of
the various participants. These courses will be held initially for staff at
the provincial level, and then for members of Rural Community Councils and
technical staff at the district level. Courses will be given by staff of the
Project Unit and locally recruited consultants. As experience is acquired
with project implementation, course content will be amended to highlight
lessons to be applied to further project preparation and execution. The
proposed project does not provide for technical training to staff either of
the Project Unit or the technical service agencies, since they are already
technically qualified to provide the services expected of them.
F.   Financial and Economic Analysis of the Project
Market Prospects
74.       Output from the appraised operations will be either import sub-
stitutes (paddy, maize, tomatoes for paste, bananas), or additional supplies
to the domestic market (vegetables, honey and wax, fish). Much of the output
is likely to be consumed by the producers themselves, or close to the produc-
tion sites in small towns that presently are poorly supplied. Apart from
local demand, nationwide urban demand is strong and fast-growing for project
outputs.
75.       Producers will be free to sell all project output to private
buyers. For some outputs, producers will have the additional option of
selling to parastatal agencies (SAED for paddy and tomatoes, SERAS for
honey and wax) which participate in a competitive commercial structure
that functions quite efficiently. Official producer prices are declared
for paddy and maize, and the respective parastatal agencies set their own
prices for honey, wax, and tomatoes for paste; since the marketing structures
are reasonably competitive, however, actual prices may differ, and producers
will not thereby suffer from unduly low prices. As a further option, some
groups of producers (notably for bananas and vegetables) may elect to con-
stitute marketing cooperatives, and in such cases the project would provide
appropriate technical assistance.



- 25 -
Financial Implications for Project Beneficiaries
76.        Yield forecasts have been estimated for appraised operations
based on acquired experience with similar small-scale operations in or near
project areas. These forecasts are considered reasonable and sustainable, and
would be exceeded by the more efficient groups of producers. The buildup to
full development yields is expected to be gradual over a few years (except for
fishing), and full development output will therefore not be reached until the
sixth year of the project. Beneficiaries' incremental incomes at full project
development (net of cash inputs and payments into their capital replacement
accounts) show much diversity among the different operations, reflecting
investment opportunities in different areas, capitalization per beneficiary,
and different labor inputs. Incremental incomes are estimated to vary from
the equivalent of US$260 per participating family in small rice perimeters to
US$650 in fishing, with a weighted average of approximately US$360 equivalent.
These figures can be compared with nationwide average rural incomes estimated
in 1979 at the equivalent of US$1,430 per ten-member family, but with con-
siderable variation between localities, reflecting rainfall patterns and
proximity to the capital area. Pre-project incomes of beneficiary families
would vary from about US$910 equivalent in the Senegal River Valley for small
rice perimeters, to about US$1,670 equivalent in the vicinity of small vege-
table perimeters near Dakar. Project-generated incomes for these operations
would be about 28% and 35% respectively of pre-project incomes.
Project Benefits and Risks
77.        One of the most important project benefits will be its institutional
role in providing a framework to encourage and support local initiatives
in rural investments; in helping to render small groups of producers credit-
worthy in the judgment of the local banking system; in enabling Government to
sort out the present diversity in terms and conditions of financing of small
rural projects; in improving the capacity for identification and preparation
of such projects at both provincial and local levels; and in strengthening the
Rural Communities. These institution-building benefits are considered so
significant that they justify the high project costs per beneficiary family
(about $2,260 equivalent in 1979 prices, including project management costs)
which are about double those incurred in typical agricultural development
projects on improving rainfed farming in West Africa, but less than one-
quarter of costs incurred in large-scale irrigation projects.
78.       Distribution of Benefits.  Assuming that the cost per beneficiary
for the unidentified operations will be similar to estimates for the appraised
operations, the project is expected to benefit about 4,200 families, or 42,000
people. In addition, about 100,000 people will benefit from provision of
permanent village water supplies. With the possible exception of small banana
perimeters, nearly all of the likely beneficiaries now have incomes at or
below the relative poverty level (US$120 equivalent in rural areas).



- 26 -
79.       Economic Analysis.  Economic costs and benefits have been analyzed
on the basis of assumptions regarding estimated project life (20 years),
shadow price of foreign exchange, and opportunity cost of all labor. Accord-
ing to these assumptions, the appraised operations are estimated to yield
economic rates of return as follows: small rice perimeters, 18%; small
vegetable perimeters, 12%; small banana perimeters, 19%; beekeeping, 12%;
fishing, 60%. The economic return for all the above operations (including 50%
of project management costs and representing in total 47% of project costs) is
estimated at 15%. The estimated economic return for currently unidentified
operations (for which rates of return will likely fall in a similar range to
those calculated for the appraised operations), including 50% of project
management costs and representing 38% of total project costs, is about 13%.
The remaining 15% of project costs is made up of: village water supplies for
which no economic return can be calculated, and refunding of the Project
Preparation Advance. The overall economic return for the project is estimated
at 14%. No attempt has been made to measure the institution-building benefits
outlined in para. 77 above.
80.       In carrying out the above analysis, the risk of underestimation
of costs or overestimation of benefits is considered minimal, both because of
the unusually sound data base available for estimating the costs, and because
production estimates could be based on acquired experience. Sensitivity tests
show that a 10% increase in costs would entail a relative decline in base
rates of appraised operations by 19-25%, and a 10% reduction in benefits a
decline of 21-28%.
81.       Bank Group experience acquired with execution of other rural
development fund-type projects in West Africa suggests that there will be
three main risks. First, small rural works have often been poorly constructed
due, mainly, to the difficulty of supervising work at many dispersed sites.
To offset this risk, while the six appraised operations are geographically
dispersed, sub-projects within a given operation will be concentrated in a
limited area. Second, technical service agencies have often assumed full
responsibility for project execution as well as preparation, and have tended
to pay little or no attention to beneficiary participation and initiative.
Assessment of this risk was one of the key issues at project appraisal, and
the Association is satisfied that the Government is fully committed to the
primacy of the objective of encouraging local initiatives in small rural
investments. Third, such stipulations as had been made governing beneficiary
participation were not always respected, primarily because of the wide diver-
sity in terms and conditions of assistance offered by the large number of
Government and external agencies involved in small rural operations, and by a
tendency among Governments to avoid enforcing rigorous financial discipline.
The new Department of Small Rural Projects created under the proposed project
will allow Government to exercise its stated desire to take a clear position
on specifying and enforcing such terms and conditions, and to show the desired
leadership in this respect.



- 27 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Senegal and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
83.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest are
referred to in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness
of the proposed Development Credit are: (i) establishment of the Intermini-
sterial Management Committee through issuance and publication of the relevant
decree; and (ii) opening of the project accounts and paying in by Government
of its initial deposit of CFAF 24 million (Section 5.01 of draft Development
Credit Agreement).
84.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
85.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 20, 1980



- 28 -
St0CCAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SUIT
UUIWECI GROUPS (USTED A2  RAGE5
LANrD ARA (TllOUSAD sa.  t.)                   nfc^L                           - NOST RICENT  S St ) RhT
TOTAL             196.2                                                    SAME         SANz     UXE  UIGHEXL
ANICILTUR&L       81.0                                  MM  RECEN        910GRA.PWIC       0INCoR   IN0CM
1960  &     1970 A  ESTIMATE A        UGION a   GROUP j   GOUP 
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   180.0       240.0      340.0           306.1       467.5      1097.7
O5aGY C        TUSUWtION PF  CAPITA
(XTL.OGS o0  COAL RGUIVALIT)        UIl.O        139.0     156.0             80.6      262.1        730.7
POPULATIOV AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-TEAl (MILLIONS)       3.4          4.4       5.2
URA" POPULATION (PCP    T OF TOTAL) 22.6          23.7      24.2             17.1        24.6        49.0
POPULATION PRJCTIONS
PForATION TX YEAR 2000 rM.LION8)                           9.0
STATIOART POPMATION (MILLIOS)                            24.0
EAR STATIONARY POPMlATIOt US  UCMZD                     2155
POPULATION DINS Tm
PnR SQ. At.                        17.0         22.0      27.0             18.4       45.3         44.6
PER SQ. KK. AGICULTURA.L LAND      43.0         55.0      64.0             50.8       149.0       140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PSICNT)
0-14 IRS.                          42.5         U2.9      44.2             44.1       45.2         41.3
13-64 TIS.                          56.0        54.2       52.7             52.9       51.9         55.3
65 TVR. AND u.3o0n                   1.5          2.9       3.1              2.8        2.8          3.5
POPULATION GROCM RATZ (PrMCET)
TOTAL                               2.2          2.4       2.6              2.7         2.7         2.4
U9R                                .3.5          2.9       2.9              5.7        4.3          4.5
CRW3 W IC     RLATE (P n ThOUSAND)   47.9         46.6      48.5             46.3        394         31. I
CQD3  DEAT5  ILATE (PIL TrUoSAND)    26.7         23.7      22.3             17.2        11.7         9.2
GROSS EPIODWCTION RAT                 ..          3.0       3.2              3.1         2.7         2.2
FAttILY PLAnING
ACCrPTORS  ANNUAL (ThOUSANDS)
USERS (PORCENT 0 MAUIlD  O                            ..                    .         13.2        34.7
FWOD AND  IUTR7tION
INDCE OF FOOD PRODUCtION
PE  CAPITA (1969-71-100)          124.2         82.0     1o0.OLj           94.3       99.6        104.4
PM CAITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PECZNT 0F
RlQIRnUZt5s)                     97.0         91. 0     97.0             89.5       94.7        105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           64.0         64.0      67.1             35.8       34.3         64.4
o0 WUCH ANIMAL AD PVLSE            ..         16.61f    20.8             17.9        17.4        23.5
CHILD (AC2  1-4) ImTALITT KATZ       41.0         35.0      32.0             22.3        11.4         8.6
32ALtH
LIFE KVECTANCT AT lUtrT (TES)    37.0             40.0      42.0             47.0        54.7        60.2
INFANt MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..           ..        ..               ..        68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WAXU (PERCEN OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..       37.0            20.3        34.4        60.8
MAN"..                                            ..       68.0            53.9       57.9         75.7
RURAL                                ..           ..       23.0            10.1       21.2         40.0
ACCESS TO ZEXCRTA DISPOSAL (PERCENt
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..             22.5       40.8         46.0
DR                                   ..           ..        ..             62.5       71.3         46.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             13.9       27.7         22.5
POPULATION PER PR7TSICIAN         35000.0      16640.0   16450.0          17424.7     6799.4       2262.4
POPUIASION PM NURSING PErSoN       4110.011    2410.0    1660.0            2506.6      1522.1      1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             940.0        810.0     730.0            502.3      726.5        453.4
URBAN                                ..        390.0     380.0            201.4      272.7        253.1
RURAL                                         1300.0    1156.0           1403.6     1404.4       2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        22.2      26.7             23.4        27.5        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..              4.9        5.4          5.3
UIUAN                                ..           ..       7.6              4.9        5.1          5.2
RUIAL                                ..           ..       6.0              5.5        5.5          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..          ..         1.9
U-RBAN                               ...                     ..                          .1.6
aUrAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..         ..          2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICtTY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..       28.1         50.0
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..       45.1         71.7
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..        9.9         17.3



- 29 -
Page 2
TAILE 3A
SEEtGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SEAEGC&L                  REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERACES
- MOST RECE!NT ESTIlATE) -
SAIE        SA."E    SEEX- HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOt1E       INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   CROUP /d    CROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIIUiRY:    TOTAL                 27.0        43.0       45.0            59.0        82.7       102.5
MALE                  36.0        53.0      55.0             64.2       87.3        108.6
FEMALE                17.0        33.0      35.0             44.2       75.8         97.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0         10.0      11.0             9.0        21.4        33.5
MALE                  4.0         15.0      16.0             12.0       33.0         38.4
FEMALE                2.0          6.0       7.0              4.4       15.5         30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 o0  SECONDARY) 23.0          9.0       10.0              7.0        9.8        11.5
PUPIL-TEACIER RATIO
PRI'IARY                                       45.0       49.0            42.2        34.1        35.8
SECONDARY                          34.0        29.0       22.0            22.9        23.4        22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         5.6/h       10.0      10.0            20.8        54.0        64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TROUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0         9.0        9.2             4.0         9.3        ;3.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         47.0        69.0       69.0            44.3        76.9       122.7
TV RECEIVERS PtR TROUSAND
POPULATlON                                      0.4        8.0             2.9        13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
IrTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATIOK                   6.0         5.0t       7.0             5.6        18.3        40.0
CIXE4iA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..       1.2             0.4         2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1300.0      1570.0    1770.0
FEHALE (PERCENT)                   39.7        39.1       38.8            31.9        29.2        25.0
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.6        79.7       77.0            77.6        62.7        43.5
INDUSSTY (PERCENT)                  5.4         6.6        9.0             7.9        11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                46.6        44.3       42.8            40.8        37.1        33.5
MALE                                 56.7        54.5       53.0            53.9        48.8        48.0
FEMALE                               36.8        34.3       32.8            25.6        20.4        16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2          1.3       1.4             1.2         1.4         1.4
INCOME OISTRIEL'TION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOtE
RECEIVED BY
HlCHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   36.8/L         ..        ..               ..        15.2        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  62.57T         ..         ..              ..        48.2        52.1
LoWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.27          .          ..              ..         6.3         3.9
LODEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.47           *-        *-              *-        16.3        12.6
POVERTY TARCET GROUPS
ESTIUVATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..            187.6      241.3        270.0
RURAL                                ..          ..       72.0            96.8       136.6       183.3
ESTI.MATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                *-          *       151.0           138.4       179.7       282.5
RURAL                                ..          .          ..            71.0       103.7       248.9
ESTTMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..            34.5        24.8        20.5
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..            48.7        37.5        35.3
Noc available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    Th'  adjusted group averages for each indicator are populatioa-weighted geometric aeaas, excluding the extreme
values of che indicator and the aost populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for 'lost Recent Esctimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Income  (5281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate .iddle
Income (S551-1135 per capita, 1976);  If  1972;  Li  1964;   /h  African populacioa only;   /i  Popula-
tion;   /I   1978.
orost "cent Estiate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



-30-
tmFINiTIn      O? SOCIAL INICATORSPE. 
Notes: AlthoUgin the data are drie froam sources genralSy Judged the meat asuthorittive sad reliable, it should aLI.o he meted that tbsp may not be interna-
tionally cmparable b"ease  of the Iok of etsodsrdined definitions sod concpts used by different coutoiee in colleting the data. The data ace, nonetheless,
Peefol to desribe orders ef magnitude, indi.ate trends, nwd obnrateriee cetain major differen..es betnen coutrie..
The  dJueted group averges for enh indicator are pop,ltion-eeighted geometric means., esoludlg the entrees onIons of the indicator nod the, moot populated
onootr  in eahgop   f    oIcho   an  group avrages of all  ndiators foe Capital Surplun Oil Eporters and of indioatorn of A.oces to Water ned Esoreta
Disposl ..   ui,       om-Ditribution sod Poverty foe other o-utey groopveare porolation-seighted geomtcio mews cithout .clusion of tho rotrene caIs nod
the mee p lted.coutry.  Sto.  xne th   overa&e of counatries sma  the lodlotr   eed-naalaiiyo.aaadi  ntsiom    sto    ut be e-rised
in rlatng aeraes  f oneindloator to anther.  These avrages aeamstly usfu  As anofnlmain                     f"epce   valeshen comparing the v-lcoe  of one
indicator at a ties s-a  the outry and referenc  groups
LASS AREA (thonnand sq.ha.(                                                                 kne   o        rt  Dipoa  (preto   ouato)-ttl   rbn   n   ua
otl-Total surfacearea coprising land area sad inand eater,lme   fpol   ttl b                                         rob    adrrl)sre  b   ortn disposal us
Agrioultoral . Most r.enot -ntimate of agri-ultu-a  area usd temporaily                      percen.tages of their respective poplation-   Screta disposal any include
or porm..etly for crpa, pastures,  arht and bitches grdens or to                          the c-1letion and disposal, nith or nithout treatment,Iof humnnoet
lie fa.loc.                                                                               and  sneetrby enter-borne nystee or the one of pi tprlivie  ad I-nila
installations.
tNP PLEP CAPITA (US8) - GNP poe capita estimates at curret maket prine,                      P.eotios perPhsiia            Ppolatioc dicidod by comber of practicing physicineb
oa1loulahd by sane conversionmto   oWrdDhAls(967  bass)                                     quaified fro 2amedca  nohool et  nivereity lecel.
196., 19,70,-ad 1978 data.                                                                Population Per Warning Person - Popoltion dicided by outer of practicing nal.c
ENERGYP CON5SJHPS0IN PEP CAPiTA - Asosa coonuotion of co,eeroisa  et.rgy                       ad Ufeal  g-adate tunes,. practical oree, nod adoi.stat turen.
(coal and ligoi.te,perlem,ntual gsa an  bydro-,   oolea  and gSn-                         Pclatio hper Hcacita1 Red - total  urban  ad  rura  -iPoltolati   (-tota, urbn,
the re   ic_ticiy pin tilogran   of coil equivalent per capita  1960                         an  nora) divided by their resetv    ubr ohsPitalbd   valbei
I1970, nId 1976 data.                                                                        poblic and private genral and specilicd boetpitn1 and rehabilitation ocntero.
Hoepital.earc establishneat  permaently staffed by at least  -o  physician.
POPUIATION ANFD VITAL, STATISTICS                                                              EstablibmentnIproviding priocipally cutodial vary are not iccided. cral
Total Ppultioo. m1d--Year fe-ilioon) - As of July 1; 196t, 1970, nod                        bo.itanhbove, include health and medical  -eters cot per-etly ntnffei
I97dos                                                                                    by_ at pyicia   (t by A medical.. asistant  surer  idnife  etc.)  hioh offe
UrbanPoisstton (percent of total) - Patio of urban to total population;                      icptet no-datiocan  provide a limited rang  of medical facilvti-o
different deficitiono  of urban ovnse  affect comprability of data                      Adei.nion  per Hospital BdHod  -Toanuber orfdisost  or dlsohurg-s fro.
amongiount.rien,; i96O, 1970, and 1975 dots.                                               honpitnln  divided by the number of beds.
Prelat ic  Io year  000 - Cuervot population projectionsare based on                  HCUSOING
1975 total population by nge and  ec and their sortaitty and fertility                Average  iSin  of Houebld (per-on  Per tooeho1d) - total, urban, nod v-cl -
entes. Pojetion Paramters for eortality rates copicof three                             A boucebld coHIteof a group of individoals nh. star  iling oc-t-r  nd
I_on  no-uing li fe ropsotncy ot birth icoreaning sith coutry,a                         their main  -enlotA boarder or lodger  W. esy oran  tt be iovtuocd to thc
per onPit. i.onm   lee:l, andffewane life eoPe-tany stbiltinig at                       household for otttoitical porponen.
75y yer. I The paratro for fertili ty rate also hav  three I.-I.a                  Aderag  nuber ofcPI       c   e  ro   tot, urban, and rura  - A-ergo coveer
assuing declion  in fertility accoding to incm   level and past                        ofPe_on  per room_nal-rbn  adrua  occpied  -o-ntino ..Ivelling,,
famil  olacog perfcrms,. Enh coutry is then assigned one of theme                       repctvl . Pllings  -iclde ooe-peraent  truotres and  --copted poet,.
tIeP   esntioPofmrtality and fcrtility trends for projectionAcs  c   lcrct  (nertioent1 o~fid-elino  -tta,or                                              advun  -Co
porpones.                                                    venticonl deellings noth ~~~~~~~          ~~electrct  inlvngqaOena  perv-otuof
Ststi-nay pculatico  - to a ototionn.vy populatico  there in no groth                     total, urban, and cora   -inelingorespevtioeiy.
sincetthe birth rate is equal tv the death rate, nod ala the age 
otutre r iat   constat  This is ahieved only after fertility rates            PDLICATION
decline toterplacement level of unit net rcproducticn rate,  bee                      Ajusted Eoroltro.t nation
each genertion of  -oe  replaen itself e-ntly.  The stationary pope-                    Prisr   cho  - otl,si   and feanle -Groes totn1, mole  -   f reot  -ovol-
Jetion 1iesnosti-toed cc the basIn of the projected charateristics                        set of algeat tho, primae3  leve1a  percenage   oreprtive P leey
ofthe  ooa ioci  tic year 201, and the rotc of decline of fortility                      coheol-age populatos;noiall  ilolden childre                agd  -11ycc but
rate to replacemet level                                                                  adjusted for dif1`er-t lerStgtb   of primar  niucAtio; ie   -oteic- nith
Pea  ottionar   oclation ia reached - The year sten stattoory population                     noivrnalenttio, tnorcIlnot ns   -eue  10 p-ertec   oinv  torpopi
niehsbenrahed,                                                                   eve beI.n or nio  thy official scholae
PocoIntin Deonity                                                                           tec...dery  chool -total, male and fomaleg-Computed a- cII 'c    --dcosy
Per cq. ha. - mid-year popeltion per square kilometer (101 hect-re) of                      education requirn  at leact four ye-.a of approved priesa-  it-trui-o;
-total -ae                                                                                  providen geann  voctional, or teachr tniolog inotr-tio-s  'cc popJlo
Per no. ha. agricultural land - Cpompted an above fur agnialt.ral land                      usualy of 11 to 17 yearn of ago; correponde-e   --ono  try g-eelly'
caly.                                                                                     vooluded.
Poculatton Ago It-utu         (peevect) - Cbildeec (S-lb years), sorhing-age                 Vocntica  e.rl.e              . (pret -o.ooda,p) - locational  iootituti-c  ior 1.dc
15-6b Year;) nnd retired )65  eare  and  -ece  as percetages of mid-year                    technical', oduotrial,or other program   hbiob  p-rte iodepend-ntlY or
populat ion; iph., I1970, and 1977 data.                                                    dryartanota of neccodnry iot itutiute.
Poculation Gr-oth Pate (9peren)- total - Anu-a eroth eaten of total mid'.                    Popil-tea-hor ratio, - primary  and sevond,r  - Total ,tudntt carolld iv
year population   fre 195h, 1950-70, and 1970-77.                                            piayndscdry lcel  'iiide  by oobcro or te-obe-  iv th,  ore
Peculation Grveth Pate (prcn)     rhe- Annual gr-th rates  f urban                            spooding le-cic.
pupulatI.n. for 1950-bi, 19ht-70, and 1970-75.                                            idu1t literay rote (p-eret) - itoente adolto  oibly to rend andot)n
Crude Etrth Paeb   e" thousad) - Ano-l live births per thounad of aid-                         a. pe-cetoge of total ndlt poiplativo  ngcd 15 Yearo a6ddcc
year population  19, 190,ad 1977 iota.
Crude tenth Pate (per tosn)- Anoum1 deatho per thou-and of sid-ycnr                     CONSOMPPlOn
ppltion; 1500, 19710, and 1977 data.                                                  annenTger r  (per thocoand populatioc) - Pto..ogr car  c-priu-  -t,rcor
irons  -eedu-tion Mt  - Aergenohr of daughtcnao-                 n   ill boar               setting ie-  than cigbt pernone;  -ocldno anbulo-, b-ear                 and eilitscy
in her normel reproductive perIod if shreoIpcrlcves preset age-                           vhitol-s
oeific fertility eaten; usualIly fire-year a-gera          ending in 1960,           PRdic  rocivero (pe thooad ouuai-o   - Ali typeno   ccvr  for roit
190, and 1975:                                                                            brod-ats to g-enrl pelcPer tMosen                  orppulation; e-cld-o ucliv-edr
famil  Piaming -Accetors  Ovena (th-ucads) - Annua number of                          revl*or  do coutries and 00 yearn oh..egiutrntiun  of rsdioo-tno...li
accptor  of bteth-vcntrol drobov  uneropices of catlo...l really                          vfct;dtn fur  -rent yvnrn coy not be co-p-rble sitov   n,-t c-utriec
planning (rogra-                                                                          abo1tahd licening.
Psaily Planin d- Uoe  (percen,.,t of   rid~ scat  -iPercentage of  oirtd                  TI Heceivor  (per thousand poiootion) - TV r-riorr  fo  Iroott   eov-i
cor ofcildbaigge)5Ib er)  b   s  ItrOb-votrol d-ti-                                    Public per thono-d p.pulnt ic;  .o.tudorulive-sd TIVr              i--er  l.  -outri-
to all marrid evan  In  _me  ag  grop.                                                    and in year  oh.. regintr-tiu  of PTV  ca      in effect.
Pesae   icltion(e  thousand  p     ltc)- Sh-o  the  ...sg -        ivunto
P011 AND SUPPSfIOlS                                                    of ~11 'dntiCy onera  intee   nnppr,defioci Io a p-ricdi-t  pu1bli-nti-o
lodeo of food conFduction poe tapits (1969-71-it0) - lndeo of per capita                    d-voted pinrily" to roordingcnea  neo.  It in  ..n. idered to hr "dolly"
aro-al produtio  of al  fnod  -csdtitt. Production edlu.ldeseed and                       if it tpptrn It least Tour times aIset
redad to vs vslnnda  year boots.  Co-ditiee  over primacy goods                      Cinem  A-.u.I Atte-d-n  per Capitn onePrr e-   M-od ootic cnbrr ofl,kt
g.osgar.an  itod of sugar) thch t             eediblc and cot bo  --triesta           .sod during the year, i-oldlngadiocst  d,i--in ci-em o td evbil 
en cofeadtea  -r  nooluded).  Aggregate produrtion of e.-h  -tury                -itt.,
is based on onticta.l average prodov. pr..       eih
Per oapitt. sPpoly of Onirin pren  of~ ruirometa) - Computed from                     LkR FRvCE
energy equivalent of set food suppliesIvibi  in  ountrY Per capita                     oa   ao   oc   tosns      osmriynto    esn    sldo    cv
per day.  oA-itable  -P opico  -ospine dometic Producti, imprto I...                    fcrone nod unemployed but  -clding huuo-i-n, ntodeota, etc-  eftiItl,u
-oports, and oheagned    oi    e ioupp, loneoldeais  fed,eds,                           to vaious coutries ar  not  -upa...ble.
qoolisuedisfopreolgan  loop es is1 distributo. i                 eqnr-         Femijprpj) - 1fen   lobe  force on prrceotne of totol 1bo- furor.
mrntnnereestianted by PAP bnosd usphysinlogi-I oeda f or normal                          ..~r ;rIt  - Labor force I. fsming, forestry, htiog and
activity and health cons idering  -oi-omestsi tesperatur, body neights,                 fishing 00 pe-ontogs or total labor foce.
age and 5cc dittribctiooo  of populstivo, and al11-ig 10 percent fee                  I.dustry (p,erovt) -Labor force i yeauing, cosu t-oti-c, oofacturing nod
sost eat household level                                                                electricity, sater and gao on poecetage of total labor force.
Per napito ou,pply cf -etein )grss  per day) - Proteio  -oteotorfpor                    Participatio  Ante (perbeot) - tona   sale  adfmle-1  - ?articlpatooo  o
-opta se  spplyef food per day. lInt supply of fnod in defined no                       activity rnte  are v-aputed Is total,  _a,nd fenic inbor forc  noI ee
above. Peqoiremeto for all coutrien entblished by USiDA proide for a                    vetge  of toto1, male and femal  population of oh     . ages repectively;
minimu  alonnv-     o  60 genes of! tet1 protein per day ang 20 grams of                ipv-iY, and 1975 dots.  Th.., ar  ILO-  partIipation  ratesrflecin
animl.and pie rprvtein, of shich It gram  should ho animal prnteio.                     age-se  strucure of tiepopulation, and long tic  treod.  Afeetmat
Thsesdardn  nerloser than those Pf 75 gram   of total Preteo and                    aefron natte-o  Inuoen
23 grams of anieal protein noanoerage for the snrld, prnpo..ed Op cAO                 RoonamloPneodbony Patio, -RPtio of population under 11 and 65 and ovr to
in the Tird World rood Surrey.                                                          thelao  force  tag   roop of 15-64 yearn.
per capIta  rte supyfrom animal and cu1e - Pruteio nupply of food
derived fromtanimalsad poie  Ingaspr day.                                          ISCOME DISTRIBHITION
Chili (ages I-0  Mortality Hae(prtouad  - Anoun  deaths per thousad                       PreteofrIvaeI"om   (bot in vas and bind) - Receiced by richnat
in age group 1-4 fer,to child-n  in thin g.            ru;fems   cc-5pret I                         'rPichestt20 percentt,pooes2  p.eret, no  poorest hO percen.t
uping  -outie  data derived fro  life tnbIlen.grpfr                                       of households.
HEA1T0                                                                                    POVERTY TARG]rr GROUPS
Lif.E~ tieoan- at Birth (years) - Overge number of years of life                          F~tdtlmted Absolute Pvertp In-m  Level (04 per capita) - urban sti rurl
nminLg a   bit;    0  I1971), and 1977. Ants.                                             Abaslote poverty income level is that income leve  beb    ohich a minimal
infant Mortalityt ae(e  huad       nun   etso   nat   ne  van                               notriti..ally adequate in  plu  essen..tial non-fovd reuiese-ts in sot
yer  f age per thoonad lice births,                                                    affordable.
Acca  oSf   ne   n eto   eulto)-ttlubn   n   ua                                           Estimated Rselttee Pevrym         eslveI04  e   aita)-ubnno   ua
15,mhe ofpeple(toal  uran  In rua)t        thraoabeacs t            o                 (oa  rltiepoety inco elve  isone-third of averge, per cpt
saf  cater oupply (includes treated surfac  natern or untreated hot                       personal income of the coutry. Urban leve  is deeied fro  th  rura  level
-oestmesated eater ouch a- that fro  protected   -herhls, springs,                        sith adjosest for higher cost of livin  io sban area..
and onitary  -1in) an p-erotagen sf their repeeti-e ppulativas. on                      Estimated Peculation helce Abeslote Po-ertY Icm             lee   ret) - urbanan
aurban ares a public footabo or It  -p-Ioctdnt  eetanrna  - Pervetfpulto   (urban and rura)  b  are  abolute puc'.
200 meten from a house may be conidered no being  ithin re-aomble
acorns of tha  hos .I  rural areas reasonble aoemn  ecld imply
that the bosif. oc memers-  of tbe hossohod dn oct hove on spend a                                                                Ecenoir  o  SocIal Date Pivinoo
diepooportionate part of the day to fetching the femily's eater nedsno-oic nlyi  and Prejectio.a  Dpeprtment
August 1979



H                                                                '0                       ft                    0                 ft                                         0
-   ftft'0.4ftflfl do. 0010.0           01.001010.0.0' ftft ft    Hjftftftftft0.ftftftftftft010.ftftc    ft  0''ftftftftft0.ftftft 0101 ft' '                                0.01
ft CCOC.'R**O.*C(                                                  GIg'                                              H
0'  0ftO*ftHft0-ft0                                                                                                I                   0                                      OH
3e.e4.z.0                             0OftOft 0 Oft 2ftftftoicccnOcc*lftft  ft '0'OftOC                                           Oftft2ftftcc2nftcObHO$   2
0  00.-.. 0OOOCO                                               C  1
000    00-0         00*'.  '010  .4   O'-OftftCO                 01000*    ft  ft*0    00-10    00  C.ftHft
ft  nO    *   ***C*ovft                 ftlft<ft'ftftO.00.         o.    Cftft'Cft0.  0   ft  0 Oft ft 0CC               OO..1-.           ftnft*C'cOC  C'ftftft.<   ft
'0   *l-0'*'0ft0  n0.n    0           OnO,-Cn.-. Cr00001   cft   000CC.    ft  ft  0CC    C 00                          ftOO,0   01    l-ftftft<C*.  000
01*00*0*    ft-C                  C   ftfto      C.ftC       O.nft   00000.   01                 C.Cft COO    ft  ."*O0C    ft  '.'0C011'*C  0   '110    C'    c
-   CC0**0.0.C.C.C.c'-.               <ftftflnft          Oft  ft Oft   Onn,o   ftC  ft  -             Cn  Hftflnn  0                     C'Onfton   4 ftnn,o   ft.    00.
ft   CftO*    C            C0    ft'-.'oftftn.                               0      fto....C        0Cc        01-   *0CC    0          00
On                                                  0-0-01<.                               I
ftnftOftc.  .-. CO           0                   ft         Cftftndnft             Oft   000         ftftft     0CC        ci-
ftC0ft<<ft'0ft2                  dd*o                  "<s   1.1    CO  00. .-'OcO0                                         I
0   C   ft   -   '00   .40i         ftftCCft*               C00.l00              0     CC.         000*  ft <CO          Oft
0300   300000   <CC              '0     nO    ft   C   0   *0        "'    oR  .C            l4              -  CO
ft0*ftftftOft.0    0             ft     nn *0         .0  .-.ni-flC00    ft  -                       <<noon              CO
ftO    oo..*ftft   HCC            0-'0*   ft   000CC         00       ft     0.000'                         0  H   CC                   ftftft'ft   C   0.o...ftft
ft0-*01 CC ft *0. OlftCOmftft0.C 00 01 40 zsua 0t  ft
ft.-nC                                                J'ftftlfl
C3C0ftO'0ftC:                    CC ftOOOC'-'Oftnnft*
ft                    11-Oft                                                    1
*                Cftn               0I           ft...       C                 nC             0                                      0                                  '0
*ftnO** OCOCO.                                 n2n0                                                                                  ft
C   .'ftn         C.  On            0010'             n                                       Ho
...Cr                   010              00
*0         ft  ftC         ft
C ftC0ft003n"                      Cl-.            Oft
'0nft'bftb*b$C!l2                   ooo        -.  -n
nn.Co                 3             ft         0 C"'
rr.ftft0"0ft  3                     00
ft*        CC           ft
0*1*0                 *0                                                                  01  ft
ft0.   nn2    - n               ftft            o''             I ftftlft.ft        ft
OIC        .r..-0.....                    ftftOOftO'ft ft            ft ftftftft0oftft  ft  01         ft              H      ft      ft              ft         ft  ft
0.fi   *0               iii    I t        V         -                                                                                                          H
ftft.'Oft       0*00             0.  ft  cOOftft                        01ftftftO'ft0.   ftft'Oftft'."ft             ftftft01ft        0.ftftftft.0'O'ft..1O0ftftIft            0.
O     '0   *0       0
010       '4.4      nft          ft  ft  CftftftfttCft                , ftft, ,'.ft       0'ftHH...-..-ft             H      ft      01              ftI        ft  I'0
0ftft0    Oft                                    I                                            '00.01001010'                ftft        ftftft'O0.ftCO'ft0.0.ftft  Ift
*00                                                                                    L
r0         ft0.SItftIftftL,..Ift                                   ft
a3.   33<                                                          ft 01 'OftftftO'H
0 ft 0                         ft  ftftIJftInftIft0.000   '                            'OftftftHHH
ftft       I                                   H   01                                                                                 I
I                                                                                                        I
ftftft   C03    0              U   .4kA0I.0L2-                    I ftft   ft-H      ft    010101010.0           ftfto'ftft       ft0.'.'ftftHft.ftftftftI  ft               I
I     I         ftftft0.ft 0.  01  ftftft.O'ftft             Oftftftft         ftft0iOftft0.ft 'O'Oftftftftft           ft
ftO'   On             C                                                   0'                                         ft                                                        I
330    *0                                                          Ift0.IO'Oftft0.ft
ft*     n                      0.  H4.iftftHftIOCft  I.F                                   ftHHHHft                 H     ft       ft              ftl        ft  ft         I 'On
0.0       ft                   .   '.,.'..r.I.'    I                                          HHftICftft           ftHLCft0.        0.ftft'ftO.ftftftftftOI0.                  ftC
'00 0.ftOftIftftIft fti'O.C. 0.0 ft ftO'ftft0.'O" 011-0.0.01 ft OOftftftft0'ftftft0. 0.ft'0ift Ift*
nO                                                         .                  V
'0 C     CO                                                  *      'O'Oftcftftftft
C            ftft            1"0   I ft      ftft0.ftftftftft  i0.                                                                                     I
'00.     .                      LCftOOiftI0.Ciftft,ftft  ,0                           I   ftftftftftftft            ftft            0.              ftft   I ft              01
Oft                                    HI    I   I        I ft                         '. ftftftft01 ft         ftftftft'0         c O'ftft-ft'0.ftcft ftftft  '0'
C                              ft  ft ft*ftlft ftlftO'Iftftt0                           0. tOftftft0.0.ft        ft.-.ft'Oft        Hftftftftft'OftH0.ft'Cftftlft             0.
C.                    I
101 ft
10101  '0          ftftftftft       ft  ft
03           I                 oftftgftftft0.ftI'Oft             0.ftftftftftftft   0'  0.ftftft                   ft    ft       01              ft         ft  10
H.ft . ft010.'O'O'O ftftftftft ftftftftft0.0.ftftftft*,ft I ft
C.                             ft  ft 0.Iftlftftlftftlftft  I ft   ftftftftftftft'O       0.Oftftftftftft        ft..00.ftft       ftftft01 'Oft'.iftftftftft'.OftIft        ft
Thft
CC                                  0. 01*Ilft ftiH ftlftft  'ft                                                                     ft                         ,              ft
no                             ft  ft OWIftftIft0'Ift0.  .0                                'Oftftftft                ft    ft       01              ftO      ftft  I ft       'O
*0                                     *I    I   0    ft                                   . ftftftft'Oft         ftc ftft'O       HftftHftftft$.CH  ft'Oft01 1101            I ft
ft   OtftIftftIft0'IftftIft                                  ftft$.l0..0 0.'O      ft01'O.Oft        0.tftftftft 0'Oft'OftVftft01Ift            0'
0.                                  ft  I ft                              ft
ft   C            ft  0 OlIIIftftI  ft'CC  I .0                               0.
On           c                 .   ft  CI    I   I'   101*                                  '01 ftftftcft          ftftftft'O        0.ftftftft 0.ft0ftftft01   'C            ft
Cc           '0                ft  . 0ljftIftI0'JI0'     0                               ft ft0. 01010101       ftftft0.'O        ft00,ftftft.0'.J 0'0.ftftft'C  I$'O       ft
n3           $0                                                                                                                                                                  ft
0                                                           *
'00'                            ftO'ftftftftft               *                              Lftftftftftftft          ft    ft       ft              ftl      ftftjft                    0
00                              9'  '0  0.ft0'ft0.0.01                                        ftftft ft ftc        ftftft0'0'        Oft      H 010.0'0'ftft"0'   0'                    0
CO                                                  ftft  ft                                . ftftft$Cftft         ..'ftftftft       ftft""ftft0.ftft ftftft'OI ft            I ft
I                                                                ft  0.                           ftft              01
* *                            ftft0'IftL.hiftft ft  C4                                     ft01L.00.ft01LC       0.ftftftft         01ft0101ftft01ft01010'01ft0'ft            I 01     01
0' ft aftlft0.I0.ftftft 01
C..                            ft  ft oftlftftlftftftft      ft
no                             ftftftft0.ftftft              ft                             ft
*0.                             ft  ftZjIftk-'ftlft 011010. 1010                            ftftftftftft             ft    ft        0'             ftl      Hft  '           01       2
ftC                                     *    I           ft n                              . ftft'Oftftft         ftft0''.ft       ftftft  ft ft9'0'ftftftftft  $0'          01       .0
ft  ft OlIOIftftlftftlftft    ft                            ft'Oftftft'Oft         0.ftftftft        ft0.0.0.ftftftftftft01ft'Oftlft           [ft      1.'
ft                                                                                  '0
no                                                        0'                                                         -      ft      ft              ft*            ft         'Oft    ft
ft                ftftft                                      ftftftlOft 0'        0.010.0.0'        0101ft0.0'ftftftft'Oftftftft"'             ftC
C                                                                                         ft                                                                                li-C
0*                                                                                          ftftftftftft             H      ft       0'             ft.   ftftft  ft          '010
On                                                                                            ftftft'Oft'O        ftft01ftft         ftftftftftftftft 'Oftftftl 'ft            ftC
010                                                                                         ft                                                                                   A
ft                                                                                         Y2tftSfttZ'OS                         H               ftl ftftftftlft           01
On                                    ft     Hft                          ft          ,                              01
Ift                                                                                           0'0'                0'0'l-''        iCi   'O0.ftl'   ftftOft
ft                                                                                     'Oft
.00 ft ftc '0010100 ft
Cn003 C3S
**ft<Cft0ftft                                                                                                 ftOO
0'0I.Cnn.oftft   ft          HftHI                                 ft0'ft                                     01
0n000ftC          ft    01001ft'O01          'ftftftft         ftftft0'ft"    0..Oftftlft
00    0   ft  ft                                                                           I.
0'rr"0rt'O,                   ThO.0C
.I ft On nft H
0.I" 0" 0.' ft 0' ft 010
ft0.ftftft          '.ft       Hftlftftftft  101           'ft
II    I             ftftlftftftft   0'  ft  0                              01010.0101        l.Oftftftftftft'O..lftft01ftft            01
OIC01I0'0.I0.ftI0.0. 1010 0110.ft0'ft0.01ftft *
0                          ft                                                                                        H     ftC
0                                                                                                                           $10
ft          '-'"0   40                                                      ft0.ftftft          --         l01,ftft..$01Ift            '110'    0.
-'C'0.0010'0.01      H                                                     ftftftftft           ftHft0'010' ft0.ftftl-01O01            010         -
ftIftIftftIft0'ft 01 ft ft Hftftftft ' , .00'ft010.0'0. ftftftftftft!ft 1010
ftO.ftkO                            0'.00101001L             oH
Iftft 'ft ...0                                                          -                                   ft
ftfttftftftlftft  *4      0ft01010'ft01ft0.   0                             ftftftftft                     ft01ftftftftIO               -
I Ic, n -01010101 0' 0'ftftftftft 010'ft0'ftftft 010
0.ft0''O10110'0. ft.0101
ftftft0'01          0'ft0'.C0'ftftft0.ft01010101           V



- 32 -
SEEGAL:  BALANCE OP PAYMTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE                                            MINEX  I
page 5
(millions of current U. S. dollars)
Actuals                              Estimates                                 Prole-tiono
1972    1973    1974    1973    1976           1977    1978    1979          1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
A.  SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1.  Exports, incl. NFS                                 333      355      602     693      698          869     735      900          948   1,296   1,523   1,697   1,911   2,177
2.  Imports, inl. NTS                                 -373    -483    -691    -793    -852            -989  -1,108  -1,229        -1,390  -1,558  -1,748  -1,958  -2,195   2,462
3.  Resource balance                                   -40    -128       -89    -100    -154          -120    -373    _329          -442    -262    -225    -261    -284    -285
4.  Factor services net                                -23      -29      -48     -55       -8          -37     -29      -62          -72    -106    -107    -114    -124    -139
Net investment income                         -12      -17     -26      -37     -23          -36      -34      -49         -50      -70      -74     -84      -94    -108
Interest public debt                           -5      -7      -14      -19     -18          -21      -29     -44          -49      -49     -48      -48      -48     -49
Other interest                                  3        3       2       -3      -l           -4       -4     -12          -19      -38     -41      -44      -49     -56
Workers' remittances                          -20      -18     -20       -6       17          18       27       30          31       34       38      42       46      50
Other                                          11       10      10       10      12            6       11       13          15       16       18      20       21      24
5.  Current transfers (net)                             50       56       64      67       66           65      95       63           76      79       87       90      97      104
6.  Current account balance                            -13    -101       -73     -88      -96          -92    -307    -328          -438    -289    -245    -285    -311    -320
7.  Private capital (net)                                 2     -15       -5      12       16           42      56       69           74      88      100      113     133      151
8.  Capital gr-nts                                        8      19       19      22       23           24      29       26           24      32       32       41      41       41
9.  Public M + LT lonss (met)                            11      78       60      56       60           56     135      134          116      93      115      104      98      107
Disbursements                                  19      100      80       76      84           92      204     212          223      198     214      205      205     220
Repayments                                     -8     -22      -20      -20     -24          -36      -69     -78         -107    -105      -99    -101    -107    -113
10.  Short-term capital (net)  l                        -12        3       23      10       -           -24      -9      -10           -8       -       -        -       -        -
11.  Capital n.e.i. /2                                     7     -28      -31     -22      -13         -14        3/13   20/14         21/15   72/16  -14       -14     -14      -14
12. Net fin-ncing need                                    -       -        -                -            -       -        -           107/19   99/20   67        76      83       60
13.  Icrease in rserves (+)                               3     -44       -7     -10      -10           -8     -93      -90         -104      93       53       33      30       25
14. Leve  of net foreign assets (end of the yaar)    23          -15      -25     -48      -45          -53    -159    -236          -348    -268    -228    -208    -193    -183
8.  LOAN COHMITMENTS                                         50     181       70      135     127          215      356     125          360      303     330      355     406      431
1.  IB8D                                                16        1        3       7       26           203    11         7            8      25       60       30      40       40
2.  IDA                                                  11      24       -       25       11           -       26       25           37      38       25       26      20       20
3.  OPEC  unds                                           -       -        -        4                     3       4       -            -       -        -        -       -        -
4.  Other international institutions                      1       2       10       6       12           21      27/17   46118         14      21       19       23      25       26
5.  France                                                7       5       16      13       27           28      27       18           33       36      40       44      48       53
6.  Germany                                               -       -       17       3        5            4       2       -            15       16      17       19      19       22
7.  Canada                                               4        3       -        8        4            5      -        -             2       2        2        2       2        2
8.  OPEC countries                                        -       2        9      -         4           -       38/11    6             8        9      10       11      13       14
9.  Other bilateral                                       3/4    5oL5      4/6    217    -              12L8    2Q9    15/10          20      20       23       25      27       30
10. Q858 (Diam  dam)                                          -       -        -        -                -       -        -           113/12   -        -        -       -        -
11.  Suppliers                                            2       14        3       1       10           22      10        3           10      15       20       30      30       30
12.   Fncial institutions  nd private banks               6       80        8      47       28          100     190        6           -       -        -        -       -        -
13.  Gross financing need                                                                                                             108     121      114     145      182      194
C.  LOAN TEIMS
1.  Interest (%)                                       4.1      5.8     4.7      4.8      6.1          7.6     6.9      3.9         5.3      6.5      6.7     6.9      7.2      7.2
2.  Grace (years)                                      6.3      6.1     6.3      6.5      5.6          3.6     3.7      6.4          5.5     4.3      4.2     3.4      3.6      3.6
3.  Maturity (years)                                  30.2    19.8    27.5    23.4    20.1            12.7    13.7    23.7          23.2    20.2    18.9    17.8    16.5    16.5
4.  Grant element (7)                                 47.0    29.0    39.0    40.0    28.2            13.6    18.9    43.9          34.4    24.5    21.6    20.7    18.2    18.3
5.  Debt service ratio (7)                              3.7     7.7      5.4     5.3      5.5          6.4    12.8    13.2          16.1    14.1    13.6    14.0    14.5    15.0
-L  Includes errors  nd omissions.
/2 Includes IMF trust fund and SDR allocations, STARES loans and differences between public capital inflow as recorded by the Central Bank and by the IB8D debt report.
L3  Includes UD  914 million Third Windo. fund.
A   Denmark.
/5  People's Republic of China to finance imports of Chinese surpluses (910.4 million disbursed us far).
L6  $4 million fro  U. S. A.
f7 Includes US 917.4 million coamitment froe Spain and $3.5 million fro Denmark.
Li US AID.
9  Spain.
/10  $12.8 million fre Japan  nd $2 million from the United Kingdom.
A1   $37 million from Saudi Arabia  nd $1 million from Abu Dhabi.
/12  An estimated share of 752 in the $150 million cost of the Diama da:  France $52 million, Saudi Arabia $37 million, Kwait $35 million  nd African Developent Bank
$26 million.
/13 Includes STAREX $23.5 million.
L/4  Includes STABEX $63.5 million.
/13  Includes $13  illion SDR allocation and STABEX $22.7 million (estimated).
/16 Includes STASES $86.9 million (estimated).
/17 Includes $17.6 million IMP Trust Fund.
/18  Includes $13.4 million IMP Trust Pond, $19.6 million African Development Bank and $12.8 million Europe-n Inveotment Bank.
/19  The total financing need amounts to $242  illion in 1980 including $104 million fall in reserve, $22.7 tillion STASEX  nd $8  illion short-tco   capital.
L2O The total financing need amounts to $91 million in 1981 including $86.9 million STABEX, but an improvement in reserves of $95 million.
February 1980.



Annex 1
Page 6
SENEGAL - DEBT AND CREDITWORTNINESS
(millions of current US Dollars)
Actuals                               Estimates                                       Proiections
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976            1977    1978       1979         1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
A.  MEDIUM AND LCNG-TERM
DEBT (Disbursed only)
1. Total Public Debt Outstanding                    138.6   203.2   248.3   295.1   350.4            417.1   581.7    716.2           932.8   1125.4   1308.0   1488.6   1670.9   1838.6
2.  Including undisbursed                           219.2   367.2   420.4   522.8   616.6            814.5  1156.0   1203.2          1177.0   1457.4   1736.6   2013.6   2301.6   2564.3
3.  Public Debt Service                               13.4    29.4    33.4    39.3    42.3            56.5    98.1    122.0           156.3    186.3    212.4    243.2    285.2    336.6
a.  Interest:                                     4.9       7.2    13.8    18.4    18.1           20.6    29.2       44.1          49.3      59.4      67.6       73.4     80.7       89.7
1.  on projected aid                            -        -        -        -       -             -        -         -             -      49.2      48.0      47.6      48.0      49.4
2.  on additional capital needs                 -        -        -        -       -             -        -         -             -      10.2      19.6      25.8      32.7      40.3
b.  Amortization:                                 8.5    22.2    19.6    20.9    24.2             35.9    68.9       77.9         107.0    126.9    144.8    169.9    204.5    247.0
1.  on projected aid                            -        -        -        -       -             -        -         -             -    105.4       99.1    101.5    107.1    113.3
2.  on additional capital needs                 -        -        -        -       -             -        -         -             -      21.5      45.7      68.4      97.4    133.7
4.  Other M & LT Debt Service
a. Other Interest
b. Amortization
5.  Total Debt Service
6. Net Investment Income                              12.0    17.0    26.0    37.0    23.0            35.8    33.6       48.9           50.2      70.0      74.0      84.0      94.2    108.7
7.  Total payment on foreign capital                 25.4    46.4    59.4    76.3    65.3             92.3   131.7    170.9           206.5    256.3    286.4    327.2    379.4    445.3
B. DEBT BURDEN
1.  Public Debt Service Ratio                          3.7      7.7     5.4      5.3      5.5          6.4    12.8       13.2           16.1      14.1      13.6      14.0      14.5      15.0
2.  Payment on Foreign Capital Ratio                   7.2    12.3      9.5    10.4       8.5         10.4    17.1       18.4           21.2      19.4      18.4      18.8      19.3      19.9
3.  Public Debt Service/GDP                            1.2      2.4     2.4      2.1      2.2          2.9      4.9       4.9            5.9       6.0       6.0       6.1       6.3       6.6
4.  Public Debt Service/Govt. Revenue/l                2.1      3.3     4.5      5.2    10.0  -       10.0    14.8       16.9           16.3      17.8       -         -         -        19.6
C. TERMS
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                    3.5      3.5     5.6      6.2      5.2          4.9      5.0       6.2            5.3       5.3       5.2       4.9       4.8       4.9
2.  Public Debt Service/Total DOD                      9.7    14.5    13.6    13.3    12.1            13.5    16.8       17.0           16.8      16.6      16.2      16.3      17.1      18.3
D. DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M & LT DEBTL/2
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl.services)   5.1    20.7/3  10.4            8.5      9.0          8.8    17.4       16.1           22.2      18.9      17.2      16.4      16.1      15.2
2. Net Transfer/Imports (incl. services)               2.6    14.6      7.8      6.3      6.5          5.4    11.5       10.1            7.8       5.5       6.1       4.9       4.1       4.0
3. Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                    0.58    0.78    0.75    0.74    0.71            0.61    0.66       0.63           0.52      0.47      0.54      0.51      0.48      0.49
E. EXPOSURE
1.  IBRD Disb./Total Gross Disbursements               1.9     0.7      1.5      9.3      5.6         14.1      3.2       5.0            3.7       4.5       5.8       7.0       7.5       7.9
2.  Bank Group Disb./Total Gross Disbursements   23.7           3.9    20.9    24.9    19.9           22.6      7.6      13.2            8.0       9.8      12.6      14.2      13.9      13.8
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                 1.7      1.4     1.3      3.4      4.2          6.5      5.5       5.8            5.6       5.8       6.3       7.0       7.7       8.6
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                          13.1    13.3    14.2    18.1    19.9            21.6    17.9       18.3           16.6      16.4      17.1      18.1      19.1      20.2
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service               3.0      1.8     1.9      1.9      2.9          3.6      4.2       3.2            3.1       3.3       3.3       4.0       4.2       4.1
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service    3.8           2.1     2.5      2.6      3.7          4.6      4.8       3.8            3.7       4.0       4.1       4.8       4.9       4.9
F.  EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed only)                                            Outstanding Dec. 31, 1979                           Outstanding December 1985
Amount              Percent                         Amount              Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                    41.8                5.8                            156.0                 8.4
2.  IDA                                                                     89.0               12.4                            212.0                11.5
3.  Other Multilateral                                                      81.0               11.3                            335.5                18.2
4.  Governments                                                            259.4               36.2                            571.9                31.1
5.  Suppliers' Credits and Financial Institutions                          245.0               34.2                             69.3                 3.8
6.  Others                                                                     -                   -                           493.9                26.9
7.  Total Public M & LT Debt                                               716.2               100.0                          1838.6               100.0
8.  Total Public M & LT Debt (incl. undisbursed)                          1203.2               168.0                          2564.3               139.5
G.  TOTAL DEBT SERVICE 1980-85/DOD end-1979                   198.3.
/I Debt Service to be paid by the Treasury only (fiscal years).
/2 Public debt only.
/3 high Eurodollar borrowing to finance Government's participation policy.
February 1980.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of December 31, 1979)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan or                                                           (US$ Million)
Credit Number  Year   Borrower    Purpose                   Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Three Loans* and twelve Credits fully disbursed             7.0    50.1
835-SE      1972   Regie des   Railway                  6.4                 0.1
Chemins de
fer du Senegal
336-SE      1972   Senegal      Housing Site
and Services                  8.0        2.7
866-SE      1973   OPTS         Telecommunications   6.2                    0.9
366-SE      1973   Senegal       Second Highway                  8.0        0.2
987-SE      1974   SOFISEDIT   Development Finance  3.0                     0.2
530-SE      1975   Senegal      Education                       15.0        6.2
1113-SE      1975   Senegal      Agric. Diversifi-
cation                7.0                 6.6
578-SE      1976   Senegal       Terres Neuves II                2.0        0.1
1221T-SE      1976   Senegal       Feeder Roads           6.6                 2.5
1222-SE      1976   Senegal       Third Highway         15.0                 4.4
633-SE      1976   Senegal      Livestock                        4.2        3.2
647-SE      1976   Senegal       Second Sedhiou                  6.3        3.8
1332-SE      1976   SOFISEDIT   Second Development
Finance              4.2                 2.6
1405T-SE      1977   Senegal       Port of Dakar          6.0                 3.1
1412T-SE      1977   Senegal       Petite Cote Tourism  8.0                   6.1
1413-SE      1977   Senegal       Petite Cote Tourism  5.6                   4.3
764-SE      1978   Senegal      Para-Public Sector
Tech. Asst.                   6.3        4.3
775-SE      1978   Senegal      Irrigation                      20.0       14.3
1518-SE      1978   RCFS         Railways III           11.0       -         8.5
1665-SE      1979   ASECNA        Second Airport         7.0       -         7.0
S-23-SE      1979   Senegal       Water Supply Engr.   -          2.5        2.5
908-SE       1979   Senegal       Education III          -       22.0       21.6
Total                                      93.0   144.4       105.2
of which has been repaid                  6.1     0.5
Total now outstanding                      86.9   143.9
Amount sold                        3.4
of which has been repaid         2.6
0.8
Total now held by  Bank and IDA 1/         86.1   143.9
Total Undisbursed                          46.3    58.9       105.2
*    A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in
1969 was cancelled on March 25, 1971.
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of December 31, 1979)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Year          Obligor            Type of Business       Loan   Investment   Total
1967   Societe Industrielle    Fertilizer Plant         2.45        1.01      3.46
d'Engrais au Senegal
1972)  BUD Senegal
1973)  S.A.                      Vegetable Export        -          0.87      0.87
1976)
1974   SOFISEDIT                 Development
Finance Company         -          0.21     0.21
Total Gross Commitments                          2.45        2.09      4.54
Less Cancellations, Terminations                 2.45        1.04      3.49
Total Commitments now held by IFC                  0         1.05      1.05
Undisbursed Balance                                            -        -
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 314/      Second Railway Project; US$2.2 Million and US$6.4 Million
Ln. 835       Credit and Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective December 29, 1972;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow, and inadequate traffic
performance led to decreasing revenues and acute financial problems. Some
Loan/Credit funds had to be reallocated from appraised items to the provision
of badly needed spare parts by deleting some project elements, notably
reduction of the procurement of rails and fittings from a planned 170 km to
125 km, of which only 28 km were laid under the project because of lack of
local funds. The project is now virtually complete, and efforts to improve
the Railway's efficiency are continuing under the ongoing Third Railway
Project (Loan 1518).
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive DIrectors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purpose to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. 336      Sites and Services Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective August 31, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation started slowly, but is now proceeding satis-
factorily following agreements reached with the Government in October 1978 to
improve performance. The main problem affecting the project has been plot
consolidation and occupancy, but this is now accelerating with the assistance
of a loan scheme by the project agency (OHLM) and the Senegalese national
development bank (BNDS), which is now fully operational. Site development has
also been hindered by the absence of on-site employment opportunities other
than construction-related activities; a recently created unit in OHLM is
currently examining this problem and preparing proposals.
Ln. 987      SOFISEDIT Project; US$3.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1974;
Effective November 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
SOFISEDIT was created in March 1974 for the purpose of providing
long-term financing for developing enterprises in industry and tourism. The
first line of credit of US$3 million is now fully committed, and a second
loan (1332) is under disbursement. A Project Completion Report is being
prepared.
Ln. 866       Telecommunications Project; US$6.3 million Loan of December 19,
1972; Effective June 5, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project was designed to improve the quality of telecommunica-
tions service in Dakar and in parts of northern Senegal. Completion of
project implementation took about three years longer than originally scheduled
mainly because of delays in procurement, resulting cost overruns, and changes
in top management. The physical works are now completed, and the installation
has been successfully commissioned. The Borrower has made significant efforts
over the past two years to improve its management, as well as its accounting
and financial organization. This, together with the audits and financial
advisors financed under the Parapublic Sector Technical Assistance Project
(Cr. 764) is expected to result in substantial improvement of the institution.
Cr. 366      Second Highway Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of April 9, 1973;
Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project consists of pavement strengthening of primary roads,
a four-year maintenance program, and preinvestment studies. All project items
are now satisfactorily completed. The strengthening program however had to
be reduced from 110 km to about 35 km as a result of higher costs than estimated
at appraisal, and high inflation during implementation; the remaining 75 km
were strengthened under the ongoing Third Highway Project (Ln 1222). The
objectives of the maintenance program were not entirely met due to management
problems and insufficient allocation of local funds, and the technical
assistance had to be extended under the Third Highway Project. Preinvestment
studies were successfully completed and taken into account in planning of
subsequent projects. Only fellowships awarded under the project remain to be
completed.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. 530      Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of February 19,
1975; Effective April 22, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation is about two years behind schedule because
of earlier delays in design and contract awards. These delays, together with
a 10% decline in the value of the US Dollar, resulted in a cost overrun of
about US$6 million. To help compensate for these increased costs, the
Government requested, and the Association has formally agreed, to reduce the
scope of the project by reducing the number of science centers from 11 to 8,
the number of rural youth training centers from 30 to 15, and by deleting
from the project the construction and equipment for the Hotel School and
seeking another source of external financing for this component. The Indus-
trial Training and Upgrading Center has started training courses in all
trades. Construction and equipping of the Merchant Marine School have been
completed. Construction of the science centers and lower secondary schools
was satisfactorily completed at end-1979 (except for one science center in
Saint Louis which was late in starting and will not be ready until early
1981). Procurement of furniture and equipment is progressing on schedule.
The rural youth training component is still experiencing some implementation
difficulties; but modified educational objectives and a revised implementation
schedule have been agreed with the Government, and all the centers are
expected to be in operation by end-1981.
Cr. 549      Sine Saloum Agricultural Development; US$7.0 Mtillion Credit and
Ln 1113      US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975; Effective october 31, 1975
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The objective of the project is to improve productivity of small
farms through intensification of farmers' agricultural practices, particularly
through increased use of fertilizer and heavy equipment. However, results
over the first three years of the project show that yield increases have been
negligible. Re-orientation efforts were undertaken in agreement with the
Bank, and more emphasis was put on actions which had met favorable results
such as promotion of maize production in the south of the project region, and
integration of agriculture and animal husbandry in the north. Despite these
efforts, and although rainfall has recently been better than average, the
project has still not shown any improvement in additional production or
yields, a result largely of serious management and staffing problems, and an
ineffective extension service. It was therefore decided, in agreement
with the Government and the co-financer CCCE, to re-appraise the project in
an attempt to find new workable solutions to the existing problems. A joint
re-appraisal was carried out in November 1979, and the mission's recommenda-
tions are now being discussed with the Government.



- 38 -
AZNEX II
Page 5
Cr. 578      Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Technical
Assistance Project; US$2.0 Million Credit of August 6, 1975;
Effective November 14, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project, which is a follow-up to an earlier re-settlement
operation, consists of settling 600 families over a three-year period in the
Eastern Senegal Region, and providing the necessary infrastructure; and
preparing a master plan for agricultural development of the region. The
settlement program has been progressing satisfactorily, although about one
year behind schedule, and should be completed by early 1980. The master plan
study has been completed, on the basis of which an Agricultural Development
Project for Eastern Senegal is now being prepared.
Ln. 1221-T   Feeder Roads Project; US$6.6 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976: Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of improvement of about 1,000 km of feeder
roads and maintenance of about 250 km of existing roads; purchase of highway
equipment and spare parts, and materials and supplies for project operations;
technical assistance for project implementation and monitoring; construction
of HQ building for the Bureau des Pistes de Production. The project had been
experiencing serious delays caused by insufficient financial, managerial, and
logistic support; but on the recommendation of and in agreement with the Bank,
the Government undertook a series of measures to accelerate works, and
progress has improved considerably. Works executed so far are of satisfactory
technical quality.
Ln. 1222      Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 5, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project consists of pavement strengthening of about 200 km of
primary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvest-
ment studies, highway maintenance, and development of the domestic construc-
tion industry. The project is proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule.
The pavement strengthening program has been completed. The road maintenance
program begun under the Second Highway Project, and extended under this
project, will be further continued under the proposed Fourth Highway Project
to strengthen the maintenance organization and operations. As a result of
currency realignments and a civil works execution period that was shorter than
planned, an amount of about US$2.5 million became available under the loan;
the Bank has agreed to the Government's proposals to use these funds to cover
the foreign cost of extending technical assistance for road maintenance,
improving workshops and training center buildings, and procuring workshop and
training equipment.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. 633      Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit of
June 17, 1976; Effective June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to assist about 30,000 pastoralists in
Eastern Senegal through improved grazing and herd management practices,
development of stock watering facilities and firebreaks, improved animal
health services, livestock credit, and a functional literacy program. Parallel
financing is being provided by the Kuwait Fund and BADEA. Project implementa-
tion is progressing satisfactorily and on schedule, except for the firebreaks
component which had been held up pending BADEA's agreement about their con-
struction plans; this has recently been obtained, and firebreak construction
is now scheduled to start at the end of the rainy season. Livestock producers
appear to be giving full support to the project.
Cr. 647      Second Sedhiou Project; US$6.3 Million Credit of June 25, 1976;
Effective November 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project aims at increasing and diversifying agricultural and
livestock production through improved farming and husbandry practices.
Project implementation has been going reasonably well until the past season
when production was severely affected by the failure of ONCAD (the national
cooperative and marketing agency) to supply fertilizers as needed. In addi-
tion, the project's overall efficiency is hampered by administrative problems
similar to those being encountered in the Sine Saloum Project (Loan 549/Credit
1113) discussed above. The project has achieved its objectives in total area
cultivated and number of participants; however, findings of the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit show that project impact could be reduced, primarily because
participating farms show no significant yield increases (except for rice) over
those farms outside the project, and because the area cultivated per partici-
pant is smaller than expected. Work on the agricultural development plan for
the Casamance Region by the project's Planning Unit is now completed, and
further detailed studies are underway.
Ln. 1332     Second SOFISEDIT Project; US$4.2 Million Loan of October 14,
1976; Effective April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
In addition to providing SOFISEDIT with a second line of credit for
industrial and tourism investments, the Loan has helped finance a pilot scheme
of assistance to small-scale Senegalese artisans through SONEPI, the local
industrial promotion agency. As of September 30, 1979, SOFISEDIT had new
approvals (since its inception) of CFAF 3.6 billion, and disbursements had
reached CFAF 2.2 billion. When the latest sub-project applications now under
review are processed, the Loan will be fully committed. SOFISEDIT remains
nevertheless a fragile institution operating in a difficult environment. As a
result, future operations would concentrate on strengthening SOFISEDIT,
streamlining its industrial policies and administration, and improving the
promotion of artisans and of small- and medium-scale enterprises.



- 40 -                      ANNEX II
Page 7
Ln. 1405-T   Dakar Fishing Port Project; US$6.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1977;
Effective March 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Following a slow start caused mainly by time-consuming Government
procedures, project implementation is now satisfactory. Civil works are
expected to be completed by September 1980, only four months later than the
appraisal target. The quality of contractors' workmanship is very good,
and about 900 meters of new quays have already been put into use. All the
technical assistance services and studies are progressing satisfactorily.
Overall performance of the Port Authority remains satisfactory, but there are
continuing problems with receivables, statistics, and recruitment and reten-
tion of qualified staff.
Ln. 1412-T    Petite Cote Tourism Project; US$8.0 Million and US$5.6 Million
Ln.-1413      Loans of June 7, 1977; Effective January 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project includes construction of infrastructure and common
facilities for hotel development on the Petite Cote, a major tourist area
where lack of infrastructure has so far limited such development; a program
of works for preservation and development of Goree Island; and technical
assistance and studies to improve planning, promotion, and training in the
hotel sector. Construction of infrastructure works at the Sali project area
continues to proceed satisfactorily. Major works are nearing completion, and
areas designated for hotel construction should be ready for delivery during
1980. The construction contract for the common recreation center and commer-
cial areas has been signed. Bidding documents for the Goree component
were recently approved by the Bank. The Government has recently requested
the Bank to consider reallocation of US$3.5 million of Loan funds originally
intended for onstruction of a pilot hotel at Sali to provide long-term financing
for hotel construction at the site. Negotiations to that effect were satis-
factorily completed on February 1, 1980.
Ln. 1518     Third Railway Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of March 17, 1978;
Effective August 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of track rehabilitation and maintenance, supply of
material and equipment, improvement of telecommunications facilities and
track in the Dakar area, supply of spare parts for motive power and rolling
stock, strengthening of training programs and facilities, and studies.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily. Contracts for most of the
items for track renewal and maintenance have been signed, and the rest are in
an advanced stage of finalization. Almost half of the total order of locomo-
tive spare parts have been received. The training program is progressing
satisfactorily. Consultants have been selected for the study into optimum
structure and ownership of the Senegal Railway (together with the connecting
Mali Railway), and work has started. Railway traffic in the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1979 was slightly below that of the previous year due basically
to reduced motive power availability stemming from major accidents; this
situation is expected to improve following the recent delivery of two new
high-power locomotives, as well as critical spare parts for the locomotive
rehabilitation program.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. 764      Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project; US$6.3 Million
Credit of March 17, 1978; Effective June 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of a three-year program to help improve the
efficiency of Government organizations charged with strategic analysis,
operational supervision, and formal financial control over the para-public
sector; and upgrading the auditing, financial management, and accounting
procedures for the sector as a whole and for a number of the most important
public enterprises and mixed companies. Consulting services and technical
assistance are in place, and work is well underway. Overall guidance and
direction by Project Management had not been very effective, but Government
has recently taken some very positive measures to remedy this situation.
Introductory training seminars for Government administrators and staff in the
control organizations have begun, with more intensive and specialized courses
planned to start by early 1980. The audit component is progressing well, and
there is already some improvement in the follow-up of audit recommendations.
Cr. 775      Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Project; US$20-0 Million Credit of
March 17, 1978; Effective June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project provides for development of 2,220 ha through full
water control irrigation in the Senegal River Delta, and construction of
related facilities; technical assistance to the project authority SAED;
consulting services for applied research and studies for future development
of the River Valley. Works on the Lampsar perimeter are progressing satis-
factorily, and completion of land development is expected by mid-1980.
Work on the Debi perimeter (financed by the Kuwait Fund under a parallel
financing arrangement) is expected to start shortly. Four of the five
technical assistants provided by the French FAC have been recruited to
strengthen SAED. Construction of project headquarters and training center
are expected to start by early 1980. Consultants for the studies are being
selected in consultation with the Association.
Ln. 1665     Second Aviation Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of April 18, 1979;
Effective November 15, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of strengthening and levelling the main
runway and taxiway and improving the taxiway alignment at Dakar airport, and
installation of navigation and visual approach aids at regional airports at
Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring. Design work and bidding procedures for the Dakar
airport have been satisfactorily completed, and work is expected to start
shortly. Equipment procurement is underway.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. S-23     Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project;
US$2.5 Million Credit of May 23, 1979; Effective August 10,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides for economic, financial, and technical studies
to prepare a priority investment project for rehabilitation and extension of
water supply systems in eleven secondary centers, including six regional
capitals; and technical assistance to strengthen the planning and operating
entities in the sector. Consultants have been selected in agreement with the
Association.
Cr. 908      Third Education Project; US$22.0 Million Credit of May 23, 1979;
Effective August 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is designed to increase the supply of high- and middle-
level technicians and managers required for the modern agricultural and
industrial sectors; improve and expand secondary technical and vocational
education; and improve the quality of primary education and establish a solid
base for its future expansion, especially in rural areas. Architectural
design work on the major project institutions is progressing satisfactorily,
and tenders for about 70% of the total civil works are expected to be invited
by early 1980. Preparation of bidding documents for equipment for the technical
and vocational schools is proceeding satisfactorily. The Project Unit
established under earlier education projects has been strengthened and is
operating efficiently. Some delays have occurred in the recruitment of
technical assistance personnel, but key experts are expected to be in place by
early 1980.



- 43 -
ANINEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: September 1976 -
June 1979
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  Government and consultants,
assisted by RMWA
(c) First Bank mission to consider the project: November 1976
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission: June 1979
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: January 28, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: June 1980
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions by IDA
None
Section III: Special Conditions
During Credit negotiations, the Government provided assurances on the
following principal issues:
(a)  agreement on criteria for selection and approval of additional
operations to be financed from the Credit allocation for
unidentified activities (paras. 46 and 71);
(b) opening of separate project accounts for Government and IDA contri-
butions to project funding, and paying in by Government of its
initial deposit of CFAF 24 million (Condition of Effectiveness,
para. 62);
(c)  responsibility of Government to ensure quarterly replenishment
of its project account, and to deposit into the IDA account any
amounts disbursed from IDA's contribution which were found
ineligible for financing under the Credit (para. 62);
(d) official publication of the decree creating the Interministerial
Committee to oversee management and operations of the project
(Condition of Effectiveness, para. 66); and
(e)  arrangements for operation and management of the proposed
scheme of capital replacement accounts to finance medium-
term assets, including conditions for imposition of sanctions
(paras. 69 and 70).






I BRD 14615~
S E N EGAL                                                                                 M                  RITA   WIA                                                                                   '
SMALL RURAL PROJECTS                                                          hoaNi                                                                                        'pHr,AEIA)
ZTSMALL RICE PERIMETERS                                                                                            ' /   7   /                                                         '1 p
SMALL VEGETABLE PERIMETERS                                                                                                                                   #            qpAWWEE                                         MI
FT1SMALL BANANA PERIMETER$                                 ~~'                                                               "     '                                               "      ~     ~     EG,'                    
1- BEEKEEPING                                                                                                                                                                                                                  olo    "
1'    VILLAGE WATERt 5UPPLY BASE                                                                                                                                                                       RP   Lo        ,I-r       I
A I                          ~ ~~~~~~Eq SE~   jL
POPULATION DEN4SITY I Kf,                                                                                                                                                                                                                        oo
~~~2E-5S ~~~~~~Tiflg 
K.A C  O 55
-EARTH k ROADS                                                                                                                                                                            Gooog
A'  -'-PAVD  RODS  NE 
COSRCIN                                                                                                                                                              S o 
RAILAYS0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .To N O.OE
G-RT VELNTONALDRSOSR
MI                     I
CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                                          7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'OCOERIT



